Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14409
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
BIHAR~ PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
('CREDIT 1737-IN)
APRIL 28, 1995
Agricultural and Water Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of 
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wvithout World Banki authorization.|



CURRENCY EOUIVALE1TS
Name of currency = Rupee (Rs)
Rate of exchange:
Appraisal (Oct. 1985): USS1.00 = Rsl3.00
Intervening years (1986-93): USS41.00 = Rsl9.05
Completion year (1994): US$1.00 = Rs31.37
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m) = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 million cubic meters (Mm3) = 810 acre-feet (ac-ft)
1 billion cubic meters (Bm3) = b.81 million acre-feet (MAF)
I cubic foot per second (cfs or cusec) = 0.028 cubic meters per second (m3/s)
1 kilogram (kg) = 2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (mt) = 2,205 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APM              Adjustable Proportional Module
BSEB             Bihar State Electricity Board
BWDC             Bihar Water Development Corporation
CCA              Cultivable Command Area
CWC              Central Water Commission
DOA              Department of Agriculture
EE               Executive Engineer
ERR              Economic Rate of Return
GOB              Government of Bihar
GOI              Government of India
HYV              High Yielding Varieties
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
ID               Irrigation Department
IDA              International Development Association
IPDU             Investigation Planning and Design Unit
IST              Improved Standard Tubewell
LCB              Local Competitive Bidding
M & E            Monitoring & Evaluation
MID              Minor Irrigation Department
O & M            Operation & Maintenance
PC               Project Coordinator
PCU              Project Coordinating Unit
PTW              Public Tubewell System
QCU              Quality Control Unit
SCF              Standard Conversion Factor
SE               Superintending Engineer
TMEU             Training, Monitoring & Evaluation Unit
TW               Tubewell Wing (of the MID)
T & V            Training and Visits
kV               kilovolt = 1,000 volts
5iLQ2SA&Y
Kharif           Wet season (June to October)
Rabi             Dry season (November to February)
Zaid             Hot weather season (March to May)
levee            River and flood control embankment



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
BIHAR PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
(Credit 1737-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ...........................................                                           i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .........................................u i
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ......................................... 1
A.  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives                        .I
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives                             .3
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project.                                              6
D. Project Sustainability.                                                            8
E. Bank Performance.                                                                  9
F. Borrower Performance.                                                             12
G. Assessment of Outcome .14
H. Future Operation .14
I. Lessons Learned .14
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES ......... ..                                                    1 6
I. Summary of Assessments.                                                           1 6
2.  Related Bank Loans/Credits .18
3. Project Timetables .19
4.  Loan/Credit Disbursements .19
5.   Key Indicators for Project Implementation.                                      20
6.  Key Indicators for Project Operation.                                            20
7.  Studies Included in Project.                                                     20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not othcrwise be disclosed wvithout World Banlc authorization.  I



8.    Project Costs and Financing ...................................................... 21
A.    Project Costs ...................................................... 21
B .      Project Financing .....................................................   21
9.       Economic Costs and Benefits  .....................................................                            22
10.      Status of Legal Covenants  ............................                      ......................... 23
11.      Concurrence with Operational Manual Statements ..................................... 25
12.      Bank Resources: Staff Inputs  .....................................................                          25
13.      Bank Resources: Missions .............................                        ........................ 26
Appendix 1. FAO/CP Mission Aide Memoire .27
Appendix 2. Staff Positions as on October 10, 1994 .35
Appendix 3. Economic Re-evaluation .36
TABLES
1.       Net Irrigable Area Created and Utilized - New  Tubewells  ..........                         ................. 40
2.       Net Irrigable Area Created and Utilized - Modernized Tubewells .......                             ............ 41
3.       Net Irrigable Area Created and Utilized - Rehabilitated Tubewells  .......                           .......... 42
4.       Cropping Pattern - New  and Modernized Tubewells  .............                           .................... 43
5.       Cropping Pattern - Rehabilitated Tubewells  .......................                     .................... 44
6.       Crop Yield - New  and Modernized Tubewells ....................                        ..................... 45
7.        Crop Yield - Rehabilitated Tubewells ...................................................  46
8.       With Project Yields at SAR  Compared to ICR  for the Project as a Whole  ...... ... 47
9.       Estimated  Financial Farm   Budgets  (I ha  farm) ......................................... 48
10.      Exchange Rates and Wholesale Price Indices (WPI)  .............                           .................... 49
11.      Economic Analysis of the Project as a Whole  ....................                      ..................... 50
12.      Economic Analysis of New  Tubewells .................................................   51
13.      Economic Analysis of Modernized Tubewells ....................                         ..................... 52
14.      Economic Analysis of Rehabilitated Tubewells  .................                       ...................... 53
15.      Derivation of Economic Prices .....................................................                          54
16.      Summary of Prices for Financial and Economic Analysis in 1994 Prices  ...... ... 55
Appendix 4. Progress of Physical Targets .56
Appendix 5. Project Cost in Nominal and Real Terms .57
Appendix 6. Borrower's Comments and Evaluation Report .58
MAP IBRD 19278R



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
BIHAR PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
(Credit 1737-IN)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Bihar Public Tubewell
Project in India, for which Credit 1737-IN in the amount of SDR 59.5 million (US$68 million
equivalent) was approved on October 16, 1986 and made effective on April 13, 1987.
SDR 40.0 million (US$54.7 million equivalent) was cancelled on December 5,1991
during the funds redeployment exercise. The Credit was closed on May 31, 1994, the original
closing date. Final disbursement took place on November 21, 1994.
The ICR was prepared by an FAO/CP mission which visited India in
September/October 1994. It was finalized by the Task Manager, Mr. N. K. Bandyopadhyay,
Agriculture Unit, Resident Staff in India, Country Department 2, South Asia Regional Office, and
reviewed by Mr. Shawki Barghouti, Chief, Agriculture and Water Operations Division, and Mr.
William Nickel, Acting Project Advisor. The Borrower provided comments that are included as an
appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in
May 1994. It is based on a review of the Staff Appraisal Report and legal documents, supervision
reports, and project files, as well as field investigations and discussions with the Bank staff and
state government officials associated with the project. The Borrower contributed to the preparation
of the ICR by commenting on the mission's aide-memoire, preparing its own evaluation, and
commenting on the draft ICR.



I



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
BIHAR PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
(Credit 1737-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.        The Bank has been associated with the irrigation sub-sector and Bihar since 1962
when it approved the first credit of US$15 million for the Sone Irrigation Project, followed by the
Bihar Agricultural Credit Project for US$32 million in 1973, four all-India Agricultural Refinance
Development Corporation (now National Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development) projects
between 1975-1982, the Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project in 1977, Subernarekha
Irrigation Project in 1982, and the latest being the Bihar Plateau Development Project in 1992.
Project Objectives
2.        The State of Bihar was the third of the Indian States to adopt improved technology for
the deep tubewells and distribution system introduced under Uttar Pradesh Tubewells Project
(Credit 1004-IN, 1980 and Credit 1332-IN, 1983). The seven-year Bihar Public Tubewell Project
was aimed at increasing agricultural production by improving and expanding the use of Bihar's
considerable groundwater potential. This was to be achieved by: (a) introducing improved
tubewell technology that would eliminate the planning and design problems inherent in Bihar's
existing public tubewells (PTWs); (b) undertaking a phased program to rehabilitate and modernize
most of Bihar's existing PTWs; and (c) strengthening the institution responsible for PTW
activities to ensure that project works can be effectively and efficiently implemented as well as
operated and maintained. Project components included:
(i)    New tubewell systems. Construction of about 500 improved tubewell
systems of about 150 m3/hr each and net command area of 100 ha.
(ii)    Modernization and rehabilitation of existing tubewell systems. Repair or
rehabilitation of about 4,700 existing tubewells including construction of new
distribution systems on about 1,000 of the existing tubewell systems and
rehabilitation of existing distribution systems on a further 1,300 of the
existing tubewells.
(iii)    Dedicated power lines. Connection to separate 11 kV feeder lines of about
4,700 existing tubewells and 500 new tubewells.
(iv)    Management improvements. Provision of equipment, transportation, and
buildings to be used by the project construction, operation and maintenance
staff; preparation of design and operation and maintenance (O & M) manuals;
technical services; studies related to project management, cost recovery and
an agro-economic baseline survey for selected project tubewells; training of
project staff; and monitoring and evaluation activities.



iii
3.        Project changes after appraisal. The project was revised in March 1990 by increasing
the tubewells for modernization by 500 which were located in the flood zone, instead of
rehabilitating them as proposed at appraisal (increasing the number of PTWs to be modernized
from 1,000 to 1,500 and reducing the number to be rehabilitated from about 3,700 to 3,200), and
providing an underground pipe distribution system instead of repairing the existing bricklined
channels, which were prone to frequent breaches. On the recommendation of the Government of
Bihar (GOB), the provision for dedicated power lines was deleted by the Bank in 1992. The
Credit disbursement percentage was increased commencing in September 1990 in respect of
tubewell and energization works from 75 percent to 90 percent as part of the Gulf Initiative to
alleviate Government of India's (GOI) foreign exchange constraints. In addition, a sum of
SDR 40 million (US$54.7 million equivalent) was cancelled due to substantial savings resulting
from the depreciation of the rupee against the US dollar.
4.        Loan covenants. Special loan covenants or agreements that were expected to promote
achievement of project objectives were: (i) the provision of dedicated 11 kV feeder lines to each
PTW within a cluster to give power supply from a conductor which would be exclusively used for
PTWs; and (ii) the supply of a minimum of 16 hours of power per day per PTW at peak demand
periods. As stated earlier, dedicated power lines were dropped from the project and the power was
continuously in short supply ranging from 3-8 hrs/day, exacerbated by its unreliability and
irregularity.
5.        Evaluation of project objectives. The project was based on the sound foundation that
it would complement groundwater development in the private sector and be selective in the target
group of beneficiaries to be reached; tubewell siting criteria were designed to achieve this goal.
The project took advantage of technical principles developed under the Uttar Pradesh Public
Tubewell II Project. Consequently, the project objectives were clear and important for the proper
development of the state's groundwater potential. But the project lacked realism particularly
relating to the installation of new tubewells as it was too optimistic to expect quick implementation
results, given the institutional reorganization required and the past two decades of dismal
performance of PTWs. It was also not realistic to spread water over 100 ha with a 150 m3/hr
tubewell. The project was also complex because the proposed number (about 5,200) of tubewells
were to be sited in scattered locations over some 37 of the state's districts and implemented within
seven years, and such implementation to be effective required good coordination with the Bihar
State Electricity Board (BSEB) and the Department of Agriculture (DOA). This scale and spread of
project activities also naturally called for high quality management and skillful planning of logistics
and implementation, which the project management has found it difficult to master. The
importance of water management was not very explicitly emphasized at appraisal, although it
constituted a key element in equitable water allocation and water use efficiency.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.        The project experienced considerable difficulties during implementation. The most
common of these was the delay in construction and energization. Disorganized management, staff
shortages at senior levels and frequent turnover, uncoordinated planning of works between BSEB
and the Tubewell Wing of the Minor Irrigation Department (MID), poor extension support in the
field, and shortages of PVC pipes, were other problems which hindered implementation.
Achievement of tubewell completion and energization was 18 percent (new tubewells), 29 percent
(modernized tubewells) and 73 percent (rehabilitated tubewells). Area actually irrigated was
dismally lower at 13 percent (new tubewells), 15 percent (modernized tubewells) and l percent
(rehabilitated tubewells) of the additional potential created. The principal reason for the low
utilization is the shortage of power supply, ranging from 3 to 8 hours per day. As a result,
production levels have been substantially less than anticipated at project appraisal. The current



iv
estimate of overall economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is 2.3 percent, down nearly 31
percent from an appraisal estimate of 33 percent. Part of this decline is due to the lower increase in
cropping intensity but most is caused by the lower command area per tubewell utilized than that
estimated at appraisal - 74 percent lower for new tubewells, 78 percent lower for modernized
tubewells and 91 percent lower for rehabilitated tubewells. The slippage of 31 percentage points
(from 33 percent to 2 percent) is accounted by -20 percent (new tubewells), 4 percent (modernized
tubewells) and 3 percent (rehabilitated tubewells). For the most part, both appraisal and
completion estimates of ERR are more speculative than usual, because they incorporate returns also
to investments projected in later years.
7.        The project has only partially achieved its physical and sector policy objectives. Its
achievement of institutional development objectives was negligible. Macroeconomic policies and
financial objectives were not applicable to this project. There was no coverage of gender issues.
8.         Project sustainability. The ERR of the project is too low to be consistent with
sustainable economic performance. The major challenge for the sustainability of the tubewell
system established under the project is the provision of a reliable power supply and adequate
O & M. As the power supply cannot be assured by the Electricity Board in the immediate future,
the only option would be to install diesel generating sets. In fact, the Bank extended necessary
assistance including consultancy services for determining the economic viability of diesel
generating sets and agreed to reimburse their cost under the National Water Management Project,
provided a small percentage of capital costs and 0 & M expenditure were borne by the
beneficiaries. Unfortunately this was not experimented in a single scheme. As the MID would not
have financial resources to operate and maintain these schemes and their diesel sets, the best course
of action would be to transfer them to farmers' organizations, whether Panchayats or otherwise,
and to intensify training and technical assistance programs (provided through the Water and Land
Management Institute). The establishment and functioning of the two Regional and 18 Divisional
Workshops for the provision of spare parts and repair of tubewells on behalf of farmers'
organizations is a prerequisite to sustainability.
9.         Actual cost, financing and implementation timetable. At appraisal, it was estimated
that construction and energization would be completed by September 1993 with a project closing
date of May 31, 1994. Current estimates indicate that final construction is not likely to be
completed until March 1998 although the Credit was closed on May 31, 1994. The final cost of
the project is now estimated at Rs.3,495 million (US$140 million), compared to the appraisal
estimate of Rs.1,296.2 million (US$99.7 million), representing a 170 percent cost overrun in
nominal rupee terms or 55 percent cost overrun in real rupee terms. The Credit was able to finance
only about US$26.6 million or 19 percent of the estimated total project cost compared to 70 percent
at appraisal, severely increasing the burden on the state budget.
10.       Key factors relating to achievement of project objectives. The most important
deficiencies which hampered project implementation can be classified into:
(i)    Factors not generally subject to Government control. These included law and
order problems, limiting Bank financing to operative wells only, and the
inadequacy of the management and water charges studies. These have in part
adversely affected the achievement of project objectives.
(ii)    Factors generally subject to Government control. These included delays in
the appointment of key staff, lack of adequate counterpart funds in later
years, delayed start in the construction of dedicated power lines and
uncoordinated construction work between BSEB and the Tubewell Wing of



v
the MID, a long strike by engineers and staff during 1991/92, and delay in
delegation of adequate financial power to field officers. These had
substantially affected the implementation pace of tubewell installations.
(iii)   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control. There was
insufficient advance planning and updating of implementation, procurement
and 0 & M schedules, lack of coordination between the State Electricity
Board and Department of Agriculture, and delays in institution-building
measures such as M & E and training. Procurement progress was slow
mainly because of the cumbersome and time-consuming procedures followed
for evaluation of bids and finalization of awards. There were also delays in
construction of cluster buildings and workshops, administrative building and
access roads to PTWs. As the first World Bank project implemented by the
MID, the department staff took time to familiarize themselves with the local
competitive bidding (LCB) and international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures, and this has caused some delays. The frequent change in Project
Coordinator (eight Project Coordinators over the project period of seven
years), has meant that proper direction and continuity to the programme of
work could not be given. The combined effect of these factors was reflected
in substantial under-achievement of project objectives.
11.       Performance of Bank and borrower. Both parties have not performed satisfactorily
throughout the project cycle. The Borrower continued its managerial and financial weaknesses
during implementation, although some improvement surfaced towards the closing years. The
Bank's unsatisfactory performance included misjudgement on power availability, the poor mid-
term review, and the waiver of the covenant on dedicated power lines which did not offer any
remedy to the crucial issue of power supply to tubewells.
12.       Project outcome assessment. The project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
13.       Findings. Incremental agricultural production is significantly less than estimated at
appraisal. The ERR is also lower. A matter of particular concern is the continuing shortage and
unreliability of power, which has contributed to the dismal average command areas of PTWs
utilized under the project. Public investment in tubewell development should therefore be
reviewed. Adequate provision of funds is essential for extension, demonstration and training in
tubewell command areas. Since the success of a public tubewell project depends on the
performance of all interacting government agencies, there should be an effective mechanism for
coordination.
14.       Plans for future 2roject operations. Following discussion with MID on future
operation/action plan concerning completion of all ongoing works and also to maximize net project
benefits, MID has agreed to: (a) complete all ongoing works by March 1998 and make available
adequate funds for this purpose and refrain from constructing any new structures before
completing all ongoing schemes in view of GOB's budgetary constraints; (b) continue transferring
O & M responsibility for tubewells to Panchayats/farmers' organizations and also carry out a
thorough review of the tubewells previously handed over and undertake remedial measures for
improved performance; (c) provide adequate 0 & M funding until all tubewells are turned over to
Panchayats/farmers' organizations; (d) allocate sufficient funding for training in installation and
operation of improved electrical regulation system already procured for the efficient operation of
the tubewells but not in use at present for want of adequate training; (e) implement a pilot scheme



vi
to install diesel generating sets in about 10 selected tubewells to test the effectiveness of operation
and fanners' willingness to bear full 0 & M cost and a portion of the capital cost; and (f) monitor
tubewell performance through collection of data on operational hours per tubewell, irrigated
potential created, actual area irrigated, cropping patterns, intensities and yields in the kharif, rabi
and hot seasons on a continuous basis.
15.       It is recommended that an impact evaluation mission from the Bank visit the state
around 1997 to evaluate the performance of project wells.
16.       Lessons for future projects in the sub-sector. The main lessons learnt are:
(i)    Given the past two decades of poor PTW performance and the institutional
reorganization required to achieve improvements, the proposed installation of
a large number (500) of new tubewells without the prior benefit of a pilot
scale operation, as in Uttar Pradesh, was very ambitious. Small farmers'
interest, which was sought to be promoted by proper siting of new wells, can
be, for the present time, secured by selecting wells for modernization or
rehabilitation in command areas dominated by the target group.
(ii)    The provision of dedicated power lines with power availability of 16
hours/day at peak demand against a background of poor power generation
and poor supply was not realistic. In future, project power supply should be
assessed at the state level to ensure that it is adequate for the project.
(iii)    The project experience demonstrates the critical significance of state finance in
Bihar for satisfactory implementation and the need to ensure an adequate flow
of funds from the Credit. Limiting Bank financing to operative wells only,
though well-intended (by restricting the start-up of numerous works and the
completion of few) hampered the reimbursement of counterpart funds and the
corresponding legal covenant required adjustment to local circumstances. A
revolving fund at the state level is also required in addition to the special
account established with GOI.
(iv)    Groundwater development based on PTWs would increasingly face problems
of poor performance, both in terms of productivity and equity, unless proper
action is taken for power supply and effective transfer to beneficiaries. The
existing system would, without significant changes in the management and
financing, deteriorate as a result of pressure on already strained budgetary
resources.
(v)    The re-estimated dismally low ERR of the project suggests that even with
improved technology, investment in public tubewells may not necessarily be
economically viable. Further investment in public tubewells should therefore
be reviewed, in order to encourage private investment in shallow tubewells
while resolving most of the problems now faced with public tubewells
through their transfer to Panchayats after ensuring certain follow-up steps
including adequate power supply and repair facilities.
(vi)    There is a need to address issues related to Panchayats, farmers'
organizations and 0 & M of PTWs comprehensively at preparation and
appraisal of the project to ensure smooth implementation.



vii
(vii)    Monitoring and evaluation of tubewell irrigation and agricultural performrance
data deserves high priority as a critical tool for rectifying deficiencies and
sustained use of the irrigation potential created.



I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
BIHAR PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
(Credit 1737-IN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Statement of Project Objectives
1.        The State of Bihar was the third of the Indian States to adopt improved technology for
the deep tubewells and distribution system introduced under Uttar Pradesh Tubewells Projects
(Credit 1004-IN, 1980 and Credit 1332-IN, 1983). As in these tubewell projects, the Bihar Public
Tubewell Project was aimed at increasing agricultural production by improving and expanding the
use of Bihar's considerable groundwater potential. This was to be achieved by: (a) introducing
improved tubewell technology that would eliminate the planning and design problems inherent in
Bihar's existing public tubewells (PTWs); (b) undertaking a phased program to rehabilitate and
modernize most of Bihar's existing PTWs; (c) strengthening the institution responsible for PTW
activities to ensure that project works can be effectively and efficiently implemented as well as
operated and maintained; and (d) increasing agricultural production, employment and incomes
especially for Bihar's small farmers. Project components included:
(i)       New Tubewell Systems. Construction of about 500 improved tubewell
systems of about 150 m3/hr each and net command area of 100 ha.
(ii)      Modernization and Rehabilitation of Existing Tubewell Svstems. Repair
or rehabilitation of about 4,700 existing tubewells including construction
of new distribution systems on about 1,000 of the existing tubewell
systems and rehabilitation of existing distribution systems on a further
1,300 of the existing tubewells.
(iii)     Dedicated Power Lines. Connection to separate 11 kV feeder lines of
about 4,700 existing tubewells and 500 new tubewells.
(iv)      Management Improvements. Provision of equipment, transportation,
and buildings to be used by the project construction, operation and
maintenance staff; preparation of design and 0 & M manuals; technical
services; studies related to project management, cost recovery and an
agro-economic baseline survey for selected project tubewells; training of
project staff; and monitoring and evaluation activities.
2.        Project Cost. The project was planned to be implemented over seven years from
about September 1986 to September 1993, and the total project cost including physical and price
contingencies was estimated at US$99.7 million (Rs.1,296.2 million). The IDA Credit of
SDR 59.5 million (US$68.0 million equivalent) was to finance about 70 percent of the total project



2
cost excluding taxes and duties. The remaining portion of the cost was to be met by the
Government of Bihar (GOB) and the Government of India (GOI).
3.        Project Changes after Appraisal. The project was revised in March 1990 by
increasing the tubewells for modernization by 500 which were located in the flood zone, instead of
rehabilitating them as proposed at appraisal (increasing the number of PTWs to be modernized
from 1,000 to 1,500 and reducing the number to be rehabilitated from about 3,700 to 3,200), and
providing an underground pipe distribution system instead of repairing the existing bricklined
channels, which were prone to frequent breaches. The energization of dedicated power lines did
not make any headway due to a general power shortage in the state and resentment among other
power users which has resulted in theft of conductors in many lines (see para 22). On the
recommendation of GOB, the provision for dedicated power lines was deleted by the Bank in
1992. The Credit disbursement percentage was increased commencing in September 1990 in
respect of tubewell and energization works from 75 percent to 90 percent as part of the Gulf
Initiative to alleviate GOI's foreign exchange constraints. In addition, a sum of SDR 40 million
(US$54.7 million equivalent) was cancelled due to substantial savings resulting from depreciation
of the rupee against the US dollar.
4.        Special loan covenants or agreements that were expected to promote achievement of
project objectives were: (i) the provision of dedicated 11 kV feeder lines to each PTW within a
cluster to give power supply from a conductor which would be exclusively used for PTWs; and
(ii) the supply of a minimum of 16 hours of power per day per PTW at peak demand periods. As
stated in para 3, dedicated power lines were dropped from the project and the power was
continuously in short supply ranging from 3-8 hrs/day, exacerbated by its unreliability and
irregularity.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
5.        Clarity. The area commanded by a new tubewell had been designed at 100 ha and
locations chosen in such a manner as to include a high proportion of small and fragmented
holdings cultivated by small farmers who would not find it profitable to invest their own resources
in constructing new tubewells. The project design was thus based on a sound foundation that it
would complement groundwater development in the private sector and be selective in the target
group of beneficiaries to be reached; tubewell siting criteria were suitably designed to achieve this
goal. Consequently, the project objectives were clear and important for the proper development of
the state's groundwater potential.
6.        Realism. The project, however, lacked realism at least on two counts. Given the
institutional reorganization required and the past two decades of inadequate performance of PTWs,
the proposed investment in a large number of new tubewells (500) was over ambitious. The
spread of water over 100 ha with a 150 m3/hr tubewell was also unrealistic.
7.        Complexity. The project was also complex because the proposed number (5,200) of
tubewells were to be sited in scattered locations over some 37 of the state's districts and
implemented within seven years, and such implementation to be effective required good
coordination with the Bihar State Electricity Board (BSEB) and the Department of Agriculture
(DOA). This scale and spread of project activities also naturally called for high quality
management and skillful planning of logistics and implementation, which the project management
has found it difficult to comply with. It was rather ambitious to expect that deficiencies such as
management difficulties, inadequate power supply and the shortage of 0 & M funds could be
overcome within a period of seven years when these have haunted the development of the PTW
sector over the past several years.



3
8.          Responsiveness to Borrower's Circumstances. The project's strategy to provide a
reliable, timely and equitable irrigation service was a commendable and necessary ingredient, but,
without finance for complementary investments in water management and extension, remained
insufficient to respond to Borrower's financial difficulties and development priorities in not only
providing an efficient irrigation service but also realizing fully the irrigation potential by the small
farmers. The importance of water management was not very explicitly emphasized at appraisal,
although it constituted a key element in equitable water allocation and water use efficiency.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
9.          Overall Achievement. The project has only partially achieved its physical and sector
policy objectives. Its achievement of institutional development objectives was negligible.
Macroeconomic policies and financial objectives were not applicable to this project. There was no
coverage of gender issues.
10.         Physical Objectives. There is a significant shortfall in the achievement of physical
objectives as shown below:
Targets and Achievements
Pllanned at                           i ona
Component               Appraisal          Fully Completed    r rig at ion
& Energized     otential (ha) I
__Oridnal   Revised    _ar et                 ctual Creation    Ytllizatlon
________________Levised)    of May3L    199Q
New tubewell           500       500       89             5
Modemized tubewell      I        I 5         431          1          143,100          978
aehbilbtated tubewell  3712     3212                                   302,354  257 00___17
dicate DOwer lnes*     (5.212)   (5.212)   (624)           _
ilotal                  5.212 5,212        2.X74         4            40320           7.505
* Denotes numbers, each with an average length of 2.06 km.
11.         As shown above, the shortfall is both in terms of tubewell system completed, potential
realized and area actually irrigated under the project. Achievement of tubewell completion and
energization was 18 percent (new tubewells), 29 percent (modernized tubewells) and 73 percent
(rehabilitated tubewells). Area actually irrigated was lower at 26 percentl (new tubewells), 22
percent2 (modernized tubewells) and 11 percent (rehabilitated tubewells) of the additional potential
created. The principal reason for the low utilization is the shortage of power supply, ranging from
3 to 8 hours per day. As a result, production levels have been substantially less than anticipated at
project appraisal.
12.         Objectives of Sector Policies. The objectives of sector policies relevant to the project
were concerned with funding for the 0 & M of project works and cost recovery policies. Actual
releases of budgetary allocations for 0 & M persistently lagged behind requirements.
13.         Water rates had not been revised since 1983. Instead, GOB decided to hand over the
operation and management of tubewells to the Panchayats, initially on a five-year lease. Some 490
1      This figure has been brought in line with Tables 1, 2 and 3 of Appendix 3 and
GOB's comments.
2      This figure has been brought in line with Tables 1, 2 and 3 of Appendix 3 and
GOB's comments.



4
tubewells, most of them (94 percent) modemized or rehabilitated ones, had so far been transferred
to the Panchayats. Only two of the Panchayats are financially autonomous in operating them. The
key reasons for their success are reported to be availability of a reliable power supply and effective
leadership. GOB's decision to transfer the tubewells to the Panchayats is well-intended and based
on the successful experience of such operation in West Bengal. What has not gone right in Bihar
is forward planning and preparation of the Panchayats and users for this exercise, and the
continuous shortage of power supply and its undependability. As a result, in many cases, the
Panchayats have not been able to pay the electricity charges and they still look to the Minor
Irrigation Department (MID) for repairs and maintenance, largely due to non-availability of repair
services for these sophisticated tubewells in local markets.
14.       Institutional Development Objectives. The main means of achieving the institutional
development objectives, as provided in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), were the provision of
infrastructure and equipment, training of project staff, preparation of design and 0 & M manuals,
studies related to project management, and monitoring and evaluation activities. These were all
provided to varying degrees of success. Management and water charges studies were completed
but they were inadequate and had the least impact on project management and cost recovery.
Cluster buildings and transportation were also almost completed or nearing completion, albeit with
delays. There was a rapid turnover of senior staff including the Project Coordinator. Some staff
vacancies were not filled in full (superintending engineers, geophysicists) or not filled at all
(hydrogeologists) (see Appendix 2).  The transfer of staff to MID, including the tubewell
operators from the Bihar Water Development Corporation (BWDC), had only increased the staff
numbers but not their quality. Staff training was more or less provided as planned. The
monitoring unit, with one executive engineer and two assistant engineers, was understaffed. It
concentrated on physical and financial progress of works. An indicator tracking system was not
used as a basis for monitoring project performance. The cumulative effect of weak staffing,
inadequate studies and ineffective monitoring has led to under-utilization of physical facilities
provided under the project (buildings, vehicles and equipment).
15.       Equity Objectives. Although equity was the major justification for the investment in
new tubewells, the equity impact of the project defies proper assessment. In the absence of M & E
data on beneficiary participation, it is not possible to make a precise assessment. However, it is
known that the systems of water management and distribution have not functioned well. The more
influential farmers tended to get water during times of power constraint while others received less
or nothing at all and tubewell operators were reported to be not 'fair' in the distribution of water.
The automatic operation system which was supposed to eliminate the partiality of tubewell
operators had not worked as designed. Siting of new wells might not have also favored the target
group as field visits of the ICR mission indicated that there were many shallow tubewells (over 20)
within the command of a new PTW, which are normally owned by well-to-do farmers.
16.       Economic Rates of Return (ERR). The current economic rates of return re-estimated
at completion are 2.3 percent for the project as a whole and -20 percent (new tubewells), 4.4
percent (modernized tubewells) and 2.9 percent (rehabilitated tubewells), compared to 33 percent
(overall project), 32 percent (new tubewells), 42 percent (modernized tubewells) and 29 percent
(rehabilitated tubewells) estimated at appraisal. The recalculated ERRs are based on actual
expenditures incurred up to the closing date and costs to complete thereafter until 1998, and an
actual and updated projection of benefits. Underlying assumptions about costs and benefits, and
other information supporting the analysis, are shown in Table 9 of Part II and Appendix 3. The re-
estimated ERRs differ significantly from the appraisal estimates. There are various factors which
have contributed to the negative ERR for new tubewells, and significantly lower ERRs for
modernized and rehabilitated tubewells, as compared to appraisal estimates. The more important
ones include:



5
(i)    a 74 percent to 78 percent lower command area per new and modernized
tubewells and 91 percent lower command area per rehabilitated tubewell, than
that expected at appraisal;
(ii)    at appraisal, the cropping intensity was expected to increase by 66-77 percent;
revised estimates put the increase between 2-17 percent. The lowest 'with
project' cropping intensity (2 percent) is for areas commanded by
rehabilitated tubewells. This is because of the poor maintenance of field
channels, resulting in higher conveyance losses, compared to areas
commanded by new or modernized tubewells with the buried pipe system
supported under the project;
(iii)   area irrigated by private tubewells 'without project' at completion is about 20
percent compared to none assumed at appraisal; and
(iv)   increased costs of tubewells compared to appraisal (see para 24);
(v)    economic costs in rupee terms have increased much more than the increase in
the price of the main agricultural output (paddy), while the economic price of
labor is six times that estimated at appraisal, the farmgate price of paddy and
wheat has gone up between two to three times that estimated at appraisal.
17.       Sensitivity Analysis. The potential economic benefits are not being fully achieved
particularly in terms of areas irrigated per tubewell, due to erratic and unreliable power supply.
The fact that many PTWs are being used to irrigate areas ranging from 9 ha to 26 ha each achieving
an average of 12 ha, is considered exceedingly low. The three factors which are expected to
influence the ERR are: (i) variations in command areas; (ii) changes in 0 & M funding; and (iii)
the inability of the MID to operate and manage PTWs as designed. The sensitivity analysis
indicates that: a reduction in command area of 20 percent would lower ERR to -0.6 percent; a
reduction of 50 percent in 0 & M funding (by assuming that future benefits would be reduced by
50 percent), would lower the ERR to about -7.4 percent; and that poor operation and management
would lower ERR to -0.6 percent, assuming that the ineffective operation of MID would depress
project benefits by 20 percent.
18.       Farm Incomes. At appraisal, four farm models were prepared to estimate incremental
cash income generated by the different models. The results showed incremental incomes of
Rs.3,165 (heavy soils farm model), Rs.2,765 (mixed cropping farm model), Rs.2,535 (lights
soils farm model) and Rs.4,027 (mixed cropping with vegetable farm model) or Rs.420 to Rs.670
per capita, assuming a family size of six members. A similar analysis (but based on irrigation by
type of tubewell) for the ICR based on cropping patterns and per ha crop budgets shown in
Appendix 4 revealed incremental incomes of Rs.3,870 (new tubewells), Rs.3,878 (modernized
tubewells) and Rs.2,830 (rehabilitated tubewells) or Rs.470 to Rs.645 per capita in 1986 prices.
Although the models prepared at completion are strictly not comparable to those projected at
appraisal, well irrigation is profitable for relatively larger farmers but public tubewells (when well-
managed and with an adequate power supply), can provide a valuable additional income to smaller
farmers who cannot afford to invest in wells.
19.       Subsidies. The total annual 0 & M cost for PTWs is estimated by the MID at an
average Rs.54,490 per tubewell on the designed utilization basis, including establishment cost of
Rs.24,000, energy (electricity) charges of Rs.25,620 and maintenance cost of Rs.4,870, while the
direct revenue from water rates would amount to Rs. 17,045 per year, assuming 100 percent of



6
collection. The balance (Rs.37,445) will have to be supported from GOB's budget. However, the
collection rate has not exceeded 14 percent since 1988/89 and in 1993/94 it was less than 2 percent.
Overall subsidies on PTW operation are therefore about Rs.37,445 per year per tubewell assuming
100 percent recovery of water charges or about Rs.54,150 per year per tubewell, assuming only 2
percent recovery rate. It would seem that some bigger farmers have also benefited, although it was
not intended under the project.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
20.       Implementation Record. The project has continuously suffered from problems since
its inception in April 1987, having been rated '3' since early 1989 and '4' during July 1991-May
1992, when its rating improved to '3' and later to '2' in August 1993 before falling to '3' again in
May 1994. Overall, energization works out to 55 percent of the total planned at appraisal. The
drilling of new tubewells was dropped on the advice of the Bank which gave priority to completion
of wells already drilled. The position regarding modernized and rehabilitated tubewells is
somewhat better. The single most important factor affecting the project is GOB's inability to
provide reliable and quality power for about 16 hours at peak demand to project tubewells. The
situation further worsened due to the fact that against the planned strategy of extensive irrigation to
spread water over as large an area as possible, with the assumption that with water rather than land
as a limiting factor the common cultural practice in Bihar is to under-irrigate rabi crops (SAR, para
4.34), most of the cultivators under the command areas were demanding optimum irrigation facility
from the system to maximize their benefits and, as such, there was too little water to serve too big
an area for productive commercial agriculture which could give adequate returns to pay back the 0
& M charges for sustainable operation. Even beneficiary participation for proper management for
equity and sustainability can be effective only when the irrigation service is reliable and adequate
for productive commercial agriculture. The other important deficiencies which hampered project
implementation can be classified into:
(i)    Factors not generally subject to Government control. These included law and
order problems, limiting Bank financing to operative wells only (this was to
limit the start-up of numerous works and the completion of a few), and the
inadequacy of the management and water charges studies. These have in part
adversely affected the achievement of project objectives.
(ii)    Factors generally subject to Government control. These included delays in
the appointment of key staff, lack of adequate counterpart funds in later
years, delayed start in the construction of dedicated power lines and
uncoordinated construction work between BSEB and the Tubewell Wing of
the MID (for example, only four new and 33 modernized tubewells were
completed in all respects until 1991), a long strike by engineers and staff
during 1991/92, and delay in delegation of adequate financial power to field
officers.  These had substantially affected the implementation pace of
tubewell installations.
(iii)   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control. The project has
encountered continuous implementation problems. There was insufficient
advance planning and updating of implementation, procurement and 0 & M
schedules, lack of coordination between the State Electricity Board and
Department of Agriculture, and delays in institution-building measures such
as M & E and training. The procurement progress was slow mainly because



7
of the cumbersome and time-consuming procedures followed for evaluation
of bids and finalization of awards. There were also delays in construction of
cluster buildings and workshops, administrative building and access roads to
PTWs. As the first Bank project implemented by the MID, the department
staff took time to familiarize themselves with the local competitve bidding
(LCB) and intemational competitive bidding (ICB) procedures, and this has
caused some delays. The post of Project Coordinator was filled by a senior
engineer and initially there were five Project Coordinators in three years and
eight Project Coordinators over the project period of seven years. The
frequent change in Project Coordinator has meant that proper direction and
continuity to the program of work could not be given. The combined effect
of these factors was reflected in substantial under-achievement of project
objectives.
21.       Implementation Delays. There had been significant shortfalls in the physical
achievement of targets planned at appraisal as indicated in Appendix 4. At appraisal, it was
estimated that construction and energization of tubewells would be completed by September 1993
with a project closing date of May 31, 1994. Current estimates indicate that final construction is
not likely to be completed until March 1998, although the Credit was closed on May 31, 1994.
22.       Several factors had contributed to the delays in project implementation. These
included scattered unplanned work without coordinated planning in the initial years to complete all
works in a tubewell system, energization falling behind schedule due to incomplete pumphouse
and related works, theft of aluminium conductors in some districts (Aurangabad, Nalanda, Gaya)
which delayed the commissioning of PTWs in these districts, delays in award of contracts,
inadequate counterpart funding in later years, exacerbated by slow credit disbursements despite
heavy expenditure mainly because of slow materials procurement and non-completion of PTW civil
works, a condition for qualifying tubewell civil works for Bank disbursement, limited delegation
of powers to project engineers in regard to contract awards (which was later remedied), poor
utilization of tubewells due to unreliable and erratic power supply and vandalism, and poor
agricultural extension.
23.       Actual Project Cost. Table 8A of Part II gives a comparative statement of appraisal
estimates and final costs. The project, as envisaged at appraisal, was only partially completed by
the Credit closing date. When allowance is made for costs to complete, the total final cost would
amount to Rs.3,495 million (US$140 million), representing a 170 percent cost overrun in nominal
rupee terns or 55 percent in real rupee terms. Expressed in US dollars reflecting the depreciation
of the rupee against the US dollar, the total overrun would be only 40 percent. As shown in
Appendix 5, the overrun was caused mainly by price escalation (115 percent) and partly by
quantity changes (55 percent) arising from design and other variations including an increase in 11
kV lines for each PTW from an average of 1.35 km at appraisal to 2.06 km during implementation.
Some quantity changes also originated from the modemization of 500 existing PTWs in the flood
zone instead of rehabilitating them as foreseen at appraisal. The cost of engineering and
administration increased by 677 percent followed by modernized tubewells (245 percent),
rehabilitated tubewells (239 percent), new tubewells (45 percent), management improvement (29
percent) and dedicated power supply (10 percent), over the respective appraisal estimates.
24.       Excluding costs of dedicated power supply, the overall cost per tubewell at completion
would be Rs.745,000 (new tubewell), Rs.700,000 (modernized tubewell) and Rs. 152,000
(rehabilitated tubewell) compared to Rs.513,000, Rs.305,000 and Rs.39,000 respectively, at
appraisal. Translated in terms of hectare, these would amount to Rs.7,450/ha (new tubewells),



8
Rs.7,000/ha (modernized tubewells) and Rs. 1,900/ha (rehabilitated tubewells) compared to
Rs.5,130/ha, Rs.3,050/ha and Rs.488/ha.
25.        Project Financing. Because of considerable implementation delays combined with the
limitation of Bank financing to operative wells only, credit disbursements have lagged seriously
behind actual expenditures. The credit was able to finance only about US$26.6 million or merely
19 percent of the total project cost compared to the 70 percent envisaged at appraisal, severely
increasing the burden on the state budget. This has raised into question GOB's ability to complete
the project as originally planned.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
26.        General. The ERR of the project is too low to be consistent with sustainable
economic performance. The major challenge for the sustainability of the tubewell system
established under the project is the provision of a reliable power supply and well-functioning
O & M services. As the power supply cannot be assured by the BSEB in the immediate future, the
only option would be to install diesel generating sets. In fact, the Bank extended necessary
assistance including consultancy services for determining the economic viability of diesel
generating sets and agreed to reimburse their cost under the National Water Management Project
provided a small percentage of capital costs and 0 & M expenditure were borne by the
beneficiaries. Unfortunately this was not experimented in a single scheme. As the MID would
not have the financial resources to operate and maintain these schemes and their diesel sets, the best
course of action would be to transfer them to farmers' organizations whether Panchayats or
otherwise, and to intensify training and technical assistance programs (provided through the Water
and Land Management Institute). The establishment and functioning of the two Regional and 18
Divisional Workshops for the provision of spare parts and repair of tubewells on behalf of
farmers' organizations is a prerequisite to sustainability. The project may have an impact on the
quality of groundwater due to the increase in fertilizer and pesticide use.
27.        Cost Recovery. At appraisal, water rates in the states were expected to be increased to
cover the full 0 & M expenses plus a reasonable portion of capital cost. No revision has taken
place since 1983 although the electric tariff has been raised twice, the last one to Rs.120/Brake
horse-power (BHP). Collection of water rates has persistently lagged behind and the average
collection to billing has declined from 14 percent in 1988/89 to 2 percent in 1993/94. There is thus
a clear need not only to secure collection of arrears but also to increase the present rates to ensure
efficiency of water use and assure confidence for the GOB to enhance 0 & M allocation until such
tubewell schemes are turned over to farmers' organizations. The present system of handing over
tubewells to Panchayats is not based on prior planning, discussion and willingness of potential
users. This appears to have been done in a routine manner without either preparing the benefiting
farmers, or providing them with the required training and ensuring a clear definition of
responsibilities of the different parties involved - MID, Panchayats and farmers. As a result,
Panchayats, which have taken over, have presumably assumed it to be another "welfare" measure
for funding by GOB. One option to dispel this misconception would be to demonstrate the success
of this arrangement through organizing selective water users' associations who are willing and able
to operate it successfully. Based on such experience, the scheme could be expanded.
28.        At appraisal, it was expected that the power to PTWs and private shallow tubewells
was to be supplied at a uniform rate of Rs.0.35 per kwh as metered supply. There had since been
a change in charging for energy for PTWs from a metered rate to a monthly flat rate based on BHP
installed - in 1991 Rs.90 per BHP/month and from 1993 Rs.120/BHP/month. These rates would
correspond to the metered rates if these PTWs were to operate for 16 hrs/day as designed. Since,



9
however, the actual working hours of PTWs range from 3 to 8 hours per day, the effective tariff
for these wells is about four times the tariff paid to private shallow tubewell owners (at
Rs.0.35/kwh). MID is thus billed with high power charges for the unmetered supply which is
equivalent to about Rs.2.00 per kwh on the basis of actual working hours of PTWs. There is a
need to bring parity to the power tariff for PTWs and private tubewells for the unmetered supply.
There is also a concomitant need to fix energy meters on tubewells.
29.        Operation and Maintenance. An important project goal was to create high performance
tubewell systems based on equality in water distribution that would allow farmers to increase their
crop production. This has not been realized so far as there is presently no clear plan for 0 & M.
The principal constraint is the decline in the quality and quantity of power availability. Other
factors have also hampered performance, as indicated below:
(i)    unreliable water delivery particularly to tail-end farmers;
(ii)    delays in repairing pump units during the irrigation season;
(iii)   excessive conveyance system losses in rehabilitated tubewells, not using pipe
systems;
(iv)    deteriorating maintenance due to low 0 & M budget; and
(v)    poor operational links between the MID, State Electricity Board and the
Department of Agriculture especially at tubewell level.
30.        The combined effect of these constraints has seriously affected cropping patterns,
intensities and crop yields; and the area irrigated declined from 62 percent of the design command
in 1974/75 to about 12 percent for project wells at present. Cost of rented water is high at around
Rs.500/ha for three irrigations. Farmers still pay these high rates because of assured quantity and
timely supply. The major prerequisites for a well-functioning 0 & M system concern adequate
staffing, proper decentralized repair facilities, training, monitoring of tubewell performance and
O & M funding, all of which need to be improved for better performance and sustainability.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
Identification and Preparation.
31.        The conceptual framework for the project was based on previous experience under the
UP Tubewells Projects I and II, and the inclusion of modernization and rehabilitation components
at the instance of the Bank was well in line with GOB's development priorities and with the Bank's
strategy for the country. Preparation assistance to the government was carried out by three Bank
missions composed mainly of groundwater specialists, irrigation engineers and electrical
engineers. Although one of these missions included an agriculturist and a management consultant,
neither of the three missions had a water management specialist nor a sociologist.
Appraisal
32.        Overall, the project appraisal identified project goals and established concise project
objectives consistent with sectoral strategy. It included sensitivity analysis for one of the key
variables - power supply. A thorough project appraisal was carried out with the participation of 11
professional specialists, again dominated by engineers (irrigation, groundwater and electrical), as



10
reflected in the design of the project to provide a reliable, timely and equitable irrigation service.
However, there were inadequacies which made the appraisal deficient.
33.        Design. Project design apparently relied heavily on the attractiveness of technical
innovations on the assumption that the availability of an efficient and reliable irrigation system itself
would provide adequate incentives for farmers to maximize net production benefits. The required
linkages with extension services were not designed at appraisal. The lack of funding for
agricultural extension was another lacuna under the project in supporting irrigated farming in
tubewell command areas. M & E also was not properly designed at appraisal to play its role of
providing project management with the performance indicators necessary for both forward
planning and rectification of deficiencies in major factors such as power supply, water management
and agricultural performnance.
34.        Technical. Sophisticated technology (particularly automatic operation) of new and
modernized tubewells was directly transferred from the experience of Uttar Pradesh which had a
demonstrated experience from the previous project (UP Tubewells Project, Credit 1004-IN, 1980),
before its successful experience under the second project. It was too optimistic to expect Bihar to
adopt a large number (500) of new wells without learning from a pilot operation in a state with a
different socio-economic context, and paucity of effective and well-trained operators.
35.        Economic. Appraisal estimates were optimistic. For example, the spread of private
tubewells 'without the project' was ignored in estimating agricultural production in both financial
and economic analysis. The SAR did not also quantify the risk to the project outcome of slippage
on the financial and institutional capacity, when these were recognized to be important sources of
project difficulty. The SAR did also not designate important variables as indicators for monitoring
during supervision as a basis for indicating by how much the assessment of an operation's impact
had improved or worsened.
36.        The appraisal mission was advised during the decision meeting on November 27,
1985, that there was considerable public pressure against the creation of dedicated power lines, and
that in the case of the UP Tubewells Project II (Credit 1332-IN), the Government of Uttar Pradesh
had suggested to GOI that the dedicated power line strategy should be scrapped. It was also
explained that the opposition had come from pump-set owners not connected to dedicated power
lines and who received less reliable power than public tubewells on dedicated lines. The appraisal
mission responded that "a reliable availability of power for efficient public tubewell operation is
crucial and that in the absence of dedicated power lines the risks to the project would be
unacceptable." At the request of the meeting, a sensitivity analysis was carried out at appraisal on
the assumption of power availability for only 4-6 hr/day instead of up to 16 hr/day, as stipulated in
the SAR. The ERR was still found to be acceptable at 16 percent. What was missed in this
analysis was the neglect of farmers' response in the face of not only unreliability but also the erratic
nature of the reduced power supply on which they could plan their future investment in irrigated
crops.
37.        This should have been followed up with investment in an alternative source of energy
to mitigate the risks. The methodology followed at appraisal for risk analysis proved inadequate.
38.        Institutional. The Bank was again over-optimistic in assuming that the proposed
institutional reforms would help construction, operation and maintenance of tubewells effectively
and efficiently, when the new Tubewell Wing was to inherit the same staff from the BWDC.



I1
39.        Sociological. A baseline survey should have been undertaken prior to appraisal to
prepare for farmers' participation in a meaningful manner. The results of the survey proved futile
as follow-up surveys were never carried out.
40.        Commitment. There was commitment by GOB in the early years of the project as
evidenced by the full allocation of counterpart funds for the first two years of the project. The
commitment of beneficiaries was simply assumed on the grounds that a reliable, timely and
equitable irrigation service would induce farmers to make investments in inputs and plant high
yielding varieties of crops. This might have been a reasonable assumption if the state had an
effective extension and credit service in place.  Both extension and institutional credit had
shortcomings at the time of appraisal.
41.        Appraisal of Implementing Agency. This was sufficiently done and managerial and
financial weaknesses were brought out with mitigating investments in institutional improvements.
42.        Incentives for Sustainability. Adequate power supply constituted the key ingredient
for the sustained operation of the tubewells and the project did attempt to provide a minimum of 16
hr/day through provision of dedicated power lines.
43.        Skill Mix of Appraisal Team. The appraisal team consisted of 11 members
representing specialized skills but not balanced with over-representation in some (irrigation
engineering) and no representation in others (water management and a sociology). The inclusion
of a water management specialist and a sociologist would have provided more insight into field
channel improvement in rehabilitated wells and farmer participation in the operation and
management of wells.
Supervision
44.        The performance of the supervision missions was also deficient. Twelve supervision
missions were fielded over seven years from February 1987 to May 1994, at an average of one
every seven months.  There was no staff continuity between appraisal and the start of
implementation. The staff employed on supervision were skilled in most of the relevant technical
and economic areas but less skilled with respect to expertise in institutional analysis, water
management, beneficiary participation and disbursement. The extent of continuity of staffing
during implementation is reflected in the fact that about 67 percent of the project supervision
missions had the same staff for eight missions. Most missions comprised at least two staff
members. The water management specialists and sociologists were not at all available in any of the
supervision missions and the management specialist took part in only one of the missions.
Considering the incidence of low utilization of irrigation potential and management problems in the
project, this represents a gross under-representation of critically useful and relevant expertise
which was ignored even in the composition of the mission which undertook the mid-term review.
45.        Successive supervision missions have expressed concern at continued poor
performance and the Bank conveyed its concern to the Department of Economic Affairs, GOI by its
letter dated September 9, 1991. The subsequent supervision missions reported no improvement
but further shortfalls on account of funding constraints and a strike by engineering staff. The Bank
followed it up with a letter threatening to suspend Borrower's rights to withdrawals from the
Credit unless certain conditions were satisfactorily completed by April 30, 1992. Based on actions
taken by GOB and a generally satisfactory status of compliance with the conditions, the threat of
suspension of disbursement under the credit was lifted. Bank's reluctance to take a firm stand with
the Borrower is reflected in the prolonged survival of the problem project.



12
46.       Although Bank supervision missions repeatedly expressed concern over the slow
utilization of irrigation potential, they did little to direct the project towards rectifying this
deficiency. In fact, on the contrary, the Bank agreed to the deletion of dedicated feeder lines. The
performance of the mid-term review mission in 1990 was poor. Although it was difficult for the
mission to make an overall judgement on the adequacy of project design, it should have drawn
attention to the requirement for some restructuring if project performance continued to be poor. It
should have also fixed a date for possible restructuring. Even two years later, when the Bank
realized the difficulty of continuing the construction of dedicated power lines, it failed to modify
the corresponding covenant and the one on power supply for 16 hours. It also failed to restructure
the project as warranted by its poor performance.
47.       The Bank anticipated the important function of M & E in this type of project and made
adequate provisions. However, despite repeated interventions by the supervision missions, the
results of monitoring and evaluation activities did not meet requirements.
48.       The Bank was flexible in agreeing to increasing the disbursement percentage for civil
works but its conditions for release of funds for completed/operative wells only, though well-
intended, did not help GOB take full advantage of the increased percentage. As a result, there was
a wide gap between expenditure incurred and disbursement claimed, throwing a severe burden on
limited state funds.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Identification and Preparation
49.       The project was prepared by MID and BSEB in close coordination with the Central
Water Commission (CWC) and Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR) in GOI. GOB engineers
visited Uttar Pradesh in 1984 and concluded that any new PTWs in Bihar should incorporate
improved technology similar to that introduced under the Uttar Pradesh Tubewells I and II
Projects. As recommended by the Bank identification mission in February 1985, GOB broadened
the project scope to include rehabilitation and/or modernization of existing PTWs. GOB also made
a decision to replace the BWDC with a new Tubewell Wing within MID, with responsibility for
construction, operation and maintenance of all PTWs. A project preparation report was compiled
for MID by a consulting firm. The project preparation, however, was deficient. Project coverage
could have been more concentrated rather than scattered as prepared. This has contributed to
implementation difficulties. Another aspect which has been transplanted without deeper study is
the sophisticated system of operation for a project to be implemented for the first time in Bihar.
Also, the experience of dedicated feeder lines in UP was not fully absorbed.
50.       Given the first experience of a Bank-funded project for the MID, the PTW's poor
track record, and the proposed institutional reorganization, GOB was too optimistic to keep the
project size large with some 500 new tubewells.
Implementation
51.       The performance of GOB and the implementing agencies was deficient in the actual
implementation of the project. GOB, as well as the Bank, under-estimated the risk of
implementation delays due to coordination problems not only between MID and BSEB but also
between MUD and the agricultural extension services. Only four new and 33 modernized tubewells
could be completed in all respects until 1991. Coordination has since improved but is still below
expectations. Other major problems which thwarted progress include:



13
(i)    Planning and Ouality Control. The cluster concept of planning and execution
of work was not followed, resulting in dispersed works constraining speedy
completion and energization of completed wells. Quality control also proved
difficult due to a large number of tubewells on widely scattered sites,
exacerbated by concurrent implementation of modemization and rehabilitation
works. The expertise of the Groundwater Directorate was not utilized in
siting, drilling and tubewell design, and this, combined with the absence of
independent quality control unit, affected the quality of completed wells;
(ii)    Power Constraint. Tubewell energization was seriously delayed even after
the proposal to erect dedicated power lines was dropped in 1992. There was
a time lag of two years between drilling and completion of civil works and
commissioning of tubewells. Part of the delay can be attributed to the lack of
coordination between MID and BSEB. The power supply to PTW has been
erratic, ranging from three to eight hrs/day with the occasional theft of
conductors, transformers and excessive fluctuations. Some power is
available at night when demand is low but farmers are reluctant to work
during the night hours. The non-availability of sufficient and timely power
has made tubewell irrigation unreliable;
(iii)    Underutilization of Facilities. The location of cluster buildings has not been
done properly since some such as the one at Bhakra in Muzaffarpur district,
was not occupied. Several junior engineers were not provided with vehicles
and the condition of vehicles used by other officers was also not satisfactory;
(iv)    Workshops. The workshop facilities at regional and divisional level were not
augmented and reliance was placed on the market for repairs with the result
that the breakdowns remained unduly long;
(v)    Coordination. There was no coordination between MID and the Department
of Agriculture over extension services in the tubewell command. The farmers
are not aware of water use efficiency as they are operating 2-4 outlets at a
time on a loop of the distribution network; and
(vi)   Inadequate Delegation. Financial powers of project officers were inadequate
although this was later remedied by enhanced delegated authority. No regular
payments could be made to agencies as the authority to draw cheques was
vested in project officers 4-6 months late on a yearly basis.
52.       The project has provided training to 227 engineers (executive engineer - 2, assistant
engineer - 72 and junior engineer - 153), 82 electricians, 42 pump fitters, 202 operators and 636
beneficiaries. The Water and Land Management Institute has training capabilities for different
aspects of water management and other subjects. It is not adequately utilized by the project as only
22 persons in one batch have so far been trained from June 1991 to September 1991.
53.       All the studies proposed under the project were completed. However, there was little
impact of the studies on project design or implementation.
54.       The monitoring unit with one executive engineer and two assistant engineers is
understaffed. Its performance failed to provide project management with the performance
indicators necessary for both forward planning and rectification of deficiencies in initial years. An



14
attempt was made by the Bank to promote computer processing of data, but little progress was
made. This has not only affected project performance but also hindered forward planning in public
tubewell development in Bihar.
55.       Compliance with covenants was partial. Some covenants were no longer applicable
and required revisions particularly those relating to water charges, 0 & M and dedicated power
lines, which at best can only be considered partially complied with. GOB was not in compliance
with the essential covenant on power supply. The question of water charges has been a long-
standing and pervasive problem in India. Attempts to resolve the problem at the level of individual
projects have met with negligible success.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
56.       The project's outcome is unsatisfactory as the project has failed to achieve most of its
objectives and has not yielded, nor is it expected to generate, substantial development impact
without additional investment, particularly in diesel generating sets.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
57.       Following discussion with MID on future operation/action plan concerning completion
of all ongoing works and also to maximize net project benefits, MID has agreed to: (a) complete all
ongoing works by March 1998 and make available adequate funds for this purpose and refrain
from constructing any new structures before completing all ongoing schemes in view of GOB's
budgetary constraints; (b) continue transferring 0 & M responsibility for tubewells to
Panchayats/farmers' organizations and also carry out a thorough review of the tubewells
previously handed over and undertake remedial measures for improved performance; (c) provide
adequate 0 & M funding until all tubewells are turned over to Panchayats/farmers' organizations;
(d) allocate sufficient funding for training in installation and operation of improved electrical
regulation system already procured for the efficient operation of the tubewells but not in use at
present for want of adequate training; (e) implement a pilot scheme to install diesel generating sets
in about 10 selected tubewells to test the effectiveness of operation and farmers' willingness to bear
full 0 & M cost and a portion of the capital cost; and (f) monitor tubewell performance through
collection of data on operational hours per tubewell, yield of the well, pumping power required per
well, irrigated potential created, actual area irrigated, cropping patterns, intensities and yields in the
kharif, rabi and hot seasons on a continuous basis.
58.       It is recommended that an impact evaluation mission from the Bank visit the state
around 1997 to evaluate the performance of project wells.
1. LESSONS LEARNED
59.       The main lessons learned during project implementation are as follows:
(i)    Given the past two decades of poor PTW performance and the institutional
reorganization required to achieve improvements, the proposed installation of
a large number (500) of new tubewells without the prior benefit of a pilot
scale operation, as in Uttar Pradesh, was very ambitious. Small farmers'
interest, which was sought to be promoted by proper siting of new wells, can



15
be, for the present time, secured by selecting wells for modernization or
rehabilitation in command areas dominated by the target group.
(ii)    The provision of dedicated power lines with power availability of 16
hours/day at peak demand against a background of poor power generation
and poor supply was not realistic. In future, project power supply should be
assessed at the state level to ensure that it is adequate for the project.
(iii)    The project experience demonstrates the critical significance of state finance in
Bihar for satisfactory implementation and the need to ensure an adequate flow
of funds from the Credit. Lirniting Bank financing to operative wells only,
though well-intended (by restricting the start-up of numerous works and the
completion of few) hampered the reimbursement of counterpart funds and the
corresponding legal covenant required adjustment to local circumstances. A
revolving fund at the state level is also required in addition to the special
account established with GOI.
(iv)    Groundwater development based on PTWs would increasingly face problems
of poor performance, both in terms of productivity and equity, unless proper
action is taken for power supply and effective transfer to beneficiaries. The
existing system would, without significant changes in the management and
financing, deteriorate as a result of pressure on already strained budgetary
resources.
(v)    The re-estimated dismally low ERR of the project suggests that even with
improved technology, investment in public tubewells may not necessarily be
economically viable. Further investment in public tubewells should therefore
be reviewed, in order to encourage private investment in shallow tubewells
while resolving most of the problems now faced with public tubewells
through their transfer to Panchayats after ensuring certain follow-up steps
including adequate power supply and repair facilities.
(vi)    There is a need to address issues related to Panchayats, farmers'
organizations and 0 & M of PTWs comprehensively at preparation and
appraisal of the project to ensure smooth implementation.
(vii)   Monitoring and evaluation of tubewell irrigation and agricultural performance
data deserves high priority as a critical tool for rectifying deficiencies and
sustained use of the irrigation potential created.






16
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
I Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives        Substantial    Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
V)           V)          V)            V)
Macro poli:ies                    Fn           o                         [Z]
Sector policies                    Li           Oi          ED            Eli
Financial objectives               Li          ED            Li           L
Institutional development          Eli         Eii          EiI           Eli
Physical objectives                Li           Li           Li           Ei
Poverty reduction                  En          Eo           E7            Li
Gender issues                      Li           Li           Li           Li
Other social objectives            Li           Li           Li           Li
Environmental objectives           Li           Li           Li           Li
Public sector management           []          Ei           EJ            L
Private sector development         Li           Li           Li          [3I
Other (specify)                    Li           Li           Li           Li
B. Project sustainabilitv            Likely      Unlikelv   Uncertain
()           W)          V)
Highly
C. Bank performance                 satisfactory   Satisfactorv   Deficient
(/)          V)          V)
Identification                       i         E1            L
Preparation assistance             Li           Li           Li
Appraisal                          L            L            L
Supervision                        L            Li           Li



17
Highly
D. Borrower performance               satisfactorv   Satisfactorv   Deficient
(/)          M)          M/)
Preparationi     /                  a71                     Z
Implementation                      I           L            D
Covenant compliance                FOi         Ea            L7
Operation (if applicable)          Li          EII          [ZI
Highly                                     Highl
E. Assessment of outcome          satisfactorv  Satisfactorv   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactorv
II           Ci)           L)             L)
CZ  2Li[



18
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                       Purpose                    Year of approval                Status
Preceding operations
1. Bihar Agricultural Credit       Mobilize institutional credit to               1974             Closed. PCR issued.
Project (Cr.440-IN) USS32 M      finance construction of new tubewell
facilities.
2. Bihar Agricultural Extension &  Reorganize & stengthen the agri-               1977             Closed. PCR issued
Research Project (Cr.761-IN)     cultural extension service & related                            Dec. 1985.
USS8 M                           adaptive research throughout the
state.
3. National Seeds 11 Project       Continue to ensure that availability           1978             Cosed. PCR issued for
(Cr.816-IN) US$25 M              of HYV seed nationwide would not                                Seeds I & II, June 1987.
be a constraint to agricultural
development, by further developing
the institutional structure of the seed
industry and adding to the existing
seed processing capacity. Five states,
Bihar, UP, Orissa, Rajasthan &
Karnataka were involved in this
project.
4. Subemarekha Irrigation Project   Increase agricultural production              1982             Closed. PCR issued
(Cr.1289-IN) US$127 M            through irrigation of an area of                               April 1990.
about 255,000 ha in the States of
Bihar, Orissa & West Bengal, to
provide municipal & industrial water
supplies and to provide flood
lmoderation on the river in West
Bengal and Orissa.
5. UP Second Public Tubewell        Construct improved public tubewell            1983             Closed. PCR issued
Project (Cr.1332-lN) USSIOI M    systems, modemize existing standard                             Dec. 1992.
tubewells and connect to exclusive 11
kV feeder lines of existing standard
tubewell systems.
6. National Agricultural Research  Strengthen location-specific research          1985             Ongoing
Project 11 (Cr.1631-IN)          at the level of the agro-climatic
US$72.1 M                        zones of India including Bihar;
providing needed field-oriented
research support to the ongoing
projects.
6. National Agricultural Research   Help strengthen agricultural research                          Closed. PCR issued
Project (Cr.855-lN) USS27 M      at state agricultural universities.                             June 1990.
Following operations
1. West Bengal Minor Irrigation    Upgrade and construct public                   1986             Closed. PCR under
Project (Cr.1619-IN) US$99 M     tubewell irrigation systems, open dug                          preparation.
wells and river-lift installations.
2. National Agricultural Extension    Introduce T & V system in Himachal          1987             Ongoing
Project III (Cr.1754-IN)         Pradesh, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh;
USS85M                           further strengthen the reorganized
agricultural extension and linkages
between extension and research in
Assam.
9. National Water Management        Increase agricultural output pro-             1987             Ongoing
Project (Cr.1770-IN) US$114 M    viding farmers with a more reliable
& predictable irrigated supply.
10. Bihar Plateau Development      Help GOB efforts to increase rural             1992             Ongoing
Project (Cr.2439-IN)               incomes & reduce the incidence of
poverty in the plateau area of Bihar.



19
Table 3: Project Timetable
l ___________________  l          Date   actual/
Steps in project cycle                       Date planned                latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)              _                                 February 1985
Preparation                                                                                May 19851/
Appraisal                                                   September 1985          September/October 1985
Negotiations                                                  March 1986                 16-23 June 1986
Letter of development policy (if applicable)                      NA.                          NA.
Board presentation                                             May 1986                 October 16, 1986
Signing                                                                                 January 13, 1987
Effectiveness                                                January 1987                 April 13, 1987
First tranche release (if applicable)                             NA.                         NA.
Mid-term review (if applicable)                             February 19902/              5-9 March 1990
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)                NA.                         NA.
Project completion                                          September 1993             November 30, 1993
Loan closing                                                 May 31, 1994                 May 31, 1994
N-A. = Not applicable.
1/ Time taken to prepare 6 months, prepared by GOB with assistance from IDA.
2/ According to Schedule 2, Para 7, of the Project Agreement, GOB is required to furnish to the Association
by December 31, 1989, for its review and comments, draft terms of reference for undertaking a mid-term
review of the project. This review was tentatively scheduled for the week of February 5, 1990.
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY86    rY87   FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92Y/   FY93    FY94    FY95
Appraisal                  -      1,900   8,100   17,600   29,800   44,100    56,300    65,100   68,000   68,000
Revised estimate1'l        -     1,900   8,100   17,600   29,800   44,100    10,600    19,400   22,300   22,300
Actual                     -       -      5,597    9,402    10,808    14,220    17,515    18,544   18,884   26,640
Actual as % of revised     -       -       69      53        36       32       165       96       85      115V
estimate
Date of final disbursement            November 21, 1994
1/ Cancellation as of Decembcr 5, 1991 - USS45.7 million (SDR 40 million).
2/ Exceeds 100% becausc of USS deprcciation against SDR. In terms of SDR, actual disbursement was 19.5 million against the revised
estimate of 195 million, giving 100%.



20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I.  Key implementation indicators in                Estimated                     Actual
SAR/ President's Report                Appraisal 
Appralsal     Revisedl
1. New tubewells (No.)                         500               500                  89
2. Modernized tubewells (No.)                 1,000             1,500                431
3. Rehabilitated tubewells (No.)              3,712             3,212              2,354
II. Modified indicators (if applicable)                                                        l
1.
2.                                                              NA.
3.
III. Other indicators (if applicable)
1. Dedicated power lines (No.)                5,212             5,212                624
2. Average length of conductors (km)          7,036             7,036              4,6971/
3. Existing power lines (No.)                                                      1,656
'/ Average length of conductors at 2.06 km for dedicated power lines (624) plus existing power lines (1,656)
totalling 2,280 tubewells.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(Not identified at appraisal)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study             at appraisal/redefined          Status             Impact of study
1. Agro-economic base-  Study of existing facilities  Survey completed          Negligible
line survey           and new lands to be served
by project tubewells.
2. Cost Recovery study   Introduce an improved        Study completed      Water rates not raised
water charges system.
3. Management study     Assist in developing an       Study completed           Negligible
efficient management
structure for the newly
created Tubewell Wing.



Table 8A: Project Costs
Project Components                 |      Appraisal Estimate1/             Actual Expenditure up to          Costs to Complete3/ from                Final Cost
Credit Closure (May 31, 94)        May 31, 94 to March 31, 98
(Rs miltion)    (USS million)    (Rs million)   (USS mitlion)21  (Rs million)   (USS miltion)   (Rs mittion)   (USS million)
1. New tubewelt systems                  256.7             19.7             62.4              3.2             310.0            9.9             372.4            13.1
2. modernized distribution               304.6             23.4            361.0              14.6            690.0            22.0          1,051.0            36.6
systems on existing tubewetts
3. Rehabilitation of existing            144.4             11.1             256.4             13.6            232.0             7.4            488.4            21.0
tubewelts
4. Dedicated power supply                355.7             27.4             291.0             17.9            102.0             3.2            393.0            21.1
(existing & new tubewells)
5. Management improvement                 95.7              7.4              35.5              1.6             88.0             2.8            123.5             4.4
6. Engineering & administration          139.1             10.7             653.4             30.1            413.0            13.2          1,066.4            43..3
Totat Project Cost                     1,296.2             99.7          1,659.7             81.0            1,835.0           58.5          3,494.7           139.5
1/ Physicat and price contingencies identified with specific components.
2/ Dottar figures based on annual expenditures using the fotLowing exchange rates:  1987 = Rsl2.962;  1988 = Rs13.917;  1989 = Rs16.226;  1990 = Rs17.504;
1991 = Rs22.742; 1992 = Rs25.918; 1993 = Rs3O.493; 1994 and after = Rs3l.371.
3/ Costs based on annual estimates made by MID.



22
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source                               Appraisal Estimate            Actual/latest Estimate
(US$ million)                   (US$ million)
IDA                                          68.0                             26.6
Cofinancing Institutions                     Nil                              Nil
Other external sources                        Nil                             Nil
Domestic contribution                        31.7                            112.9
TOTAL                                        99.7                            139.5
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Appraisal Estimate                ICR Estimate
Incremental foodgrairn production      247,000 tons/year                34,000 tons/year
at full development                 .
Incremental wheat production at         146,000 tons/year                14,000 tons/year
full development
Net Present Value (Rs million)               1,546                            -810
Economic Rate of Return_(%)
- Whole Project                               33                              2.3
- New Tubewells                               32                              -20
- Modernized Tubewells                        42                              4.4
- Rehabilitated Tubewells                     29                              2.9
Assumptions:
Project life (years)                          25                               25
Standard conversion factor                    0.8                             0.9
Unskilled labour valued at:        50% of financial wage rate       90% of financial wage rate
Financial wages (Rs/day) of                  10.5                              35
unskilled labour              I      _I__                  _



23
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
India
Bihar Public Tubewell Project
Agreement/    Covenant Type    Present   Original           Revised       Description of Covenant              Comments
Section                           Status'    Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Date          Date
3.01(a)        Accounts           C          //             //            Maintain separate accounts and
and furnish to IDA certified
copies of accounts & financial
statements within 9 months from
end of financial year.
3.01(b)        Accounts/Audit   Soon         //             //            Have accounts audited annually      Audit Report - overall
& furnish to IDA on finalization    Account & Audit
a report of the audit.              Report SOE's for
period April 2 - March
31, 1993: yet to be
received.
3.04(a)        Regulatory/        CD         12/31/87       //            Prepare draft TOR for a water       See para 3.04(b).
Institutional                                             charge system survey.
action
3.04(b)        Regulatory/        CP         12/31/88       //            Furnish a proposal for the          GOB has decided to
Institutional                                              establishment of a water charge    transfer all TV  in-
action                                                     system together with a timetable    stallations to Pan-
for its implementation.             chayats for O&M.
This resolves O&M
cost recovery through
water charges. GOB
yet to hand over all
tubewells to
I ______________              ___________   ___________    ______________________________       Panchayats.
3.04(c)             - do -        CP         07/31/89       //            Adopt & implement an irrigation    See remarks in 3.04(b)
water charge system.                above.
3.05                - do -        CP         //             //            Maintain irrigation water charges    See remarks in 3.04(b)
at levels adequate to cover O&M     above.
and a reasonable portion of
investment costs.
SCH.2(la)      Implementation    C           //             //            Locate, plan & design works
I_____I____   under part A-C of the project.                                 .
SCH.2(1b)           - do -        C          //             //            Operate & maintain irrigation
works under part A.
SCH.2(1c)           - do -        CD         03/01/87       //            Prepare draft design & O&M
manuals for tubewell system.
SCH.2(ld)      Management         C          //             //            Sanction staff positions in Tube-
aspects of the                                             well Wing in accordance with
project                                                    staffing schedules satisfactory to
IDA.
SCH.2(le)           - do -        CP         //             //            Provide adequatc staffing
facilities services for agricultural
extension to operational
cxtension services, throughout the
project area.
SCH.2(2a)           - do -        C          //             //            Maintain a Project Coordinating
I _________ I____             ___________    ___________    Unit within  Tubewell Wing.
SCH.2(2b)           - do -        C          //             //            Maintain a Project Coordinating
Unit within Tubewell Wing.



24
Agreement/   Covenant Type    Present   Original      Revised       Description of Covenant          Comments
Section                        Status'   Fulfillment   FulRillment
Date         Date
SCH.2(3a)    Monitoring/       CD        03/31/87     //            Furnish to IDA for review, draft
Reviews                                              work plans and schedules for
.__________                          ________      M&E  activities.
SCH.2(3b)    Monitoring/       C         07/01/87     //            Revise above plans for M&E.
Reviews
SCH.2(4a)    Management        C         /1           1/            Carry out a Management Study
aspects of the                                       of TW.
project
SCH.2(4b)         - do -       CP        12/31/87     //            Furnish to IDA for its review, the
results of above Management
Study and carry out its
recommendations.
SCH.2(5a)    Implementation   NC         //           //            Install & maintain in project area   Dedicated power lines
dedicated & independent 11 kV   were withdrawn by the
electric feeder lines to energize  Bank in 1992.
part A tubewells.
SCH.2(5b)         - do -       NC        //           1             Provide electric power at       Power supply erratic.
minimum of 16 hrs per day at    Diesel generating sets
peak demand periods to tubewell  to be provided.
irrigation system under part A.
SCH.6b        Management       CD        07/31/87     /1            Carry out baseline agro-socio-   Study has been
aspects of the                                        economic survey.                completed.
project
SCH.6c        Monitoring       NC        //           //            Carry out M&E activities
recommended under above agro-
socioeconomic survey.
SCH.7a        Management       C         12/31/89     //            Furnish to IDA for its review,
aspects of the                                        draft TORs for mid-term review.
project
SCH.7b            - do -       C         06/30/90     //            Carry out such mid-term review.
SCH.7c            - do -       C         //           //            Carry out adjustments to project
required following mid-term
review.
SCH.8         Monitoring       Soon      03/31/87     //            Furnish to IDA semi-annual       Reports due April-
review &                                             reports covering periods April I    Sept.93 & Oct.-March
reporting                                            to Sept.30 & Oct.1 to March 31.    94.
1  C - Covenant complied with; CD - complied with after delay; CP = complied with partially; NC - not complied with.



25
Table 11: Concurrence with Operational Manual Statements
Statement jiumber and title                Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. OMS 2.25   Cost recovery policy                The OMS emphasizes the importance of recovering the
full cost of operation and maintenance of irrigation
schemes with a reasonable proportion of investment
cost, subject to repayment capacity of the beneficiaries.
Water rates should have been raised for this purpose
but this was delayed. Meanwhile, the Government
decided to transfer all tubewells to Panchayats for
operation & maintenance, resolving cost recovery
through water rates. However, GOB has yet to hand
over all tubewells to Panchayats.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                    Revised                  Actual
Stagc of           Weeks          USS          Weeks         US$        Weeks         us$
Through appraisal           NA.          NA.           NA.          NA.          81.9        NA.
Appraisal-Board             NA.          NA.           NA.          NA.          44.3        NA.
Board-effectiveness        NA.           NA.           NA.          NA.           6.7        NA.
Supervision                NA.           NA.           NA.          NA.          65.7        NA.
Completion                 NA.           NA.           NA.          NA.          15.0        NA.
TOTAL                                                                          213.6



26
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Number                     Specialized     Implemen-        Develop-
Stage of          Month/          of         Days in       staff skills      tation          ment          Types of
project cycle        year        persons        field      representedl/       status        objectives     problems2/
Through appraisal:
Preparation I         Feb.1985          3            14        IE,GE,EE
Preparation 2         May 1985          7            19        EC,IE(2),GE,
EE,AG,MS
Preparation 3         July 1985         1             8        EE
Appraisal through     Sept.1985         11           27        EC(2),1E(3),
Board approval                                                 ESAR,GE,
EE.AG,PF
Board approval                                      -                -                      -               -
through effectiveness
Supervision:
I                    Feb. 87           4             10       IE,GE(2),EE           2               1              M
2                    April 88           5            4         IE.GE(2),EE          2               1              M
3                    April 89           5            5         IE(2),SPO,           3               2              M
PE.EE
4                    Dec. 89            3            5         IE.PE,EE             3               2              M
5                    March 90           6            6         IE,PE(2),            3               3              M
GE(2),EE
6                    Oct. 90            4            5         IE,EC,EE,DS          3               3             F,M
7                    Jan. 91            6            9         EC,IE,PE,            3               3              M
AG,EE, DS
8                    July 91            4            5         IE.PE,EE,            4               3              M
AG
9                    Oct/Nov.91         2            4         EC,IE                4               3              M
10                    May 92            2             3        EC,IE                 3               3              M
11                    Aug. 93           1             4        IE                    2              2               M
12                    May 94            2             5        IE(2)                 3              3               M
Completion            Oct. 94           4             8        EC,IE(2),AG           _              _
11 AG = Agriculturist: AR = Agricultural Research Specialist; DS = Distribution System Specialist; EC = Economist; EE - Electrical
Engineer, GE - Groundwater Engineer, IE = Irrigation Engineer; MS = Management Specialist; PE = Procurement Engineer, PF
Programmes Specialist (Finance); SPO = Senior Project Officer.
2/ F = Financial; M = Management.



27
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
BIHAR PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 1737-IN)
Appendix 1. FAO/CP Mission
Aide Memoire
A. Introduction
1.    An FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program team comprising Messrs K. Selvavinayagam
(Financial Analyst, Mission Leader) A.S. Malhotra (Irrigation Engineer) and B.C. Biswas
(Agronomist), with the participation of Mr. N.K. Bandyopadhyay (Irrigation Engineer) from the
World Bank Resident Mission, New Delhi visited Bihar from 3 to 10 October, 1994 to review
implementation performance of the Bihar Public Tubewell Project and prepare its Implementation
Completion Report (ICR). Mr. J-.P. Baudelaire, the Task manager, joined the mission on 9
October. After initial meetings with Mr. A.R. Sinha, the Project Coordinator and other Senior
Officials of the Minor Irrigation Department (MID), Bihar State Electricity Board (BSEB) and the
Department of Agriculture (DOA), the mission made field visits to some tubewells - newly
established, modernized and rehabilitated - located in selected districts (Patna, Nawadah, Saran,
Gopalganj, Motihari, Muzaffarpur and Begusarai) and held discussions with the concerned project
staff and farmers as well as Panchayats which received from MID tubewells for operation and
management.
2.    The mission wishes to thank all concerned staff for the assistance and hospitality extended
to the mission during its stay in the State.
B. Statement of Project Objectives
Project Objectives
3.    The State of Bihar was the third of the Indian States to adopt the improved technology for
the deep tubewells and distribution system introduced under U.P. Tubewells Projects (Cr. 1004-
IN and Cr. 1 332-IN). As in these tubewell Projects, the objective of the Bihar Public Tubewell
Project was to increase agricultural production by improving and expanding the use of Bihar's
considerable groundwater potential. This was to be achieved by (a) introducing improved tubewell
technology that would eliminate the planning and design problems inherent in Bihar's existing
public tubewells (PTWS); (b) undertaking a phased program to rehabilitate and modernize most of
Bihar's existing PTWs; (c) strengthening the institution responsible for PTW activities to ensure
that project works can be effectively and efficiently implemented as well as operated and
maintained; and (d) increasing agricultural production, employment and incomes especially for
Bihar's small farmers.
Project Components
4.    Project components included: (i) construction of about 500 new tubewells systems to
improved design standards to deliver about 150 M3/hr to serve individual command areas of about
100 hectares each; (ii) modernization of about 1000 tubewells; (iii) rehabilitation of 3712 tubewells;
(iv) construction of dedicated power lines to about 5200 tubewells; (v) improvements in tubewell



28
management; and (vi) provision of buildings, vehicles, equipment, staff training, M and E, and
special studies.
5.    The project was planned to be implemented over seven years and the total project cost
including physical and price contingencies was estimated at US$ 99.7 million (Rs. 1296.2
million). The IDA Credit of US$ 68.0 million was to finance about 70% of the total project cost
excluding taxes and duties. The remaining portion of the cost was to be met by GOB/GOI.
6.    The project was revised in March 1990 by increasing the tubewells for modernization by
500 and reducing the tubewells for rehabilitation by a similar number. The erection of dedicated
power lines did not make any headway due to general power shortage in the state and resentment
among other power users which has resulted in theft of conductors in many lines. On the
recommendation of GOB, the provision of dedicated power lines was deleted by the Bank. In
September 1990 the Credit disbursement percentage was increased in respect of tubewell and
energization works from 75% to 90% as part of the Gulf Initiative to alleviate GOI's foreign
exchange constraints. In addition, a sum of US$ 45.7 million (SDR 40 million) was cancelled due
to substantial depreciation of the Rupee against the US dollar.
C. Evaluation of Project Objectives
7.    The project was based on the sound foundation that it would complement groundwater
development in the private sector and be selective in the target group of beneficiaries to be reached;
tubewell siting criteria were designed to achieve this goal. The project took advantage of technical
principles developed under the Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewell II Project. Consequently, the
project objectives were clear and important for the proper development of the state's groundwater
potentials. But the project lacked realism particularly relating to the installation of new tubewells as
it was too optimistic to expect quick implementation results, given the institutional reorganization
and past two decades of poor performance of PTWs. The project was also complex because the
proposed number (5212) of tubewells were to be sited in scattered locations over some 34 of the
state's districts and implemented within seven years and such implementation to be effective
required good coordination with BSEB and DOA. This scale and spread of project activities also
naturally called for high quality management and skillful planning of logistics and implementation.
Project management has been deficient on all three scores. The importance of water management
was not very explicitly emphasized at appraisal, although it constituted a key element in equitable
water allocation and water use efficiency.
D. Achievement of Project Objectives
8.    The project has partially achieved its physical objectives. Its achievement of institutional
development objectives was negligible. Macroeconomic policies and financial objectives were not
applicable to this project.
There is a significant shortfall in the achievement of physical objectives as shown below:



29
Target and Achievements
Component        Planned at    Fully completed    Additional Irrig. Potential (ha)
appraisal     and energized      Target   Actual  Utilization
(Revised) Creation
Original Revised
New Tubewell   500       500            89        50000      8,900     1144
Modernized TIW   1000    1500          431         150000   43,100    6578
RehabilitatedT/W  3712    3212         2354       257000   188,320   19783
Dedicated Power* (5212)  (5212)        (624)       -        -         -
Lines
TOTAL:          5212    5212           2874       457000   240320   27505
* Denotes numbers, each with an average length of 2.06 Km.
9.    As shown above, the shortfall is both in terms of tubewell system completed, potential
realized and area actually irrigated under the project. Achievement of tubewell completion and
energization was 18% (New tubewells), 29% (Modernized tubewell) and 73% (rehabilitated
tubewell). Area actually irrigated was much lower at 13% (new tubewell) 15% (Modernized
tubewell) and 11 % (rehabilitated tubewells) of additional potential created. The principal reason
for the low utilization is the shortage of power supply, ranging from 5 to 8 hrs. per day. Poor
management of tubewells has also affected performance. As a result, productive levels have been
substantially less than anticipated at project appraisal. The economic viability of tubewell irrigation
is, therefore, likely to be much lower than envisaged at appraisal. Under the present power and
managerial constraints, the prospect for a good economic rate of return looks bleak. An estimate
will be made and presented in the ICR.
Improved Tubewell Operation System
10.   All new and modernized tubewells under the project were required to be equipped with well
regulated and controlled water distribution system to be operated with automatic switchgear. Water
was to be released in the distribution system in response to the irrigation demand. A capacitor and
a single phase preventer was also to be fixed to protect the motor from voltage fluctuations and
burning. Field visits indicate that the above improved system of water regulation and automatic
operation of pumping unit have not been implemented under the project. The pump's panel
controller was found installed in only one tubewell but was lying in disuse due to some electronic
fault. It was explained by the field officers that the staff is not yet trained for the installation and
operation of such sophisticated equipment and prefers to use the old system comprising of switch,
starter Voltmeter & Amperemeter.
11.   Under the improved design standards, the tubewell was provided with a buried pipe
distribution system in the form of two loops, each serving about 50 ha and outlet valves on pipe
systems commanding 4-5 ha. The farmer is to operate only one outlet on a loop so that he gets
about 75M3/hr and could irrigate his fields with minimum water application time and seepage
losses in his field channel. Field observations, however, indicate that 2 to 4 outlets are opened at a



30
time in each loop and water is diverted in different field channels entailing heavy field losses and
increased water application time. Since the charges for water utilization are based on acreage basis,
the farmers are not tuned to proper water management and water use efficiency. MID had
difficulty in enforcing the operation of the water distribution system as proposed under the project,
due to power shortage and inadequate farmer organization.
12.   Since the electrical equipment for the improved regulation system has already been procured
for most of the tubewells, it would be desirable to train the field staff and instal the said equipment
on new and modernized tubewells at the earliest. Despite the difficulties and the lack of progress in
automatic operation of pumping units, the improved technology consisting of buried pipe system
works has been adopted.
13.   The Project financed a number of activities to improve management. Although the bulk of
them were carried out, weakness in management persisted, exacerbated by high turnover of staff at
senior levels; for example there were eight Project Coordinators in seven years. In particular, there
was little improvement in the monitoring and evaluation studies. Agro-economic base line survey
was not followed up to provide a reliable impact of crop production and small farmer participation.
Some cluster buildings such as the one at Bakhara in Muzaffarpur were not occupied; several
Junior Engineers were not provided with vehicles to ensure their mobility.
14.   MID was required to set up two regional centers and 10 Divisional workshops to support
maintenance during construction and for O&M of all public tubewells in the state. This
infrastructure would have been helpful for the timely repair of tubewells and to reduce the
breakdowns. Nothing has been done in this direction and the repairs are generally being arranged
from the market which takes unduly long time. As a result, the inadequacy of the tubewell
maintenance together with shortage of power and poor management have made tubewell irrigation
totally unreliable.
15.   Water rates were not revised as foreseen at appraisal and the issue was intended to be
resolved through handing over of completed tubewells to the panchayats or their committees who
could fix up reasonable water rates for the O&M. However, sustainability of operation still
remains a question as Panchayats look to GOB for funding and to MID for repairs. Their ability to
collect water rates, except in a few cases, is in doubt.
16.   Although equity was the major justification for the investment in new tubewells, the equity
impact of the project seems to be modest. More reliable data are required to establish the extent of
benefits to small farmers under the project.
E. Main Factors Affecting the Project
17.   Factors not generally subject to Government control: These included law and order
problems, Bank's restrictive condition on release of funds only against completed/operative wells,
and the inadequacy of the management study. These factors have prevented the project from
achieving its full objectives.
18.   Factors generally subject to Government control: These included delay in appointment of
key staff, lack of adequate counterpart funds, inadequate levels of water charges (which have not
been revised since 1983), poor billing and collection of billed water charges. These had
substantially affected the implementation pace of tubewells installations.
19.   Factors generally subject to Implementing Agency control: The project has encountered
continuous implementation problems. There was insufficient advance planning and updating of
implementation, procurement and O&M schedules, lack of coordination between State Electricity
Board and Department of Agriculture, and delays in institution-building measures such as M&E



31
and training. Procurement progress was slow mainly because of the cumbersome and time-
consuming procedures followed for evaluation of bids and finalization of awards. Staff turnover
was frequent. Common complaints from farmers were lack of power for reliable irrigation,
unscheduled deliveries, absent operator, and incorrect system design not commanding some fields.
The combined effect of these factors was reflected in substantial under achievement of project
objectives.
Actual Project Cost
20.   At credit closure, the total expenditure under the project amounted to Rs. 1660 million
(US$ 90 million), representing a cost overrun of 28% in nominal terms. Because of the
depreciation of the rupee against the US dollar, there was a cost underrun of 10% in dollar terms.
The increase in cost is attributed partly to price escalation and partly to quantity changes arising
from design and other variations including increase in I IKv lines for each PTW from the average
1.35 Km at appraisal to 2.35 Km during implementation. Some quantity changes also originated
from modernization of 500 existing PTWs in the flood zone instead of rehabilitating them as
foreseen at appraisal. It should be noted that a further cost of about Rs. 1835 million are estimated
by MID to complete the project fully by 1997/98.
F. Project Sustainability
General
21.   The major challenge for the sustainability of the tubewell system established under the
project is the provision of reliable power supply and adequate O&M. As power supply cannot be
assured by the Electricity Board in the immediate future, the only option would be to instal diesel
generating sets. As the MID would not have financial resources to operate and maintain these
schemes and their diesel sets, the best course of action would be to transfer them to farmers'
organizations whether Panchayats or otherwise and to intensify training and technical assistance
programs (provided through the Water and Land Management Institute). The establishment and
functioning of the 2 Regional and 18 Divisional workshops for the provision of spare parts and
repair of tubewell on behalf of farmers' organizations is a prerequisite to sustainability.
Cost Recovery
22.   At appraisal, water rates in the states were expected to be increased to cover the full O&M
expenses plus a reasonable portion of capital cost. No revision has taken place since 1983
although electric tariff has been raised twice, the last one to Rs. 120/BHP. Collection of water
rates has persistently lagged behind and the average collection to billing has declined from 14% in
1988/89 to 2% in 1993/94. There is thus a clear need not only to secure collection of arrears but
also to increase the present rates to ensure efficiency of water use and allow for the GOB to
enhance O&M allocation until such tubewell schemes are turned over to farmers' organizations.
The present system of handing over tubewells to Panchayats is not based on prior planning,
discussion and willingness of potential users. This appears to have been done in a routine manner
without either preparing the benefiting farmers, or providing them with required training and
ensuring, a clear definition of responsibilities of the different parties involved-MID, Panchayats
and farmers. As a result, Panchayats, which have taken over, have presumably assumed it to be
another "welfare" measure for funding by GOB. One option to dispel this misconception would be
to demonstrate the success of this arrangement through organizing selective water users
associations who are willing and able to operate it successfully. Based on such experience,the
scheme could be expanded.



32
23.   At appraisal, it was expected that the power to PTWs and private shallow tubewells was to
be supplied at a uniform rate of Rs. 0.35 per KWH as metered supply. There had since been a
steep rise in the tariff for PTWs, first in 1991 to Rs. 90 per BHP per month and then in 1993 to
Rs. 120 per BHP per month, despite the progressive reduction in working hours of the PTW
schemes. The tariff of shallow tubewels is now 25% of that of PTWs although both are connected
to the same power feeders. MID is thus billed with high power charges for the unmetered supply
which is equivalent to about Rs. 2.00 per KWH on the basis of actual working hours of PTWs.
There is a need to bring parity in the power tariff for PTWs and private tubewells for the unmetered
supply. There is also a concomitant need to fix energy meters on tubewells.
Operation and Maintenance
24.   An important project goal was to create high performance tubewell systems based on
equality in water distribution that would allow farmers to increase their crop production. This has
not been realized so far as there is presently no clear plan for O&M. The principal constraint is the
decline in the quality and quantity of power availability. Other factors have also hampered
performance as indicated below:
a.   unreliable water delivery particularly to tailend farmers;
b.   delays in repairing pump units during the irrigation season;
c.   excessive conveyance system losses in rehabilitated tubewells, not using pipe
systems;
d.   deteriorating maintenances, due to a low O&M budget, and
e.   poor operational links between the MID, State Electricity Board and Department of
Agriculture especially at tubewell.
25.   The combined effect of these constraints has seriously affected cropping patterns and crop
yields; and area irrigated declined from 62% of the design command in 1974/75 to about 7% now.
Cost of rented water is high at around Rs. 500/hectare for three irrigations. Farmers still pay these
high rates because of assured quantity and timely supply. The major prerequisites for a well
functioning O&M system concern adequate staffing, proper and decentralized repair facilities,
training, monitoring of tubewell performance and O&M funding, all of which needs to be
improved for better performance.
G. Future Operation/Action Plan
26.   A detailed discussion was held with MID for future operation/action plan with regard to the
completion of all ongoing works and also to optimize benefits from the investments made in a
sustainable manner. To achieve the above objectives, MID has agreed to:
a.   complete all ongoing works by March 1998 and make available adequate funds for
this purpose and refrain from constructing any new structures before completing all
ongoing schemes in view of GOB's budgetary constraints;
b.   turn over the O&M responsibilities of TWs to Panchayats/farmers' organizations
and also carry out a thorough review of the tubewells handed over to Panchayats
and undertake remedial measures for improved performance;
c.   provide adequate O&M funding until the TWs are turned over to
Panchayats/farmers' organizations;
d.   allocate adequate funding for training in installation and operation of improved
electrical regulation system already procured for the efficient operation of the TWs
but not in use at present for want of adequate training;



33
e.   implement a pilot scheme to install diesel generating sets in about ten (10) selected
tubewells to test effectiveness of operation and farmers' willingness to bear full
O&M cost and a part of the capital cost; and
f.    monitor TW performance through collection of data on operational hours per TW,
irrigated potential created, actual area irrigated, cropping patterns, cropping
intensities and crop yields in the Kharif, Rabi and hot seasons on a continuous
basis.
H. Lessons Learned
27.   The main lessons learned during project implementation are as follows:
1.    Given MID's and BSEB's past and present difficulties, there is no justification for further
investment in new public tubewells. Small farmers' interest can be, for the present time
secured by selecting wells for modernization or rehabilitation in command areas dominated
by the target group.
2.    Power supply is a problem not confined to the project. This is a state-wide problem and
durable solutions should be tackled at the state level. Until power supply becomes
available, i.e. at least 16 hours per day in rural areas, the only alternative at project level is
to instal stand-by diesel generating sets.
3.    The provision of dedicated power lines with power availability of 16 hours/day at peak
demand against a background of poor power generation and poor supply was not realistic.
In future, project power supply should be assessed at the state level to ensure that it is
adequate for the project.
4.    The system of water rates based on irrigated acreage is against the concept of water use
efficiency. This does not encourage farmers to economize use of water, which is supplied
at high cost by the MID. Some means of volumetric measurement should be built into the
project.
5.    The project remains incomplete and part of the reason was the shortage of counter-part
funds. The project experience demonstrates the critical significance of state finance in
Bihar for satisfactory implementation and the need to ensure adequate flow of funds from
the credit. Legal covenants that unduly hamper the reimbursement of counterpart funds
should be avoided or adjusted to local circumstances. Revolving fund at state level is
required in addition to the special account established with GOI.
6.    The need for improved tubewell technology particularly buried distribution system is
clearly demonstrated by the project.
7.    There is a need to address issues related to Panchayats, farmers' organization and O&M of
PTWs comprehensively at preparation and appraisal of the project rather than mid-way
through implementation.
8.    Groundwater developments based on PTWs would increasingly face problems of poor
performance, both in terms of productivity and equity, unless proper action is taken for
power supply and effective transfer to beneficiaries. The existing systems would, without
significant changes in the management and financing, deteriorate as a result of pressure on
already strained budgetary resources.



34
I. Follow-up
28.   The mission will return to Rome and prepare the relevant parts of the ICR for transmittal to
the World Bank by Mid-December 1994. The MID is requested to prepare its own evaluation as
per Bank guidelines and send it to the World Bank Office in New Delhi by the same date.



35
Implementation Completion Report
IN'DIA: Bihar Public Tubewell Project
(Cr.1737-lN)
Appendix 2. Stafl Position as on October 10, 1994
Engineering Staff                                   Sanctioned                 In Position
1. Project Coordinator                                   1                           1
2. Chief Engineers                                       2                           1
3. Superintending Engineers:
(a) Project Coordinator Office                           4                          3
(b) Chief Engineer (North)                               3                          1
(c) Chief Engineer (South)                               3                          1
4. Executive Engineers
(a) Project Coordinator Office                           4                          4
(b) Chief Engineer (North)                               16                         15
(c) Chief Engineer (South)                               15                         15
5. Assistant Engineers                                  127                        116
6. Geophysicists                                         2                           1
7. Hydrogeologists                                       2                         Nil
8. Junior Engineers:
(a) Chief Engineer (North) and
Chief Engineer (South)                               289                        269
9. Helpers                                              34                          34
10. Foremen                                              1                          1
11. Mechanics/Fitters                                   178                        160
12. Drivers Vehicle                                     168                        143
13. Tubewell Operators                                4,600                      4,299
14. Drillers                                             8                          7
15. Assistant Drillers                                  16                          16
16. Welders                                              6                          6
17. Electricians/Armature Binders                       138                        132
18. Compressor/Pump Operators                           12                          11
19. Armin                                               153                        128



36
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
BIHAR PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
(Cr. 1737-IN)
Appendix 3
Economic Re-evaluation
General
1.       The project was expected to result in higher production of mainly paddy and
wheat, and moderate increases in the output of oilseeds, maize and potato. These were
to be generated through the construction of 500 new tubewells, modernization of 1,500
tubewells and rehabilitation of 3,212 existing tubewells, making a total of 5,212 wells.
Considering GOB's financial constraints, the MID has projected future operation, giving
priority to completion of ongoing schemes. This is reinforced by the growing number of
private tubewells promoted by the State Government. Accordingly, the future plan
foresees a total of 4,212 tubewells, comprising 250 new, 750 modernized and 3,212
rehabilitated wells (see Table 1-3).
2.        Overall crop development. No data on annual crop production in the project
area has been systematically recorded, and little effort has been made to record the
impact of project tubewells on crop production. Therefore, data used for compiling the
crop development which has taken place over the past seven years in the impact area are
largely based on field investigations and mission estimates.
3.        Net cultivable areas. At appraisal, an average of 100 ha command area for
tubewells (new or modernized) and 80 ha per rehabilitated well were assumed. The
irrigation potential created and actually utilized between 1987 and 1994 was given in
Table 1-3 which shows actual utilization from 26 ha (new tubewells), 22 ha (modernized
tubewells) to 9 ha (rehabilitated tubewells), indicating low availability of power supply.
In view of the overall power constraint in the state, it is unlikely that material changes
would occur in power availability in the medium and long term. An average of 26 ha
for new, 22 ha for modernized and 9 ha for rehabilitated tubewells has therefore been
assumed for financial and economic analysis. This is further confirmed by the data given
by the MID on power availability by district which varies from a low of 3 hrs/day
(Madhusari and Sitamarhi), rising to 4 hrs/day (Jahanabad), 4-5 hrs/day (Samastipur),
6 hrs/day (Arrah) and finally to 8 hrs/day (Patna).
4.        Cropping pattern. As expected at appraisal, irrigation from tubewells has
resulted in increases in wheat acreage; oilseeds and potatoes have also increased (see
Table 4-5).



37
5.        Cropping intensity. A comparison of actual and SAR estimated cropping
intensity is summarized below:
SAR                        ICR
_   Zone I    Zone 11   Zone III   NTW  MTW       RTW
(100 ha)      (80 ha)
Without project   108       111      107     109       109       109
With project      174       181      184      126      123       111l
Incremental       66        70       77       17       14         2
For the project, the SAR estimated cropping intensities were to go up from 'Without
project' estimates of 107%-111% to 174%-184%o 'with project'. SAR and ICR estimates
are strictly not comparable because lack of data has precluded estimating zone-wise
cropping intensity and as a result, calculations were instead based on different types of
tubewell models supported under the project. Based on these data, cropping intensity
for the project has actually gone up to 111%-126% from 109% 'without the project'. The
significantly lower cropping intensity 'with project' on areas commanded by the
rehabilitated tubewells is explained by poor maintenance of field channels, resulting in
higher conveyance losses, compared to areas commanded by new of modernized
tubewells with the buried pipe system, supported under the project.
6.        Crop yields. As anticipated at appraisal, yield levels of all crops have gone
up modestly from 3-18% (see Table 8). Although the use of fertilizer has increased, its
application is mainly confined to HYV. Furthermore, the rates of application are limited
to farmers' affordability and have generally remained below recommended rates. Based
on investigations in the field, it appears that farmers are not getting adequate extension
support required; this is reported as being due to problems of staff and inadequate
mobility. Table 8 gives a comparative statement of SAR and ICR crop yields.
7.        Production.   The  estimated  annual incremental production  at full
development is only about 14% of the appraisal estimate of 247,000 tons. Wheat
production contributes 14,000 tons annually. Compared with appraisal estimates,
incremental production is lower for all crops due to the reduced command area actually
irrigated and slightly lower cropping intensity under the project.
Farm Incomes
8.        At appraisal, four farm models were prepared to estimate farm incomes
derived by participating farmers. These models were divided according to soil types. A
similar analysis has been carried out (see Table 9) at completion, based on cropping
pattern assumptions shown in Table 4-5 and per ha crop yields shown in Tables 6 & 7,
but analysis was based on type of tubewells. Farm incomes are therefore strictly not
comparable.



38
9.       Incremental. In all cases, farm incomes are higher in nominal terms than
those estimated at appraisal. In real terms, incomes would be Rs3,870, Rs3,878 and
Rs2,830. These represent Rs645 and Rs470 per capita, based on a six-person family.
Economic Re-evaluation
10.      General. At the time of appraisal, economic rates of return (ERR) were
estimated for the project as a whole (33%) and for its components - new tubewells
(32%), modernized tubewells (42%) and rehabilitated tubewells (29%).
11.      In re-estimating the project's economic impact, the basic assumptions made
at appraisal have been retained. The principal difference is that total incremental
benefits arising from the project have been phased on the basis of actual energization
up to 1994 and projected energization thereafter (see Tables 1-3). Also, an average
command area of 26 ha per new, 22 ha per modernized and 9 ha for rehabilitated has
been used. The analysis has beer carried out in 1994 constant price terms. Historical
tubewell investment costs have been restated in 1994 prices by applying the wholesale
price indices (see Table 10). These costs have been restated in border terms by using
the standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9 (see Tables 11-14). In estimating costs, duty
and local taxes have been excluded. Financial prices and economic values of crops and
inputs are presented in Tables 15 and 16. Future prices are based on World Bank
Primary Commodity Forecasts dated August 1994. In line with estimates in recent World
Bank appraisal reports, farm labour has been valued at 90% of the financial wage rate.
12.      Benefits. The calculation of agricultural benefits is based on the physical
build-up and performance of tubewells, and on the resulting agricultural production.
Based on the experience with project wells, it can be estimated that the average build-up
time from commissioning of a tubewell to full development is about four years with crop
yields at 60% in year 1, 80% in year 2, 90% in year 3 and 100% in year 4.
13.      Costs. The replacement costs for a 150 m3/hr tubewell are included on the
basis of SAR assumptions.
14.      The 0 & M costs for tubewells are calculated using a weighted average
pumping of 1,500 hrs per year and a power input of 11.6 kw/hr. Based on this, energy
consumed annually amounts to 17,400 kw. With a long-run marginal rate of power at
Rsl.47/kwh, energy costs amounts to Rs25,620 per year. Other costs are establishment
(Rs24,000) and maintenance (Rs4,870).
15.      Based on the above assumptions, the cropping pattern and per ha crop
budget assumptions shown in Tables 4-7 and a 25-year period of analysis, the current
estimate of ERR for the project as a whole is around 2.3%, for new tubewells -20%,
modernized tubewells 4.4% and rehabilitated tubewells 2.9%. There are various factors
which have contributed to the negative ERR for new tubewells and the significantly
lower ERRs for modernized and rehabilitated tubewells, as compared to appraisal
estimates. The more important ones include:



39
(i)    a 74-78% lower command area per new and modernized tubewells
and a 91% lower command area per rehabilitated tubewell, than that
expected at appraisal;
(ii)   at appraisal, the overall cropping intensity was expected to increase
by 66% to 77%; revised estimates put the increase between 2%-17%.
The lowest 'with project' cropping intensity (2%) is for areas
commanded by rehabilitated tubewells. This is because of the poor
maintenance of field channels, resulting in higher conveyance losses,
compared to new or modernized tubewells with the buried pipe
system supported under the project;
(iii)  the use of private tubewells in the 'without project' situation was
assumed for about 20% of the area, compared to none assumed at
appraisal; and
(iv)   economic costs in rupee terms have increased much more than the
increase in the price of the main agricultural output (paddy), while
the economic price of labour is six times that estimated at appraisal,
the farmgate price of paddy and wheat has gone up nearly two to
three times respectively.
16.      The lack of adequate data precluded the estimation of insurance value of the
tubewell against unexpected droughts during kharif. Discussions with farmers confirmed
the correlation between rainfall data and hours pumped even if the latter was
substantially reduced. There was evidence of less pumping during kharif 1993/94
because of even distribution of rain. Continuous monitoring, a matter that has lagged
under the project, is required before a valuation of such benefits could be attempted.
17.       Sensitivity analysis. The potential economic benefits are not being fully
achieved particularly in terms of areas irrigated per tubewell, due to erratic and
unreliable power supply. The fact that many PTWs are being used to irrigate areas
ranging from 9-26 ha, each achieving an average of 12 ha, is considered exceedingly low.
The three factors which are expected to influence the ERR are: (i) variations in
command areas; (ii) changes in 0 & M funding; and (iii) the inability of the MID to
operate and manage PTWs as designed. The sensitivity analysis indicates that: a
reduction in command area of 20% would lower ERR to -0.6%; a reduction of 50% in
0 & M funding (by assuming that future benefits would be reduced by 50%), would
lower the ERR to about -7.4%; and that poor operation and management would lower
ERR to -0.6%, assuming that the ineffective operation of MID would depress project
benefits by 20%.



Implementation Completion Report
INDIA: Bihar Public Tubewetl Project (Cr.1737-IN)
Appendix 3: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 1.   get Irrigable Area Created and Utilized1i - New Iubewells
Component                          FY87      FY88     FY89      FY90    FY91      FY92       FY93        FY94       FY95        FY96         FY97        FY96         FY99
New tubewells energized (No.)                                             4         10          44         82         100         150         200          250         250
Potential created21(ha)              .        .         .                          400       1,000      4,400       8,200      10,000       15,000      20,000       25,000
Area utilized3/ (ha)                                                               104         260      1,144       2,132       2,600       3,900        5,200       6,500
Incremental (ha)                                                                  104          156        884        988          468       1,300        1,300       1,300
It is assumed that utilization takes place in the year following installation.
2/ Average command area of 100 ha per new tubewell, created one year after energization.
3/ At 26 ha per tubewell, based on average area utilized in 1994 from wells energized in 19.93 which were 1,144 ha for 44 wetls.



Implementation Completion Report
INDIA: Bihar Public TubewelL Project (Cr.1737-IN)
Appendix 3: Economic Re-evatuation
Table 2. Met Irrigable Area Created and Utilized-/ - Modernized Tubeuetls
Component                   FY87      FY88      FY89      FY90      FY91      FY92       FY93        FY94       FY95        FY96        FY97        FY96        FY99
Modernized tubewells                                       2        33          45         305        600        650         700         750         750          750
energized   (No.)____                                             __  ____ _ _ _
Potential created2/(ha)       -                                    200       3,300       4,500      30,500     60,000     65,000       75,000      75,000      75,000
Area utilized3/ (ha)                                                 44        726         990      6,710      13,200      14,300      16,500      16,500      16,500
Incremental (ha)                                                    44        682          264      5,720       6,490      1,100       2,200         -
1/ It is assumed that utilization takes pLace in the year following installation.
2/ Average commond area of 100 ha per modernized tubewell, created one year after energization.
3/ At 22 ha per tubewell, based on average area utilized in 1994 from welts energized in 1993 which were 6,578 ha for 305 wetls.



lmplementation Comptetion Report
INDIA: Bihar Public Tubewelt Project (Cr.1737-IN)
Appendix 3: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 3.   Net Irrigable Area Created ard Utilized   - Rehabilitated Tubewells
Component                     FY87      FY88      FY89       FY90        FY91        FY92        FY93       FY94        FY95         FY96         FY97         FY98        FY99
Rehabilitated tubewells                            52         351         440         548       2,221        2,585       2,700       2,900        3,212        3,212        3,212
energized (No.)
Potential created2/(ha)                                     4,160      28,080      35,200      43,840      177,680    206,800      216,000      232,000      256,960      256,960
Area utilized3/ (ha)            -         -         -        468        3,159       3,960       4,932       19,989      23,265      24,300       26,100       28,908       28,908
Incremental (ha)                         =                   468        2,691         801         972       15,057       3,276       1,035       1,800         2,808        2,808  
1/ It is assumed that utilization takes place in the year following installation.
2/ Average command area of 80 ha per rehabilitated tubewell, created one year after energization.
3/ At about 9 ha per tubeweLL, based on average area utilized in 1994 from weLLs energized in 1993 which were 19,783 ha for 2,221 wells.



43
Implementation Completion Report
INDIA: Bihar Public Tubewell Project (Cr.1737-IN)
Appendix 3: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 4. Cropping Pattern - New and Modernized Tubewells1/
Without Project                       With Project
Crop                       Rainfed     l    Irrigated           Rainfed      I    Irrigated
l____) .......                                                     ..       (%).... _   ....l
Kharif                  l
- Paddy                       55                 5                                    65
- Maize                        10                                   -                 15
- Pulses (arhar)21             1                                    2                 1
- Jute                         2                                    2                 1
- Vegetables                   3                                    -                 2
- Fodder                                                            -                 3
Rabi                                     _                                                     |
- Wheat                        9                 10                 _45 
- Pulses (gram)                6                                    4                 2         l
- Mustard                      2
- Potato                                          1                           _       3_ll
- Maize                                _1                                             7        ||
- Fodder               __1                                          -                 2
Hot Season
- Moong                          __I                                -                 2
- Vegetables (onion)                    -                           -                 5
Perennial
- Sugarcane                                                         -                 4
TOTAL                          89                20                12                160
Cropping Intensity3/                  (109)                                (172)
/ Cropping intensity for analysis has been computed on area actually utilized; 26 ha for new tubewells (see
Table 1) and 22 ha for modernized tubewells (see Table 2). Although the project developed 100 ha
command area for new and modernized tubewells, there has been no change in cropping pattern in the
remaining 74 ha and 78 ha respectively.
l/ arhar = pigeonpea.
2/ Land occupancy percentage: sugarcane counted in each of the three seasons.



44
Implementation Completion Report
INDlA: Bihar Public Tubewell Project (Cr.1737-IN)
Appendix 3: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 5. Cropping Pattern - Rehabilitated Tubewells1'
Wlthout Project                       With Project
Crop                       Rainfed           Irrigated          Rainfed          Irrigated
. ........                          ...............
Kharif
- Paddy                       58                 2                  -                45
- Maize                       10                                    4                10
- Pulses (arhar)2/             1                                    1                          l
- Jute                         1                                    1                 1
- Vegetables                   3                                                      4
- Fodder                                         1                  1                 1
Rabi
- Wheat                        9                 10                 -                40
- Pulses (gram)                6                  -                 4                 1
- Mustard                      1                 1                  -                 3
- Potato                                         1                                    2
- Maize                                          1                  -                 3
- Fodder               __1                                                            2
Hot Season
- Moong                                          1                                    2
- Vegetables (onion)                             1                                    2
Perennial
- Sugarcane            _      _1                                    -                 3
TOTAL                         89                 20                11                119
Cropping Intensity3                   (109)                                (130)
/ Cropping intensity for analysis has been computed on area actually utilized - 9 ha (see Table 3).
Although the project developed 800 ha command area, there has been no change in cropping pattern
in the remaining 71 ha.
2 arhar = pigeonpea.
~/ Land occupancy percentage: sugarcane counted in each of the three seasons.



45
Implementation Completion Report
INDLA. Bihar Public Tubewell Project (Cr.1737-IN)
Appendix 3: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 6. Crop Yield - New & Modernized Tubewells
Without Project                        With Project
Crop                        Rainfed      I    Irrigated           Rainfed           Irrigated
....... _ _ _ _   (ton/ha)  .......  ....... (ton/ha) 
Kharif
- Paddy                        1.2                2.6                                   2.6
- Maize                        13                                     -                 1.8
- Pulses (arhar)1/             1.2            .                      1.2                1.4
- Jute                         1.5                                   1.5                1.8
- Vegetables                   12.0                                   -                 16.0
- Fodder                        .                                                       15.0
Rabi                  TX                  !
- Wheat                        1.3                23                   -                2.3
- Pulses (gram)                0.6          X         _  _           0.6                1.0
- Mustard                      0.6                 1.2               0.6                1.2
- Potato                                          15.0                -                 15.0
- Maize                                           1.8                                   1.8
- Fodder                                          15.0                .                 15.0
Hot Season
- Moong                                           1.0                                   1.0
- Vegetables (onion)            --15.0
Perennial
- Sugarcane                                       50.0                                  50.0
u, arhar = pigeonpea.



46
Implementation Completion Report
INDIA  Bihar Public Tubewell Project (Cr.1737-IN)
Appendix 3: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 7. Crop Yield - Rehabilitated Tubewells
Without Project                          With Project
Crop                         Rainfed      I      Irrigated           Rainfed      I    Irrigated
l_________                      ........ .(ton/ha) .......            ....... (ton/ha) 
l  b n                    ____     ____
|Kharif
- Paddy                          1.2                2.6                            .        2.6
- Maize                         1.3         __13                                            1.8
- Pulses (arhar)1'/              1.2          .                         1.2                 1.4
- Jute                           1.5         _        _1.5                                  1.8
- Vegetables                    12.0                                     .                 14.0
- Fodder                __15.0                                          12.0               15.0
Rabi
- Wheat                          1.3                2.3         __2.3
- Pulses (gram)                 0.6                                     0.6                 1.0
- Mustard                       0.6                  1.2                                    1.2
- Potato                                     _      _15.0 _ _15.0
- Maize                                      _       _1.8 _ _1.8
- Fodder                                            15.0                                   15.0
Hot Season
- Moong                  __                         1.0 __1.0
- Vegetables (onion)             -                  15.0        __15.0
Perennial
- Sugarcane             __50.0                                           -                 50.0
/ arhar = pigeonpea.



47
Implementation Completion Report
INDIA: Bihar Public Tubewell Project (Cr.1737-IN)
Appendix 3 - Economic Re-evaluation
Table 8. With Project Yields at SAR Compared to ICR for the Project as a Whole
Total Project
Crops                                         SAR                               ICR
l ___________________________                 (ton/ha)                          (ton/ha)
Kharif
- Paddy                                         2.2                               2.6
- Maize                                         1.7                               1.8
- Pulses (arhar)1/                              1.3                               1.4
- Jute                                          1.7                               1.8
- Vegetables                                   14.0                              14.0
- Fodder                                       14.5                              15.0
Rabi
- Wheat                                         2.0                               2.3
- Pulses (gram)                                 1.0                               1.0
- Mustard                                       1.2                               1.2
- Potato                                       14.5                              15.0
- Maize                         .                                                 1.8
- Fodder                                       14.5                              15.0
Hot Season
- Moong                                         0.97                              1.0
- Vegetables                                   14.5                              14.5
Perennial
- Sugarcane                                    48.0                              50.0
1/ arhar = pigeonpea.



48
Implementation Completion Report
INDIA: Bihar Public Tubewell Project (Cr.1737-.IN)
Appendix 3 - Economic Re-evaluation
Table 9. Estimated Financial Farm Budgets (1 ha farm)
Without Project                   With Project
(Rs)                            (Rs)
New & Mlodernized Tubewells
(farm size - 1 ha)
- Gross value                                 6,505                           17,854
- Hired labour                                1,888                            3,982
- Other inputs                                 460                             2,052
Total Inputs                                  2,348                            6,034
Net Value                                     4,157                           11,820
Incremental Income (Rs/ha)                                    7,663
Increase due to Project (%)                                    184
Rehabilitated Tubewells
(farm size - 1 ha)
- Gross value                                 6,737                           13,518
- Hired labour                                1,892                            2,127
- Other inputs                                  460                            1,410
Total Inputs                                  2,352                            3,537
Net Value                                     4,385                            9,981
Incremental Income (Rs/ha)                                    5,596
Increase due to Project (N)                                    128



49
Implementation Completion Report
INDIA: Bihar Public Tubewell Project (Cr.1737-IN)
Appendix 3 - Economic Re-evaluation
Table 10. Exchange Rates and Wholesale Price Indices (WPI)
Year                      Exchange Ratel/                      WPI"
Rs = USS1
1979                                                            60.0
1980                                                            72.0
1981                                                            80.9
1982                                                            82.8
1983                                                            89.4
1984                                                            95.6
1985                           12.369                          100.0
1986                           12.611                          105.6
1987                           12.962                          112.9
1988                           13.917                          122.7
1989                           16.226                          131.1
1990                           17.504                          142.9
1991                           22.742                          162.2
1992                           25.918                          181.4
1993                           30.493                          194.7
1994                           31.371                          208.9
IMF Statistics.



50
INDIA
Bihar Public Tubewell Project
Table 11 -Economic Analysis of the Project as aWhole
(Rs. Million)
Fiscal Year         Total Costs          Incremental          Incremental
Net Prod.           Net Benefits
Benefits
1987                119.2                 0.0              -119.2
1988                204.4                 0.0              -204.4
1989                390.2                 0.0              -390.2
1990                289.3                 0.7              -288.6
1991                256.5                 5.9              -250.6
1992                168.4                14.0              -154.4
1993                247.8                23.0              -224.8
1994                148.7                68.2               -80.5
1995                237.8               138.3               -99.5
1996                238.3               192.5               -45.8
1997                238.3               234.9                 -3.4
1998                247.7               257.9                 10.2
1999                 47.6  .            265.9                218.3
2000                 80.0               269.9                189.9
2001                 93.2               272.3                179.1
2002                106.6               272.3                165.7
2003                 66.1               272.3                206.2
2004                 68.3               272.3                204.0
2005                 73.9               272.3                198.4
2006                 87.4               272.3                184.9
2007                 73.3               272.3                199.0
2008                 83.4               272.3                188.9
2009                 5'.8               272.3                215.5
2010                 59.2               272.3                213.1
2011                 58.2               272.3                214.1
ERR=      2.3%1h NPV=    -810.1 Rs. Million



51
INDIA
Bihar Public Tubewell Prcject
Table 12-Economic Analysis of New Tubewells
(Rs. Mdlicn)
Fiscal Year irnvestment  Suilding. Venicle & Ecuitment.2/ Snergizacai /        O&M 4/Total CCSts Incrinentl Incre.menal
Ccsts 1/     Training. .M&E. Tecrinical Services     EnCineering                     Net Prod.  Net Benerits
S Admin. 21                    Benefits
1987        0.0                  0.2                  6.7        0.3                  7.2        0.0      -7.2
1988       11.9                  3.5                   2.5       1.2                  19.1       0.0     -19.1
1989       224                   4.0                  10.0       3.3                 39.7        0.0     -39.7
1990       16.2                  3.6                   4.7       4.1                 28.6        0.0     -28.6
1991       10.9                  S.2                   1.0       4.4        0.2       21.7       0.0     -21.7
1992        6.0                  3.1                   0.0       4.2        0.5       13.8       0.2     -13.6
1993        5.2                  2.6                  0.3        4.4        2.3       14.8       0.9     -13.9
1994        5.7                  0.9                  0.0        4.0        4.2       14.8       3.5     -11.3
1995       29.9                  1.6                   1.7       0.8        5.7      39.7        8.7     -31.0
1996       31.3                  1.5                   6.8       4.9        7.7       52.2      14.1     -38.1
1997       31.3                  1.2                   6.8       5.9       10.3      55.5       18.2     -37.3
1998       31.3                  1.1                   6.8       6.5       12.9       58.6      20.4     -38.2
1999                                                                       12.9       12.9      21.1        8.2
2000                                                                       12.9       12.9      21.1        8.2
2001        0.4                                                            12.9       13.3      21.1        7.8
2002        1.0                                                            12.9       13.9      21.1        7.2
2003        4.4                                                            12.9       17.3      21.1        3.8
2004        8.2                                                            12.9       21.1      21.1        0.0
2CO5       10.0                                                            12.9       22.9      21.1       -1.8
2006       15.0                                                            12.9       27.9      21.1       -o.8
2007       20.0                                                            12.9       32.9      21.1     -11.8
2008       25.0                                                            12.9       37.9      21.1      -16.8
2009                                                                       t2.9       12.9      21.1        8.2
2010                                                                       12.9       12.9      21.1        8.2
2011                                                                       12.9       12.9      21.1        8.2
E.RR    -20.0%                 NPV-    -137.2 Rs. Million
1/ Ecznomic =sts derwed by using SCF af 0.9 and inflaing n 1 994 pr:ce arms using wnclesale price index incicated in Table a
P.rciec zosts since 1 S95 easea cn MIO esurnates but adjusted D a lcwer overall tctal Ct 250 wells ins;eaa cf 50 crc:csed at a^paisal.
Reczaczrmenr cCsis assumed at 1Fs. 1 COCOtwelJ ,'rom year 2001.
2/ Acccnticnec on Me basis cd tucewell numcers (250: 750; 3.212).
"I AGOoriarOed on the casis Ct tubewells nurncers uzo 1994 and incentified secarately tnerear.ar.
I/ based on esaolishrrent ct Rs. 24.000 ct m3ainrenance (cMI worKs+ mecnanical): Ss 8.525 and energy c.arges cf Fs. 24.:CO.
adjusted by SCF (elecircty costed at long run marginal cost assumed at Rs. 1.47/kwh).



52
INDIA
Bihar Puolic Tuceweil Project
Table 13-Economic Analysis of Moderneed Tubewells
(Rs. Millicn)
Fiscal Year Irovestmrent  Building, Venic!e & Ecuicment.  Energizatc.        C&M Z/Total Ccs:s Incrementa Incrementl
Costs 11 2/   Training, M&E. 7ecnnical Servicas     Engineenng                     Net rcC.  .Nei Senefi:s
& ACmin.                       neneAts
1987        0.0                  0.5                19.9        0.9                 21.3               -21.3
19&8       12.3                 10.6                 7.5        3.6                34.1                -34.1
1989       32.1                 12.0                3a.0        9.8                 83.9               -83.9
1990       42.0                  6.2                14.2        9.8       0.0       72.2               -72.2
1991       66.8                 15.5                 3.1        9.8       0.6       95.8       0.1     -95.7
1992       51.6                  9.4                 0.0        9.8       0.8       71.6       1.7    -59.9
1993      128.5                  7.7                 1.0        9.8       5.2      152.2       4.4   -147.8
1994       41.8                  2.6                 0.0        9.8      10.3       64.5      18.7    -45.8
1995       71.6                  2.5                 6.8        9.3      11.2      101.9      -0.9    -51.0
1996       56.9                  4.6                 6.8        9.8      12.0       90.1      78.6    -11.5
1997       56.0                  3.7                 6.8        9.8      12.9       89.2      96.4       7.2
1998       5 a.0                 3.3                 0.0        9.3      12.9       82.0     10.9      23.9
1999                                                                     12.9       12.9     105.9      93.0
2000        2.5                                                           12.9      15.4     105.9      90.5
2001        6.4                                                          12.9       19.3     105.9      86.6
2002        8.4                                                           12.9      21.3     105.9      84.6
20C3       13.4                                                           12.9      26.3     105.9      79.6
20O4       10.3                                                           12.9      23.2     105.9      82.7
2005       13.0                                                           12.9      25.9     105.9      80.0
20C6       25.7                                                           12.9      38.6     105.9      67.3
2007        8.4                                                           12.9      21.3     105.9      34.6
2008       14.3                                                           12.9      27.2     1C5.9       78.7
2009       11.4                                                           12.9      24.3     105.9      81.6
2010       11.2                                                           12.9      24.1     105.9      81.8
2011       11.2                                                           12.9      24.1     105.9      81.3
E?R=       4.4%                NPV=   -202.14 Rs. million
1/ Similar nroms as in Tanle 12 fcr new Tucewell econcmic csts.
21 assumea at 20% of C&M czsts AFis. 51 .SCC) as incremenal.
2/ Assumed at 20% cd irveszment ccszs taP reciacnmernt.



53
INOIA
2iriar Public Tutewell Project
Table 14-Economic Analysis of Rehabilitated TLbewelIs
(Rs. .Sillicn)
Fiscai Year Investment  Building. Vehicle & Equiomenj.  Energizatim         C&-M 2Tozal Costs inceamerTl Incementl
Costs 11    r Training, M&E. Tecnnical Se-vices     Engineering                   Net Proa.  .Net Benetits
& ACmin.                      Ben etits
1987        0.7                 2.1                 84.1       3.8                 90.7                -90.7
1988       59.0                44.9                 32.0       15.3               151.2              -151.2
1989       73.9                50.6                126.5       15.3       0.3     266.6              -266.6
1990       85.2                26.2                 60.0       15.3       1.8     188.5       0.7   -187.8
1991       42.6                65.6                 13.2       15.3       2.3     139.0       5.8   -133.2
1992       25.3                39.6                  0.0       15.3       2.8      83.0      12.1      -70.9
1993       17.2                32.4                  4.4       15.3      11.5      80.8      17.7    -63.1
1994       29.9                10.9                  0.0       15.3      13.3      69.4        46     -23.4
1995       55.5                 10.7                 0.8       15.3      13.9      96.2      78.7    -17.5
1996       45.5                19.6                  0.6      15.3       15.0      96.0      99.8        3.8
1997       45.4                15.8                  0.5      15.3       16.6      93.6     120.3       26.7
1998       60.7                14.0                  0.5       15.3      16.6     107.1     131.6       24.5
1999        5.2                                                          16.6      21.8     138.9      117.1
2000       35.1                                                          16.6      51.7      142.9      91.2
2001       44.0                                                          16.6      60.6      145.3      84.7
2002       54.8                                                          16.6      71.4      145.3      73.9
2003        5.9                                                          16.6      22.5      145.3     122.8
2004        7.4                                                          16.6      24.0      145.3     121.3
2005        8.5                                                          16.6      25.1      145.3     120.2
2006        4.3                                                          16.6      20.9      145.3     124.4
2007        2.5                                                          16.6       19.1     145.3     125.2
2008        1.7                                                          16.6      18.3      145.3     127.0
2009        3.0                                                          16.6      19.6      145.3     125.7
2010        5.6                           *                              16.6      22.2      145.3     123.1
2011        4.6                                                          16.6      21.2      145.3     124.1
E.RR=      2.9%               NPV=    -470.8 Rs. million
If Similar noes as in Table 12 for new tubewell economic costs.
21 Assumea at 1 G0  cf C&M ccsts as incemental.
2/ Assumed at 1 0% cf irnvestment ccsts fcr reclacament.



Implementation Completion Report
INDIA: Bihar Pubtic Tubewell Project (Cr.1737-IN)
Appendix 3 - Economic Re-evaluation
Tabte 15.   Derivation of Economic Prices
Fertitizer    _______
Uni t            Paddy            Wheat             Jute             Sugar
N               P               K
Projected World market price1             USS/ton             312              177               326              254              145              135             110
1995/2000 in 1994 constant USS /
Quatity adjustment                           %                 75               95               100               98              100              100             100
World market equivalent                   USS/ton             234              168               326              249              145              135             110
international shipping, insurance        USS/ton              40                50                50               50               50              50               50
c.i.f./f.o.b. Catcutta                    USS/ton             274              218               276              299              195              185             160
c.i.f./f.o.b. Calcutta2/                  Rs/ton           8,596             6,839             8,658            9,380            6,117           5,804            5,019
Domestic handling & transport             Rs/ton              770              770              (500)             770              830             830              830
Processing or nutrient ratio                 X                 66               95 3/             70               10               46              48               60
Processing costs                          Rs/ton             (110)              .                175              (52) ___
Wholesale price, raw product              Rs/ton           6,071             7,228            5,885               963           15,102          13,821            9,748
Transport to/from farmgate                Rs/ton            (503)             (654)              160               -160                            160              160
Farmgate Price                            Rs/ton           5,568             6,574            6,045               963           15,262          13,981            9,908
1/ IBRD Commodity Price Forecast of August 1994, adjusted by PYV index to obtain price in 1994 constant terms.
2/ Corwerted at the current exchange rate of US$1.00 = Rs3l.37.
3/ 5X loss in cleaning.



55
Implementation Completion Report
INDIA: Bihar Public Tubewell Project (Cr.1737-IN)
Appendix 3 - Economic Re-evaluation
Table 16. Summary of Prices for Financial and Economic Analysis in 1994 Prices
Financial      Economic                      Seeds
Crops                        (Rs/ton)        (Rs/ton)    Financial (Rs/ton)   Economic (Rs/ton)
Paddy                          3,100            5,568           4,000                7,185
Wheat                          3,500            6,574           4,000                7,510
Maize                          2,650            4,977           4,000                7,510
Pulses
- Gram                         6,400           5,760            9,000                8,100
- Moong                        7,000           6,300            9,000                8,100
Oilseeds
- Rape/mustard                 8,100           7,290            9,000                8,100
Jute                           4,500           6,045            6,000                5,400
Sugarcane                        600             963              650                1,040
Potato (Rabi)                  1,250           1,125            4,000                3,600
Onion (Rabi/hot season)        1,500           1,350            4,000                3,600
Lady's finger, etc.(Kharif)     1,250           1,125
Inputs
Nitrogen                       7,220           15,262
DAP (P)                        13,000          13,981
K                              6,300           9,908
Labour (person-day)              35               32     _
Bullock (pair-day)               135             122
Tractor hire (per hour)          150             135



Implementatlon CoepLetfon Report
INDIA:  Bihar Public Tubwettl  Project
(Cr.1737-IN)
Appendix 4. Progress of Physica Targets
No. of          1987-0                19a8-as               1989-90               1990-01                1991-92               1992-93                1993944/
Target     Actuas Target         Actuat Target         Actual     Target      Actums Target         Actia Tarqet          Acbmi Tare               Ach
New Tubewels
Wellpoint                         500                               60         140        130        238        200        240        300        246        400         247        500          256
Pipe distribution system          500                               60         16         130         19        200         24        300         39        400         72         500          105
Energizatlon                      500                               60                    130                   200          4        300         10        400         44         500           89
Modenerd TLAwefis
Replacement and/or repair1 ,
element in the weli              1.500                              60         35         200         57        400         59        600        224        800        333        1.500         773            tn
Pipe distrlbution system         1.500                              60         54         200        106        400        106        600        165        800        253        1.500         431
Energization                     1.500        _                     60          -         200         2         400         33        600         45         0         305        1,500        1.244
RePhabE itd Tubewds                                                                                                                                         _                                _
Replacemert and/or repair1 /2/
element In the well              3.212       470                  1.460      1,341       2,450      1,5B0      3.130      1.597      3.212      1.684                 1,944                    2.455
Plpe distribution system3/       1,313       200        A-x                   A-x                    A-x       1.100       A-x                  A-4                   A-9                      A-15
B-102       500       B-624       800       6-847                 8-984      1,313      B-1084                B-10t4                   B-1064
Energizatlon2/                   3,212       470                  1.460        52        2 480       351       3.130                 3.212       548                  2,221                    3.197
1/ Average figures of repair or construction of pumphouse and repair and replacement of pump units, are In the row of replacement and/or repair element In well.
2/ Actual numbers of energization of rehabtitated tubeweris done by BSEB in the years 1992-93 and 1993-94 are 752 and 1.342 respectIvely. Total number of redrilled tubeweHls 1s 178.
3/ A - No. of pipe clstrbutlon systems completed; B - No. of channel distribution systems repaired.
4/ Up to May 31.1994.
Source: MNO. Pabe



Implementation Completion Report
INDIA: Bihar Pubtic TutbewelI Project
(Cr.1737- I)
Appendix 5.   Project Cost in Mominal and Real Terms
________________________________I/_Final    Cost
Appraisal Estimate      A       p        Final     In                   Total Overrun       Price Overrun       Quantity Overrun
Actual plus et7td1I   96Pie  
expenditure"       l 
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  (Rs  million)   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  (  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
1. New tubewelt systems                        256.7                    372.4                   200.4                 45                  67                  (22)
2. Modernized distribution system              304.6                   1,051.0                  559.5                245                 161                   84
on existing tubewells              _
3. RehabiLitation of existing                  144.4                     488.4                  304.3                238                 120                  110
tubewetts                          _
4. Dedicated power supply                      355.7                     393.0                  323.1                 10                  19                   (9)
(existing + new tubewetts)
5. Management improvement                       95.7                     123.5                   64.9                 29                  61                  (32)
6. Engineering and administration              139.1                   1,066.4                  552.8                667                 370                  297
Total Project Cost                       1 296.2                   3,494.7                 2,005.0                170                 115                   55
I/ n 1986 prices.
2/ Actual expenditure up to May 31, 1994 plus costs to complete until 1997/98, i.e. March 1998.



58
Appendix 6
INDIA
GOVERNMENT OF BIHAR
DEPARTMENT OF MINOR IRRIGATION.
PARAWISE COMMENTS
ON
THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(I.C.R.)
AND
THE EVALUATION REPORT
BIHAR PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECTS
(CREDITNo. 1737- IN)






59
PARA WISE COMIMENTS ON IMPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION REPORT OF
BIHAR PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 1737-IN)
1.   No comments.
2.   No comments.
3.   No comments except to the extent that S.D.R. 40 M was slashed down
saying substantial savings resulting froim devaluation of the rupee
against the U.S. $, this was unilateral decision of the bank and which
was not justified. More over due to inflation in the domestic market,
the project was affected.
4.   No comments.
5.   No comments.
6.   The objective of the project was realistic based on improved design
standards for new system (S .AR Para 4.07), but the objective could not
be achieved due to irregular flow of fund at the time of execution
(AnnexureA appended.). So far as completed tubewelis are concerned,
the objective could not be achieved due to inadequate and irregular
supply of electricity.
7.   It is true that 5200 tubewells were located within 37 districts of state,
the effective co-ordination with B.S.E.B. and D.O.A. was made. As a
result, co-ordination committee had been set up at Executive Engineer/
Suprintending Engineer/Chief Engineer and State levels. These committees
held regular meetings as will be evident from the annexure-B enclosed.
Further weekly task force meeting takes place at district level under
chairmanship of D.M./D.D.C, which review the performence of
B.S.E.B/D.O.A. and M.I.D. at district level.
Satisfactory result could not be achieved due to tirne taken in procurement



60
PARA U . COMMENTS
of materials, lengthy process of bid decision, irregular and insufficient
flow of fund.
8.   Adequate electricity supply is sine qua non for desired water
management. It is true that M.I.D. faced financial difficulties but
inspite of such stumbling blocks the endeavour to ensure eqauitable
water allccation and water use efficiency was not deterred. M.I.D.
carried out training programme for machanics, tubewell operators,
pump fitters and beneficiaries. M.I.D. also felt that to achieve its
objective. people participation is a must and hence a policy decision
to transfer tubewells to Panchayats and beneficieries committees
was taken and 490 tubewells were transferred to local bodies.
9.  Relevant comments have been made in the appropriate paras.
10.  The table under this para shows target and achievements of Project.
On perusal from the physical objective of table, it is evident that
significant short fall in achivement has appeared in different schemes
of the Project. In this table, Bank has considered only the tubewells
completed in all respect. But component wise achievement of the
Project is more (as appended in Annex ure C) . At this juncture, it
would be pertinent to mention some of the factors which affected
the progress at desired pace. The target was not fully acieved due
to pau-ciy of fund in later years of the project when it! gained
momentum. In the begining year of the project, emphasis was laid
down on rehabilitation of pump units and repair of water distribution
systems of rehabilitaion tubewell with the objective that it will
give quick relief to the small and marginal farmers. Procurements
of basic inputs for the projects work were also taken up at the right
earnest. but procurement through bank guidelines took considerable
time in finalization of the bids. Further since it was a new system
neither project officials nor contractors of the State were accustomed
to it. The low ceiling of 2.9 m.US$ for unit/price rate contract and
Banks constant pressure to switchover to L.C.B. system of bidding
virtually brought the pace of Project activities to a grinding halt.
The field officials were asked to stop the work where it was on old
basis for the residual works. Naturally they took time to become
(2)



61           PAPR 'VISE COMMENTS
used to L.C.B. bidding. Intitially bidding did not take place because
of non submissionm of bids for large number of tubewells. This
was due to Bank's suggestion for inviting one L.C.B. bid for entire
cluster. This method failed because either no bid was received or
the bid received was non responsive. The bids received in the first
year were rejected on one ground or other (Please refer letter no.
510 dated 16.2.91). Meanwhile strike by Engineers and Staff caused
further impediment for the progress. Thus for almost two years
inspite of all effort's the project suffered badly for reasons beyond
the control of the Project Authority.
11.  This is relevant to point out that the assessement of performance is
based on 89 nos. of new tubewells, 431 nos. of modernized tubewells
and 2354 nos. of rehabilitated- tubewells in the year 1993-94. But
actually the above numbers of tubewells were completed up to May'94
and majority of them are not declared operative in 1993-94. Only 4 nos.
of New Tubewells, 253 nos. of Modernized Tubewells and 1563 nIos.
of Rehabilitated Tubewells were operative in 1993-94. The tubewells
have irrigated 27505 Hect. of land. 1144 Hect. was irrigated by new
tubewells against 4400 Hect. of additional irrigation potential created.
Similarly 6578 Hect. and 19783 Hect. were irrigated by modernized
and rehabilitated tubewells against 25300 Hect. and 132400 Hect. of
additional irrigation potential created respectively. This shows that
in the year 1993-94 area actually irrigated was 26% foriNew Tubewells,
26% for Modernised Tubewells and 15% for Rehablitated Tubewells
against the additional irrigation potential created. (Detailed statement
of yearwise physical progress potential generated and actual areas
irrigated by New Modernized and Rehabilitated Tubewells is enclosed
vide Annexure D.E & F)
12.  No comments.
13.  Waterratesrevisionisunderprogress. A sum of rupeestwothousand
five hundred per T1W has been given to panchayat as revolving fund
to run the T/W only.
The tubewells in working condition were handed over to Panchayats
(3)



62
PARA WISE COMMEYi-7S
with the advice that M.I.D will pr wide technical know how :c-r
maintenance of the different component of tubewells.
14.  No comments.
15.  The perception of the mission that the-c was no equitable distributi-c
of water needs to be reconsidered- In order to ensure equitaele
distribution of water, two loops were foried at each new and modernizld
tubewells for distribution and 20 out!frs were provided to irrigate 5
Hect. of land per outlet. While providir outlets, only technical aspems
were considered so as to irrigate the lan_ properly and no considerati:ii
was allowed for any kind of influence from any farmer. Due to irregL : =
and erratic power supply, adequate amount of water could not :
provided and hence it is likely that the cutlets near the tubewells mi-it
have received water, where as oulet -- farther ends might not ha.--
received the same. This technical analvzis makes it clear that no favo_r
was done for influential farmers.
The mission's observation that the autc matic operation system did nxi
work as designed and hence partiality a tubewell operators could .c
be eliminated, needs reconsideration. Eue to high voltage fluctuatio-.
automatic operation system did not fuxction properly and therefone
old system of operation continued. This might have allowed sor.
tubewell operators to operate the tu-,wells under the influence zI
influencial farmers. But once again tLs is to be kept in mind, whIE.
designing outlets the influential farzers were not favoured anad
therefore it is not correct to say that equ-able distribution of water u-s
not ensured.
16.  Regarding the factors pointed out in the.-eport, follwing aspects net_f
to be reconsidered:
(a)  One of the major reasons for Toor increase in the croppir-:
intensity is inadequate and erratc power supplv. If the pow.-
supply situation is improved by using stand by system like D.C-
Set, then the chances of getting te desired increase in croppik.
intensity are high.
(4)



_ _ _ _ _6PARA WISE COMMENTS
(b)  This is true that Private tubewells have irrigated 20% of the
command area which was supposed to be irrigated by the public
tubewell at the time of appraisal, once again it would be
important to reiterate that due to poor power supply position
public tubewells could not irrigate the area as expected in the
S .A.R. If some alternative arrangement is made to ensure power
supply, then it would certainly be possible to irrigate the area as
envisaged in the S.A.R. Farmers would like to depend an
irrigation by Public Tubewells because this is more cost-
effective., In such a situation, private tubewells will automatically
become redundant and the irrigated area by private tubewells
will become negligible. This, in turn, will improve the E.R.R.
of the Public Tubewells.
(c)  The costs of labour at the time of project appraisal, mid-term
review and at present are Rs. 15.85, Rs. 20.50 and Rs. 30.50
respectively and thus it has increased about two times and not
six times as stated in the I.C.R.
17. It is true that poteritial economic benefits have not been fully achieved
due to erratic and unreliable power supply. On an average irrigation per
tubewell is from 15 to 20 Hect. each achieving an average of 20.5 hect.
The comments on the three factors influencing ERR are as follows:
(i)   Variation in comm and areas depend not only upon the yield of
tubewells but also upon the desire of farmers. Similarly the Crop
intensity also diffijs in command areas of different tubewells
upon the capability and desire of the farmers.
(ii)  Since the tubewells are being transferred gradually to Village
Panchayats/tubewell beneficiaries committees the operation
and maintenance of these tubewells will be taken up by them.
Thus, due to their involvement in the future ERR will go up.
(iii) There has been no slackness on the part of MID to operate and
manage the tubewells. The original design in which particular
outlet has to be operated in each loop of a tubewell, did not
(5)



64        PARA WI.F' COMMENTS
materialize because of lower working hours of tubewells having
insufficient power supply. It resulted in pressure on different
outlets of tubewells because the farmer were not sure of getting
their fields irrigated on there turn. If power improves, the
tubewells can be operated and managed as per design envisaged
at the time of appraisal.
18.  The farm income as indicated have been taken to be on lower side as
the irrigation per rehabilitated tubwell has been taken to be 9 Hect.
instead of 16 Hect. Similarly the farm income depends also upon the
choice of the farmers, selection of particular crop and crop intensity
in the command areas of tubewells. In respect of tubewells with good
power supply the farm income are quite satisfactory.
19.  Since the tubewells  are transferred to the village panchayats /
beneficiary Committees, the operation and maintenance of these
tubewells is to be done by them. Therefore, the question of providing
subsidy for this work wil] not arise in future.
20.  In the initial period of the project, rehabilitation of non-working
tubewells due to mechanical, electrical or other breakdowns and
renovation of their water distribution system was seriously taken up to
provide maximum and quick benefits to farmers of the tubewells in
a short period with minimum expenditure. At the later stage of the
project, modernization and construction of new tubewells, iraining to
personnel, establishment of work shop and construction of administrative
building and tubewell cluster building was taken up.
The slow progress in the initial stage of implementation of the
programmes is attributed to the following points.:
(i)  Intricate & lengthy procedure of LCB/ICB as laid down by the
World Bank for any work like repair, rehabilitation, renovation,
modernization and construction of new tubewells.
(ii) The LCB/ICB system was initially not well under stood by
either the officers or available contractors who became non
responsive at different stage of processing.
(6)



65          PAr 'ISE COMMENTS
(iii) The financial powers of officers were inadequate.
(iv) Contractors available in the state were used to F-2 contract ,as
all the works of the state are done through F-2 contract. Hence
the lengthy and time consuming procedure of LCB/ICB could
hardly attract responsive contractors.
(v)  In the year 1991-92 a long strike by the State Engineers and Staff
has also affected the anticipated progress.
(vi)  As per agreement with World Bank, Works had to be done on
unit price contract/price work for $ 2.9.m, works for an amount
$ 0.7 M, on the basis of departmental procedure and an amount
of $3.1 M to be spent for drilling and development works of
tubewells. The Bankwas requested through the Ministry of
Finance that the limit of small works of $2.9 M should be
increased to $ 10.M, the limit of departmental works from $0.7M
to $2.lMand the limit of field works from $3.1mto $4.77M but
this facility was also not provided by the Bank. It resulted in
cancellation of all ongoing works followed by assessment of
incomplete works, survey preparation/sanction of estimates,
devising tender documents, floating of tenders and finalising the
award of contracts.
(vii) The Bank was requested to correspond with the Deptt. of
Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Govt. of India and
accept the reimbursement claim in three phases of construction
such as
(a)  Drilling and development of new tubewells and replacement
tubewells.
(b)  Rehabilitation/construction of pump house and pump unit and,
(c)  Remaining works of all the types of tubewells but the same has
not been accepted by the Bank. The Bank was also requested to
accept the reimbursement claims for procurement of materials
equipment done by Bihar State Electricity Board for D.P.L. to
(7)



66        PARAW'  COMMENTS
rabewells but the same was not conceded.
(viii) In 1991-92 the project credit was slashed from59.5 M. SDR to
19.5 M SDR on account of portfolio rationalisation exercise
under taken by Govt. of India. Though the exchange rate of US$
cnanged from Rs.12,962 in 1987 to 22.742 i.e. an increase of
.5.45% the reduction in credit was to the tune of 205.13 %
It resulted in severe increase on the State Budget. It resulted in
impro;er funding of the project by the State Govt. This is the reason
why the project which actually picked up in 90-91 could not achieve
the desiedphysical progress in the later years specially after 92-93 and
onwards where the funding was Rs. 1 1.00 Crores 93-94 and Rs. 12.00
Crores in 94-95. The Govt. of India though assured of providing
necessary additionalfunding but request made by the State Govt. on
this account was not considered.
21.  DelaY in the implementation is because of non-availability of credit
suppor; by the Bank/Govt. of India. This resulted in poor payment
respons! to the suppliers/contractors by MID. This affected the pace
of progess because the contractors/suppliers ran short of working
capital.
22. No coniments.
23.  Actual project cost wouldhave been less and the project overrun would
have been within reasonable limits but because of unfavourable
respons- as pointed out in para-22 of the report by the Bank and para-
20 above.
24.  The construction of New Tubewells, Medernized Tubewells and
Rehabilitated Tubewells at the cost estimated at the time of mid term
review could not be achieved.The project could have been completed
at the cost much lower than that estimated at present viz. Rs.7.45
lakhsfornew tubewells, Rs.7.00 lakhs for modernized tubewells and
Rs. 152 lakhs for rehabilitated tubewells, had the impediments indicated
in para 20 above not been there.
(8)



6 7           PARA WISE COMMENTS
25.  Comments has already been recorded in para-20 above.
2c.  No comments.
2?.  Cost recovery-steps are being taken to speed up the recovery of arrear
water charges. However, with the transfer of tubewells to village
panchayats the problem will be reduced gradually. Banks' suggestion
at the end of the paragraph will be taken up for implementation.
2S.  The issue of installation of meters on tubewells andrationalization of
power tariff for both private and public tubewells will be taken up with
Bihar State Electricity Board.
29.  Though the observations recorded in this para are by and large true.
The water delivery to tail end farmers is not made because of low hours
of power supply to the tubewells..Now, since about 350 submersible
pump sets have been procured, the delay in repairing of pumps will be
minimised. The conveyance system loss is mainly due to frequent
power cuts and open channels. Since tubewells are gradually being
transferred to panchayats/beneficiaries committee dependence upon
State's 0 & M budget will be reduced in future. Though there had been
effective coordination between MID and B SEB, the later could not take
up the issue at tubewell level probably because of their poor financial
status.
30.  The area irrigated as indicated in this para is not correct as will be
evident from the comments stated in para- 11 above. If power supply
improves the position will be more than satisfactory. It has already been
stated that performance of tubewell is reasonably good, if power is
adequately supplied to it. However, when the 0 & M of tubewells will
be transferred to village panchayats the tubewell wing's role will be
limnited to providing only technical back up and thus the position is
likely to imporve further. Additionally when the farners will be
satisfied with the performance of tubewells owned by them, they may
use the desired cropping pattern with more intensive crops to have
profitable crop yields as envisaged at the time of appraisal.
31   No comments.
(9)



68        PARAW'- COMMENTS
32. No comments.
33. No comments.
34. No comments.
35. No comments.
36. No comments.
37. No comments.
38. No comments.
39. No comments.
40. No comments.
41. No comments.
42. No comments.
43. No comments.
44. No comments.
45. No comments.
46. No comments.
47. No comments.
48. No comments.
49. No comments.
50. No comments.
51. As will be evident from the discussion made in para-20, the priority
was attached to rehabilitation of tubewells and thus construction of
new tubewells and modernization of existing tubewells
(10)



69            PAF '/ISE COMMENTS
were taken up at a latter stage.
The tubewell project was divided into 187 tubewell clusters. It was
programmed that work will be taken up in 40 clusters, in stage I, 49
clusters in stage H, and other 40 clusters in stage-HI and rest 67 clusters
in stage-IV, latter on it was assessed that in 32 clusters both tubewells
wing and B.S.E.B. have already went ahead with their works and therfore
, it was decided that works of these 32 clusters will be completed on
priority basis and then the project activities should be kept limited so that
entire 80 clusters can be completed. It resulted in idle capacity with the
project. The project works in phase-III and IV could be taken up at a much
later stage which contributed to a large noumber of tubewells remaining
partly incomplete at the end of the project. As far as selection of sites is
concerned, it was made by district level committees consisting of District
Magistrate./ DDC, Dist. Agriculture Officer, Executive Engineers of
tubewells wing and BSEB. The performance of drilled new tubewells is
by and large satisfactory as will be evident from their irrigation figures.
Power Constraints: No comments.
Under utilisation of facilities: Effort is being made to shift the offices
located near cluster building into newly constructed ones and a good
number of cluster building have been occupied. The-rest will also be
occupied shortly. Since Junior Engineers are given vehicle allowances for
maintaining their own motor cycles and since they draw these allowances
against having their motor cycles, there is no provision for providing them
vehicles. The condition of vehicles used by other officers are satisfactory.
Workshop:   A good number of workshop buildings has been
constructed. Effort will be made to make them functional in near future.
Further, when these tubewells will be transferred to village Panchayats,
the utility of these work shops will be limited to providing them required
service only.
Co-ordination: The farmers are opening 2-4 outlets not because of the
reasan stated in the paragraph but because of unreliability of power supply
to the tubewell. On the tubewells where power supply is satisfactory only
( 11 )



70         PARA M  - COMMENTS
one outlet in each loop is utilised by them.
Inadequate delegation: Agreeable.
52. No comments.
53. No comments.
54. No comments.
55. No comments.
56.  The assessment of the project outcome by the Bank can not be accepted
in totality. The factors like poor power supply, farmers involvement,
procedure for bidding, irregular flow of fLJ.n5&, sharp slashing in the
credit etc. have to be taken into account before assessing the projects
outcome. In case of any project one takes into consideration plausible
factors to assess the viability of the project but on implementation new
I unexpected factors crop up and the expected outcome of the project is
affected. In this light it is essential that the assessment of the project
outcome be considered in a wholistic manner before arriving at any
conclusion. M.I.D. is sure that the project was based on very sound fasting
and is bound to deliver irrigational benefits to the small and marginal
farmers of the state. The factors which have been identified to affect the
project outcome need consideration for the future projects in this field.
Even the Bank has observed that by providing diesel generator sets,
substantial development impacts can be generated. Under these circumstances,
M.I.D. is sure that if in future any such project takes into account the
factors mentioned above, in all likelihood, project is bound to suceed.
57.  No Comments.
58.  No Comments.
59.  As stated in the Evaluation report.
(12)



A\NNII,,U RV|!-A
Statenientsliowiiig Budget provisiom aflll allotnient recive(d for biliar
Plulc'hlall)elvdIsN l'ro,Jec(
Credil No. 1737-IN, lRs. in 1ites.
Financial year          Provision in        Allotment reccived                                   Remarks
Budget by            from G.O.B.
G.O.B.
GOB.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
86-87                    2070.00                698.5()0
87-88                     2885.20                1303.00
Duringthe latterperiod ol theexecution of theproiect work
88-89                     2670.93               2550.00                   i.e. from  )92-93 to 94-95, when the execution gainfed
89-90                     2600.00               2000.00                   memenitum the fund flow decreased.
90-91                     3299.00               2000.0()
91-92                    -3290.00                19((.((
92-93                     2800.00               2040.00
93-94                     3913.00                1099.67
94-95                      400.00                1200.00



72
ANNEXURE- B
Statement showing co-ordination meeting between tubewell wing officials
and Bihar State Electricity Board officials.
Date                           Details of meeting
09-04-91            High level co-ordination meeting between Member
Administration, Member, Finance of BSEB and Secretary,
Minor Irrigation and Project Co-ordinator, Tubewell Wing.
02-08-91            As above.
05-08-91 & 06-08-91   High level Co-ordination meeting Hon'ble Minister & State
Minister, M.I.D. and Officer's of B.S.E.B. and Tubewell
Wings.
03-01-92            MemberAdministration andMember, Finance and Officials
of Tubewell Wing & B.S.E.B
19-02-92            Project Co-ordinater, Chief Engineer of South Tubewell
wing & Joint Secy. BSEB and M.D. Fathuah Phulwarisharf
Rural Electrification Co-Operative Society.
12-03-92            Secretary, M.I.D. & Officers of TubewelrWing & BSEB.
27-03-92            High level Coordination meeting between Officers of T/W
and BSEB at Darbhanga.
26-03-92            As above at Muzaffarpur.
14-04-92            As above Kishanganj.
21-05-92            As above in the chamber of Project Co-ordinater at Patna.
21-05-92            High level co-ordination meeting between officers of TJW
BSEB in the chamber of Hon'ble Minister M.I.D.
27-05-92            Meeting between Senior Officials of T/W and BSEB in the
Meeting hall of BSEB.



73  ANNEXU;  -B (Contd.)
09 TO 10-02-93      Meeting bet-een officers of T/W and BSEB in presence of
Hon'ble Minister, MID At Purnea.
04 To 05-02-93      As above at Darbhanga.
02-03-93            High level Coordination meeting betw. een officer of T/W &
BSEB in the Meeting Hall of BSEB.
11.06.93            High level coordination meeting between Hon'ble Minister
of MID & Energy Deptt. with OfficerS of BSEB and T/W
wing in tho meeting Hall of BSEB.
21-06-93            Chief Engneer level special meeting be.rween officer's of T/
WV wing & BSEB at Patna.
22-06-93            As above at Darbhanga..
20-06-93            As above at Saharsa.
22-06-93            As above at Bhagalpur.
22-06-93            As above at M.tuzaffarpur.
05-07-93            High level meeting between officers of TfW wing and BSEB
in presence of Hon'ble Health Minister at Patna Collectariate.
07-09-93            Meeting on Flood and Drought in the Chairmanship of
Hon'ble Chief Minister.
02-09-93            Hon'ble Minister level meeting betwe.n Officers of T/W
wing and BSEB for removing Electrical Fault of T/W at
Biharsharif.
21-01-94            Meeting between Engineer-in-Chief. BSEB & Project
Coordinator T/W in the chamber of Co-ordinator.
In addition to that, in every month co-ordination meeting at Chief
Engineer's and Superintending Engineer's level of T/W wing and
BSEB officials are held.



INDIA                                              ANNEXURE- C
BIHAR PUBLIC TUBE WELL PROJECT
(CREDIT NO.1737 - IN)
Physical Achievement and Programme of Various Components.
As on 31, May 1994)
Components of work and Targets    Total Target              Cummulative Progress to the end of
As per Revised Programme            As per
S.A.R.    3/90  3/91   3/92      3/93       6/93      3/94      UP to 5/94   Remarks
500 New Tubewells
1.   Drilling and Development of Wells    500    238   240  246       247         249        255        256
2.   Construction of Pump House         500      21    26   38+6p    94+54p        11 2+36p   149+30p   154+25p
3.   ConstructionofElevatedTank         500      20    23   38+Xp    85+64p       97+52p    139+41p   144+37p
4.   Pipedistrubutionsystem             500      19   24   39+13p   72+71p        75+68p    96+68p    105+59p
5    EnergisationofD.P.L./E.P.L         500      Nit   4    10        44          44         82         89
Contd ...



ANNEXURE - C (Contd.)
LNDIA
BIHAR PUBLICTUBEWELL PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 1737 - IN)
Physical Achievement and Programme of Various Components.
(As on 31, May 1994)
Components of work and Targets    Total Target                Cummulative Progress to the end of
As per Revised Program me         As per
S.A.R.     3/90     3/91 3192,     3/93       6/93      3/94     UP to 5/94   Remarks
1500 Modernization
1.   RepairorConstructionofPumphouse  1000    113   156  288+40p  355+213p  505+63p   707+138p  773+108p
2.   Repair andreplacementof pump unit  1000    Nil   2    165+2p   311+103p  441           612+56p   723+35p
3    Constructionofelevatedtank         1000    88   90   138+30p  282+224p  385+121p  593+199p  620+184p
4.   Pipedistributionsystem             1000    106   106  166+60p  253+242p  307+188p  370+139P  431+99P
5.   EnergizationofD.P.L./E.P.L         1000    2     33   45         305        369        600        1244
Inculding No.s of
Tubewell alreary
energized before
projecL



ANNEXURE - C (Contd.)
INDIA
BIHAR PUBLICTUBEWELL PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 1737 - IN)
Physical Achievement and Programme of Various Components.
As on 31, May 1994)
Components of work and Targets    Total Targel               Cummulative Progress to the end of
As per Revised Programme            As per
S.A.R.    3/90  3/91   3/92       3/93        6/93      3/94      UP to 5/94    Remarks
3212 REHABILITATION
1.   Replacementofwells                  271      129   145  178         178         178        178         178
2.   Repairof replacementof pump unit    1155    1948  1948 2()74+29P 222X+44p  2666            2791+30P  2847+20P
3    Repairof Replacementof Pump house  1213    121   1245 1293+17p 1655+178p 1851              2118+304p 2354+80p
4.   Repair of Water distribution system  1313    847   984  1084        1084        1084        1084       1084
5.   Energization by D P LEPL            3712    299   351  548          2221        2311       2585        3197
6.   Replacement of Open
Channals by distribution            Nil     4  9+1 OP  14+5P       15+8P       15+8P
system with PVC pipe line



ANNEXURE-D
Net irrigable areas created and utitised -NewTubewells.
Component        Fy87  Fy88 Fy89 Fy90   Fy91          Fy92    Fy93    Fy94    Fy95          Fy96    Fy97       Fy98      Fy99
NewTubewells
completedNos.      -      -    -      -        4       10      44       89        89        200      250        250      250
Potential          -      -    -      -       -       400      1060     4-00      8900      20000    25000      25000   25000
created (Ha.)
AreaUtilised
(Ha.)              -      -    -       -      -        351   . 566       1144     2759      8000     12000      20000   25000
Incrementel        -      -    -       -       -       351     215      578       1615      524      4000       8000    5000
(Ha.)
NB It is assumed that power will be available @ 8 hours per day from 1996 onwards. if
power supply imporves further the actual area utilised will further go up.



ANNEXURE - E
Net irrigable areas created and utilised -Modernised ,Tubewell
Component         Fy87   Fy88   Fy89   Fy90   Fy91   Fy92          Fy93   Fy94      Fy95   Fy96   Fy97   Fy98        Fy99
ModernizedT/W
completed No.      -      -       -      2       33      45       253    431        600    800    1000   1300        1500
Potential         -       -       -      -       200    3300      4500   25300    43100  60000  80000  100000   130000
created (Ha.)
AreaUtilised
(Ha.)             -               -       -      88      1448      1935   6578      30000  32000  48000  80000    130000
Incrementel        -      -       -      -       88      1360     487    4643       23422  2000   16000  22000    50000
(Ha.)
NB It is assumed that power will be available @ 8 hours per day from 1996 onwards. if
power supply imporves further the actual area utilised will further go up.



ANNEXURE - F
Net irrigable areas created and utilised -Rehabilitated Tubewells
Component         Fy87  Fy88 Fy89  Fy90   Fy91    Fy92   Fy93          Fy94     Fy95      Fy96    Fy97       Fy98    Fy99
Rehabiliated
Tubewell
completed No.      -     -    52      299    351    548       1655     2354      2354     2854    3212       3212    3212
Potential         -      -     -     4160   23920  28080  43840    132400   188320   188320  256960    256960  256960
created (Ha.)
AreaUtilised
(Ha.)              -     -    -       3314   15969  21600  24137    27505    35765    85620   125268    167024  208780
Incrementel       -      -    -       3314   12655  5631   2537        3368     8260      5811'    39648     41756   41756
(Ha.)
NB: It is assumed that power will be available @ 8 hours per day from 1996 onwards. if
power supply imporves further the actual area utilised will further go up.



80
EVALUATION REPORT ON BIHAR PUBLIC TUBEWELL
(CREDIT No. 1737-IN)
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVE
(a)  The objective of Bihar Public Tubewell Project was to increase the
agricultural production by improving and expanding the use of ground water
potential of the State. This was to be achieved by (i) introducing improved
technology which restricts and eliminates misuse of water, (ii) undertaking a
phased programme to rehabilitate and modernize the existing PTW. ( iii)
strenghthening the institution to ensure that the project works be efficiently
implemented, operated and maintained and (iv) increasing the agricultural production,
employment and income especially for small farmers.
This was to be donc by (i) construction of 500 new improved
tubewell systems each of about 150 M3/h discharge and net conimand area of
about 100 hect. (ii) modernization of about 1000 (1500 revised) tubewells, (iii)
rehabilitation of about 3712 (3212 revised) tubewells. (iv) Construction of
dedicated power lines to about 5212 tubewells and (v) provision of equipment,
transportation vehicles and buildings to be used during the project construction,
operation and maintenance, preparation of design and 0 & M manuals, monitoring
technical services, studies related to project managament, cost recovery and
agro-economic base line survey for selected project tubewells and training of
project staff to monitor and evaluate the different activities.
Against the target of 500 new tubewells, 256 nos. were drilled and
developed. Out of this 256, 89 were fully completed and energized. Besides
that, the civil works on 105 nos. were completed. Similarly, against the targets
of modernization of 1500 tubewells and rehabilitation of 3212 tubewells, 431
and 2354 tubewells were fully modernized and rehabilitated respectively. Under
training programme, 2 Executive Engineers. 72 A. Es. 153 J.Es, 82 Electricians
and 42 Nos Pump fitters, 202 Tubewell Operators where the tubewell has
already been handed over to Panchayats, were trained. Besides this 636 beneficiaries
were also trained.
( I)



81                 EVALUATION REPORT
Under the studies programme, Project Management study and an Agro-
Economic baseline survey of selected project tubewells have been completed. A
team consisting of 2 S. Es, 3 E.Es., 2 A. Es. and 5 beneficiaries were sent to
West Bengal under Management and Technical studies programme. They have
submitted their report which is a useful document for handing over the Public
Tubewells to beneficiaries' committee, in a manner similar to that of West
Bengal.
A Design, Construction, Operation and Maintanance manual has been
prepared as per S.A.R. and circulated among the field officers for standardization
of acivities related to these topics.
The above shortfalls in completion of the project components were
due to the slow progress in the initial stage of the project which is attributed to
the following main reasons
1.   Intricate and lengthy procedure of LCB/ICB as laid by the World
Bank for procurement and work like repair, rehabilitation, modernization
and construction of new Tubewells. Initially the LCB/ICB system
was not understood properly by cithcr officers or available contractors
in the state. The result was that most of the tenders offered by the
contractors became unresponsive at different stages of processing.
2.   The power for approval of tenders was vested in the Departmental
Level Tender and Purchase Comrmittee, consisting of Secretary, Minor
Irrigation Department, Bihar, Secretary, Finance Depertment, Bihar,
Engineer-in-chief, Vigilance, Cabinet Vigilance, Bihar, Project Co-
ordinator, Tubewell Wing, Govt. of Bihar. The Chief Engineer could
hardly approve Civil works tenders for Rs. 0.3 m. It was a usual
happening that most of these tenders were not responsive. The
world Bank had also laid the criterion that only one tender should
be awarded for all tubewells in a cluster consisting of 25-30 tubewells,
but no contractor was available for such a big project costing about
Rs. One Crore or so as the tubewells are scattered here and there in
country side only.
3.   Frequent transfer and posting of the Project Officers retarded the
(2)



82           EVA'I UATIONREPORT
progress of the Project work. As per Govt. of Bihar norm, officers
are transferred after three vears of service from onc office to another
office. This was also applicable to the officers posted in the project.
4.   Iln iniitial stages (from 86-87 to 89-90) of the project, tle GoVt. of
Bihar used to sanction the project on yearly basis. And the annual
sanction of establishment continued till the end of the project period.
As a result. during the first few month of every financial year. The
Executive Engineers were not allowed to function as drawing and
disbursing officers due to non-sanction of the posts during the
poriod which used to be main working period.
5.   Cheque drawing authority was made available to the tubewell wing
on yearly basis.
6.   The construction of Dedicated Power Line (D.P.L.) was not found
suitable because it used to run in the country side mostly through
areas devoid of habitaion and was more prone to theft..On review
however the World Bank agreed to waive the Dedicated Power Line
concept.
(b) PROJECT DESIGN
All New and Modernized Tubewells were constructed as per design of
an Improved Standard Tubewell System. But only 170 New and Modcrrnised
Tubewells were equipped with well regulated and controlled water distribution
system to be operated with automatic switchgear. But the result of its use was
not encouraging. The pump controllers were designed to operate at 415V +10%,-
15% voltage i.e. between 352 V and 456 V . But the voltage of power suplied
to tubewell was too erratic and fluctuating to enable smooth functioning of
these controllers. The voltage received was even as low as 300 V, some times.
The old system of auto-starter with main switch was operative in that case.
(C) IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION EXPERIENCE
Though for the Bihar Public Tubewell Project, advance planning for
(3)



83                    EVALUATION REPORT
energization was done, but the BSEB could not cope with the above planning.
Later on in place of D.P.L., the switch over to EPL, with independent transformer
was even allowed but that could accelerate the energization to some extent
only. Although advance payment was made to BSEB but the desired improvement
could not be had from them. The project took some time to cope with the
Bank's guideline on LCB/ICB tenders and agreements. The project was planned
for receiving 16 hours power supply, but due to quite inadequate and untimely
power availability from the BSEB, on an average 4 to 6 hours power supply
could be received at tubewells, and this thwarted the realization of the objective
of the project.
As stated above, from 1987-91 the project could not gearup to World
Bank procedure and LCB/ICB tenders, so the fund available frorm GOB could
not be fully utilized. When the project came in the position to complete the
Scheme in the stipulated period i.e. 31 May 1994, funding from GOB become
poor. From Sept.'93 to May 1994 no fund could be received from GOB to
execute the works. Here it will not be out of place to mcntion that in aiiy
project execution, of the maximum work is achieved in the last phase of the
Project and thereby its targets but in Bihar Public Tubewell Project it could not
be done due to financial scarcity.   I
Concerted moves were made from the project authority for taking
Agriculture Extension Services of DOA to the maximum. But the extension
services received were not adequate at Public Tubewell level.
B. PROJECT EVALUATION
The Mission's observation on I.C.R. is based on the assesement of
performance of 89 nos. of New Tubewells, 431 nos. of Modernized Tubewells
and 2354 nos. of Rehabilitated Tubewells in the year 1993-94. But actually the
above numbers of Tubewells were completed upto May'94 and majority of them
were not declared operative in 1993-94. Only 4 nos. of NPw Tubewells. 253
Nos. of Modernised Tubewells and 1653 nos. of Rehabilitated Tubewells were
operative in 1933-94. These Tubewells have irrigated 27505 Hect. of the land,
1144 Hact, was irrigated by New Tubewells against 4400 Hect. of additional
irrigation potential created. Similarly 6578 Hcct. and 19783 Hect. were irrigated
by Modernized and Rehabilitated Tubewells against 25300 Hect. and 132400
(4)



84                EVALUATION REPORT
Hect. of additional irrigation potential created respectively. This shows that in
the year 1993-94, area actually irrigated was 26% for New Tubewells, 26% for
Modernized Tubewells and 15% for Rehabilitated Tubewells of additional irrigation
potential created.
Yearwise detailed performance of Bihar Public Tubewells is given in
the table. From the table it may be seen that over-all potential utilization of
completed Tubewells of the Project was 79-66% in 89-90, 66.21% in 90-91,
68.00% in 91-92, 45.00% in 92-93 and 16.96% in 93-94. The principal reasons
for gradual decrease in potential utilization is shortage of power supply.
Study of performance of the Tubewell is quite early as compared to
the time span of about 6 to 8 years required for the complete build up of
Tubewell system and reasonable assessment of the full impact of the Project.
Tubewells declared operational, requires a period of 4-6 months for
becoming fully stabilized and for being capable of irrigating in full swing. Upto
the year 1992-93, only 1952 Tubewells have been completed which were declared
operative in 1993-94. Some Tubewells completed in the year 1992-93 were in
testing period.
LESSONS LEARNED DURING THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
The Main factors affecting the implementation of the Project have
been discussed in the previous paras. However, the same are summarised below
1.   Officers posted in the work of Project execution work should not
be replaced till the project is completed.
2.   Executing work of new tubewell should not be taken up till tubewells
already completed or partially completed are made fully operational.
3.   Shortage of power supply has been the main factors affecting the
implementation of the Project. The Tubewell Project was designed
for 16 hrs. power supply per day as envisaged in the S.A.R. But the
average power supply is 3 to 6 hrs/day. This is a Statewise problem,
hence it should be tackled at State level. Till the improvement in
(5)



85              EVALUATION REPORT
power supply position, there should be stand by arrangement by
providing D.G. Set to supplement the shortage of power. Energy
bill should be on the basis of units consumed because the duration
of supply is much below the Minimum Guarantee clause, hence in
place of fixed charge (Minimum guarantee) the Energy meter should
be installed on each Tubewell and energy bill should be as per
consumption.
4.   As per Govt. order, all the Tubewells are being handed over to the
Panchyat in phases. Till now 488 Nos. of Public Tubewells have
been handed over to Panchayats. It has been found that the Panchayats
are not coming forward to take-over Public Tubewells. It is nacessary
to motivate the farmer's society/panchayat to take over Public Tubewells.
The maintenance and running by the Panchayats is by and large
poor.
5.   At present water rate is charged on the basis of area irrigated. The
water rate has to be reviscd and it is under process. The water rate
should be worked out on volumetric basis. This will encourage the
economic use of water for irrigation and thereby over more area
due to saving from optimum use of water.
C. BANK PERFORMANCE AND LESSONS LEARNED:
So far as the relations with World Bank with Government of Bihar is
concerned, it was cordial. Their suggcstions were mostly for improvement is
implementation and Govt. of Bihair carried out their suggestions in its right
earnest.
I1.   The only grievance is regarding the curtailment of the credit amount
without consulUting Govt. of Bihar.
2.   The Word Bank insisted that on the basis ot comnpleted Tubewell
only, reimbursement would be made for civil works but that included
the energization part. As energization part was dependent on the
performance of Bihar State Electricity Board, the reimbursement
figure was negligible in the early years. Actually the disbursement
should be allowed on completed jobs to accelerate the progress as
was done in case of Govt. of West Bengal but, unfortunately the
Bank refused in case of Bihar
( 6)



PERFORMANCE OF BIHAR PUBLIC T1'UBEWELL
TABLE:
Progress             Numlber ol Tubewells declared Comiipleted           Year ol    Add. Irii. Potential  Utiliz.ation   Percenlage
upto.                                                                    actual      created as per     in Ilect.    Of utilii.ation.
New      Modernised   Rahabilitated.    Total        operation.   Bank in Hecl.
1.               2.            3.            4.           5.              6.          7.               S.              9.
1988-89             -             -             52           52            1989-90       4160             3314           79.66
1989-90             -             2             299          301           199(-91       24120            15969          66.21
1990-91             4             33            351          388           1991-92       31780            21600          68.00
1991-92             10            45            548          603           1992-93       53740            24137          45.00
1992-93             44            253           1655         1952          1993-94       16210()          27505          16.96           0
1993-95             89            431           2354         2874          1994-95       240320           -
(3I ,Maiy'94)
IntlhcYearl993-94areaactuallyirriga,tedwas26% (NewTubewells!).26':  (NMod(ernised Tubewell) &
15%Yt (Rehabilitated Tubewells) of additional potential created.



IBRD 19278R
IDA
'  ) _                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I N  D  I A
BIHAR PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
-27'                                                         /V                           PROJECT AREA
-26'-                                                                  't                                                                   26
w                       ~~~~~PATNAi)     '     -'                                                 i'
23'                                                                                                            R   irss:                   252
-24'2' . '.                                                                                              '8vs                              24--
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RVR
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 STT CAPITAL
Th.3' 3,d,0 0                            20   4     "              ,       '___                                                            23I
i-p", ~   ~           ~          ~          - _ tg  7     
.''--1                                                                ..,,\<t
-4"                                                                                 872                         8 F" -5   '  220
PROJECT AREA LIMITS
- RIVERS
i   STATE CAPITAL
The boundaries. rolors,            0   20  42   60   80  100  120  KILOMiETES                             _    DlSTIRICTBOtJNDARIES
denominations and any                               I
other information shownI                 I          I                                                   _ _STIEBUDRS
The yWord tBak pGtrOoup             2       20       40        6200 [LES                                 *)  INTIRNAlION4AL BOUNDARY
any judgment on the legal
stratus of any territory
or any endorsement
or acceptance of such
boundaries.                                                                                                                                21-
~~~ 84                           8~~~~~~~~50                 66                           870                         88'
APRIL 19>95









IMAGING
Report No:       14409
Type: ICR



