Document of
The World Bank
FOR OVm CIAL USE ONLY
CA.- /,>S">v 
Reprnt N.. 6034-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
BIHAR PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
August 15, 1986
South Asia Projects Department
Irrigation II Division
Tis document has a resdeted distrIbudon and may be sed by recipients dnly In the performance of
their offieal duties. Its otents may not othenrie be disclosed without World Bank autborition.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$W.00        Rupees (Rs) 13.0 I/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM) i
1 meter (a)                            m 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                          0 0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)            -            -  2.47 acres (ac)-
1 million cubic meters (Nm3)           (  810 acre-feet (ac-ft)
I billion cubic-meters (Bm3)           = 0,81 Million scre-feet (MAO)
1 cubic foot per second (cfs or cusec) - 0.028 cubic meters per second (m3/h)
1 kilogram (kg)                        =  2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (mt)                      =  2,205 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
GOI; GOB        April 1   -  March 31
ij  The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.  Conversions
in this report have been made at US$1.00 to Rs 13.0.
if The metric system has been used in most cases. However, India is still
in the process of transition to the metric system; non-metric units are
still widely used and have been used in this report where a conversion
to the metric system may confuse the reader.



FOR OFFCIUL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
Al        -   Assistaut Engineer
ARDC      -   Agricultural Refinance Development Corporation
B8EB      -   Bihar State Electricity Board
BWDC      -   Bibar Water Development Corporation
CCA       -   Cultivable Command Area
CCF       -   Construction Conversion Factor
CE        -   Chief Engineer
CWC       -   Central Water Commission
DOA       -   Department of Agriculture
EE        -   Executive Engineer
ERR       -   Economic Rate of Return
FCF       -   Foodgrain Conversion Factor
GOB       -   Government of Bihar
GOI       -   Government of India
RYV       -   High Yielding Varieties
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding
ID        -   Irrigation Department
IDA       -   International Development Association
IPDU      -   Investigation Planning and Design Unit
IST       -   Improved Standard Tubewell
JE        -   Junior Engineer
LCB       -   Local Competitive Bidding
M&K       -   Monitoring and Evaluation
MID       -   Minor Irrigation Department
OD        -   Outside Diameter
O&M       -   Operation and Maintenance
PAU       -   Project Accounting Unit
PC        -   Project Co-ordinator
PCU       -   Project Co-ordinating Unit
PTW       -   Public Tubevell System
PU        -   Procurement Unit
QCU       -   Quality Conrol Unit
SCF       -   Standard Conversion Factor
SDV       -   Supplementary Data Volume
SE        -   Superintending Engineer
TMEU      -   Training and Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
TW        -   Tubevell Wing of the MID
T&V       -   Training and Visit
kV        -   kilovolt - 1,000 volts
GLOSSARY
Kharif    -    Wet season (June to October)
Rabi      -    Dry season (November to February)
Zaid      -    Not weather season (March to May)
levee    -    River flood control embankment
Schedpled Tribes and Castes - Lower tribal and castes people
of India as scheduled in Articles 341, 342 and 366 of the
Indian Constitution.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDIA
BIRk PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
Credit and Protect Summary
Xprrower:                     India, acting by its President (GOI)
Beneficiary:                  Government of Bihar (GOB)
Amoun&:-                      IDA Credit:  SDR 59.5 million
(US$68.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                        Standard
On-lendiuf Terms:             From the GOI to the GOB as part of central
assistance for State development projects on
terms and conditions applicable at the time.
GOI would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:          The proposed project would comprise a seven year
program for rehabilitating and modernizing
existing public tubewells and constructing new
public tubewell irrigation systems. It would
support: (i) construction of about 500 new
public tubewells; (ii) modernization of about
1,000 existing tubewells; (iii) rehabilitation
of about 3,700 existing tubewells; (iv) construc-
tion of dedicated power lines to about 5,200
tubewells throughout the State; and (v) improve-
ments to management, including construction of
buildings, provision of vehicles and equipment,
training, monitoring and evaluation, and
technical assistance to undertake special
studies.  The project would increase agricultural
production and the standard of living of small
and marginal farmers in Bihar and improve the
utilization of existing public tubevella.
The level of utilization of existing public
tubevells suggests that there could be an
apparent risk of inadequate farmer response.
However, the present lack of demand for irriga-
tion water is primarily due to the poor quality
of the irrigation service offered. Under the
project, the risk would be minimized through the
application of proven designs of works and
improved technology which would ensure the
provision of a reliable, timely aud equitable
irrigation service.



BIHAR PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
Staff AUbraisal Retort
Table of Contents
. , BCKGROUND .......... 
General                        ,                            1
Agriculture and Irrigation in India .......I........... 
The State of Bihar                   -                      2
Bank Group Operations in Sibar .......................      5
II.  THE PROJECT AEA AND   RESENT DEVELOPMENT   ...............    5
Salient Features.............................              5
Water Resources and Utilization........................    7
Present Agricultural Development......................    7
Agricultural Supporting Servicesrvices.. .o *   ....    8
III. PRsFoRM^NcE O  PUBLIC TUBMWLLS ..4..........................................  11
Bihar Water Development Corporation .....      ..............  11
Past Performance of Public Tubewell Systems ..... ......  12
IV. THE-PROeEr ...............................................   13
A. Project Formulation and Objectives .....................  13
ceneral .... , , ~~~~~~~~13
Project Concept and Objectives.........................   13.
Rationale of BaTk Group Involvement....................   14
B. Project Description .............. .....................   14
8ummary .... * ~~~~~~~~14
Improved Design Standards for New Systems ..............   15
Modernization of Existing Systems ......................   17
Rehabilitation of Existing Systems       ....................  17
Power Supply.............................   18
-Management            s    ............................   19
C. Planning and Implementation............................   20
Siting                           Cr iteria ............................  20
Survey and Design. ...............                         21
Irrigation Water Requirementse.........e.e...............   21
Project  tmplementation.    ...........................   22
This report is based on the findings of a Bank Mission which visited India
in September/October 1985, and comprised of Messrs. John F. Cunningham
and P. Ram (IDA); Mr. C. Bevan (FAO/CP); and Messrs. D. Campbell, M. Barber,
V. Byrappa, Rajat De, Rama Rao and A. Saikia (Consultants).  Word processing
was done by Ms. R. Landerer and Mrs. S. Douglas. Messrs. P. Kidane and
and D. Kraatz (FAO/CP) also assisted in the preparation and appraisal of the
project.



-ii -
V.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ............................       23
Comstes .........................                          23
Financing.. ..... ~ .. . ~ .9..... ~.*..***   . , a.... a, . 24
Disbursemenits                                             26
Accounts and Audits              .......... 27
VI.   ORGANIZATION AND M.NU NAG.ENT         ..........             28
- Bsekground ........ - * , - ~~28
The Tubevell Wing..........e.......................    28
Operation and Maintenance ....                             31
Tubevell Farmers' Organization...                   . ...    32
Other Project Management Activities          .             32
Bihar State Electricity Board             .                34
Department of Agriculture    .       .,                    35
VII.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND PRICES.....   35
Cropping Patters.....                                      35
Future Crop Yields         .. ...a......  36
Input Requirements..................................    36
Market Prospects and     e...               .     .        37
VIII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS    ............     ...........          38
General....................w...........,.....    38
Farm Incomes  ........................................    38
Repayment Capacity of Farmers....................          39
Capital and O&M Costs ............ .39
Present Cost Recovery                                     40
Cost Recovery under the Project .......................   41
Immediate Action Plan ...                                 41
Medium Term Action Plan  4.......2......................   42
Projected Level of Cost Recovery....................      44
IX.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICSATIEONT.........   ...........         44
Gqeneral                         .......   44
Economic Amalysis................   46
Sensitivity and Risk Analysis                             47
Environmental Effects         .............                48
X.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND R9XiMM}NDATIONS....* ...*. .*..o.o*    48
SUPPORTING TABLES
T-1  Agricultural Production - The State of Bihbar........   52
T-2  Gross Irrigated Area - The State of Bihar..........- 53
T-3  Climatologica1 Data        .......................     54
T-4  Groundwater Balance for Project Districts.WWq..94..4   55



- iii-
T-5  Cropping Patterns by Agro-Climatic Zones ...........  56
T-6  Performance of Public Tubewells in Bihar...*........    57
T-7  Cost Estimates by Project Components*................   58
T-8  Annual Expenditure Schedule ........................   59
T-9  A.  Proposed Credit Allocation .......................  60
B.  Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements .........   60
T-10 Organization Schedule ............ .... ....... ...     61
-11 Staffing Schedule.  ......................... .          62
T-12 Estimated Incremental Rent and Cost Recovery.... .0..   63
T-13 Annual Project Costs           ......... ..  64
T-14 Present Water Charges.     .........................   65
T-15 Benefit and Cost Streams for Economic Analysis ......   66
CHARTS
C-1  Number of Public Tubewell6 - Present Situation
and Proposed Project Activities .....................   67
C-2  Typical Tubevell Design ............e.................   68
C-3  Schematic Layout for a Distribution System for
Typical Improved Standard Tubewell Command*......06   69
C-4  Project Implementation Schedule ....................   70
C-5  Tubevell Wing - Minor Irrigation Department
Prop sed Organization Chart        ........................   71
ANNMEXES
Annex 1 - Documents Available in Project File ............  72
Annex 2 - Assumptions for Financial and Economic
AnalyBsi .... ....................    73
Annex 3 - Detailed Cost Estimates and Schedules for
Provision of Principal Materials       ..............  87
Annex 4 - Terms of Reference - Tubewell Wing Management
Study ................................... 93
MAPS
IBRD 19278 - Project Area
IBRD 19378 - Mean Annual Rainfall and Agro-climatic Zones
IBRD 19379 - Major Soil Associations
IBRD 19377 - Hydrogeology
Volume II - Supplementary Data
Annex  5 - Ground Water Resources
Annex  6 - Agricultural Development
Annex  7 - Tubewell Irrigation Systems - Planning
and Design
Annex  8 - Power Supply and Demand
Annex  9 - Project Organization
Annex 10 - Cost Recovery
Annex 11 - Monitoring and Evaluation
Annex 12 - Training Program



INDIA
BIHAR PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
Staff Af_ raisal Report
I. BACKGROUND
General
1.01    The State of Bihar, located in the northeastern part of India, is
generally well endowed with both surface and groundwater. Irrigation is
necessary for crop production during the dry seasou and to stabilize produc-
tion in the wet season. In Bihar, public tubewell irrigation schemes have
relatively low development costs per unit command area, short gestation
periods, and can be designed and managed to provide a reliable sources of
irrigation water. With irrigation development based on groundw'ater, storage
is provided naturally, conveyance from well to field is over short distance-,
water can be tapped and delivered to farmers' fields quickly, and irrigation
can be timely. Moreover, tubevells can be located to serve a high proportion
of small and marginal farmers as a special target group. Consequently,
Government of Bihar (GOB) has placed emphasis on development of groundwater.
The proposed Bihar Public Tubewells Project would support this development
strategy.
1.02    Public tubewells, each commanding 100 ha or more, are normally con-
structed in areas where gravity irrigation is not feasible and where the
potential for construction for shallow tubewells is limited due to the depth
o.f the aquifer. From the equity point of view, public tubewells are
desirable to overcome the underutilization of both land and groundwater
resources in certain areas where fragmented and small holdings make the cost
of private tubewells prohibitively high for small farmers. Consequently, the
weakest' elements of the farming population continue to depend on the public
sector if their land and groundwater resources are to be effectively and
efficiently utilized. The GOB has recognized the need for a continuing and
substantial investment in the public groundwater sector in those areas where
conditions are appropriate to complement the private sector development.
Agriculture and Irrigation in India l/
1.03    India has a population of about 760 M (mid-1985) which is growing at
an annual rate of 2.2%. Over the last decade, per capita income has grown at
an average annual rate of 1.61 and reached Rs 2,200 (US$213 N) in 1983/84, in
current prices. Although average per capita income has increased, and access
to public services has improved, growth ha8 been too slow to bring about more
than a gradual reduction in the incidence of poverty. Accordingly, Govern-
ment of India (GOI) development plans give priority to alleviating poverty
and creating employment, especially in rurai areas.
1.04    Agriculture is a dominant sector of the Indian economy and con-
tributed about 36% of GNP in 1984/85. It engages about 70% of the labor
l/ A detailed review is given in "Situation and Prospects of the Indian
Economy - A Medium Term Prospective", IBRD Report No. 4962-IN, April,
1984; and "India: Structural Change and Development Prospectives", IBRD
Report No. 5593-IN, April 1985.



-2-
force and provides the base for about 30X of India's exports. During the
last decade, GOI bas devoted considerable attention to agriculture in its
development plans. To support agricultural growth, GOI has: (i) accelerated
irrigation development through modernization of existing surface water
schemes and construction of new schemes; (ii) supported minor irrigation
development, particularly that based on groundwater, through direct public
intervention and through support of the long term credit system for private
use; and (iii) improved agricultural supporting servicea to better utilize
land and water resources.
1.05    Groundwater development has been impressive over the last two
decades.  The rate of creation of irrigation potential from groundwater
increased from 0.5 N ha per annum by the end of the Fourth Plan (1973/74) to
1.1 M ha per annum in 1977/78 and 1.4 M ha in 1982/83.  At present, net
groundwater extraction within India is estimated to be about one-half of mean
annual recharge. The bulk of future groundwater development must now occur
in the Eastern Region of In-ia where only about one-third of the ultimate
potential has been developed. Of the 3.5 M ha of groundwater irrigation
developed during the Fifth PlaIn (1973-78), about 2.2 M ha, or 62%, were in
the Eastern Region and the growth rate of area i-rigated by groundwater in
the region during this period was 6.5% p.a. compared with 3% p.a. in the rest
of India.
The State of Bihar
1.06    Salient Features.  The State of Bihar covers an area of 17.4 M ha
and has a population of about 74.1 M (mid 1984) of which about 64.2 N (87X)
live in rural areas in some 78,000 villagls. It is one of the most densely
populated States in India (426 persons/km') and a high proportion of its
population (13X) belongs to scheduled tribes and castes (see glossary). The
health standards are low and there are only 35 bospital beds and 23 doctors
per 100,000 of population. The literacy rate in Bihar is about 26% compared
to the national average of 36S.  Although Bihar is rich in natural resources
(including minerals, coal, lumb.r, uranium, and iron), their development has
been slow and the State benefits very little from their exploitation. Road
density reached 41 km per 100,000 of population (1981) compared to all India
rate of 101 km. Extensive areas, mainly in north Bihar are still isolated
due to lack of road or railway development. Telephone communication within
the State and to the outside is poor.
1.07    The Economy.  The agricultural sector dominates the State's economy
and in 1980/81 accounted for 45% of the State's Domestic Product (SDP),
employing about 80% of the working population. The industrial sector
provides only about 10 of the SDP and employs 7% of the working population.
Per capita income is the lowest in India. A preliminary estimate for 1984/85
indicates that the State per capita income averaged about Rs 1,325 (US$111)
in current prices. During the last decade per capita income has grown at an
average annual rate of 1.12, which was considerably lower than the average
for India (1.6Z). About 50X of the State's population lives below the
poverty line. In the Sixth Five Year Plar (1980-85) per capita investment
for the State was Rs 572, while the all India average was Rs 872.  The low
investment rate is a major reason for Bihar's lagging behind other states in
economic growth. The official unemployment rate is about 6%, but severe



-3-
underemployment prevails in the State, mainly among rural people. Most of
the infrastructure is in bad shape and poorly maintained.
1.08    The Agricultural Sector.  The most productive parts of the State are
the northern plains between the Ganges river aud the Nepal border made up of
young alluvial soils and the central plains cousisting of older Alluviums
lying along .ae southern banks of the Ganges (para 2.10). The Chotanag-
pur/Santhal Parganas Plateau covering most-of the southern half of the State
is made up of red and yellow soils which have limited agricultur.al potential.
1.09    Areas, yields and production of major crops in Bihar are given in
Table T-1. Agriculture in Bihar is characterized by small scale subsistence
farming, devoted mainly to cereal cultivation. Input application is below
the recommended level and adoption of improved practices is generally slow.
Most of the cultivable land in the State (11.5 X ha) is already cropped of
which about 90% (10.3 M ha) is under foodgrains (mainly paddy, wheat and
maize) and 1.2 M ha under non-foodgrain crops. Sugarcane, jute and potatoes
are important cash crops, but presently account for only 4X (about 0.5 X ha)
of the total area sown. Crop yields are generally low and could be increased
considerably with effective irrigation, proper input application and improved
farming methods. During the 1970s, the annual growth rate of foodgrain
production (0.8%) was much lower than the population growth rate (2.2Z).
1.10    Since practically all cultivable land is already under cultivation,
any major expansion of production can come only from: ti) increase in crop
yields; and (ii) increase in cropping intensity. This will require both
expansion of irrigation to new areas and more effective water use in the
areas already under irrigation. The State accords a high priority to irriga-
tion development as a means of raising both agricultural production and the
incomes of the rural poor.
1.11    Irrigation Development.  Although annual rainfall averages about
1,270 mm, ranging from 1,000 mm in south Bihar to about 1,700 mm in the
north, it is often poorly distributed in the wet season and there is con-
siderable inter-annual variation. Irrigation is therefore necessary for crop
production in both the dry (rabi) season and to reduce risk in the wet
(kharif) season. In this respect, the State is well endowed with both sur-
face water and groundwater resou:ces. Annual utilizable surface water
resources are estimated at about 81 Bm3 (65.6 MAP) with about 62X available
in north Bihar, 17X in south Bihar and 21% in the Chotanagpur/Santhal Par-
ganas Platcau. The surface irrigation potential in Bihar is estimated at
about 9.2 H ha of which about 5.2 M ha had been developed by 1984/85 with
about 2.9 M ha under large and medium schemes (over 2,000 ha) and 2.3 M ha
under minor schemes. There is therefore ample scope for further development
of surface water schemes. Annual groundwater resources are estimated at 41
Bm3 (33.2 MAF) with exploitable resources mainly located in north Bihar and
the Gangetic alluvial traets of south Bihcr (Map ILED 19377). As of March
1984, it was estimated that about one third of the groundwater resource were
utilized through about 5,300 public tubewells, 205,000 private wells and some
21,000 open dug wellt. Details of areas irrigated from various water sources
are given by districts in Table T-2.



-4-
1.12    The State accords a high priority to irrigation with the sector
continuiing to receive a large share of the Five Year Plan allocations (about
Rs 1,612 4 or 23% in Seventh Five Year Plan).  Bihar's irrigation development
budget is the fifth largest of the Indian States (after Uttar Pradesh, Madhya
Pradesh, Maharashtra and Gujarat).  Uider the current Seventh Five Year Plan
(1985-1990), the strategy of GOB is to avoid starting new major irrigation
projects and use available resources almost entirely for rehabilitation,
modernization and completion of existing surface irrigation schemes, con-
struction of new medium and minor surface irrigation schemes, and for public
groundwater development.  In this respect, the state has allocated Rs 1,285 M
for major and medium irrigation projects of which about 85% is allocated to
on-going projects, 12% to new schemes and 3% to water development services.
Provisions have also been made within this allocation for water managemeut
and operation and maintenance expenses of the various projects. In addition,
the Plan has allocated about Rs 327 M for minor irrigation development
including groundwater development. It is expected, that by the end of the
Seventh Plan, the additional irrigation potential created under public
irrigation projects will be about 0.64 M ha, of which 0.32 M ha will result
from major and medium surface irrigation schemes, 0.27 M ha from minor sur-
face irrigation schemes, and about 0.05 M ha from public groundwater develop-
ment. Private tubewell development, funded partly through credit, is
expected to add about 50,000 units (150,000 ha) annually and this development
is likely to continue through the Plan period.
1.13    Power SuDRIY and Demand.  Development of Bihar's electrical power
infrastructure has been slow with only about 24% of the hydro-power potential
developed. The per capita consumption of energy in the State is one of the
lowest in India. During the period 1951/1984, average per capita consumption
of energy-in India increased from 18 to 146 kWh as compared to an increase
from 20 to 89 kWh over the same period in Bihar. Total installed capacity
for pover generation of about 980 MW at the end of 1984/85 represented only
about 3% of the all-India capacity, though the State accounts for 10% of
India's population and includes a major area of heavy industry in Damodar
Valley. Bihar meets only half its power demand from its own generation, and
imports the remainder from Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Orissa and Nepal. The
main contributor of energy within Bihar other than the State Electricity
Board (BSEB) is the Damodar Valley Corporation.
1.14    The power problems in the State have been compounded by poor perfov-
mance of thermal planLs which represent 84% of installed capacity operated by
the BSEB. Plant load factors at major thermal stations have fallen below 30%
in recent years caused by poor quality coal, inherent design defects in some
thermal generation units, long periods of outage for major maintenance, and
the age of some units. However, the BSEB is making strong efforts to improve
the performance of existing thermal genieration plants and overall plant
factors have increased to over 40% by the end of 1985. Two 110 MW thermal
generation units were added during 19&5, with one located at Muzzafapur in
north Bihar where most of the project tubewells will be sited. Two addi-
tional 110 MW units will be commissioned during 1986. -The Bihar system will
also benefit from two Central Government sponsored projects during 1986/87
with 135 MW from Parakke Thermal Power Project (Cr. 1053-IN, 1980, US$225 M)
and 55 MW from Chukka Hydel Project.



-.5-
1.15    The energy is transmitted through some 14,400 km of EHV transmission
lines (220 to 33 kY) and 47,700 km of 11 kV network throughout the State.
Presently only about half of the villages have electric power compared to an
all Idia average of 61X. In order to strengthen the transmission system,
new 400 kV and 220 kV lines are under construction to link south Bihar, where
most of the thermal geueration capacity is located, to aorth Bibar where
agricultural demand is greatest; this work is scheduled for completion ia
1986-87 and has been supported by the Bank Group under the Fourth Power
Transmissiou Project (Cr. 604-IN, 1976, US$150 M). The Bak. is also support-
ing rural electrification in Bihar througb the Third Rural Electrification
Project (loan 2165-IN, 1982), a line of credit to the Rural Electrification
Corporation (REC).
Bsak Group Operations in Bihar
1.16    The Bank has assisted Bihar with the implementation of several
agricultural development projects. -The gone Irrigation Project (Cr. 21-IN,
1962, US$15 M) was amongst the first irrigation projects supported by the
Bank Group in India. The Bank has also supported the Bihar Agricultural
Credit Project (Cr. 440-IN, 1973, US$32 M) and four all-India Agricultural
Refinance Development Corporation (ARDC) projects (Cr. 540-IN, 1975;
Cr. 715-IN, 1977; Cr. 947-IN, 1979; and Cr. 1209-IN, 1982); these general
lines of credit provided institutional credit for private minor irrigation
development, and other on-farm improvements in physical infrastructure and
farm equipment. Following the Eastern States Foodgrain Review (1976), the
Bank supported the Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project in Bihar
(Cr. 761-IN, 1977, US$8 M) designed to strengthen agricultural supporting
services. The Bank is also supporting the on-going major Subernarekha
Irrigation Project (Cr. 1289-IN, 1983, US$181 M).
1.17    The Bihar Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 440-IN) supported con-
struction of public tubewells; though partly successful, performance was
seriously hampered by inadequate power supply, management problems, and
shortcomings in the planning and design criteria particularly related to the
irrigation distribution system. The formulation and planning of the proposed
project has taken into account the State, sector and project issues which
have affected other Bank supported operations in Bihar and the lessons learnt
from these projects (Chapter III).
II.  THE PROJECT AREA AND PRESENT DEVELOPMENT
Salient Features
2.01    location.  The tubewell irrigation systems to be coustructed or
rehabilitated under the project would be distributed in 26 of the 38
administrative districts located in the northern Bihar (Map IBRD 19278). The
project districts lie within the alluvial area of the Gangetic Plain which is
underlain by a good aquifer system suitable for groundwater development. It
is the most heavily populated and cultivated area of the State.
2-.02    Climate.  The area has a tropical monsoon climate with a wet season
extending from June though September followed by a dry season from October
though Kay when some rain may occur (Table T-3). Mean annual rainfall ranges



-6-
from about 1,000 to 1,700 mm (Map IBRD 19378) with about 852 occuring in the
monsoon season. The times of onset and end of the monsoon season are uncer-
tain and periods of drought also occur. Uncertainty regarding'amount aud
distribution of rainfall make irrigation a prerequisite for successful crop
production even during the monsoon season. December and January are the
coolest months with typical minima of about 90C and maxima reaching about
23°C. The highest temperatures occur in April and Kay when maximum tempera-
tures are about 370C. Humidity ranges from 52 to 832 in the Bihar plains and
from 42 to 822 in the Bihar Plateau.
2.03    Tonoaraghv and Soils.  While the regional topography is flat with
a slight slope towards the major drainage line, there are variations at the
micro topography level. Levees occur along the large rivers, part of the
area is gently rolling, and part is in broad swales, some of which are sub-
ject to flooding. A variety of soils, all of alluvial origin, occurs within
the project area. Their distribution reflects the proximity to the Himalayan
foothills and to the major rivers of the Ganges System (Map IBRD 19379).
Soil texture range from light, highly drained sandy loam to poorly drained
clays. Some saline and alkaline soils occur with the most seriously affected
areas located iu the far west of the State. Fertility levels are low to
medium.
2.04    Land Use.  Bihar has a tntal land surface of about 17.4 M ha of which
in 1982-83 about 9.4 M ha (542) was cultivated and about 2.1 M ha (12X) was
fallow. The forest land of about 2.8 M ha (162) is less than required to
maintain a healthy ecological balance. Cultivable waste accounts for only
0.5 N ha (3X). Common land, permanent pasture, barren lands and miscel-
laneous trees cover about 1.0 M ha (62) and the remaining 1.6 N ha (92) are
put to other uses. The cropped area has remained stagnant over the past
decade, and there is little scope for increasing it in the future without
irrigation.                                              -
2.05    Population. Land H-oldinas and Land Tenure.  The populatio! densities
within the project districts range from 330 to 950 persons per km and
aver&ge about 610/km4 (1981). Population pressures have reduced average size
of farm holdings from about 1.5 ha in 1970/71 to about 1.0 ha in 1980/81,
which is amongst the smallest in the country. Moreover, the distribution of
holding size is highly skewed; the median size of farm is only about 0.6 ha
and about 752 of the holdings are less than one hectare in size, as sum-
marized below:
No. of HoldinUs     Total Area      AverSae
Farm Size        MiJlion      X       N ha      S   Holdina Sise
Less than 1.0 ha     8.3      75.4       3.0   26.7       0.4
1.0 - 2.0 ha          1.2     11.1        1.6   14.9      1.4
2.0 - 4.0 ha          0.9      8.6        2.6   23.4      2.7
4.0 - 10.0 ha         0.5      4.3        2.7   24.5      5.7
10.0 ha and more      0.1      Q,        _1.2   10.5     17.1
Total         11.0    100.0       11.1  100.0       1.0



-7-
Water Resources and Utilization
2.06    Surface Water.  Three major surface water irrigation systems serve
the alluvial plains of Bihar. They divert waters from the Sone, Gandak and
Kosi rivers, the first being a right-bar-. tributary and the last two being
left bank tributaries of the Ganges (Map IBRD 19278). The Sone irrigation
system was constructed about 100 years ago commands about 0.7 M ha.  The
Gandak and Kosi systems were initiated in the post-independence period and
are approaching completion. The Gandak system is designed to serve about 1.2
M ha in northwestern Bihar and the Kosi system will irrigate about 0.4 ha in
northeastern Bihar.  Other surface water schemes in the project districts
include small river diversions, pump lifts and irrigation from tanks. The
gross irrigated area (1981/82) under surface water irrigation schemes was
estimated at about 2.4 M ha.
2.07    Groundwater.  The Gangetic Plain is underlain by alluvial deposits
which form a single, though heterogenous, aquifer system which can exceed
2,500 m in thickness (Map IBRD 19377). Aquifers are formed by beds of sand
which interfinger with beds of silt, clay and kankar. The aquifer system is
recharged mainly by infiltration of rain falling on the area or collected by
local run-off into pools and lakes. Another important source of recharge is
seepage from canals and on-field losses from surface water irrigation sys-
tems. Parts of the plain are subject to flooding by the rivers and infiltra-
tion of flood water forms an important source of recharge in such areas.
Discharge is by lateral seepage to natural drains, evaporation from shallow
water tables and extraction by private and public wells.
2.08    The State Groundwater Investigation Organization, part of the Bihar
Minor Irrigation Department (MID), has estim3ted mean annual net recharge
available to the project area at about 27 Bm (about 63% of the State
groundwater resources). The project area contains all of the public
tubewells and most of the private tubewells developed in the State to date.
Groundwater balances, summarized in Table T-4, are regarded as conservative
estimates. They indicate that water consumption by both public and private
groandwater development as a proportion of exploitable groundwater resources
in each district ranges from only 8% to 65%.  Thus the project requirements
of groundwater resources at district level would be ensured.
2.09    Most of the water contained by the alluvial aquifer system has less
than 1,000 parts per million (ppm) dissolved solids. There are considerable
areas of better quality water with dissolved solids falling as low as
250 ppm. A small pocket of water with high salinity occurs in some parts of
the Begusarai district, but its locality is well defined and would be avoided
for project tubewells.
Present Aaricultural Development
2.10    Agro-Climatic Zones.  The project area divides into three distinct
zones (Map IBRD 19378), reflecting differences in soil type, climate and
cropping patterns. Zone I comprise the northwest alluvial plains, north of
Ganga River and west of the Kosi River with medium textured soils. The zone
is flat and large areas are liable to flooding in the monsoon period; annual
rainfall ranges from 1,000 mm to 1,450 mm. Zone II includes the northeast



-8-
alluvial plain, north of the Gangs River and east of the Kosi River and
Begusarai district. Soils are mainly light to medium textured. The topog-
raphy includes undulating to rolling areas mixed vith large flat areas, many
of which remain waterlogged for a considerable period of the year; annual
rainfall ranges from about 1,200 mm to 2,000 am. Zone III forms the Bihar
alluvial plain south of the Ganga River on either side of the Sone River with
a generally flat landscape with some areas subject to flooding. South of the
Ganga levee i6 a large low lying area with medium to heavy textured soils
known as Tal lands. Inside the levee iB the more undulating Ganga flood
plain known as Diara lands; soils are generally light to medium textured with
annual rainfall ranging from about 1,000 mm to 1,250 mm.
2,11    Crops and CronRing Patterns.  The basic feature of the cropping
system in the project area is predominance of cereals, mainly rice. Only
about 29% of the cultivable area are dcuble cropped. Some 26% of the cropped
area is subject to seasonal flooding and only suitable for rabi cropping.
In the wet season, rice and maize accounted for about 47% and 8% respectively
of cropped area in 1982/83. Wheat is the most important rabi cereal, repre-
senting about 18% of cropped area, with other cereals (4%) and the pulse
crops (arhar, gram, khesari, masur and peas) 12%. Oilseeds, tobacco and
other miscellaneous crops represent 8% of the gross cropped area. Potato
(1%) is grown in small quantities in the rabi in all districts. Jute (1%) is
locally important as a kharif crop in the high rainfall districts of West
Champaran, Purnea and Katihar. Sugarcane, the only important perennial crop,
represents about 1% of the total area cropped. The principal crops and
average present cropping patterns by agro-climatic zones are given in Table T-5.
2.12    Farming Systems.  Farm technology has remained traditional and
operates mostly at subsistence level.  Most  .nits are smcll family farms and
use family labor with bullocks as the main source of power. Some hired labor
is used in the form of permanent, contract sud casual employment for land
preparation and harvesting. In the project area, only about 25% of rice is
planted with improved varieties, while some 75% of wheat is high yielding
varieties (HYV), and fertilizer application is low.
2.13    Crop Yields.  Crop yields are generally low and show considerable
differences by districts and years reflecting variations in rainfall condi-
tions and availability of irrigation supplies (Table T-1). The main crop of
rice grown in the monsoon season averages only about 0.8 tons/ha with
irrigated winter rice yielding about 1.4-2.0 tons/ha. Average wheat yields
have improved from about 1.0 tons/ha in 1970/71 to about 1.4 tons/ha in
1982/83 mainly due to increase use of RYV varieties; maize yields have
remained at about 1.2 tons/ha. The low average yields of both rainfei and
irrigated crops in Bihar present an important opportunity for increasing crop
production through reliable irrigation, an effective extension service, and
improved access to other agricultural inputs.
Agriculteral Supporting Services
2.14    Aaricultural Research.  Bibar has two Agricultural Universities with
headquarters at Pusa in Samastipur division and at Kanke in Rauchi division.
The Rajendra Agricultural University, Pusa, has responsibility for basic and
applied research for the project area. It has six colleges and/or rcsearch



s;EtttE  covering all branches of agriculture, including veterinary and
Eti.a  production subjects, and aix research substations.  The colleges and
rcs,i-.ch  institutes are lead stations for research in crops and disciplines
Te a,-urg to their region.  The research substations function mainly as
,ptilication and testing centers.
C '8 Adaptive research is primarily the responsibility of the Departmeut
'- ;9riculture (DOA), and has been supported under the Bank-funded Bihar
ir,riait.tral Exteasion and Research Project (Cr. 761-IN). At present, the
vu!A operates Adaptive Research Centers (ARC) in I8 districts and plans to
ebtablish ARCs in a further 13 districts. Each center consists of- about
JO-12 ha of land, of which 6.0 ha is assigned to seed production, the balance
being used for rainfed and irrigated cropping trials. Research is coot-
JinaL4ed by an adaptive research committee with euphasis on pre-release varie-
Lal Lteti2ng and fertilizer trials. Other activities include verification of
university trial results and observatorial trials on farmer plots. To date,
the results and efforts on the ARC's have been severely constrained by budget
limitations and management problems. No work has been done on cropping
patterns to optimize water use and on farm water management, though this is
iaow planned under the recently approved Second National Agricultural Research
Project (Cr. 1631-IN, 1985, US$72 M).
2.lb    !'gricultural Extension.  Until the late 1970's, Bihar followed a
La,iitional extension service which was ineffective and reached few farmers.
It suffered from a shortage of trained manpower, vehicles, equipment and
office facilities. Furthermore, staff efforts in agriculture were hampered
'by the considerable time spent on other non-extension activities including
regulatory and statistical work, small saving schemes, coordination of input
supply, recovery of short-term credit, and family planning. These tasks left
'little time for agricultural advisory work. The situation was compounded by
an absence of training and technical support and resulted in the extension
service lhaving little impact on productivity, particularly of small farmers.
2.li   To overcome these'difficulties, GOB decided in 1977 to take measures
Lo imiptove agricultural production in the State and initiated, with Bank
Group sulpport, the Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project
(Cr. 761-IN). The agricultural extension component called for reorganization
and strengthening of the agricultural extension service, including provision
of additional staff, housing, equipment, vehicles and staff training. The
main core of the project has been to improve agricultural extension services
to farmers by the establishment of the Training and Visit (T&V) system
including a single line of command for extension within the Department of
Agriculture. The system is administered centrally by an additional Director
of Agriculture. At present, the T&V system has been introduced in 16 dis-
tricts of the State with a further 6 districts scheduled to have the system
introduced in the near future. When these additional districts are opera-
tional, only 4 districts within the project area would not be covered. Full
operation of the system in the initial 16 districts has not yet been achieved
because of inadequate budget provisions, legal disputes, and staff vacancies.
Nevertheless, the GOB is committed to the T&V extension philosophy and
results in areas where regular extension visits are being made, attest to the
effectiveness of the improved extension service. Monitoring and evaluation
surveys indicate that where staff are in position and provided with



facilities, the T4V extension system is instigating increased production.
Irrigated wheat yields of contact farmers in 1984185 averaged about
2.4 ton/ba compared to 1.4 ton/ha for non-contact farmers.
2.18    While Credit 761-IN closed in March 31, 1985, it is anticipated that
Bihar will continue to expand and improve its extension services and GOB has
expressed interest in further support under the Third National Agricultural
Extension Project. In this respect, agreements have been reached with GOB
that it would:- (i) provide appropriate staffing, facilitiesa services and
the other resources required to carry out effective agricultural extension
satisfactory to IDA throughout the districts of the project area; and
(ii) ensure that such extension service would be fully operational and
staffed in a district before project works on new, modernized or
rehabilitated tubewells within such district are energized.
2.19    Aoricultural Inputs. There is a Government sponsored system for
distribution and sale of fertilizer, pesticides and seeds throughout the
State with sufficient capacity to meet expected project demands. The
cooperatives provide an important support to that system, although fer-
tilizers are mainly marketed through private sector channels. Input applica-
tion has been rising since the early 1970s and is strongly correlated with
between expansion of irrigation in the State. Use of fertilizers has risen
from about 9 kg/ha in 1970/71 to 17.8 kg/ha in 1980/81. However, this level
is still low compared to the all-India average of 32 kg/ha in 1980/81. Low
use of fertilizers is mainly due to the risk involved in cereal production in
areas susceptible to drought or flood, and predominance of rice as a
mono-crop. Improved seed application is increasing; 252 of the rice area was
planted with 1YV in 1980/81 compared to only 15% in 1975/76. Almost all
wheat and about 50% of maize were planted with HYV in 1980/81. Tractors are
rarely used for farm activities and animals remain the source of traction
power.
2.20    Agricultural Credit.  Farmers have access to credit from a variety of
sources. In 1982/83, Government supported credit institutions, including
Primary Agricultural Credit Societies, provided about Rs 290 M in credit of
which 92Z was short-term while Land Development Banks provided some Rs 200 M,
mainly for medium-term loans.  Commercial banks lent farmers about Rs 210 N
of which about Rs 150 M was medium term credit. In addition, farmers obtain
credit from informal sources, such as traders and suppliers. There is
evidence that informal credit is increasing primarily because institutional
credit sources are closed to many farmers with overdue loans. In 1982/83,
overdue loans were 75% of credit demand in Government credit institutions
and about 60X in commercial banks in Bihar. Interest rates for agricultural
credit from commercial banks average about 12-13%, and from co-operative
banks about 11-12%.
2.21    Narketina. Processins  and Storage.  A large portion of foodgrain
production is consumed by the farm household; the rest reaches the market
through a variety of channels. Government procurement agencies purchase
large quantities of food grains in primary wholesale markets and sell it
either to millers or through fair price shops in towns and cities at fixed
prices. In addition, farmers sell their produce: (i) direct to consumers;
(ii) to village shopkeepers who either sell to consumers or act as middlemen



--11-
to wholesalers; and (iii) to commission agents. Grain marketing costs equate
to about 201 to 35X of retail price depending on locatiou and the marketing
channel used. Vegetables, potatoes and fruits are produced in small quan-
tities and sold in local markets by farmers or middlemen. In general, there
are no serious constraints to the present system but GOB plans to provide
more marketing outlets to enable farmers to attract better farm gate prices.
Sugarcane is processed in relative small quantities in a limited number of
privately owned sugar mills. A small portion of oilseeds is marketed for
processing by the few oil extraction mills within Bihar. Bihar Warehousing
Corporation (a Government agency) provides storage facilities to farmers and
arranges advancement of loans from commercial banks on the basis of its
receipts. Bowever. bulk storage for foodgrains is inadequate and many
farmers store grains on farm, using unsuitable facilities, resulting in a
production loss. Recently, some progressive farmers have started to use low
cost metal bins for on-farm storage to reduce losses.
III. PERFORNANCE OF PUBLIC TUBEWELLS
General
3.01    Construction of public tubewells (PTWs) for irrigation was initiated
on a small scale in 1937 in the northern half of the State. The program was
pursued more vigorously after the famine of 1943 with a marked acceleration
in the 1950's. Responsibility for construction and operation and maintenance
(OM) of PTWs was held first by the Irrigation Department (ID) and later by
the State Tubewell Organization under the Minor Irrigation Department (MID).
By 1974, there were about 3,110 PTWs in service, distributed throughout the
26 districts of Bihar which constitute the project area. In 1974, the Bihar
Water Development Corporation (BWDC) was created as a quasi-autonomous
Government entity, with profession4l staff seconded from the ID. The BWDC
assumed responsibility for public groundwater development, and took over as
assets all existing PTWs, which it then operated and maintained. It also
took over the well drilling and testing equipment and vehicles from the State
Tubevell Organization and continued to construct new tubewell systems, and
subsequently operate and maintain them. By 1983, the BWDC owned 5,311 PTWs
of which about 1,690 wells lacked a formal irrigation distribution system
and 1,140 had not been provided witb electric power. So new systems have
been constructed since 1983.
Bihar Water Develogment Corporation
3.02    The BWDC was created under the auspices of the Bank assisted Bihar
Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 440-IN, 1973, US$32) in order to mobilize
institutional credit to finance construction of new tubewell facilities.
While the corporation was expected to be financially viable, with revenue
coming mainly from vater charges, it was never allowed to levy a water charge
commensurate with O&M) expenditures and funds required for debt servicing.
Moreover, GOB did not make adequate budget provision to BWDC to cover the
resulting shortfall in the corporation's finances. Thus the corporation's
financial situation was weak from the outset and has steadily deteriorated
over the years as debts accumulated. By May 1985, the level of indebtedness,
mainly to the banks and BSEB, had risen to about Rs 500 M (about US$40 1).



-12-
3.03    Due to increasing burden of debt and inadequate support by Govern
ment, annual o&M allocations have barely covered establishment costs, and
maintenance has suffered. As a result, many facilities are now inoperable o-
can function with only limited efficiency for want of relatively low cost
repairs. Furthermore, many PTWs built by BWDC have been left incomplete o,r
without power connection though bank loans raised for their con-struction
still have to be serviced. An additional consequence has been that water
rate recovery has become increasingly poor with farmers' reluctance to pey,
in part, due to poor irrigation service of existing PTWs (para 8.09).
3.04    To improve the situation, the GOB has decided to re-establish an
effective line organization within the MID with proper staffing and bvdget,
which will take over responsibility for public groundwater development from
BWDC and operate and maintain existing public tubevell facilities.  The GO-
has taken this decision because: (i) it believes that public sector tubewelY
development should be a direct government financial responsibility; (ii) i
will enable the sector to be .a direct part of the state planning strategy;
(iii) it will provide the opportunity to review staffing requirements apd
transfer to the new line department only those staff needed for an efficient
operation; and (iv) creation of a new organization environment will improve
the morale of staff to be transferred from the BWDC.
3.05    In the early years of public groundwater development in Bihar, poweu
supply was generally adequate for tubewell operations since the over-extended
rural power lines and heavy load (mainly related to piLivate tubewell connec-
tions) had not yet developed. Thus utilization of public tubewell systems,
expressed as annual operating hours, was fairly high. However, other fac-
tors, such as unreliable delivery (particularly to cultivators at the tail
end of the system), delays in effecting repairs to pump units during the
irrigation season, and excessive losses in the conveyance system, all con-
tributed to the farmers' lack of confidence in the water supply from publike
tubewells. The poor irrigation service caused farmers to minimize their ilcc
of inputs whose productivity is linked to a reliable and timely water
delivery; the results have been poor yields and low incomes.   Consequently.
the area irrigated by PTWs has declined from 62% of the design command in
1974/75 to about 7.5% in 1984/85 and, at present, about 60X of existing
tubewells in the State are reported as inoperable (Table T-6).
3.06    Technical Shortcomines.  Development of power generating facilities
in Bihar has stagnated for the last decade (para 1.14). For the past sever,-J
years, it has been necessary to roster power supplies during the irrigation
seasons with unrestricted power available at 33 kV substations for only abo.
5-8 h/day. The situation on the 11 kV local grid has been even worse wit1h
power availability at tubewell connections often limited to a few hours -ua t
day. This level of power supply was completely inadequate for effective
operation of PTWs which require regular supplies of up to 16 h/day at pee'I
demand periods to effectively serve all farmers within the design commaad
areas.



-13-
3.07    Almost all existing PTWs require some repairs and many are inoperable
for want of spares or replacements. The major items necessary to make the
existing facilities fully operational are summarized on Chart C-1.  Essen-
tially all starter relays originally fitted to pump units require replace-
ment.  Most of the simple, direct oQi-line,.oil immersion switches are in a
very poor state of repair and operate as air switches, Much of the trouble
with burnt-out transformers may be attributed to itiadequate sl   a gear, and
replacement Star-Delta celays would be provided under the project.
3.08    Given the recent history of maintenance of the PTWs, it is not pos-
sible-to properly evaluate their performance as systems exclusive of manage-
ment failures. Any future improvemeuts must provide an effective organiza-
tiou for overseeing the PTW operation with proper staffing.-and adequate
budget provisions (para 6.03 on). The power supply constraints stem mainly
from inadequacies of the existing rural grid and can be overcome by provision
of dedicated pover lines. The distribution system must be improved so that
all farmers within a PTW command receive a reliable, timely and equitable
supply.  Effective water users associations must be formed and depeadency ou
well operators minimized. Such improvements would be supported under the
project.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Formulation and Objectives
General
4.01    Project preparation has been carried out by the MID and BSEB in close
co-ordination witk the Central Water Commission (CWC) and Ministry of Water
Resources in GOI. In 1984, GOI and GOB requested Bank Group assistance with
development of public tubewells in Bihar. GOB engineers visited Uttar
Pradesh in 1984 and concluded that any new PTis in Bihar should incorporate
improved technology similar to that introduced under the Bank-assisted Uttar
Pradesh Public Tubevell Projects (Cr. 1004-IN, 1979 and Cr. 1332-IN, 1983).
On the recommendations of a Bank Identification Mission (February 1985), the
GOB' decided to extend the proposed project scope to include rehabilitatiou
and/or modernization of existing PTWs. The GOB also decided to replace the
BWDC by a new line organization within the MID, with responsibility for
construction and operation and maintenance of all PTWs (para 3.04). A
project preparation report has been compiled for MID by Agricultural Finance
Corporation Ltd., India.
Project Concent and Obgctives
4.02    Hydrogeological conditions would restrict public tubevell development
to areas of productive alluvial aquifers which occur in the northern half of
the State. Since command areas of new PTWa would be small, locations can be
chosen to include a high proportion of farmers with small and fragmented laud
holdings on which it would be unprofitable to construct private tubevells.
Thus, the project would complement groundwater development in the private
sector and be selective in the target group of beneficiaries to be reached.



-14-
4,03    The main project objectives would be: (i) to introduce to Bihar
improved technology which restricts the effectiveness of existing PTWs; (ii)
to undertake a phased program to rehabilitate and modernize the existing
PIWs; (iii) institution strengthening to ensure that project works can be
efficieutly implemented, operated and maintained such that predicted benefits
can be obtained; and (iv) increase agricultural production employment and
incomes (especially small farmers' income).
Rationale of Bank Groug Involvement
4.04    The GOB has been aware of the deficiencies of PTWs and has given
priority to resolving the problems. It has recognized that in the
socio-economic context of Bihar, and in areas with good land and groundwater.
resources, public tubewell development cau be the most effective way to
enhance the development prospects of farmers who own or operate small, frag-
mented holdings. To help overcome present shortcomings, the GOB has
requested Bank Group assistance in the project in: (i) introduction of
improved public tubewell system technologies to ensure that irrigation serv-
ice is timely, reliable and predictable and thus manageable; (ii) provision
of dedicated power lines to the public sector tubewells to help alleviate
power system constraints; and (iii) institution building and management
improvements for construction and O&M of new and existing works.
4.05    The improved technologies to be introduced (para 4.01) include new
planning, design and operation criteria which represent a break with past
traditions and would be difficult for GOB to introduce successfully without
Bank support. With respect to institution building and strengthening of
management, a range of improvements have been formulated during the prepara-
tion process including major organizational changes. Such improvements are
an essential part of the comprehensive development package, and Bank support
should help sustain and reinforce the will and ability within the agencies
themselves to implement the reforms.
B. Proieot Description
Summary
4.06    The proposed project would finance a seven-year program incorporating
the following elements of the GOB public groundwater development sector:
(a)  New Tubewell Systems.  Cons sruction of about 500 improved tubewell
systems each of about 150 m |h and net command area of 100 ha.
(b) Modernization and Rehabilitation of ExistinA Tubewell Systems.
Repair or rehabilitation of about 4,700 existing tubewells including
construction of new distribution systems on about 1,000 of the exist-
ing tubevell systems and rehabilitation of existing distribution
systems on a further 1,300 of the existing tubewells.
(c) Dedicated _oyer Lines. Connection to separate 11 kV feeder lines of
about 4,700 existing tubewells and 500 new tubewells.



-15-
(d)  Management Imnrovements.  Provisi3n of equipment, transportation,
and buildings to be used by the project construction, operation and
maintenance staff; preparation of design and O&M manuals; techbical
services; studies related to project management, cost recovery and
an agro-economic baseline survey for selected project tubevells;
training of project staff; and monitoring and evaluation activities.
Completion of the program to rehabilitate or modernize the remaining 599
existing public tubewells outside the project ia expected to take until about
the year 1995 (para 4.22).
lmproved Design Standards for New Systems
4.07    The concept and design of an Imoaoved Standard Tubewell System (IST)
follow technical principles developed and demonstrated under the Uttar
Pradesh Public Tubewells Projects (Cr. 1004-IN, 1979; 1332-IN, 1983). ^
typical IST system would consist of a water point with pump house; a dis-
tribution chamber to enable water delivery to be automated and controlled by
farmers at field outlet valves; a buried pipe distribution system in the form
of two closed loops each serving about 50 ha; outlet valves on the pipe
system each commanding about 4-5 ha and operated by farmers; earthen field
channels below the outlets to serve each farmers' holding; and an access road
to the well for operation and mainteuance purposes. The various parts of an
IST are described below with detailed planning and design principles given in
Annex 7, of the Supplementary Data Volume (SDV). The estimated base costs
(April 1986 prices) of new improved tubevell systems under the project are
given in Annex 3, Table 1; the cost of a typical IST is estimated at about Re
410,170 or about Rs 3,690 and Rs 4,100 per farmer and hectare served respec-
tively.
4.08    The Water Point. The water point would consist of the well, pump,
prime mover (motor), switch gear, starter and protection relays and electri-
cal pover supply. The unit would be placed in a brick-built pumphouse.
4.09    Wells (Chart C-2).  The wells would be drilled using either direct
rotary or reverse circulation drilling rigs. Drilling diameters would be
450-600 mm and total depth of wells would be in the range of 80 to 130 m.
Well casing and screen would be of mild steel. The pump chamber casing would
be 300 to 350 mm outer diameter (OD). The average length of the pump chamber
would be 25 to 30 m. The production screen would be of 200 m OD and would
consist of slotted pipe covering aquifer material layers and blank pipe
covering non-productive layers. Average length of screen would be about
40 m. The well would be gravel packed.
4.10    The wells would be initially developed using a compressor and finally
developed with a diesel driven pumping unit consisting of a vertical shaft
turbine with a capacity at least 501 higher than design discharge. The wells
would be test-pumped for 24 hours, the first half of the period being in the
form of a step-drowdown test; the final discharge rate would then be main-
tained for the balance of the test-pumping period.
4.11    Bumping Uhits. The pumps would be electric submersible type with a
starter relay of Star Delta type. All pumps would have foot valves. The



-16-
switch gears starter relays and auciliary electrical equipment would have the
following special characteristics. The electric motor can be sta.ted and
stopped automatically (para 4.13). The electri'cal system would be-provided
with a capacitor to protect the motor against voltage fluctuations and a
single phase preventer in the starter relay to protect the motor. Electronic
hour meters would be fitted on all pumping units to facilitate monitoring of
the operation of the pumps.
4.12    Pumnhouse.  The pumphouse would be a brick-built structure fitted
with a girder support for chain pulleys to facilitate removal of the pump
unit for maintenance. The pumphouse would be provided with a lockable steel
door for security and electrical equipment within a pump house would be built
into the walls of the structure to minimize theft and unauthorized repair.
4.13    Diseribution Chamber.  An essential feature of the system is the
elevated distribution chamber which maintains the operating head in the piped
distribution system. It also enables automatic operation of the pumping
unit. The latter is achieved by means of level operated probes which
activate power supplv according to the water level in the chamber and in
response to irrigation demand. The water level operated probes also enable
water distribution at less than the discharge rate of the pump without spil-
lage.3 The design of the distribution chamber ensures equal division of the
150 m /h water supply from the well into two separate parts of the distribu-
tion system.
4.14    Buried Pine Distribution ysstem.  A typical layout of a tubewell
distribution system is given in Chart C-3. The buried conveyance system
would consist of PVC feeder pipes from the distribution chamber to connect
with closed loops of PVC pipe which constitute the main distribution system.
The loop design ensures that any outlet on a loop can be simultaneously
supplied from two directions which reduces flow velocities and head losses in
the pipelines. Each loop would serve about 50 ha and the average lengths of
buried PVC pipes on a typical system would be about 42 m/ha.
4.15    PVC pipes would be of 200 mm OD for feeders an-1 160 mm OD for the PVC
pipes of the loops. Both PVC pipes would be 2.5 kg/cm pressure rating. The
depth of cover of the pipe loop would be not less than 0.8.meter. The actual
layout of any distribution system would depend on topography, command area
shape and cadastral factors. Base costs for buried pipe distribution systems
are given in Annex 3, Table 1 and average about Rs 209,020 per tubewell.
4.16    Distribution Syvtem Outlets.  Alfalfa type valves would be provided
as outlets along the buried distribution pipes to command areas of about
4-5 ha. Thus, each loop of the system would have about 10 outlets with each
catlet typically serving 4-7 farmers. The alfalfa valve would be designed to
delivered 75 m4lh under the prevailing head at any point in the distribution
loop; only one outlet on each loop would be operated at any time. The valve
would be set in a distribution box constructed of brickwork and designed such
that water can be delivered in several directions as required. A single
200 mm surge riser would be provided on each loop at the point farthest from
the distribution chamber. The top elevation of the riser would be about 0.5
m above the top water level of the chamber.



-17-
4.17    Field Channels. The distance between a field in a tubewell command
area  ,tgd an outlet valve would generally not be greater than about 150 m.
Comnon field channels would be aligned along property boundaries so that
water can be delivered from the outlet distribution boxes to the individual
farmers - plots. Total length of earth field channels for a typical tubewell
coommand area would be about 6.5 km.
4.18    Access L acds. A low cost, unsurfaced track suitable for four-wheel
drive vehicles would be constructed from the nearest public road to pxovide
acpess to the tubewell pump house.
Modernization of Existinz SYstems
4.19    About 1,690 existing public tubewell systems have not been provided
with a distribution system either in lined channel or pipes, and about 160
exi8ting systems are in such poor repair that rehabilitation of the lined
channels would entail almost complete replacement (Chart C-1). About 1,O0Q
of these systems would be completely modernized to the improved design stand-
ards described under paras. 4.07 through 4.18. This would entail provision
of an elevated distribution chamber, a buried pipe distribution system
incluiding outlets and earthen field channels; estimated costs are summarized
Ii- Annex 3, Table 2. In addition, all necessary repair or replacement works
would be done to the wells, pump units and pump houses to ensure that each
water point was reliable; a dedicated power line would also be provided (para
4.21). After completion of these works, the modernized systems would be
essentially equivalent to the improved tubeweli systems to be constructed
under the project (para 4.07) and would have the same performance charac-
teristics.  The base costs of a typical modernized weli would average about
Rs 260,000 or about Rs 2,340 and Rs 2,600 per farmer and hectare served
respectively.
Reha bilitation of Existing Systems
4.20    Many existing public tubewell systems have defects resulting from age
and lack of maintenance which either make them inoperable or prevent their
operation at original design standards. The project would undertake
rehabilitation on about 3,710 existing tubewell systems in addition to the
1,000 tubewells systems to be modernized (para 4.19), and, after completion
of repairs, the systems would be capable of operation to at least their
original design standards. In many cases, these defects can be rectified at
relatively low cost. Rehabilitation for each tubewell system would include
replacement or repairs to one or more of the following elements: (i) pump
unit parts; (ii) pumphouses; (iii) lined chann.'l distribution systems;
(iv) valved outlets to existing piped distribution systems; and/or
(v) unlined field channels. In addition, wells which have a deteriorated
yield or which are pumping sand would be replaced. Almost all of the exist-
iag tubewell systems require replacement and/or repair of parts of the well
point, and about 1,310 will also include repairs to the distribution system.
The scope of the replacement and repair works together with estimated costs
are summarized in Annex 3, Table 3. On average, the cost of rehabilitation
and repairs works is estimated at about Re 31,000 per existing tubewell
system with the distribution system untouched, and about Ra 62,000 per exist-
ing tubewell system which require repairs to open channel systems.



"18-
4.21    The rural power distribution system in Bihar at 11 kV and low tension
voltage levels has been over-extended aud over-loaded mainly because of the
intensive and unregulated private groundwater development. The result has
been unscheduled outages, low voltages and generally insecure power supply on
the rural grid.  The need for power rationing at critical periods in the
agricultural year has had a limited negative impact on private wells (except
to control the time of day when they can be pumped) as most private Bumping
units have a very high capacity compared to the area served (30-50 m-/h
serving only 2-4 ha). The reverse is the case for public tubewells which
require a secure power supply of at least 16 h/day at peak demaud periods if
planned irrigation intensity and production goals are to be achieved.
Eowever, iv contrast to private tubewells, public tubewells have a predicted
power load factor which could be managed for optimization of the power
availability if they could be operated independently of other consumers. To
achieve this objective, the GOB has decided to provide dedicated power lines
which would serve only public sector tubewell systems.
4.22    All new, rehabilitated and modernized tubewell systems under the
project would be provided with a power supply through separate or 'dedicated'
11 kV feeder lines which would connect wells in a cluster directly to the
nearest 33/11 kV sub-station. The remaining 599 (or 102) existing tubewells
in the State outside the project cannot be connected to dedicated Lines at
reasonable cost since these wells are widely scattered (Chart C-1). A typi-
cal cluster, consisting of about 25 to 30 public tubewells, would be mainly
defined by the location of existing wells; new tubewell systems would be
fitted into the existing pattern subject to sitiDg criteria defined under
para 4.32. The dedicated feeder network to each cluster would consist of
11 kV lines set out to give a least cost layout with spur lines connecting
each well. The power lines would be designed so that voltage regulation at
any supply point is within 6S of the declared low tension voltage level. The
11 kV lines would be mounted on reinforced concrete posts with provision for
special crossings at main roads and railways. All wells would have an
11/0.4 kV transformer of appropriate capacity. Independent switch gear would
be provided for each dedicated feeder line at the 33/11 kV sub-station and a
provision ass been made under the project to increase sub-station capacity or
provide new stations where significant additional load is due to demand of
project wells.
4.23    Some dedicated feeders will be aligned through areas, or close to
villages, which are not provided vith an electrical supply. In such cases,
poles for dedicated feeder lines would be strengthened and cross bars
provided to take an additional conductor to serve the other consumers. The
additional cost (excluding extra conductors) of these works are included
under the project, since provision of power supply to these other users would
reduce the risk of project feeder lines being used for other purposes. Unit
costs for power transmission and transformation are given in Annex 3,
Table 4. On average, the base cost of providing dedicated power supply is
estimated at about Rs 55,400 for each tubevell system.



-19-
4.24    Agreements have been reached with GOB that it would:  (i) provide
dedicated 11 kV feeder lines to each public tubevell within a cluster to give
a power supply from a conductor which would be exclusively used for public
tubewells; (.i) provide project tubewells with a minimwm of 16 hours of power
supply per day at peak demand periods with a voltage fluctuation of not
greater than 16Z; and (iii) energize each new, modernized or rehabilitated
project tubewell unit within two months of its completion.
-Manaement Improvements
4.25    The project would support managemeat improvements at the newly estab-
lished Tubewell Wing (TW) of MID (para 6.01). In this respect, the project
would provide for services and facilities for the TW.including: construction
of residential and non-resideutial buildings; transportation and equipment;
training including visits and study tours; research and development; prepara-
tion of design and OEM manuals; and technical assistance. The estimated base
costs of the management improvement compouent are estimated at about
Rs 81.2 M, or equivalent to about Re 15,580 per tubewell system; details are
given in Annex 3, Table 5.
4.26    Buildings. The project would construct buildings needed for TW.
administrative and field staff. A headquarters office would be constructed
in Patna on GOB owned land. A staff training center for MID staff, including
lecture halls, staff housing and a student hostel, would be constructed on
the campus of the WAIMI which is being set up at Khagaul under the Bank
assisted Subernarekha Irrigation Project (Cr. 1289-IN, 1983). Rousing would
be constructed for key TW staff, primarily in locations where rentals are
limited or where availability of accommodation would provide an incentive to
fill essential but unattractive posts.
4.27    To improve the O&M capability of the TW, two regional centers would
be set up to support maintenance requirements during construction and for O&M
of all public tubewells in the State. Each center would include workshops
and stores appropriate to the work programs related to public tubevell
development in the northern and southern regions of Bihar. To support the
regional centers, workshops would be constructed at most O&M divisional
headquarters so that each division has adequate facilities to undertake
routine repair and maintenance of tubevell systems together with equipment
and vehicles used by the field staff. While three divisional workshops are
available at present, an additional 18 would be provided under the project.
At tubewell cluster level, a Junior Engineer (JE) would oversee OEM of the
facilities (para 6.15). His headquarters within the cluster would consist of
accommodation for MID staff, a small storage facility and a meeting room for
contacts between farmers and staff of other GOB agencies including extension
services. About 85 such complexes would be completed under the project.
4.28    Vehicles and EauiRment.  The project would finance vehicles for field
staff responsible for construction and O&M of project works together with
spares for vehicles and equipment already held by the MID for tubewell opera-
tions. The project wo!tld also finance drilling and well equipment, and
workshop equipment for regional and divisional workshops. In addition,
vehicles and equipment would be provided for specialized units established,
or expanded under the project, within the TW (para 6.03); this would include



-20-
vehicles for headquarter and regional management staff together with survey,
training and oflice equipment.
4.29   Training.  The project initiates constructien of IST systems which
involve planning, design and implementation concepts which are novel to most
MID staff.. Consequently, the TW would have to undertake substantial training
if staff are to achieve project implementation on schedule aud undertake
subsequent O&M (para 6.17).  In addition to the staff training center (para
4.26) and training equipment, the project would provide for visiting 1oca]
specialists to assist the MID staff in giving various training programs anid
for visits and study tours to enable project staff to widen their profes-
sional experience.
4.30    Technical Services.  The project would provide for technical serv-
ices, which could be foreign or local consultants as decided by Government,
to assist the TW in preparation of the design and O&M manuals (para 6.18).
In addition, local technical services would be used for specific studies to
be undertaken under the project which would include: (i) a management study
to assist in developing an efficient and effective management structure for
the newly created Tubewell Wing (para 6.11); (ii) a cost recovery study (pats,
8.16); and (iii) a baseline study of existing facilities and new lands to be
served by project tubewells (para 6.22).
C.  Planuinj and Implementation
4.31    A large part of the work program consists of rehabilitation and
modernization of existing tubewells, where locations of the wells are already
fixed. The existing well sites and locations of 33/11 kV substations essen-
tially define the least cost alignments of dedicated power lines. Once the
alignment of a dedicated power line is decided to serve a group of existiug
tubewells, approximate locations for new tubewells become fixed since these
wells have to be incorporated within the clusters. Nonetheless, there would
still be sufficient flexibility in the siting of new tubewells for strict
criteria to be followed so that physical, technical, socio-economic and
management objectives can be achieved. In particular, site selection of each
tubewell would ensure that potential beneficiaries understand and are
prepared to accept the responsibilities expected from them. Once a new
tubewell site has been provisionally identified, investigations would be made
to confirm the technical viability of the site. The groundwater availability
would be confirmed, soils would be tested for suitable quality and the com-
mand area checked to ensure that it would not be flood prone.
Sitin mCriteria
4.32    For new tubewell systems, weil sites would be located where suffi-
cieut cultivable laud is available for a command area of about 100 ha; the
tubewell system can be incorporated into a cluster; and there would be no
other public source of irrigation. In addition, new tubewell command areas
would satisfy the following requirements:



-21-
(a) construction of private tubevells would be difficult because of the
drilling depth necessary to achieve a satisfactory yield; and/or the
area is economically backward and further private well constructiou
is unlikely to develop;
(b) within the gross command area of a proposed new tubewell, not more
than 10% of the area would consist of holdings of owners of private
irrigation sources (excluding hand pumps or hand operated open wells)
and average holding size would not exceed 1.0 ha; and
(c) the district is adequately served by the T&V extension service.
Once the location of a new tubewell has been selected* the well command area
would-be defined and the layout finalized to enclave out farmers who ow, -and
wish to retain, electric powered private wells.  The above criteria can be
easily enforced since, with a buried pipe distribution system, command area
boundaries and/or water point locations of new tubewell systems can be
adjusted to ensure that the criteria and a selected group of beneficiaries
are reached.
Survey and Design
4.33    The preliminary works for design and construction of a new tubewell
system or modernization of an existing system would include preparation of a
command area map with 30 cm contour intervals which would be superimposed on
the 1:4,000 scale village cadastral maps. An appropriate reconnaissance
soil survey of the proposed command area for new tubewell sites would be
undertaken to establish the irrigability class. The detailed layout and
design for each tubevell distribution system would then be prepared on the
basis of the completed soil and contour surveys.
Irrigat ion Water Requirements
4.34    The weighted mean water alloc*tion at the well head has been taken as
3,600 m3/ha, 3,500 m3/ha, and 6,000 m /sa for the kharif, rabi and hot
seasons respectively. The rabi water allocation reflects that, with water
rather than land as a limiting factor, the comnen cultural practice in Bihar
is to under-irrigate rabi crops. The cropping patterns for the various main
soil types have been designed accordingly (Table T-5). The requirements also
take into account an average well head to plant efficiency of 65%, and
assumes that farmers would use irrigation to maximize crop production. With
a well discharge of about 150 mJ/h, the assumed cropping intensities and
water requirements would equate to a tubewell operating for about 16 h/day
during peak irrigation period in average rainfall years. Use of buried pipes
for tubevell distribution systems would enable the command area to be
adjusted or modified should either irrigation utilization in the original
command area be less than the reliable capacity of the well point, or, at
some future date, there is a change in cropping patterns.
4.35    The rehabilitated tubewell systems with brick-lined open channels-
would also have a well discharge of about 150 m3/h and serve a command area
of about 100 ha. For systems with 2,400 m of lined channel, outlets would
served 4-5 ha, while with 1,200 m of lined channel, outlet commands would be



-22-
proportionately larger. Since conveyance losses in the lined and earth
c%hannels would be higher than for PVC pipe distributiou systems,
rehabilitated tubewelle will have a somewhat lover irrigation intensity than
that assumed for new or modernized wells.
Protect Imnlementation
4.36    The project implementation schedule is given on Chart C-4. The
seven-year implementation period (from about September 1986 to September
1993) has been based on past experience with similar projects as reflected in
the standard Bank profile of disbursement for irrigation projects in India.
Eowever, it is possible that, if greater budget provisions can be made, the
project is implemented more efficiently, and there are no significant start
up delays, the project could be completed in about five years, and benefits
accelerated.
4.37    The main construction season is from October through May, although
certain activities such as drilling, repair of existing systems and field
channel construction can continue through the monsoon season at selected
sites. Construction work would be organized by tubewell clusters with the
work program distributed throughout the project area and according to a
schedule agreed between MID and the BSEB. All components of IST systems have
established construction techniques which are cost effective and suited to
local conditions; rehabilitation works follow well established practises know
to TW staff, and minor repairs to existing tubewell systems would undertaken
through force account. Many of the works are suited for small contracts and
sufficient local contractors are available throughout the State to ensure
satisfactory progress and good quality work.
4.38    Status of PreDaration.  Sites have been identified for all tubewell
clusters under the project (para 4.31). Works, materials and equipment
required to modernize/rehabilitate existing systems have already been iden-
tified for each existing tubewell system under the project. The location,
layout designs and detailed work program have been decided for clusters to be
completed during the first year of the project. Standard designs have been
prepared for all works required to rehabilitate existing tubewells and to
construct modernized and new tubewell systems. The standard designs need
only minor detailing to be applied to individual tubewell sites after comple-
tion of the necessary surveys. Repair works on existing tubewells systems
would follow established work procedures and the TWVhas already prepared a
detailed inventory of repair works required on all tubewells under the
project. The BSEB has prepared detailed layouts and cost estimates for the
feeder lines to supply tubewell clusters to be constructed in the first year
of implementation. An agreement has been reached with GOB that it would
locate, plan, design and construct the project works, in accordance with
standards and criteria satisfactory to IDA.
4.39    Mid-term Review.  Experience with implementation of irrigation
projects has shown the need to conduct a mid-term review. The main purpose
of such a review would be to evaluate progress and constraints during the
first period of project implementation and the need to introduce changes in
project implementation plans to ensure achievement of project objectives.
Agreements have been reached with GOB that it would, by December 31, 1989,



-23-
prepare and furnish to IDA for its review and comments, draft terms of
reference for a mid-term review of the project and, taking into account IDA's
comments, if any, carry out the review and furnish a report summarizing the
results to IDA by June 30, 1990; and thereafter, carry out the required
adjustments to the project subject to prior agreement witb IDA.
V.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
5.01    Total project coat is estimated to be US$99.7 M equivalent including
taxes and duties of USS3.0 M. Cost estimates are given in Table T-7,
detailed in Annex 3, and suimmarized below:
Local Currency -(Rs M)      US$ (Millioan    Z Foreign  2 of
A. Workg                               Local  Foreinna Total   L     oca   Foreign  Total  Exchanae Base Cost
1. New Tubewell Systems            166.86   38.23  205.09  12.84    2.94   15.78       19       22
2. Modernization of Existing
Tubevells                       151.54   77.19  228.73  11.66    5.94   17.60       34      24
3. Rehabilitation of Existing
Tubewells                       139.37    0.47  139.84  10.72    0.04   10.76        0      15
4. Dedicated Power lines           279.06    9.46  288.52  21.47    0.73   22.20         3      31
3. Management Improvements
1. Buildings                        51.63     -      51.63   3.97     -      3.97       0       0
2. Vehicles and Equipment           24.08     -      24.08   1.85     -      1.85       0       0
3. Training; Visits and Study Tours;
Monitoring and Evaluation; and                                                         -
Technical Services               5.50      -      5.50   0.42     -       0.42       0       0
Baseline Costs                     818.04  125.35  943.39  62.93    9.65   72.58       13      100
Physical Contingencies           53.18   12.11   65.29   4.09    0.93    5.02        19       7
Price Contingencies             240.59  .46.94  287.53  18.50    3.61   22.11 _    16        30
Total Project Cost               1,111.81  184.40 1,296.21  85.52   14.19   99.71      14      137
The foreign exchange cost would be US$14.2 M, or about 14X of the total
project cost. Cost estimates are based on price levels prevailing in Septem-
ber 1985 and have been updated to April 1986 prices. Physical contingencies
on civil works, which average about 7% of base cost, reflect the uncertain-
ties associated with each type of construction activity on new and existing
tubewells. Price contingencies, which account for about 30X of base cost,
reflect expected annual local inflation rates of 7.0% in 1986/87 and 1987/88,
7.5X in 1988/89, 7.72 in 1989/90 and 7.6X in 1990/91 and 4.52 in 1991192 and
after, and expected international inflation rates of 7.0% in 1987/88, 7.5% in
1988/89, 7.72 in 1989/90, and 7.6% in 1990/91 and 4.52 in 1991/92 and after.



-24-
Finauc in4
5.02    The proposed credit of US$68.0 M would finance about.70X of the total
project costa exclusive of taxes and duties, including all foreign exchange
costs and about 66Z of local costs. The balance would be contributed by
GOB/GOI. The estimated schedule of expenditures for execution of the project
is given in Table T-8. An agreement has been reached with GOI that it would
make the proceeds of the credit available to GOB on GOI's standard terms and
arrangements for development assistance to the States. An agreement has also
been reached with GOB that it would promptly provide resources and funds to
-execute the project in accordance with the implementation and expenditure
schedules for the project period, and fo operate and maintain adequstely and
efficiently the public tubewell systems under the project. In this respect,
an understanding was reached during negotiations with GOB on the terms of
reference of the management study (Annex 4) which specify the financial
monitoring requirements under the project so that sufficient information will
be available for IDA to review the annual budget requests and provisions for
O&M within the TW.
5.03    The construction of new tubewell systems and modernization or
rehabilitation of existing systems would be seasonal as it would be advan-
tageous to undertake many of the works during the dry season. To initiate
the work program in the first year, and avoid delays related to procurement
procedures, retroactive financing not exceeding US$1.0 M would be provided
for expenditures taking place after October 1, 1985. Retroactive financing
would cover expenditures on (i) vehicles, materials and equipment; (ii)
materials for tubewell energization; and (iii) management improvements,
including the management study for the newly formed Tubewell Wing in MID
(para 4.30).
Procurement
5.04    Procurement arrangements are summarized below:
Total     Non-
Eligible   Eligible
Components                 iCB         LCB       Other       Costs    Costs a/ Total Cost bt
--------------(USS M------ -                      --------------
A. Works
1. New Tubewells            -    -    4.8 (3.7) 2.0 (1.4)  6.8 (5.1)    2.9    9.7 (5.1)
2 Modernised Tubewuels      -    -    6.3 (4.8)  1.1 (0.8)  7.4 (5.6)    2.3    9.7 (5.6)
3 Rehabilitated Tubewells   -    -    6.2 (4.7) 0.7 (0.5)  6.9 (5.2)    2.4    9.3 (5.2)
4. Buildings                -    -    4.I (3.3) -            4.7 (3.3)    0.5    5.2 (3.3)
Sub Total                -         22.0 (16.5)  3.8 (2.7) 25.5 (19.Z)    8.1   33.9 l9.2l
S. Management Imorovements c/ -        -          0.5 (0.6)  0.5 (0.S)     -      0.5 (0.5)
C. Goods d/
1. PVC pipe and fittings   21.8 (16.0) -           -        21.8 (16.0)    -    21.8 (16.0J
2. Pump Units and anCillaries  -       4.8 (3.6)  -   -    4.8 (3.6)       -      4.8 (3.6)
3. Steel pipe and fittings  3.3 (2.4) -            -   -    3.3 (2.4)      -      3.3 (2.4)
4. Other Misc. equipment    -          4 T3.5  0.8 0.6)  5.5 (4.1)         -      55(4ll
Sub Totat         ~~~~25.1 (18.4}  .   71   .  06   54(6t               35.4 (6t
C . Power SuoP Iv
t.  Works                    -         4.0 (3.1) 0.7 (0.6)  4.7 ( 3.6)    2.6    7.3 (3.6)
2. Materials & Equipment d/    -      22.6 (16.5)  -   -   22.6 (16.5)     -    22.6 (16.5)
Sub Total                          26.6 (19.6) 0.7 (0.5) 27.3 (20.1)    2.6   29.§ (20.1)
Total (A+B*C)       25.1 (18.4) 58.1 (43.2) 5.8 (4.3) 89.0 (65.9)   10.7   99.7 (65.9) e/
=a==      =ca                   =9= l===    ==-=  5    =    =us
al Costs not eligible for disbursement include those for Engineering and Administration and Land Acquisition.
bi Figures in parentheses are the amounts allocated under the Credit to variOus procurement categories.
£  Including Training, Study Tours, M8&E. and Consultancies and Studies. excludinG vehicles and equipMent.
d/ Including taxes and duties which average stout 5% of base costs.
e/ Excluding US$ 2.1 M which is not allocate! t.2 specific works (see Table T-9).



-25-
5.05    Works. Works to be financed under the project would cost about
US$25.8 M excluding engineering and administration.  Of this, about US$22.0 M
would be let through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures satisfactory
to IDA including construction of buried pipe distribution systems, access
roads, and buildings (i.e., pump houses, workshops and storage facilities,
cluster complexes, the training facility and other buildings). These works
would be individually small and scattered, and their implementation would be
governed by weather and agricultural conditions. Because of these and other
technical constraints, there would be a general lack of interest from con-
tractors located outside the districts covered by the project. All LCB
contracts would be let on the basis of standardized documents snd procedures
recently developed by GOI's CWC and satisfactory to IDA.
5.06    Of the remaining US$3.8 M of works to be financed under the project,
about US$3.1 N would consist of drilling of bore holes which would be carried
out by the TW which has established competent staff capable of drilling about
400 wells per year. The well construction would be undertaken departmentally
for the following reasons: (i) the extensive project area and the relatively
small program related to the seven year implementation schedule would make
the work unsuitable for contracting; (ii) at present, there are no competent
local contractors with either trained staff or equipment to carry out drill-
ing and well completion to the specifications required for public wells; and
(iii) the departmental establishment has undertaken public tubewell drilling
in Bihar since the 1950's and performs the work economically and efficiently
as compared to similar works elsewhere in India. In addition, when the
quantities of work are difficult to estimate in advance, such as repairs to
existing systems or repairs to equipment, small works would be implemented by
GOB's departmental forces upto an aggragate of about US$0.7 M.
5.07    Power Sugply.  Power transmission and transformation works to be
financed under the project would cost approximately US$27.3 M, excluding
engineering and administration. Of this, about US$4.7 M would consist of
installation costs and US$22.6 M (inclusive of taxes and duties) wTould be for
materials and equipment. As with IDA credits for rural electrification, BSEB
would be responsible for the works including procurement of its own project
materials, using Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) standard specifica-
tions and standard General Conditions of Contract and procurement procedures
as agreed for the Bank supported Third Rural Electrification Project (Loan
2165-IN). The BSEB would invite tenders, using LCB procedures satisfactory
to IDA, for the procurement of conductors (US$6.3 M), distribution trans-
formers (US$1.8 M), HT Insulators (US$1.2 M), concrete poles (US$4.6 M), and
general materials (US$8.7 M). Generally the BSEB would not procure materials
and equipment for project works as separate contracts, but include the
project items as part of their regular procurement for the statewide rural
electrification program. In view of the expected large number of small
contracts and the present smooth functioning of the BSEB procurement process,
only contracts exceeding US$0.5 M equivalent would require prior IDA approval
to bidding documents and contract awards.
5.08    Materials. Equigment and Vehicles.  The goods to be financed under
the project would cost approximately US$35.4 M, inclusive of taxes and
duties. Steel casing and fittings (US$3.3 M) and PVC pipes and fittings
(US$21.8 M) would be procured through ICB procedures.  A preference limited



-26-
to 152, or the prevailing custom duty if lower, would be e"tended to local
manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. The equipment and materials would
be packaged to promote efficiency and attract competition. However, bids
would also be accepted for individual slices to attract smaller manufac-
turers. Pumpsets and spares (US$3.0 M), ancillary pumpset equipment (U8$1.8
M), alfalfa valves (US$1.0 M}, and miscellaneous small equipment including
vehicles (US$3.7 M) would be procured by LCB procedures to benefit=from
existing servicing and supply facilities for spare parts. For both equipment
and materials procured by LCB, there is adequate domestic production and
prices are highly competitive. Standardized procedures and bidding documeats
developed by CWC and satisfactory to IDA would be used for procurement of
materiali, equipment and vehicles.  Equipment for management improvements-
(US$0.8 M) would be procured in accordance with local competitive bidding
procedures satisfactory to IDA.,
5.09    Contract Revie.  In addition to the procurement procedures outlined
above for the power supply component (para 5.07), all bidding packages and
contract awards for works estimated to cost US$0.5 M equivalent or more sad
for goods costing US$100,000 equivalent or more would be subject to IDA prior
review. These would account for at least 80X of the procurement value of
works. The remaining contracts would be subject to IDA post-review.
Diakbursmet
5.10    Disbursesents under the credit would be made against: (i) steel and
PVC pipes, fittings and casings, general steel items, pump units and ancil-
laries, and other equipment at 100 of foreign expenditures or 1001 of local
expenditures (ex-factory costs) or 751 of local expenditures for other items
produced locally; (ii) c.vil works on tubewells and buildings at 751 of
expeuditures; (iii) tubevell energization at 751 of expenditures; and
(iv) management improvements (excluding buildings) at 1001 of expenditures.
Disbursement for modernized and rehabilitated tubewells, item (ii) above,
would be made against certificates of expenditure submitted by GOB and
itemized by major components. The disbursement request would also include a
certified statement by the Engineer-in-charge that; (i) all civil works on
a new, rehabilitated or modernized tubewell system has been completed in
accordance with agreed siting, planning and design criteria; and (ii) the
tubewell has been electrified with a connection to a dedicated feeder line.
Disbursement for the power transmission network serving a cluster of wells
would be made in stages as tubewells in the cluster are energized.
5.11    Disbursement for works constructed by departmental forces and for
payments of less than Re 300,000 for works and Rs 150,000 for goods itemized
by sub-project and against expenditures under the management improvements
category (oncluding buildings) would also be made against certificates of
expendit% :e submitted by GOB. Documentation of these expenditures would be
retained by GOB and made available for inspection by IDA during project
review missions. The proposed allocation of the proceeds of the credit and
the estimated schedule of disbursements are presented4uaTable T-9. The
schedule is based on disbursement profile for Bank group supported irrigation
prjects in India. It is anticipated that disbursements would be completed
by March 31, 1994.



-27-
5.12    To speed up disbursements, a special account (SA) would be estab-
lished from vhich suppliers and contractors would be paid.  This 8A would be
for the equivalent of US$5.0 M, which is the amount GOB is expected to spend
in a four-month period. All expenditures from this 5A would be promptly
reported and documented to the IDA to facilitate its rapid and smooth
replenishment.  The SA may oniy be used to pay for expenditures eligible for
reimbursement by IDA.
Accounts sad Audits
5.13    The project would be subject to normal Government control and audat-
ing procedures. A resident Audit Officer, representing the State Accountant
General (AG) would audit the project accounts. Although continuous and
annual audits are carried out in a timely manner, the finalizatiou is a
lengthy process during which the Statutory Audit Report is presented to the
Legislature. It would be essential therefore to have interim statements of
account certified as to accuracy and authenticity by an independent competent
auditor. Such statements certified by the AG or his designee, supported by
an itemized account and a summary of the expenditures, would be submitted to
IDA as soon as possible after the end of each fiscal year. Thus, agreements
have been reached with GOB that it would cause the MID and BSEB to:
Si) maintain separate records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting principles and procedures consistently applied, its
resources, expenditures and operations related to the project; (ii) furnish
to IDA copies of accounts and financial statements for each year, certified
as to their accuracy and authenticity by an independent auditor acceptable
to IDA, not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year;
(iii) have accounts and financial statements related to the project, includ-
ing the Special Account, for each fiscal year audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA; (iv) furnish to IDA immediately following its
finalization, the report of such audit in such detail as IDA shall reasonably
request; (v) furnish to IDA any other information as it shall reasonably
request; and (vi) enable IDA's representatives to examine all records per-
taining to the Credit.
5.14    Special attention would be given under the accounts and audits proce-
dures with respect to statements of expenditure and to 06W expenditures.
Thus, agreements have been reached with GOB that it would cause the MID to:
(i) maintain separate records and accounts for statements of expenditure;
(ii) retain such records and accounts for IDA review, for at least one year
after IDA has received the project audit report for the fiscal year in which
the last withdrawal from the credit was made; and (iii) ensure such separate
accounts are included in the annual audit and that the annual audit report
contains a separate opinion as to whether such expenditures were used for the
purposes for which they were provided. In addition, agreements have been
reached with GOB that it would cause the MID to: (i) maintain separate
accounts for 0&M expenditures of public tubewells throughout the State in
such a manuer that the establishment, energy and maintenance costs can be
separately identified; and (ii) make available such accounts and financial
statements to IDA for inspection during project review.



-28-
VI.  QRGANIZATION AND MA&GEDIMNT
Background
6.01    Management of public tubewell systems has been the responsibility of
the BWDC since 1974. However) for reasons detailed in Chapter III, the GOB
is in the process of winding up the BlDC and replacing it with a new Tubevell
Wing (TW) which would be a line organization within the Minor Irrigation
Department (MID). All existing tubewells and other assets of the BWDC, along
with essential staff and supervisory officials, would be transferred to
the TW.
6.02    Overall responsibility for implementation of the proposed project
would rest with the Secretary-Commissiouer, MID. The new TW would be the
agency respo sible for project planning and implementation, including con-
struction of new tubewell systems, rehabilitation or modernization of exist-
ing systems, and O&M of all public tubewells throughout the State. The BSEB
would be responsible for construction and O&M of the power component under
the project.
The Tubewell Wing
6.03    The GOB formally transfered responsibility for public tubewells in
the State from the BWDC to the new TW on August 13, 1986. Organization and
staffing requirements have been estimated using physical rather than finan-
cial norms to define the workload which can be efficiently undertaken by a
fully staffed division or sub-division for each type of work activity. The
proposed organization build up is given in Table T-10 and shown at project
completion on Chart C-5.
6.04    The Chief Engineer (CE) in charge of TW.(to be designated Engineer-in-Chief)
would be appointed to act also as Project Co-ordinator (PC). He will be
responsible for the day-to-day co-ordination at the working level of project
implementation, reporting directly to the Secretary-Commissioner, MID. The
PC would be assisted by a Project Co-ordinating Unit (PCU) which has been set
up in headquarters (Patna). The PCU would draw up aunual work and develop-
ment programs, prepare project reports, and liaise with other agencies
implementing the project (Department of Agriculture and BSEB). A Project
Accounting Unit (PAU), which has also been set up within the MID accounting
system, would undertake all project activities related to financing, accounts
and audits. The PAU would be headed by an officer on deputation from the
Office of the Accountant General (Bihar). In this respect, an agreement has
been reached with GOB that it would maintain Project Co-ordinating and
Accounting Units within the TW under the direction of suitable qualified and
experienced officers.
6.05    The headquarters staff would be organized in four units, each headed
by a Superintending Engineer (SE), and with following responsibilities:
(a) The Investisation. Planain& and Desanv Uait (IPDU) would co-ordinate
all aspects of investigation and planning, undertake detailed design,
and prepare tender documents and construction specifications.~ It



-29-
would ensure that all other agencies involved in project implementa-
tion and development (in particular, the BSEB and DOA) co-ordinate
activities to enable the work program to be completed without delays.
The IPDU would also be responsible for preparation of the Design of
0&- Q  manuals (para 6.18) and provide necessary support to the Training
and Movitoring and Evaluation Unit.
(b) The Procurement Unit (PU) would be responsible for the purchase of
materials. equipment and vehicles under the project.  .n addition
to the central headquarters staff, the PU would have a sub-unit in
each zonal headquarters (para 6.06).
{c)  The Trainiqg and Honitorina and _Evaluation Unit (TKEU) would be
responsible for all in-staff training and organization of study tours
provided under the project. It would also be responsible for
monitoring and evaluation activities. With respect to training, most
of the TMEU staff would be based at the staff training center (para
4.29).
(d)  The Q_uality gontrol Unit (QCU) would be responsible for all aspects
of quality control during construction and commissioning phases of
the project program.
6.06    For project works, the TW would be organized regionally into two
territorial zones located north and south of the Ganga river. Each zonal
field unit would be headed by a CE with broad responsibilities and powers of
a Head of Department of the GOB. The CE (North) and CE (South) would take
responsibility for about 2,780 and 2,530 existing tubewell systems respec-
tively, together with construction of new tubevells within their regions. At
zonal headquarters, in addition to an administrative unit, would be located a
zonal workshop (para 6.15) and a drilling division responsible for the drill-
ing of all new boreholes throughout the region.
6.07    The TW would have three operational circles within each zone, each
headed by a SE, and responsible for construction (except for drilling) and
OEM of all public tubevells within their territorial boundaries. Circles
would have an average of four 06K divisions in the field, and a construction
division attached to the circle headquarters. A typical construction or OM
division, headed by an Executive Engineer (EE), would have three or four
sub-divisions depending on the workload, each headed by an Assistance
Engineer (AE). Each sub-division would consist of three or four sections,
each supervised by a Junior Engineer (JE).
6.08    The O0M divisions would be responsible for all aspects of operation
and maintenance of public tubevells. An 0&M division would be responsible
for about 270 to 360 tubewells (about 12 tubevell clusters) depending on
density of units within its territorial jurisdiction (para 4.22). Each O&M
division would also have a workshop/store located at the divisional head-
quarters. One AE, based in the divisional headquarters, would have two
clusters under his charge in addition to a divisional store and workshop.
The O0N staff would work closely with the agricultural staff responsible for
development and farm demonstrations in the public tubevell command areas.
The JE (061) would have office space in the building complex provided for



-30-
each tubewell cluster (para 4.27).  The tubewell clusters will be scattered
widely and for the OEM staff to function effectively, transportation would be
provided with 2 jeeps and 4 light trucks at OhM divisional level and motor-
cycles for all ABs and JEs with OM responaibilities. Motorcycles will be
purchased by staff through loans provided by the TW and operated under a
transportation allowance.
6.09    A construction division (attached to each field circle) would be
responsible for consttu,ting pump houses, distribution chambers, installing
pumping equipment and laying out- pipelines to the outlet level. It would
also be responsible for commissioning new tubewells and would design and
supervise the setting up of the rotational schedules of water distribution in
each tubewell command area.  The repair and-rehabilitation of existing
tubewell systems would be undertaken by special construction sub-divisions
which would be temporarily attached to the permanent circle construction
division until the repair and rehabilitation work program has been completed
within its territorial jurisdicatlon of the division. The special construc-
tion sub-division would theu be moved to another area with an appropriate
workload.
6.10    Staffirs Reguirementa.  A basic prerequisite for successful implemen-
tation of the project would be for the MID to provide effective and efficient
staff for the new TW. To achieve this objective, staff would be available
either through transfer within the MID or through recruitment, depending on
overall staffing requirements of the TW and availability of staff within the
MID through the project period. Those staff who can be usefully employed
have been transferred from the BWDC, and the MID has ensured that senior
officers (in particular, CEs, SEs and EEs in executive roles) have been
carefully selected such that they are capable of undertaking project duties.
For 01) activities, particularly at field level, the TV are specifying mini-
mum qualifications for staff and will adhere strictly to these conditions for
filling vacancies within the project organization. The staffing requirements
of the TW.through the project period are shown in Table T-ll. Agreements
have been reached with GOB that it would: (i) sanction and fill staff posi-
tions within the TW and provide necessary funding, in accordance with an
organization structure and staffing schedule acceptable to ID&, to enable the
TW to carry out the project; and (ii) train such staff so that the TW can
implement the project and operate and maintain the project works.
6.11    When the TW.i8 structured and staffed as described in paras 6.03 to
6.10, it will be able to operate efficiently aud effectively. However, to
assist the TV-to improve its maaagement capability, the GOB will retsin
qualified Management Consultants to undertake a comprehensive Management
Study of the TW in accordance with terms of reference agreed with IDA (Annex
4). In this respect, agreements have been reached with GOB that it would:
(i) undertake a Management Study of the TV in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA; (ii) furnish a report summarizing the results
and recommendations of the study to IDA for review by September 30, 1987;
and (iii) taking into account IDA's comments, carry out the recommendations
of the study according to a timetable satisfactory to IDA.



-31-
Osrat ion and Maintenance
6.12    Water Alocation.  It is presently impossible to operate a formal
water allocation procedure ou public tubewell systems in Bihar because of
the poor operational condition of most wells and extreme insecurity of power
supply. Water is delivered to farms on an ad hoc basis, as and when it is
available. The tubewell operator is responsible for making the allocation,
but is often influenced by powerful landowners or by his own judgment of
water requirements on farmers' fields. Inability to easily check water
allocation, coupled with unreliable power supply and frequent equipment
defects, has meant that designed rotational schedules are almost impossible
to observe. Consequently, irrigation deliveries are unreliable and ineq-
uitable. Particularly when supplies are limited, small farmers, or those
with fields furthest from the well point, are frequently denied their equi-
table share of water.  Under the project , for new and modernized tubewell
systems and (less effectively) for rehabilitated tubewells, it would be
possible to allocate and deliver water to farmers with predetermined timing
and in predictable and appropriate quantities.
6.13    For new and modernized tubewell systems under the project, the design
principle would be to divide the commaud area of a buried pipe distribution
loop system (para 4.14) into seven equal parts, each serving about 7 ha. The
7 ha unit would be known as an "area/day" command and would be entitled to
water supplies from the tubewell on a fixed day of the week at a stream flow
of about 75 ml/hr. The water right of each farmer in an "area/day" command
would be allocated by the TWMin proportion to the holding area of each
farmer; his water right would be expressed in hours of tubewell operating
time. The farmers within the "area/day" command would form a committee which
would be responsible for water distribution within the area served (para
6.16). An advantage of this arrangement is that the grouping of farmers
would minimize the chance of one power group controlling operation of a
tubewell. The arrangement would also eliminate a management role for the
tubewell operator whose main function would become that of a record keeper.
In addition, the water allocation procedure would relate to operational
considerations and not the physical location of an outlet on a buried pipe
distribution system. Valve outlets would be sited to give effective command
to all the area 3erved by a tubevell. Thus, on a typical day, two "area/day"
commands would be irrigated, with one command on each loop of the tubewell
distribution system (Chart C-3). Similar water allocation arrangements would
be formulated and introduced for rehabilitated tubewells with lined channel
or buried pipe conveyance systems.
6.14    Oweration Principles.  The operation criteria for new and modernized
tubevell irrigation systems would be such that water is supplied according to
area cf holdings within the tubevell command with service to an individual
farmers on a predetermined day of the week. An 'area/day" command would be
the unit by which water deliveries are scheduled and quantities delivered to
each command area would be based on a rotational allocation designed by the
staff of the TV. Only one outlet on a loop distribution system would be
opened at a time. Thus, as water supplied at an outlet is at a fixed dis-
charge, delivery would be equivalent to volumetric distribution on a time
basis. Farmers will be able to check that they are receiving their correct
allocation of water since if another outlet valve is opened, the decrease in



-32-
flow would be easily recognised. Delivery to outlets on rehabilitated sys-
tems would operate according to similar principles.
6.15    Maintenace CrUiteria.  Each tubewell cluster (para 4.22) would be
under the responsibility of a JE (OWM) who would have two full-time skilled
mechanics to provide routine and regular maintenance service for the
tubewells. The OEM divisional workshop would be equipped for day-to-day
maintenance of pumps, electric motors and switch gear, and provided with
adequate transport. The divisional workshop would hold at leaat 10% spares
against items replaced or repaired ou a frequent basis, such as pump tur-
bines, electric motors and ancillary electric equipment. The circle and
zonal workshops would have facilities with increasing capability to undertake
major repairs. As part of routine maintenance, pump discharges would be
checked at half yearly intervals and turbine impellers would be replaced if
low discharges indicate wear; well discharge and drawdown would also be
checked regularly.  Wells would be rehabilitated if the discharge/drawdown
relationship indicates deterioration of well performance.
Tubewell Frmers' Oryanizattion
6.16    Farmers within the commands of new or modernized public tubewells
would be organized by the JE into water user groups.  Each "area-day" command
on the buried pipe distribution system would be organized by an informal
group of all beneficiaries (about 7-10 farmers). A Tubewell Committee (TWC)
would also be set up consisting of about 14 members (out of about 100
beneficiaries) with one member from each "area-day" command. The TWC would
elect a President witb the tubewell operator acting as the Secretary. The
President would represent the tubewell beneficiaries on a Tubewell Cluster
Committee (TCC). The TWC would be responsible for cooidination amongst the
14 'area-day' command groups served by a tubewell; settling local disputes;
reporting to the (O0&) JE any problems related to its tubewell; co-ordinating
through the cluster committee with local Agriculture Extension Officers and
agricultural input agencies; and assisting the tubewell operator in matters
relating to collection of water charges. The TCC would undertake tasks
within a cluster similar to those of a TWC for an individual tubewell.
Other Proiect ManagMnt Activities
6.17    Staff Trainig,.  Even with careful selection of staff (para 6.10),
training of existing and new staff in the TW would still be an important
activity. Staff training would be organized by the TMEU (para 6.05) and
focus on five main activities: (i) management training for senior staff;
(ii) planning and design of improved tubewell systems with special attention
to the layout of pipe distribution systems; (iii) water allocation and land
acquisition procedures and legal parameters affecting public tubewell sys-
tems; (iv) OUM of completed tubewell systems; and (v) the promotion and
organization of water user groups. Training on tubewell systems would be
necessary because automatic operation at the well point and pipe distribution
systems to be installed under the project are unfamiliar to most engineering
staff in Bihar who would be responsible for the project works. -The training
would be "in-service", directed by senior officers and other experts and
undertaken on a regular sebedule at the staff training center (para 4.26),
The courses would include lectures, discussions, case studies and field



-33-
trips.  Junior staff would be trained for about three weeks and senior staff
for obout -one week. A pre-requisite for the training program would be-the
tomtpilation of the Design and C4& manuals-.
6.18    Desikn and O&M Manuals.  The technology used for new tubewell systems
has been continually improved over the past six year period from experienca
gained in Uttar Pradesh. Sufficient progress has been made to produce both a
design and an O&M manual covering all aspects of planning, design and manage-
ment of public groundwater irrigation systems.  The design manual would also
describe the principles, procedures and implementation methods associated.
with repair, rehabilitation and modernization of existing tubevell systems.
The O&M manual would cover all aspects of management of public tubewell
systems including the arrangements and procedures by-which the TW relates to
other agencies involved in public tubewell development and utilization. A
provision is made under the project to assist in the preparation and printing
of design and O&M manuals. An agreement has been reached with GOB that it
would prepare and furnish to IDA for its-review, by March 1, 1987, drafts of
comprehensive design and O&M manuals, aud taking into account IDA's comments,
adopt and utilize the manuals in the planning, design and operation and
maintenance of public tubewell systems.
6.19    Progress Review and Renorting Requirements.  Progress reports would
be prepared by the PCU (para 6.04) and be submitted to IDA on a semi-annual
basis. Each report would contain brief descriptions of the main events of
the reporting period including construction progress; expenditures incurred;
project staffing status; tenders, evaluation and awarding of contracts;
irrigation potential created; actual areas irrigated; operational hours of
water points; and the power supply situation.  Agreements have been reached
with GOB that it would: (i) prepare project progress reports on a semi-annual
basis for the periods April 1 to September 30 and October 1 to March 31; (ii)
submit such reports to IDA within two months after the end of each reporting
period with the first report to be submitted by March 31, 1987; and (iii)
prepare a project completion report, no later than six months after the
cloinig date of the project.
6.?0                                    . The existing M&E unit at MID would
be strengthened at headquarters and form a part of the ntew TMEU, and two M&E
field units set up at zonal levels (para 6.05).  The TMEU would be respon-
sible for collecting and analyzing data on project planning, implementation
and performance particularly with respect to siting of project works and the
quantity and quality of the irrigatioL service. The unit would also be
responsible for agro-economic monitoring, including crop production and
input/crop yield data for the main crops grown under the project. The
operator at each tubewell would assist the M&E field units by keeping daily
and seasonal records which reflect aspects of the agricultural performance.
Each operator will also keep data on annual maintenance costs and revenue
from water charges for the tubewell he operates. The data would be analysed-
by the M&E field units and consolidated with other costs of O6M from divi-
sional and circle headquarters to obtain total O&M costs; the results would
be incorporated in the regular progress reports (para 6.19). In this
respect, agreements have been reached with GOB that it would: (i) not later
than March 31, 1987, prepare-draft work plans and schedules for M&E
activities under the project; (ii) taking into consideration IDA's commezts,



-34-
carry out the work plan; and (iii) co=eucing July 1, 1987, review the work
plan annually in consultation with IDA and, if necessary, revise the work
plans accordingly.
6.21    Baseli   Survey.  One of the main F   taske will be to carry out
baseline surveys to enable project impact to be evaluated. The studies would
be undertaken in three stages. First, an initial baseline study of the
present situation would be made for representative sample areas to be
developed with each type of technology under the project. Data would also be
collected outside the project area so that the "future without' project
situation can be assessed and ccapared-  Second, the areas evaluated under
the initial taseline study would then be monitored on a regular and routine
basis by the M&E staff. In this respect, the TAHU would prepare regular
reports of its activities after data from each kharif and rabi cropping
season has been processed. An important monitoring task will be to verify
that project target groups (para 4.02) are indeed reached. Finally, in the
year prior to project completion, data collection under the initial beaeline
study would be repeated so that project impact can be evaluated. The conclu-
sions with supporting data of the final study would be submitted as part of
the Project Completion Report (para 6.19).
6.22    To assist the GOB'with M&E activities under the project, the TW would
retain either qualified local consultants or an appropriate government agency
to undertake the initial baseline survey and, based on the survey conclu-
sions, assist the TV to formulate a N&E program to be undertaken by M&E staff
on a regular basis. Technical services would also be used to advise the TW.
on preparation of data col'ection sheets; frequency of data collection;
sample selection and sizing; evaluation methods; management use of proceeded
data; aud feedback procedures so that results can be passed up in appropriate
detail through the various management levels of TM.organization. The infor-
mation and data to be collected would include socio-economic indicators such
as cropping patterns, cultivation methods, input application, on/off farm
labor, extension service assistance, returns from farming and other sources,
and home living conditions and also an evaluation of the impact of group
activities. The study would also assess the practicality and feasibility of
whether farmers served by public tubewells could be organized to manage a
tubewell on a communal basis. ln addition, the TW would retain technical
services to assist with agro-economic studies as required for the project
completion report. In this respect, agreements have been reached with GOB
that it would: (i) carry out a baseline agro-economic survey for the project
with terms of reference established in consultation with IDA; (ii) furnish to
IDS for its review and comments, by July 31, 1987, a report summarizing the
results and conclusions reached under the survey; and (iii) taking into
account the IA's comments, carry out any needed adjustment in further survey
programs in such detail as IDA may reasonably request.
Bihar State Electricity Board
6.23    Bihar State Electricity Board (BSEB) has a Chief Engineer - General
Manager for Rural Electrification (RE) - who is in charge of all rural elec-
trification throughout the State (including centrally-sponsored schemes)
together with works connected with energization of pumpsets. Re is supported



-35-
by staff located in all districts of the State.  The CZ (RE) would be respon-
sible for implementing the power component under the proposed project.  Since
the workload would be substsatially. Areater than at preseut, a new unit iu
the BSEM headquarters would be set up speeifically to undertake plauning,
design and procurement of project works. The unit would coordinate its
activities with the TW, prepare claims for reimbursement from the SW1  and
also undertake necessary monitoring of the power supply component. It would
not be necessary to create a special organization for construction of the
power compouent of the project. Existing field divisions of the BSEB wvould
be able to absorb this work load as tubewells to be connected to dedicated
power lines would be distributed throughout the State over a seven year
period. -
Department of Agricultue      -
6.24    The Department of Agriculture (DOA) is responsible for agricultural
extension services and any research activities required under the project.
The project would take advantage of the existing extension and research
system in the project area (para 2.15 et seq). To obtain maximum benefit
from the extension service and focus on the research requirements of the
project, close coordination would be maintained by the TW and those parts of
the DOA responsible for project-related activities. At field level. once
individual tubewells and clusters of tubewells become operational, the farmer
organizations (para 6.16) at the appropriate level, would provide a suitable
hierarchy through which the extension service could reach project
beneficiaries on a group basi' to supplement individual farmer contact. The
cluster buildings (para 4.27) would provide a small storage facility which
could as needed be used for extension or other agricultural activity*
VTI. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION. MARKET PROSPECT AND PRICES
Crogi2nin Patterns
7.01    Based on agricultural performance of other minor irrigation schemes
in Bihar, it is expected that cropping patterns would generally folLow
present practices with choice of crops depending on soil types, vailability
of irrigation water, and for cash crops, access to ready markets. The main
crops are described in para 2.11. Experience to date in Bihar indicates that
introduction of irrigation has not had a marked influence on the type of
crops grown. It has therefore been assumed that: (-i) under the project,
overall cropping intensities (rainfed plus irrigated) would increase through
expansion of the area cropped in the rabi season; and (ii) without the
project, future cropping patterns would not change significantly, with rice
being the preferred crop in kharif season and wheat in the rabi.
7.02    The main effect of the project would be to increase irrigated crop-
ping intensities in the rabi and hot seasons by about 50Z in new and modern-
ized tubewell commands, and on average by about 35% in the areas of existing
public tubewells, where irrigation is at present only partial. The tubevell
systems would provide full irrigation for rabi and/or hot season and for
perennial crops. The main cropping changes are expected to include introduc-
tion of hot season maize and vegetables, and in the rabi season, a substan-
tial increase in-the EYV.wheat, and moderate increases in rabi areas sown to.



-36-
oilseeds, fodder and maize.  In the kharif season, supplementary irrigathi.;
for paddy would result in considerable improvements in yields in years of It,
rainfall or when there are breaks in the monsoon. ln addition, availabiliLy
of a reliable irrigation service would encourage farmers to grow early HYV
varieties of paddy (100-120 days) transplanted in July.  In turn, the har-
vesting dates of early kharif paddy would euable an earlier planting of whic-u
and other rabi crops with a resultant increase in cropped area and yields Oyi
wheat. To summarize, cropping patterns assumed for the "future with" project
situation take into account four major factors: (i) the preference of farmers
to grow paddy in kharif; (ii) the capacity constraint of the irrigation
service particularly with respect to land preparation.and transplanting of
paddy in the wet season; (iii) the optimum time for wheat sowing in tie dcy
season; and (iv) the agro-economic potential of the areas served.
7.03    Virtually all of the potential beneficiaries of the project would be
small or marginal farmers unable to afford their own tubewells. Thdii crop
yields are generally low, largely because of their reluctance to irvest il
inputs, given the risks and low returns associated with rainfed farming. It
is assumed that without the project these farmers would continue to follow
rainfed cropping patterns. However, there would be a gradual increase in thr'
use of fertilizers and certified seeds of improved varieties over time as
more farmers become aware of the benefits of such inputs. The "future
without" project situation therefore assumes moderate improvements in yieldb.
Future CroR Yields
7.04    In the "future with" project situation, yield increases are expecteo
to be substantial as farmers respond to reduced risks associated with
irrigated compared to rainfed farming and utilize larger quantities of fe-
tilizer, HYV and agro-chemicals. It is estimated that irrigated paddy yielildi
would rise from less than 1.0 t/ha at present to about 2.0-2.3 t/ha, and
wheat yields from about 1.4 t/ha to about 2.0 t/ha. These future yields of
irrigated grain crops are well below paddy and wheat yields obtainable undei
average Bihar conditions, but reflect the more limited financial capability
of small farmers of the type the project is designed to reach, to purchase
appropriate packages of inputs. The irrigated crop yields assume reliable
and timely water supply, and moderate improvements compared to present
irrigated agricultural practices with respect to land preparation, use ot
fertilizer, seed quality, weed and pest control, cultivation and planting
techniques, and timeliness of harvest and threshing. The crop yields also
assume water application at field level as presently practiced in Bihar on
holdings which receive reliable water supplies from public tubewells, and a
moderately effective agricultural extension service. Estimates of crop
yields "with" and "without" the project for the three main agro-climatic
zones are detailed in Annex 2, Table 3.
Innut Reauirements
7.05    Present use of fertilizer and plant protection chemicals by the
majority of potential project beneficiaries is minimal and mostly limited
to paddy, wheat and maize. Even farmers who use their own irrigation sourceB
and therefore have the potential to apply full crop water requirements, use
only about a third of recommended chemical inputs. Very few farmers nse good



-37-
quality seeds (paddy, wheat and maize) and most farmers meet their seed
requirements from their previous harvests. The average farmer owns one pair
of draft animals which provide adequate farm power for the small size hold-
ings and general farming practices. Present and projected input requirements
(Annex 2, Table 3) reflect the low income level of farmers which would be
reached by the project. Crop yields used in the project analysis correspond
with the assumed moderate input levels.
7.06    The main input requirements of project farmers would be certified
seed of improved varieties and HYV. fertilizer and agro-chemicals. Suffi-
cient improved seeds would be available as reported by both the Bibar State
Seed Corporation and the closely associated Niational Seeds Corporation.
Moreover, they have distribution depots to supply farmers in each district
sub-division. The major supplier of fertilizer is the Bihar State Coopera-
tive Marketing Union (BISCOMAUN) which has 527 depots (one in every block)
throughout the State. However, BISCOMAUN only makes two requisitions for
purchase of fertilizers each year and these appear to be based on sales
volume in the previous years which have been static or declining since
1980/81. Increased demand by the project farmers would be gradual, and
should not create supply problems. Agro-chemicals in Bihar, such as pes-
ticides, are supplied by both BISCOMAUN and the private sector. Problems
have recently been experienced with the quality of pesticide. However,
quantities required under the project are expected to be relatively small,
and it is unlikely that risks of shortages present a major issue for the
project's success.
Market Prosoects and Prices
7.07    The project area covers a large part of Bihar and therefore the
potential market is substantial. Production increases, although significant
percentage-wise and in terms of the immediate areas developed, are expected
to be realized over a long period and would be small in relation to the
market. Therefore, marketing of surplus produce is not expected to pose a
problem with the established trading system of private dealers and Government
markets. It is envisaged that the project would generate need for more
storage capacity at local cooperatives to allow farmers to store produce and
thus benefit from higher seasonal prices. Such investments in storage would
generally be financed through institutional credit.
7.08    No major changes in crop prices are foreseen.  While prices are
largely determined by seasonal supply and demand patterns, Government price
policy prevents acute declines of prices in good growing seasons. Price
policies for rice and wheat have been particularly effective in maintaining
sufficient incentives for farmers, while keeping real prices to consumers
fairly stable. Since Bank projections of international grain prices show
only small changes from present levels, it has been assumed that future
farmgate prices (in constant terms) for paddy and wheat would approximate
current official procurement prices (September 1985) of Rs 1.400/ton and Rs
1,450/ton for paddy and wheat respectively.



-38-
VIII.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
General
8.01    Project works will be sited throughout northern Bihar where most
beneficiaries are farmers with small holdings who would not normally be able
to develop a groundwater irrigation source at their own expense. Thus, the
financial impact of the proje¢t has been evaluated only for those farmers
with holdings which are presently uou-irrigated, namely all farmers within
the command areas to be served by new tubewelle; and those within about 851
of the command area for existing tubewells to be modernized under the project
(i.e. excluding 15% of the command area presently irrigated). It is also
assumed that both new and modernized tubewell systems would provide an
irrigation service of the same quality. For rehabilitated tubevells, it is
assumed that the reliability of irrigation service would improve con-
siderably, mainly due to provision of a dedicated power connection.
FarM Incomes
8.02    The average cropping patterns for the three agro-climatic zones
'with' and 'without' the project are shown in Table T-5. In order to assess
the project financial impact on individual farms, three basic cropping pat-
tern models have been formulated which, for simplicity, are the same for all
agro-climatic zones and vary only according to soil type as follows:
(i) farmers with heavier soils would follow a predominantly paddy/wheat
cropping pattern which would be consumption rather than cash crop oriented;
Xii) farmers with light soils would prefer a maize/wheat/pulses rotation; and
(iii) farmers with fragmented holdings of both light and heavy soils would
follow a mixed cropping pattern of paddy/wheat on some fields and maize/wheat
on others. In addition, a fourth high income cropping pattern has been used
to indicate likely impact of diversification into other crops which give
higher return per hectare than paddy/wheat or maize/wheat. Adoption of the
higher income cropping pattern would depend on many factors such as market
opportunities, supply-and availability of inputs, farmers' entrepreneurship
and availability of adequate extension advice. The cropping pattern models
are given in Annex 2, Table 5 with the assumptions detailed in Annex 2.
8.03    Based on the above assumptions, net cash income of the four farm
models have been estimated in Annex 2, Table 6 and is sumarized below:
Per Farm Unit ai               Per CaDita a/
Model               FWO bf  F  Pt Incremsental   IWO       N!    Incremental
(Rs)    (Rs)   (Rs)    (X)   (Rs)   (Rs)    (Rs)    (X)
1. Heavy Soils        1,569   4,734   3,165   201   262       789    527      201
2. Mixed Cropping    1,370   4,135   2,765   202   228        689    461      202
3. Light Soils        1,358   3,893   2,535   187   226       649    423      187
4. Mixed Cropping    1,477   5,504   4,027   273   246        917    671      273
With Vegetable
(high income)
a/ Average family farm unit size has been taken as 1.0 ha, with a typical
household size of six members.
it/ NFO - "Future without" project; FN - "Future with" project.



-39-
The results show annual family income from farming for the "future with"
project situation ranging from about Rs 3,890 to Rs 5,500 (or Rs 650 to
Rs 920 per capita) depending on the soil type and cropping pattern adopted;
however, the income of many farm units, with holdings under 1.0 ha, will be
lower. Thus, the income level for project beneficiaries would still be very
low despite the substantial increase in farm income resulting from the intro-
duction of irrigation.
8.04 The analysis shows that the income of most project beneficiaries can
be expected to remain below the poverty line. Thus, even though the project
would assist farmers in increasing their farm produce and substantially
improving their income, a 1.0 ha farm unit (even if farmers adopted a high
income cropping pattern) may not be sufficient to produce a satisfactory
income leveL  In order to exceed the poverty line} it appears that many
small and marginal farmers (land owners or tenants) would need to supplement
their farm income by renting additional land or earn additional income
through off farm activities such as seasonal migratory labor.
Renavmet CA_acit of Farmers
8.05    For each farm model, project rent has been calculated (Annex 2, Table
6). This is defined as the incremental gross margin less allowances for
depreciation, use of own resources (fau.ly labor and bullock owner), per-
ceived risk and own management services. The estimates of project rent for
each type of farm model are shown in Table T-12. Under the assumptions used
in the analysis, the project rent does not exhibit significant variations
amongst the three agro-ecological zones. However, as the target
beneficiaries would be small or marginal farmers, use of this indicator to
determine the farmers' capacity to pay is of limited value. The judgement on
what portion of the project rent can be taxed will depend on the farmers'
willingness to apply cash earnings to water in light of other often pressing
demands on their limited incomes.
Cagital and 0M  Costs
8.06    To evaluate alternative cost recovery policies, the estimated costs
of a typical tubewell unit have been separated into fixed and variable costs.
Fixed costs are those costs which do not depend on the hours the well is
operated, such as investment costs and cost of permanent operating staff and
routine maintenance. The variable costs include costs which depend on hours
of operation such as energy. Assumptions on annual costs are detailed in
Annex 2 and Table T-13, and are summarized below for 2,700 hours operation
per year:



-40-
New and Modernized      Rehabilitated
-- ---R/Tubevell Unit------
Capital Cost Annuity /I                      47,600               24,000
Establishment (fixed)               5,000                5,000
Maintenance (fixed)                 2,500   7,500        2,500   7,500
Variable Energy Costs lb                   10,960               10,960
Total                            -        66s060               42e460
-  la  Calculated at 12Z iuterest rate over life span of various project works.
/b  BSEB tariff rate of 0.35 Rs/kWh is used; the marginal rate is '.03 Rs/kWh.
Thus, a water charge, which correctly reflects the tubewell cost structure
shown above, would consist of a volumetric component related to pumping hours
and a flat rate per ha reflecting the fixed cost component.
Present Cost Recovery
8.07    Background,.  The policy of GOB is to tax the agricultural sector with
due recognition of low income levels in the rural areas. With respect to
minor irrigation, the policy objective of GOB is to provide all farmers with
strong incentives to utilize irrigation in order to benefit the State through
increased productivity and increased employment in rural areas. With the
exception of cash crops, surplus incremental production reaching the market
would be limited, since the siting criteria would ensure that farm holdings
reached under the project would be small and mDst of the additional produc-
tion would be consumed by the farm family.
8.08    Present Water CharMes.  The level of water charges for public
tubQwells is set by GOB, with responsibility for collection (until April
1986) vested in the BWDC (para 3.02). To date, water charges have been set
on an ad-hoc basis, ranging from Rs 48/ha to Re 270/ha, related to crop,
production season and the number of irrigations as detailed in Table T-14.
Charges for tubevell water were last reviewed in December 1983 when levels
were adjusted between kharif and rabi crops to encourage greater utilization
of the irrigation service. If present water rates would be fully collected
for all areas presently irrigated from public tubewells, they could % er on
average, only about half of present OEM costs. However, present O6M costs
are excessive because of overmanning of O&H activities and other inefficien-
cies under the BWDC and O&M costs are incurred for those wells which are not
operable.
8.09    The BWDC has also performea poorly in collection of water charges
recovering only about 20X of billings. This situation reflects the poor
quality of irrigation service, primarily due to incomplete distribution
systems, lack of maintenance and irregular power supply. A combination of
these factors has led to widespread farmers' distrust of public tubewell
systems. In addition, poor recovery has resulted from ineffective assessment
and billing procedures, lax collection of water charges and the inability of
BWDC to take appropriate legal action against defaulters. Furthermore, since
there is no linkage in data collection between water charges, collection



-41-
rates and costs of providing the irrigation service, there is no specific
accountability either withiu BIIDC or in GOB for poor collection. The general
lack of responsibility for cost recovery, coupled with poor irrigation serv-
ice and a demoralized management, has meant that a major effort will be
necessary to improve the present situation. Nonetheless, for typical project
works which are fully utilized, it is estimated that in an average rainfall
year, revenues based on the present level of water charges would range from
about Rs 130/ha to Re 150/ha depending on farm model (Table T-12) and cover
70-802-of the average annual 0&11 costs anticipated uuder the project (Rs
185/ha). Inclusive of incremental land and agricultural sales taxes, total
recovery would amount to Rs 215-330/ha and would thus cover the full 061
costs and also a small part of capital-costs.
Cost Recovery Under the ProJeA 
8.10    A primary concern c  the GOB is that public tubewell irrigation
development does not result in an increasing financial burden on the State.
On the other hand, the cost recovery system and level of water charges should
provide sufficient incentive to all farmers to fully utilize the irrigation
service, particularly in the kharif season when farmers may tend to gamble on
the rain. In addition, given the number of farmers involved, the system
needs to be simple to administrate. In formulating a cost recovery policy,
the GOB will have to consider four separate but interrelated elements:
(i) financial monitoring in particular to assess whether 061 costs are
covered by revenue from water charges; (ii) effective collection of water
charges; (iii) the method of charging; and (iv) the level of water charges.
Of these elements, improvements in financial monitoring and collection of
water charges can be undertaken as au immediate action glan since they do not
depend on project implementatiou. Changes in the method of charging for the
irrigation service constitute a medium term action 2lan and will need to be
carefully studied before basic changes are introduced, since it will depend
on commissioning sufficient new, modernized or rehabilitated tubewells under
the project to demonstrate the improvements in irrigation service. While the
present level of water charges together with indirect cost recovery through
incremental tax collections is adequate (para 8.09). on a continuous and
regular basis, the level should be reviewed to ensure that recovery is com-
mensurate with the cost of providing the service (para 8.17).
Immediate Action Plan
8.11    Financial Monitorina. To enable project management to financially
monitor the cost of O&M, existing accouLting procedures in the MID need to be
strengthened. This will stem in part from the MID Management Study (pars
6.11). A priority concern, will be to collect data to support the O&M budget
request of the MID to Government so that each public tubewell system can be
effectively and efficiently operated and maintained to such standards that
predicted benefits can be achieved. In this respect, establishment, energy
and maintenance costs would be accounted for uuder separate headings and
processed so that O&M costs for individual tubewells and by tubevell
clusters, O&M divisions and circles can be identified (para 5.14). Account-
ing procedures would enable 0&11 costs for existing and new works to be
separated so that costs can be analysed. This will help the GOB to establish
what portion of O&M costs can be attributed to inefficiencies in maagement



-42-
and what portion relates to technical limitations. The GOB vould also have
data to help decide how much beneficiaries need to pay. Accounts would also
be kept in such a way that GOBIKID can identify costs of managing improved
standard and rehabilitated existing tubewells as well as the overall public
tubewell irrigation program. With this information, the MID will have a
basis for setting realistie O&H cost allocations for the various existing and
new works (para 5.02). Finally, the MID would collect revenue data from
water charges on a seasonal basis so that revenue can be related to O&M costs
of tubewell operation through an annual irrigation cycle. In this respect,
during negotiations, an understanding was reached with GOB that, upou
request, it would make available to IDA review missions a statement of water
charge assessment and. revenue collected for public tubewells for the crop
season wbich had completed upto four months previous to the visit of the
review mission.
8.12    Assesement and Collection.  The procedures followed under the BWDC
for the assessment, billing and collection of water charges are inefficient,
bureaucratic and difficult for management to monitor. The preseut procedures
have been based on those used by Revenue authorities within the Irrigation
Department for surface irrigation systems and have not been amended to meet
the specific requirements of public tubewells. In addition, the BWDC staff
responsible for collection have not been given the legal powers vested in
Irrigation Revenue staff to collect arrears and thus appropriate action
cannot readily be taken against farmers who default in payment of water
charges. To correct these problems, the GOB has decided to undertake a
thorough review of administrative procedures to make assessment and collec-
tion more effective and efficient and then continue such review on a regular
basis throughout the project period. Assessment and billing procedures will
be streamlined and simplified and responsibility for collection vested in the
TW which has been given the power to enforce collection under the Public
Demand Recovery Act. In this respect, during negotiations, understandings
were reached with GOB that it would: (i) cause the TW to bill farmers
promptly for irrigation water to a timetable agreed with IDA; (ii) review and
formulate procedures for improving the effectiveness and efficiency of water
charge collections; and (iii) entrust the TW with legal powers to enforce
collection of arrears of water charges.
Medium Term Action Plan
8.13    The improved technology of nev and modernized tubevells has the
capability to provide a reliable, timely and equitable irrigation service;
rehabilitated tubewells will be able to provide an irrigation service which
will show major improvements over the existing situation. For tubewells of
improved design under the project, the quantity of vater supplied at the well
point would be the same as that reaching the valve outlets because conveyance
losses in pipes are near zero, and losses in the field channels below the
outlets would be low. Thus, there is a major difference between the service
from improved and old standard tubevell irrigation systems not only in the
iumatitz of water that each farmer receives but also in the cualitv of the
irrigatiou service. In addition, the improved tubevell irrigation technology
would provide an essentially 'on demand' irrigation service, since the farmer
decides whether to open his valve outlet when his rotation day comes. The



-43-
variable component of the cost of providing water could theoretically there-
fore be charged on a volumetric basis.
8.14    In addition to the technical considerations outlined above, the cost
recovery system presently used in lihar does not sufficieutly consider physi-
cal factors which affect the value of irrigation service provided. First,
there are large annual and seasonal variations in demand and large differen-
ces in water requirements for the main crops depending on climatic and soil
tonditions. Thus, a system of charges based on unit irrigated area and
provision to charge per irrigation for some crops, has-encouraged farmers
located at the head to take more water than they need to the detriment of
those further away from the water source.  Second, the quality of the irriga-
tion service provided, varies considerably throughout the State, and since,
at present, tubewell water charges are uiiform statewide, the level of char--
ges has to take into account the value of the poorest service offered.
8.15    Method of Chraging.  For reasons explained above, an appropriate
water charge system for project works could be different from that for exist-
ing public tubewell systems. The improved technology and water management
arrangements would theoretically enable a water charge system for project
works to be based on 'hours of use'. Such a volumetric charge system would
be basically different from the present statewide water charge system and the
administrative practicality of introducing a new system would have to be
checked and introduction would need to be cleared at appropriate levels of
Government. The cost recovery system should provide the opportunity for
incentives to encourage farmers to fully utilize the irrigation service and
take account of repayment capacity of the target group of beneficiaries. In
the short-run, and while the system is being improved and the TV is being
developed as an elfective agency, the recovery system will of necessity need
to be kept relatively simple. In the long-run, and to achieve the objectives
of efficient water use and equitable vecovery of costs, the GOB should con-
sider a two (or more) tier water charge. First, there should be a kbas
charge for the service which reflects the 'fised cost' of the service. For
improved standard tubewells, this charge could relate to the average costs of
works which enable all users to have an equal quality of service and a
greater quantity of water because losses are reduced. Already, the State has
legislation to levy a 'betterment' charge which could be used as the proposed
base charge. Second, there should be a volumetric yater charge which would
provide revenue that is proportional to tubewell utilization. Since there is
insufficient information at present to enable GOB to introduce such a
'tiered' water charge system, the Government will need to undertake a study
to formulate an appropriate policy and agree a timetable for introducing any
new charge system. In particular, the study would take into account the
efficiency and reliability of the irrigation service as well as the quantity
of water provided.
8.16    To achieve the objective of introducing improved water charges system
as outlined above, agreements have been reached with GOB that it would:
ti) not later than December 31, 1987, prepare and furnish to IDA for its
review and comment, draft terms of reference for a study aimed at estab-
lishing an improved water charge system for new, modernized and rehabilitated
public tubewells under the project, and taking into account ID's comments,
carry out the study; (ii) furnish to IDA for its review and comment, not



-44-
later than December 31, 1988, the results of the study together with a
proposed timetable for applying the new water charge system; and (iii) taking
into account IDA's comments on the recommendations of the study, duly imple-
ment the new water charge system in accordance with this timetable.
Proiected Level of Cost Recover-
8.17    To avoid tubevell irrigation development unter the project becoming a
burden on Government budget, an agreement has been reached with GOB that it
would set water charges on existing and new public tubewell systems
throughout Bihar to ensure that revenue covers the average O&W c0ts and a
reasonable share of investment costs, taking into account the payment
capacity of irrigation beneficiaries.  To ensure that revenue collected is
sufficient to cover the costs specified in the above agreement, GOB would
review and, if necessary, adjust the level of water charges on an annual
basis since the cost of providing the irrigation service will vary each year
(paras 5.02 and 8.11).
8.18    Given the present income levels of most project beneficiaries, the
immediate concern of GOB with respect to cost recovery levels would be to
price irrigation water at a level which would encourage full and efficient
utilization of the irrigation service. Unless small or marginal farmers can
achieve production predicted at full development, the chances of Government
being able to progressively increase water charges above current levels would
be limited.
8.19    Since the exact level of water charges which would be applicable at
full development cannot be predicted at this time, revenue projections for
project works have been based on present water rates which may represent the
'variable' portion of the eventual two-tier water charge system, when such a
system is adopted (para 8.15). The present values of recovery thus projected
are given in Table T-13. The rent recovery index is expected to range from
12S to 16% depending on farm soil type and cropping patterns. The average
cost recovery is estimated to be between 34X and 41% of the annual total
project cost. While it may be conceptually feasible to charge higher water
rates to project beneficiaries, the scope for achieving this is limited.
Income levels of most farm families at full development under the project
will remain close to the poverty level and it may not be practical to have a
differential water rate that reflects farm income levels.
IX. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
General
9.01    The provision of a reliable irrigation service would substantially
reduce farmers' risk and produce incentives for complementary investments
such as higher input applications and gradual adoption of more advanced
farming practices. It would also lead to a more efficient utilization and
management of groundwater and power by the public groundwater sector. The
area irrigated and families benefitting would be as follows:



-45-
Works jj   Command Area           Farm
i     iN. of WU    Served A(ha  Families Seryed (No.)
New TW8                     500        50,000              55,000
Modernized TWs            1,000       100,000             110,000
Rehabilitated TWs         3.tl2       297.000             330.00Q
Total                   5,212       447,000             495,000
I/  Provision of 8 dedicated power supply is a prerequisite to achieving the
benefits for each type of project vorks.
9.02    The overall impact of the project in terms of increased agricultural
production and employment generated at full development is summarized below:
Increased foodgrain production (tons/year) ............ 247,000
Value added to the local economy (Rs M/year) ar)........      366
Generated farm employment (M man/days).................         8
9.03    Production Benefits.  At full development, t'e project would increase
foodgrain production by about 247,000 tons/year (including about 146,000
tons/year of wheat production), equivalent to an increase of about 94X over
production without the project.  Incremental rice and wheat production would
be mainly available for on-farm consumption for small and marginal farmers;
any surpluses would be marketed within the State. Increased maize production
would be marketed locally where it is a staple crop.  Additional production
of pulses would help to alleviate a growing statewide scarcity in that com-
modity, as it is the main source of protein for human consumption in India.
9.04    Emololment.  It is estimated that labor requirements in agriculture
would increase by about 28Z as a result of the project from about 28.3 M to
about 36.3 M man-days per year at full development. Most of this labor would
be needed during the rabi season when labor is generally in surplus in rural
areas in Bihar, since witbout irrigation, most land would remain fallow. The
iacrease would be due to adoption of irrigation, increases in cropped area,
more intensive care of crops and the higher labor needs for harvesting. The
labor requirements would be reflected mainly in the reduction of the present
high level of unemployment and underemployment of family labor, particularly
on the smaller farms. Agricultural laborers and marginal farmers would
benefit from increased labor demand on larger farms and from non-farm employ-
ment opportunities generated by the project due to increased demands for
marketing, transport and processing facilities. About 5,000 jobs for
unskilled labor would be created mainly for constructing the project works.
9.05    Beneficiaries. The project would directly benefit about 495,000 farm
families by project completion and indirectly, a large number of landless
laborers. Most beneficiaries would be farmers with farms which would be too
small to justify a private well. The project would thus help overcome exist-
ing and potential inequities in the use of the key resources of groundwater
and irrigable land.



-46-
Economic Analysis
9.06    The project consists of a large number of individual tubevell units.
For the ecoaomic analysis, the 5,212 tubewells were classified under the
following categories: (i) 500 new tubevells; (ii) 1,000 modernized tubevells
with new pipe distribution systems; and (iii) 3,712 rehabilitated tubewells,
of which 1,313 tubewells would have repairs of their existing distribution
systems, and 2,399 tubewells would have minor parts replacement, but their
existing distribution systems would be left unchanged.
9.07    The benefit and cost streams assumed in the analysis are detailed
in Annex 2 and presented in Table T-15. The benefit stream includes
incremental agricultural benefits (net of on-farm-production costs). The
economic costs included: (i) all direct investments in tubewells and dis-
tribution systems included in the analysis together with proportional invest-
ments in dedicated power lines; (ii) proportional expenditure for management
improvement and institutional building; and (iii) all OM costs for uew,
modernized and rehabilitated tubewells included in the analysis.
9.08    Economic prices used in the analysis are detailed in Annex 2.  For
traded commodities (including fertilizers) prices were derived from IBRD
projected 1990 and 1995 world market prices with adjustments for quality,
freight, insurance, handling, local transport and processing. For non-traded
commodities, adjustments were made on the financial prices, to eliminate the
effect of direct transfer payments (taxes subsidies and credit). The shadow
price of agricultural labor was assumed at about 502 of the going wage rates
for hired labor. Other production cost items were valued by employing
specific conversion factors to financial costs. Benefit build-up is the
result of the assumed phasing of areas to come under irrigation, a four year
transition from present to future cropping intensities, and six year build-up
of yields, input use, and adoption of high yielding crop varieties. The cost
of pumping has been based on the estimated marginal cost of electricity for
Bihar. The economic costs of all civil works, equipment, land acquisition,
administration and engineering, have been derived from the financial ones
adjusted by conversion factors (Annex 2).
9.09    Evaluating the costs and benefits over a 25-year period, the
estimated ERR for the various project components are as follows:
'sgmDousat                        ERR
(x)
New Tubewells                        32
Modernized Tubewells                 42
Rehabilitated Tubevells              29
Overall Project                      33
The results indicate the clear economic viability for all project components.
The relatively high ERR is a result of a very short gestation period for
works on individual tubewell systems and, hence, only a limited time lag
exists from the investment period until benefits start to accrue. It also



-47-
reflects the substantial benefits (compared to the *without' project situa-
tion) which would result from providing public tubewells with a powct supply
as assumed in sizing a tubewell command area (pars 9.11).
Sensitiviy, and Risk Analeyis
9.10    Proiect Sensitivity.  To measure the impact of possible changes in
the economic environment on the project's stream of benefits and  iosts,
several sensitivity tests were performed.  One test was to estimate the
change in ERR for the overall project and-main components against a range of
changes in the key-assumptions; the results of this test are as follows:
- -  Overall     New       Modernized  Rehabilitated
Variable Tested             Pri"ct   Tubewells   TubeweUls_       ubewells_
-      _ __ -------- _ -  ---------- __ _____ -
Best Estimate                   33          32           42           29
Costs up by 50%                 22          21           30           17
Benefits down by 50%            15          15           22            9
Costs up by 202, benefits
down by 201                    24          21           30           17
Benefits lag by 3 years         19          19           24           16
Another test, undertaken on the overall project, was to calculate the switch-
ing value of the assumed benefits and costs to assess what change in these
variables would reduce the discounted present value of the net benefits (at
122 discount rate) to zero:
Appraisal     Switching
Varisble Tested                          Value           alue      Change %
Net Incremental Benefits (Rs M)           6,340           2,250        -65
Incremental Costs (Rs X)                  2,250           6,340        183
9.11    In addition, the ERR of the overall project was tested for exclusion
of dedicated power lines as a project component assuming that, as a result,
power supply would be available for only 4-6 hr/day instead of up to
16 hr/day. This would have the effect of reducing irrigation supplies to
about 30% of that assumed under the project and also seriously reduce the
reliability and timeliness of the irrigation service. On the assumption that
power supply was limited to 4-6 hr/day, the ERR of the overall project would
decline to about 16%. However, this situation would also have serious
socio/financial consequences since full irrigation service could only be
given to about 30 ha of a public tubewell command area (100 ha). Thus,
without dedicated power lines, there would be either (i) a substantial
decrease in projected farm incomes if irrigation supplies were to be spread
over 100 ha, or (ii) the command area would have to be reduced and about two
thirds of the farmers who could be served under the project would be
excluded.
9.12    The above tests indicate that the economic viability of the project
would be only mildly sensiti-e to possible changes in costs and benefits and
only large changes (and unlikely in the magnitude required) in the main



-48-
assumptions would make the project economically unviable. The last test
indicates the importance of dedicated power-lines to the project, without
which, a drastic reduction in the ERR could be expected.
9.13    Proiect Risk.  The technical risks are somewbat lower than would
normally be expected with an operation of this type because lessons learnt
from the UP Public Tubewell Projects (para 4.01) and the preparation of a
similar project in West Bengal, have helped to identify and minimize the
potential risks involved. The major problems with public tubevells in Bihar
have been identified as incomplete works, management difficulties, inadequate
power supply, 0&M underfundiug, and iustitutional shortcomings related to the
BWDC. Under the project, the GOB is taking substantial measures to eliminate
or minimi$e these problems.
9.14    The main possible risk to project benefits would be under-utilization
of tubewell irrigation systems. However, apparent lack of demand with exist-
ing public tubewells is primarily due to the present poor quality of the
irrigation service. Proven designs used for new and modernized tubewells
under the project are such that they would be able to provide a reliable,
timely and equitable service. The rehabilitation of existing tubevells under
the project would enable substantial improvements over the existing service.
Under-utilization of project wells may still occur due to lack of farmers'
response to an assured irrigation service, particularly in the kharif season
when farmers tend to gamble on good monsoon rainfall to save paying irriga-
tion chargeu. This temptation is especially strong among the smaller and
poorer farmers for whom the chance of even small savings would be tempting.
In this respect, the project provides for a comprehensive monitoring of such
matters as farmer response and the water charge system so that, if necessary,
corrective action can be taken.
Environmental Effects
9.15    The project areas have been under wet season cultivation for decades
and introduction of irrigation improvements in the dry season are not
expected to produce a significant change in environmental conditions. Water
from project wells would be potable and could have a health benefit by reduc-
tion of the occurrence of intestinal diseases. The water delivery through
buried pipes is expected to minimize the potential hazards of malaria
associated with some surface irrigation schemes. NBuetheless, aa agreement
has been reached with GOB that it would take all measures as may be con-
sidered necessary to minimize the risk of malaria, filaria and other
water-related diseases within the project area.
X. AGREEUTS REACMID AND RECONMENDATIONS
10.01   An agreement has been reached with GOI that it would make the
proceeds of the credit available to GOB on GOI's standard terms and arrange-
ments for development assistance to the States (para 5.02).
10.02   Agreements have been reached with GOB that it would:
(a)  provide appropriate staffing, facilities, services and the other
resources required to carry out effective agricultural extension,



-49-
satisfactory to IDA. throughout the districts of the project area.
and ensure that such extension service would be fully operable and
staffed in a district before pz'iject works on new. modernized and
rehabilitated tubewells within such district are energized (para
2.18);
(b) provide dedicated 11 kY feeder lines to each public tubewell within a
cluster to give a power supply from a conductor which would be
exclusively used for public tubewells; provide project tubevells with
a minimum of 16 hours of power supply per day at peak demand periods
with a voltage fluctuation of not gteater than +6Z; and energize each
new, modernized or rehabilitated project tubewell unit within two
months of its completion (para 4.24);
(c) locate. plan. design and construct the project works, in accordance
with standards and criteria satisfactory to IDA (para 4.38);
(d) by December 31. 1989. prepare and furnish to IDA for its review and
comments, draft terms of reference for a mid-term review of the
project and, taking into account IDA's comments, if any, carry out
the review and furnish a report summarizing the results to IDA by
June 30, 1990; and thereafter, carry out the required adjustments to
the project subject to prior agreement with IDA (para 4.39);
(e) promptly provide resources and funds to execute the project in
accordance with the implementation and expenditure schedules for the
project period. and to operate and maintain adequately and effi-
ciently the public tubewell systems under the project (para 5.02);
Cf)  cause the MID and BSEB to:  maintain separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting principles
and procedures consistently applied, its resources, expenditures and
operations related to the project; furnish to IDA copies of accounts
and financial statements for each year. certified as to their
accuracy and authenticity by an independent auditor acceptable to
IDA. not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year;
have accounts and financial statements related to the project.
including the Special Account. for each fiscal year audited annually
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; furnish to IDA immediately
following its finalization. the report of such audit in such detail
as IDA shall reasonably request; furnish to IDA any other information
as it shall reasonably request; and enable IDA's representatives to
examine all records pertaining to the Credit (para 5.13);
(g)  cause the MID to:  maintain separate records and accounts for state-
ments of expenditure; retain such records and accounts for IDA review
for at least one year after IDA has received the project audit report
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the credit was
made; and ensure such separate accounts are included in the annual
audit and that the annual audit report contains a separate opinion as
to whether such expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided (para 5.14);



-50-
(b)  cause the MID to:  maintain separate accounts for the OWM expendi-
tures of public tubewells throughout the State in such a manner that
the establishment, energy and maintenance costs can be separately
identified; and make available such accounts and financial statements
to IDA for inspection during project review (para 5.14);
(i) maintain Project Co-ordinating and Accounting UWits within the TW
under the direction of suitably qualified and experienced officers
(para 6.04);
(Q)  sanction and fill staff positions within the TW and provide necessary
funding, in accordance with an organization structure and staffing
schedule acceptable to IDA, to enable the TV to carry out the
project; and train such staff so that the TV can implement the
project and operate and maintain the project works (para 6.10);
(k) undertake a Management Study of the TW in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA; furnish a report summarizing the
results and recommendations of the study to IDA for review by Septem-
ber 30, 1987; and taking into account IDA's comments, carry out the
recommendations of the study according to a timetable satisfactory to
IDA (para 6.11);
(1) pcepare and furnish to IDA for its review, by March 1, 1987, drafts
of comprehensive design and O0M manuals, and taking into account
IDA"s comments, adopt and utilize the manuals in the planning, design
and operation and maintenance of public tubewell systems (para 6.18);
(m) prepare progress reports on a semi-annual basis for the periods April
I to September 30 and October 1 to March 31; submit such reports to
IDA within two months after the end of each reporting period with the
first report submitted by May 31, 1987; and prepare a project comple-
tion report, no later than six months after the closing date of the
project (par. 6.19);
(n)  not later than March 31, 1987, prepare draft work plans and schedules
for M&E activities under the project; taking into consideration IDA's
comments, carry out the work plan; and commencing July 1, 1987,
review the work plan annually in consultation with IDA and, if neces-
sary, revise the work plans accordingly (para 6.20);
(o)  carry out a baseline agro-economic survey for the project with terms
of reference established in consultation with IDA; furnish to IDA for
its review and comments, by July 31, 1987, a report sumarizing the
results and conclusions reached under the survey; and taking into
account the IDA's comments, carry out any needed adjustment in fur-
ther survey programs in such detail as IDA may reasonably request
(pars 6.22);
(p) not later than Decemner 31, 1987, prepare and furnish to IDA for its
review and comment, draft terms of reference for a study aimed at
establishing an improved water charge system for new, modernized and



-51-
account MDA*s comments, carry out the study; furnish to IDA for its
review and comment, not later than December 31. 1988. the results of
the study together with a proposed timetable for applying the new
water charge system; and taking into account IDA's comments on the
recommendations of the study, duly implement the new water charge
system in accordance with this timetable (para 8.16);
(q) set water charges on existing and new public tubewell systems
throughout Bihar to ensure that revenue covers the average O&M costs
and a reasonable share of investment costs, taking into account the
payment capacity of irrigation beneficiaries-(para 8.17); and
- (r)  take-all measures as may be considered necessary to minimize the risk
of malaria. filaria and other water-related diseases within the
project area (para 9.15).
10.03   During negotiations, understandings were reached with GOB:
(a) on the terms of reference of the management study (Annex 4) which
specify the financial monitoring requirements under that project so
that sufficient information will be available for IDA to review the
annual budget requests and provisions for O&M within the TW (para
5.02);
(b) that upon request, it would make available to IDA review missions a
statement of water charge assessment and revenue collected for public
tubewells for the crop season which had been completed upto four
months previous to the visit of a review mission (para 8.11); and
(b) that it would: cause the TW to bill farmers promptly for irrigation
water after the service has been provided to a timetable agreed with
IDA; review and formulate procedures for improving the effectiveness
and efficiency of water charge collection; and entrust the TW with
legal powers to enforce collection of arrears of water charges (pars
8.12).
10.04   With the above agreements and understandings, the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of US$68.0 M on standard IDA terms. The borrower
would be the Government of India.



INDIA
BIHAR PUBLIC TUDEWELL PROJECT
Ajricultural Production - The State of Bihar
1960161                             _97071    _                          1980/81                             1982183
Area      Production   Yield          Area      Production   Yield        Area_   Production   Yield           Area      ProductLon   Yield
('000 ha)  ('000 tons) (kg/ha)        t'000 ha) ('000 tons) (kgiha)  ('000 ha)  ('000 tons) (kg/ha)                  a)  ('000 tons) (kg/ha)
Cereals
Rice                     5.240        4,544         867        5,112        4,339        849       5,491       5.476          997       4,498        3,065          681
Wheat                      658          433         673        1,230         1,192       969       1,803       2,825        1,567       1,734        2,427        1.400
larley                     393           204        519          284          14        646         129          100         775
Maize                      805          821       1,020          991         1,113    1.123          890       1,036       -1,164         799          937        1,173
Ragi                       210           105        500          177            91       514         177          114         644
Bajra                        6             3        500           14             8       571          13            7         538
Jowar                        -             -          -            -             -         -           9            5         556         101           67          663
Small Millets               83    _     2bl         922          224        _  97        433         149                   _ 349          268 jI       121 1i       451. If
Totai Cereals             7,595        6,381         840        8,002         7,004       875       8,661       9,635        1.110       7,400        6,617          894
Pulses
Gram                       542          324         598          244           174       713         186         140          753         192          141          734
Other Pulses             1.604          766         478         J389           797       574       1.812       _607         335 1003                   569          567
Total Pulses              2,146        1,040         50S        1,633           971       595       1,391          747         5317      1,195           710         594
Oilseeds
Linseed                    109           31         284           56           43        768          97          41         422           88           44          500
Rapseed and Mustard         88           32         364           87            52       598          80          35         438           86           45          523
Nigerseed                   44           14         318           52            22      423           44          16         364            -            -            -
Other Oilseeds             _                       -              _-- -                  -            28          18         643           65          _2 538
Total Oilseeds              241            77        320          195           III       600         249          110         442         239           114         477
Other Crops
Jute                       147          850 2/    412            142           788 2J   402          155         b'1 2       380          120          743 _1      410
Sugarcane                  186        6,027    32,403            Ib2        6,209   38,327           III       3,480      31,350          130        4,464      34,340
Potatoes                    76          606      7,974           101        1,122   11,108           132       1,055       7,992          132        1,248       9,455
Mecta            _          38    13.23 7                    _    3b_ 165              __83           35         184       5.257           27         -133        4926
Total Other Cropb           447             -          -          441             -         -         433            _                     409             _
Grand Total              10,429             -          -       10,271                       -      10,734                  -             9,243
t Relates to "all othler cereals", including. b.n'ev. ragi and ba]ra.
/ '000 bales of 180 kg eacn.
Source. DOrectorate of Economic and Statibtica, G01.



-53-
Table T-2
INDIA
BTIAR PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
Gross Irrinated Area - The State of Biba
-  -   -------S o                 ources       -         --|- -          -
Total Irr-
Districts          Caaals          Tanks        LUbAMweLs   Other Wells   Other S3ourees  iisated AMe
EgohLo-1- Z000 ha) Q           ('OQO bal   z  t'000 ha) -L  ('000  La)         Q 2°lM Q  s
Patna               57   34.1      2      1.2     66   39.5       7     4.2    35    21.0         167
Nalanda             17    8.2      3      1.5     83   40.1    50    24.1    54    26.1           207
-Gaya               48   13.0       2     0.5      60   16.2    20       5.4   240    64.9        370
Navada               8    5.8      1      0.7     28   20.3       7     5.1    94    68.1         138
Auraugsbad          93   49.7      -              19   10.2       3     1.6    72    38.5         187
Bhojpur           200   62.7    14       4.4      34   10.7       1     0.3    70    21.9         319
Robtas             368   77.3    11       2.3     68   14.3       7     1.5    22       4.6       476
Saran                1    0.9      4     3.7      41   38.0    42    38.9    20    18.5           108
sivan               21   19.8      6     5.7      58   54.7    17    16.0        4      3.8       106
Gopalganj           53   53.5      -        -     29   29.3    12    12.1        5      5.1        99
Champaran East    48   39.3        2     1.6      61   50.0       1     0.8    10       8.2       122
Champaran West   137   89.0        -        -     12    7.8       1     0.6      4      2.6       154
Musaffarpur          1    1.3      1      1.3     70   92.1       -     -        4      5.3        76
Vaishali             1    2.1      2     4.3      34   72.3       8    17.0      2      4.3        47
Sitasmarhi           -      -      2     4.9      33  .80.5.    1       2.4.    5    12.2          41
Darbhanga            -      -      5    15.6      18   56.3       1     3.1      8    25.0         32
Sfhastipur           -      -      6     8.2      56   76.7       3.    4.1      8    11.0         73
Hadbubani           13   29.5    10    22.7       14   31.8       1     2.3      6    13.7         44.
Begusarai            1    1.6      -        -     50   82.0       2     3.3      8    13.1         61
noughya             73   40.5      3      1.7     61   33.9    11       6.1    32    17.8         180
IBagalpur          72   45.6       7     4.4      11    7.0       9     5.7    59    37.3         158
Sauthal Parganas  10   18.9    20    37.7          2    3.8    12    22.6        9    17.0         53
Saharsa            84   56.0       4     2.7      45   30.0       3     2.0    14       9.3       150
Purnua             79   71.2       -      -       28   25.2       -       -      4      3.6       111
Batihar             13   25.0      2     3.9      28   53.8       -       -      9    17.3         52
Hazaribagh           1    4.2      4    16.7       1    4.2    14    58.3        4    16.6         24
Giridib              2   14.3      3    21.4       1    7.1       6    42.9      2    14.3         14
Dhanbad              -      -      2    66.7       -       -      1    33.3      -        -         3
Ranchi               9   20.9      1      2.3      3    7.0    20    46.5    10    23.3            43
Palaman             10   12.7      9    11.4       5    6.3    17    21.5    38    48.1            79
Singhbhum           11   64.8      2    17_.6      -       -      -    _         3    17.6         17
Bihar           1,431   38.6   129       3.5  1,019   27.4   277        7.5   855    23.0    3,711
Source: Directorate of Statistics and Evaluation, Bihar for the year 1978/79.



-54-
Table T-!3
INDU
MHAR PUBLIC TUIEWLL PROJECT
C,imatolo8icsl Data
Part A. Mean-Honthlv Rainfall in the Districts of bihar (mm)
Districts         June    ulY    AuS.   Sept.   Oct.  Nov.  Dec.   Jan.  Feb.  March   April  bite    Annual
Patna             117.2   251.9   296.2   198.3  46.6    8.4   3.5    14.7   20.0        7.0      7.0   23.0      993.8
Nalanda           120.9   268.8  287.4   185.1   41.5   11.1   3.5    13.7   19.3        8.4      9.0   21.3      990.0
Gaya              124.1   314.6  345.6   201.3   46.1   14.1   4.1    20.3   25.0    10.9         6.8   17.9    1,130.8
Navads            127.0   267.7   313.0   188.7  50.5   11.2   3.5    16.6  26.1    11.8          7.8  23.6    1,047.5
Auraugabad        141.6  333.5   390.3   219.5   51.6   12.8   4.2    21.9  25.8    13.5          6.3   15.7    1,236.7
Bbojpur           128.2   285.9   313.2   211.0   48.7    8.7   5.3    18.3  23.7        8.4       .6  19.0    1,077.6
Robtas            124.2   308.5   354.4   218.0   50.2    9.4   5.6    19.6   24.7    10.0       6.6   12.6    1,143.8
Saran             142.7   296.6  291.4   222.5   49.8    7.0   3.6    13.2  16.4         7.8      8.8   33.5    1,093.3
Sivan             133.4   296.5   290.1   207.9  48.5    5.8   4.9    16.9  18.5         9.1     8.9   31.3    1,OJ1.8
Gopalganj         171.0   318.2   296.6   231.6   60.2    4.5   2.6    16.4   17.5       9.5-   12.5   41.8    1,184.4
Champaran East    217.7  365.9   326.5   252.5  60.2    6.6   3.3    13.9   17.6    12.3   19.1  60.7    1.356.4
Champaran West    235.2  403.2   252.7   251.3  61.1    5.8   4.1   1V.2   18.9    13.0   20.1   69.0    1,447.6
Muzaffarpur       172.2   301.1   297.0   241.2   57.6    5.1   2.6    13.8   19.7        7.0    15.8   47.8    1,180.9
VaisLali          152.1  256.5  294.5   204.0  47.7    7.8   3.6    12.2  18.3           9.5      7.7   28.4    1,042.3
Sitamarbi         210.5  324.0   300.5   231.9  56.7    6.4   3.1    12.0   15.6    13.2    21.7  70.8    1,266.8
Darbhanga         179.4   303.5   312.5   225.5   55.1    7.8   3.0    11.0   14.5   10.5    21.0  60.4    1,202.2
Sawastlpu:        162.3   286.2   299.3   244.7   56.6    8.7   2.8    13.2   19.3       8.5    17.9  49.1    1,168.6
Madhubani         213.6   333.6   293.9   238.6   69.4    8.8   2.1    10.2   13.5    12.3    27.7   83.6    1,307.3
:3eguearai        178.1   271.'   324.9   243.8   57.1   11.9   3.3    12.9   21.3    12.5   18.0  46.5    1,201.6
Monghya           181.2   295.3   312.7   218.4   72.3   10.3   3.5    14.8   22.0    12.3    15.6  48.1    1,206.7
Bhagalpur         180.2  288.9   273.2   204.1   81.7    9.8   2.0    13.6   21.4    12.5    20.3   59.2    1.166.2
Santhal Pargana   224.9   326.5   317.5   237.0  98.5   13.0   2.7    13.0   21.8    16.7    25.5  80.1    1,377.2
Saharsa           246.1   349.6   295.3   246.4  73.0  10.3   2.3         8.0   13.8    12.0   28.8  100.3    1,395.0
Purnea            307.6   423.9   367.0   279.6  85.0    8.0   2.5        9.0   16.0    13.5    40.9  128.0    1,699.0
Katihar           211.6   219.3  307.1   260.3  99.1    8.6   2.2         8.4   19.1    10.2   13.0   92.1    1,358.0
Hazaribagh        173.8'  339.4   351.9   210.6   71.1   15.9   4.5    22.5   31.9    18.7    11.5   32.7    1,284.5
Giridih           164.7   316.6   301.2   199.1   83.1   12.1   4.1    22.6   27.6    15.9    18.1   45.5    1,210.8
Dhanbad           192.6   345.5   323.2   212.1   33.5   10.5   4.2    14.9   25.6    19.8    17.6   51.1    1,310.7
Ranchi            205.8   395.5   386.6   220.9  92.2  18.5   5.6    27.1   41.0    24.0    19.5   45.4    1,482.6
Palaman           165.4   367.0  395.1   212.6   61.8   17.1   5.6    27.3   35.5    19.5        9.6   18.6    1,335.0
Sinphbhum         212.0   279.8   352.0   210.0   51.9  18.6   4.2    20.6   33.4    12.8    28.8   72.2    1.434.6
Bihar             182.1   330.4   330.3   222.2  69.2   11.6   3.9    17.2   24.4    14.6    17.1  49.1    1,271.9
Part 8. Mean Daily Maximum asd MInimum Temperature and Relative Humidity
Bihar Plains                                           Bihar Plateau
MaxLmum        Minimum           Relative            Maximum           Minimum            Relative
!!o&t-h           Temperature    Temperature         Humidity             Temperature      Temgerature         Humidity
Co               Co 0              at 08:30              Co                 '             . at 08:30
January            23.2                9.3               75                    23.1            10.2                73
February           25.6               11.6               72                    27.4            13.6                67
March              32.1               16.1               57                    33.2            17.6                48
April              37.1               21.5                52                   38.0             22.6               43
May                37.1               24.7               53                    39.1             25.6               70
June               34.8               26.1               75                    35.7             26.1               78
July               32.5               26.2               82                    31.6            25.1                82
August             31.9               26.0               83                    30.9             24.8               82
September          32.0               25.5               81                    31.0            23.9                82
October            31.3               21.6               72                    30.5             20.4               77
November           27.9               14.5               68                    27.4             14.4               72
December           24.2                9.8               69                    24.4             10.1               72
Source: ICAR/ABRD National Agricultural Research Project; Bihat, 1982.



INDIA
,RII    PUULIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
Groundwater Balance for Proiect Districts
Proiect Develp,2ent
Present Situation                    Present          Total Annual Abstraction                     Total Net       With Project
Net Annual   Met Annual      Balance for   Stage of        Project  Other    All Public  Net Annual       Annual          Net Aeo*ual
District          Area    Reharte    Abtaction  Ij Deve4onment   Develoment   We+e I/ W_l3s 2/ tu*eaels, Abstra6tion  f Abs;r4otion S/ Abstractign J/
(1)      (2)          (3)              (4)            (5)         (6)       (7)          (8)         (9)            (i0)
!1 Bihar
Wi. Cbamparan    4,862    1.370         168            1,202             12          56        14          70          42             210             15
Gopalganj        2,019      584         325              259             56           46       17          63           39            364             62
Sivan           2,230       509         224              285             44          23        21         44           26             250             40
Saran            2,623      680         365             -315             54           79       21         100          60             425             63
E. Champaran    4,334    1,116          387              729             35         104        19         123          74             461             41
Sitaparbi       2,659       567         273              294             48          69        24          93          56             329             58
Iuzsffarpur      3.160      857         313              544             37          104       16         120          72             385             45
Vaishali         2,019      529         230              299             43          45        14          59          35             265             50
ttadhubani       3,526      803         144              569             18          83        13          96          58             202             25
Darbhanga        2,296      585         167              418             29          95         5        100           60             227             39
Sarmastipar     2,856       668         338              330             51          97        18        115           69             407             61
Beguserai        1,899      717         322              395             45         128         7        135           81             403             56
Saharsa        1 5,885    1,199         356              843             30          11        13         24           14             370             31
Madhepura      1            718         152              566             21           -        14          14           8             160             22         t
Rhagaria         1,480      568          87              481             15          69        13          82          49             136             22          1
Purnea          2,985    3,443          264            3,179              8          11        30         41           25             289              8
Katibar          3,208      917         188              729             20          36         -          36          22             202             22
S. Bihar
Bhojpur         4,024    1,126          348              788             31         217        23        240          144             492             44
Patna           3,182       776         325              451             42         295        10        305          183             548             65
Nalanda          2,346      559         302              257             54          96        10        106           64             366             65
Munger           6,447    1,454         225            1,229             15         103         3        106           64             289             20
Bhagalpur        5,654    1,382         254            1,128             18         113        13        126           76             330             24
Navada           3,648      415         122              293             29          68         4         72           43             165             40
Gays             4,288    1,311         536              775             41         116        26        142           85             621             47
Aurangabad       4,409      726         134              592             18           25       14          39          23             157             21
Rohtas           7,296    2,066         374            1,692             18         118        27        145           87             461             22
I/ Existing private and public groundwater development.
V   Rehabilitated. modernized and new public tubewells under the project at full utilization (assuming 3000 hrs/year).
V   599 existing public tubevells not connected to dedicated feeder lines.
_/  Assuming 402 of the groundwater abstracted is recharged.
S   Column (3) + (9); excluding private tubevell development during project period.                                                                                 a
6/  Column (10) divided by column (2).



-56-                                te  S-5
818Ul PUBI.IC TUDEWEL.L PROJECT
CrOnnina Patterns by Asre-Climatic Zones 11
.. .  - .....one I ,...
IMIPa.                    PresentUant  10 2/            -                 N2/
Crop       ha                          Crop          ha
Kbarif                    Paddy        60                        Paddy           72
tharif                    maize        15                        Maize           20
Kharif-                   Jute          S                        Jute             4
Kharif                    Vegetable 3/ 5                         Vegetable 21    4
8abi                      Wheat        Is                        Wheat           50
Rabi                      Pulses 51    4                         Pulses 01       10
Rabi                      mustard       2                        Mustard          3
Rab._                     Moong         2                        Vegetable #f    2
Zaid                                    -                        Vegetable        I 1
Zaid                                                             Moong            3
Perenniel                 -                                      Sugarcane      --5
Total Crop Area                       108                                       174
-   _ _ _          ~~~Zone II
seaso                     Preent and FWO 21                              FW 21
Crop       ba                          Crop          ha
Rharif                    Paddy        65                        Paddy           71
Rharif                    Maize        11                        Kaize           15
Rharif                    Jute          7                        Jute            12
Kbarif                    Vegetable O 4                          Vegetable 1/    2
Rabi                      Wheat        12                        Wheat           50
Rabi                      Pulses 2J    4                         Maize            7
tabi                      Mustard      4                         Pulses 1        11
Rabi                      Moong        4                         Mustard          4
Rabi                      -             -                        Vegetable 6/    3
Zaid                      -             -                        Vegetable if    3
Zaid                      -                                      Moong          --
Total Crop Area                       111                                       181
Zone III
Season                    Present and FIW  2/                            FW2/
Crop       ba                         Crop           ha
Kharif                    Paddy        60                        Paddy           60
Rbarif                    Maize        16                        Maite           32
Kharif                    Pulses  I/    2                        Pulses O./      4
Kharif                    Jute          I                        Jute             2
Eharif                    Vegetable J/ 1                         Vegetable i      2
Rabi                      Wheat       15                        Wheat           50
Rabi                      Pulses  j   10                        Maize           11
Rabi                      Mustard       I                        Pulses >|      10
Rabi                      Moong         I                       Mustard          2
Rabi                      -            -                         Vegetable §J    2
Zaid                      -            -                         Vegetable if    3
Zaid                      -             -                        Moong            3
Perennial                 -             -                        Sugarcone      -3
Total Crop Area                       107                                       184
jJ  Cropping patterns used in the economic analysis; each model represents
a nat area of 100 ha irrigated by a typical public tubevell. Crop yields
aid input assumptions are given on Annex 2, Table 3.
21 IWO - future Without" Project; FW - "Future With" Project. It is assumed
that present and FWO tubewells which are operable would irrigate only 15 ba in
both kharif =ad_rabi seasons following existing cropping patterns similar to
the pattern of PW new or modernized tubewells.
3J Mainly Aubergin and Chili.
if Mainly Arbor.
Ki Manly Gram.
/ Mainly Onion.



INDIA
BIHAR PUBLIC TUBENELL PROJECT
Performance of Public Tubevells in Biaar
Utilization
Tubevells With              Irrigation                 Against
81.           Drilled    Energized   Distribution    Working   Potential   Total Area   Potential
No.   Year   TubevellsTs                              Tubevells   Created    IaW              reed^
(No.)      (NO.)         (NO.)         (NO.)      (w ha)      (x be)         (l)
1.  1974-75    3,112       2,977       1,915           2,491      0.224       0.1390          62
2.  1976-76    3,479       3,014       2,386           2,882      0.288       0.1735          60
3.  1976-77    4,284       3,519       2,811           3,124      0.336       0.1821          54
4.  1977-78    4,690       3,744        2,971          3,260      0.394       0.1396.         35
5.  1978-79    4,980       3,968       3,087           3,365      0.419       0.1037          26
6.  1979-80    5,143       4,419       3,167           3,837      0.439       0.1300          30
7.  1980-81    5,221       4,606       3,331           3,469      0.465       0.0775          14
8.  1981-82    5,311       4,652       3,351           3,364      0.488       0.0830          17
9.  1982-83    5,311       4,853       3,411           3,452     0.491        0.0997          20
10.  1983-84    5,311       4,930       3,442           2,812     0.500        0.0497          10
11.  1984-85    5,311       4,941 1/    39477 AV        2,167      0.504       0.0327           8
Source: Bihar Water Development Corporation Ltd.
.J 4,941 wells recorded as being energized; as of September 1985, 4,172 wells
were capable of being supplied (see Chart C-1).
LI  Only 2,623 wells have complete distributiou systems (Chart C-1).



MhDIA
BIHAR PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
Cost Estimates by Project Components
(Rupees '000)
DEDICATED
zi0>"t8                R~~~OV SWLY
DlSbRIBUTIOIJ                      (4712                                 fPSsicei
SYSTENS ON  REHAIL17ATIOd  OF  EI5STINO AND                            Contirncies
NEi IJlBEIELL   EXISTING   EX,IJi(N6 TUDELL    50 NEU       KIAM6EMEN!-
SYSTElIS    TUP; iELL5        SYSTEtIS       TUWIJLLS)   IIPROVEIT    Total          Z   Amunt
I. 1VESTIMEOT CWSS  1
A. SERvIiBES                    7 19560       O,784.0           6`9,1,.6      43s117.4     11694.0    17o.588.0   5.3  9284.6
B. EDUiFENT                    21060.0        2'000.5           29'046.0    5L,375.8       22,579.0   127,060.B   5.4  68'53.0
C. MATERIALS                   95,125.0    133,15P.0            14,539.2    173o420.4             -    416o242.6   9.0 37,257.4
D. LAND                         7,195.C              -2.000,0                                            19411.0  5.0   959.8
E. LANIR                               -             -                  -      19,6110.           -    19:611.5  8.7 1,704.3
f. CIVIL MOR¢S                  43,010.0      7s   i1. '90.5                               46,935.0   184t693.5  5.0  9,234.7
-_ - ___   __ -__--- _-- _------ -------------------- -- -    ---~~ --------~~~ -----~~ - ~ --~ ~ - - -----
Total IlNJESTMENT COSTS          205.06.0    228.732.0            139.841.3    288,525*1      81.208.0    9434391.4  6.9 65.293.8
Total  SELINE COSTS               205.0B5.0    220$732.0           1359841.3    2'86525.1      81208.0    943,391.4  6.9 65.293.8
PhYslcal Conlinsewcles           131.66.9      179i66.5           6,992.1      23.305.0       44060.4    65,293.8   0*0      0.0
Price Ccjtjngene±es              76,043.5      88,107.5          280?17#7      77v6A1,5    16t979.2   287,579.3   6.6 18,887.3
Total    JECT COSTS                '944395.2    3341509.0          1751i,51,0    3&9,511.6    102J247.6  1,296,214.4   6.5 84,161.1
Taxes                             8.338.1     .i,o14.4            3,'65.7      15,163.2 U1 t 383,4    39,664.9  7,4 24936.i
Foreign Exchame                  56'310.8    11i.731.5              594.4  L12 ,772._              -    184o409,1   8.8 169260.4
l/   Detailed quantitie3 and Ceosts by project components are given in Annex 3, Tables 1 to S.
S.1



INDOA
BIA  PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
Annual Epi iture Scbedule
(Rupees '000)
lase Costs                                          t.1
1         2         3          4         5          6         7      (Rs  'OQO) (U S'00)
A. NEU TUDEVELL SYSTEMtS                                                   -   4,596.2  28,?11.9  28,794.9  40:94.4  40,994.4  40,994.0    205,05.0   15,775.6
B. IWRiUZED DITRIBUTICI  SYSTEMi  I EXIOTI   TUWVLLS                       -  13i,63.9  324O14.1  45,770.3  45i770.3  4S5770.3  45,770.3    22S032.    17P594.8
C. REHAIXITATION O  EXISTINi TUWkELL SYSTEMS                       it 137.3  34,738,3  36,353.5  &;,9379    21.234.0                    -    139441.3   10,757.0
lt. DEDICATED FMi  SUMPPLY 04712 EXISTING AUD S0t  NEf TUSKtLS    404654.4  45,070.0  509015.4  54P520.5  60S426.4  21A978.1  15r60.3    2884251   22#194.2
E. IWl6ENET IIW0ERWENT                                               S*i32.0  b475.0  295277.0   4,902.0   5,374.0   5.582.0   3d14?0            1 81208.0    64246.8
Total  ASLINE CGSTS                                                   e5t20.7 144636.! V764371.9 :63;365.9 1734Ma.7 114,324.4 185,673.5    943,391.4   72958.6
Phsicil tontinseies                                                 A.¢15,1   9e361.3   11,67 P.0   l538.4  .2t361 .    8W25.2;  7#616.3       6523.B    5s022.6
Frice Ccr.tinsenc:es                                                2t437.!  164567.1  35!482.8  IPi59.1  i9P818.9  554685v0   584.8.6   237,529.3  l2.117.6
Total ROJECT COSTS                                                     2*,073,0 1',50P4.8 22304,7 223,663.4 25ot079.0 178#235.2 172144.4  1#29214*4   00,703.8
Taxes                                                               2,410.2   5#26:.8   5.753.1   7.015.2   St.'25.6   553.44 456              39,64.9    39051. 1
Foreisn Exgciwe                                                     l545,C  11,094,0  3"3; M.9  1, 861.5  37,8:1.7  37,681.6  39,027.5    184,409.1   141185.3
I/   Detailed annual phasing of costs for project components  are given in Annex 3, Tables  1 to 5.



-60-                              akzle T-2
BDIAM PUBLIC TUBoEVLL PROJECT
A. Prooosed Credit Allocation
Proposed Allocation      S of Expenditures
ta.rL        A&sa                         gf Credit             to be Fgnaed
-US S ii-
1. CiiWok L
(a) New Tubevells                         5.t I              752
(b) Modernized Tubevell,                  5.6
(c) Rehabilitated Tubevells               5.2            }
(d) Buildings                             3.3            )
2.  Power Supgl  (tubewell energization) 20.1              }  75S
3.  MatiaLs and   inmmnt
(a) PVC Pipes and fittings               16.0            }
(b) Pump Units and ancillaries            3.6            1  1002 of foreign expenditures
Cc) Steel pipes, fitting and                             1  1002 of local expenditures
casings and general steel items    2.4                  ( (ex-factory costs) and
(d) Other Equipment 3J                    4.1            }  752 of local expenditures for
I other items produced locally.
4. Mana2ement Imwrovements
(b) Traiaing; study tours;                               )
Monitoring and evaluation;            0.5            1  1002
Consultancies and Studies                            I
5.  Unallogated
Total                                  68.0
11 Excluding materials and equipment under Catergory 3.
_I Equipment for Management Improvement Component.
S.  Estimated Scbedule of IDA Disbursements
IDA FY and Semester              Semester         Cumulatia J/
------Us$-------
1987       1st                        0                 0
2nd                     1.9               1.9
1988       lst                      2.8               4.7
2nd                     3.4               8.1
1989       1st                      4.7              12.8
2nd                     4.8              17.6
1990       1st                      6.1              23.7
2nd                     6.1              29.8
1991       lst                      6.8              36.6
2nd                     7.5              44.1
1992       lst                      6.8              50.9
2ad                     5.4              56.3
1993       1st                      4.7              61.0
2nd                     4.1              65.1
1994       lot                      2.9              68.0
Start Date:         November 30, 1986
Completion Date:   November 30, 1993
Closing Date:       March 31, 1994
Ij  Based on disbursement profile for Bank - group supported irrigation
projects is India.



-61 --bL   -
ITRU?j~tC   UVWLL ?ROJBCT
laAtUigR     !Q1kL3&iL                                   jrs            j ,             4    5     6 
A4miuistration                Ui                                                           
-Project Co-otdination-        Unit                          I     1    1    I             
Project' Accounts             Unit                           I    I    1    I              
Invest igat ioni Planning
and Design                   unit               j*1                *1                     
Procurement                   unit               I*1              1     1    1      .      
Training andll6E              wnit               -1*                *1       1      1    1 1
Quality Control               Unit               -           1                             
headquarters                  unit               2*          2    2    2    2       2    2   2
Workshop                    Division 2l          2*          2    2    2    2       2    2   2
Drilling                    Division 1.         1I*          1    2 *2    2         2    2   2
ElectricftMechancial          Unit _' /          2 *         2    2    2    2       2    2   2
Construction and MMk        Circles              6 *         6 *  6    6    6    -6    6   6
Construction                Divisions            6 #f        6 *  6    6    6       6    6   6
0ok                         Divisions           25 V       25   25   25   25    25   25  25
Rehabilitation Works        Sub-Division 5/    -             8   12   13   11      8    -   -
Units marked with asterisk exist under present organi-ation but are not fully staffed to
project requirements.
Organization requirements estimated from construction and Ok workload and Dorms for fully
staffed and effectively managed work units.
.IAttached to the CE Regional headquarters and operating out of the regional workshop ~-omplex.
~IConsisting of AE; two senior mechanics; four mechanics; and supporting staff.
Pre-project, three construction divisions are not staffed for lack of construction activities.
~JBased on miscellaneous repair workload per sub-division of Its 250O000Iyear, excluding costs of
equipment; i.e. estimate cost of engineering and adminif;ration (Annex 3, Table *. The
number of rehabilitation sub- divisions will vary depending on workload under each Iirc1e in
any year. Repair and replacement works are expected to continue in years 6 and 7 under GOB
funding an existing tubevells not covered under the project.



-62-                                   ab-lIs  Il
INDIA
BIHAR P1RLIC TUBEVELL PR0JE$T
Sta£ff 8n cheduile
Existiug Staff           Staff AeouiredlPwoiect Year
Item   keaizauaien              BWDC 1/    .1L    2_    3          4- -5        6
_____________~~~~~~___ _ _  3__ __ _  ._  _ L  ____  _ _ __
A. Sunervisorv/Technical
(i) Chief Engiueer              1           3      3       3      3      3     3     3
(ii) Superiatending Engineer     6          10     13      13    13      13    13    13
(iii) Executive Engineer         21          35     45      45     45     45    45    45
(iv) Assistant Engineer         66         127    136    136    136    136   136   137
(v) Junior Engineer           207         289    289    289    290    290   290   296
B.  Suoortina (Admin)
(i) Grade IV Staff          2,612         656    668    668    668    670   670   672
(ii) Driver                    136         196    196    196    196    196   196   196
(iii) Clerical Staff          1,086         790    805    805    805    810   810   810
(iv) Accounts Staff             28          44     46      46     46     46    46    47
C.  Sufnortina (Technical)      469         366    390    400    400   400   400   410
D.  Tubevell Onerators A/    4,622        4,600  4,600 4,600  4,600 4,600 4,912 5,212
Ij Reported staff of BDVC in Nay 1985 before re-organization into TV.
IV Including accouuts and general clerks ad typists.
.V Accounting staff in central, regional and divisiual offices.
J/ For existing tubevells, operators are provided with a 'male' or helper; a 'male'
would not be required for new or modernized tubewell systems.



-63-                     ~~~~~~~~TabIle T-!12
INDIA
BIHAR PUBUC TUDEWELLS PROJECT
Estimated Incremental Rent and Cost Recovery jI
For the Four Farm Unit Models - 1.0 ha Each
(Rs/Farm Unit)
ModelI 1       bModel 2      Model 3         Mgdel 4
Mixed Cropping
Heavy Soils  Mixed Cropoina  Liaht Soils  With Vezetables
Project Rent
Gross Value of Production       3,621         3,526          3,211           5,097
less Production Cost           __f72          -_220          __8!0           1.214
Gross Margin jI                 2,949         2,606          2,405           3,883
Less Deprociation _/                0             0              0               0
Less lmputed Value of Own
Resources ~J                    820            852            726           1,498
less Allowance for Risk            30            30             30              45
Less Management Fee              210            172            165             235
Project Rent                    1,889         1,552          1,484           2,106
Rent as X of Gross Margin          64%           602            62%             54%
Cost Recovery
Water Charges j_                  141           153            132             157
Land Tax                           50            50             50              50
Agricultural Sale Tax 6/           36             35            32             127
Total Cost Recovery              227           238            214             334
Cost Recovery as Z of
Project Rent                      12%           15X            14%             16%
New and Modernized        Rehabilitated
Annual Proiect Cost                         Tubewell                  Tubewell   7/
-----            ---Rs/ha---------------
Capital Recovery Cost j                      476                      369
0&H                                           75                       75
Energy                                       110                      110
Total Annual Project Costs                   661                      554
Cost Recovery as % of
Annual Project Costs I/                      34%                      41%
1/  Incremental value over project lifespan of works assumed as follows: pump
units - 10 years; well point, pump house and distribution chambers - 20 years;
distribution systems - 30 years. Costs discounted to present values and
annualized at 12g interest assuming 2700 hours operation per year.
V   Gross margin is defined as gross value of production less cash expenses on
production costs.
if Since the farmer has few physical assets other than land, no depreciation
has been assumed.
i/ Family labor and draft animal power.
j Actual water charges as presently fixed by GOB for various crops and seasons.
i} Assuming a sales tax of 5% on marketed produce; marketed produce assumed
as 201 of farm production for Models 1 to 3 and 50% for Model 4.
I/  Assuaing that a rehabilitated tubewell is fully utilized.
8/  Average cost recovery (Rs 225) of Models 1 to 3.



-64-
aim& PUL{ IC U  PROICT
Annual Protaet Costs
(Capital Recovery and fixed and Variable 06& Costs)
A. Cagital Cost of lavest=ents ki
UtNew or Modenied Tubowel                Rehabilitated TubweeLl 21
(Rs/Tubevell) (Relba) (Re/Farm Unit) (Ra/Tubewell) (Rs/ha) (as/Frm Unit)
Annualised Capital Costs               47,600      476        429              24,000        369         333
Houra of Operation-,or Year               Houra of 0 ration per Year
B.  Oh East                             I.50   2QOQ  LZ22  3AR-QQ  3.50           Iuo  2.00   -2.70   3.0003.0
(j) Fixed CoAgoneSt
Operation           (Rs)        5,000  5,000  5,000  5,000  5,000         5.000  5,000  5,000  5,000  5,000
Maintenance         (RS)        2,500  2,500  2,500  2,500  2,500         2,500  2,500  2,500  2,500  2,500
(ii) Variolie Coinopopt
Electricity _/      (Re)        6.09   8.1   10.96  12.180 14.210         6.0o  8.120 106  12.18  14,21
Total 0QU Costs  (Re)        13,590 15,620 18,460 19,680 21,710        13,590 15,620 18,460 19,680 21,710
C.  Iotal Annual Cost
fi) Per Igbeaml
Capital Costs (Re/Tubewell)  47,600 47,600 47,600 47,600 47,600          24,000 24,000 24,000 24,000 24,000
O&U  Costs     (Ra/Tubewell)  13.590 15.620 18.462 196   21.71           13.590 15 620 1.#A  19.680 21.710
Total        (Rs/Tubevell)  61,190 63,220 66,062 67,280 69,310         37,590 39,620 42,462 43,680 45,710
(ii) PrNet
Capital Costs  (Ralha)            476    476    476    476    476           369    369    369    369    369
065 Costs       (Rs/ha)           136    156   JlS               DJ97W 217  2                      M 3Q
Total          (Re/ha)           612    632    661    673    693           578    609    653    672    703
(iii) Per FkzW Unit
Capital Costs  (Re/Farm Unit)   429    429    429    429    429             333    333    333    333    333
-06  Coats      (Rs/Farm Unit)   12.    JAL      166    MI    I"            189    217    25      212    22
Total          (Re/farm Uuit)   551    570    595    606    625            522    550    589    606    635
(iv) Per Unit Velma .4/
Capital Cost   (Rse/3)           0.212  0.159  0.118  0.106  0.091         0.107  0.080  0.059  0.053  0.046
065 Costs       (Re/23)          0.6   DAM   0.046 0.0    0041             AL60 0.52  004   0.043  0.0L4
Total          (Rs/,,3)         0.272  0.211  0.164  0.149  0.132         0.167  0.132  0.105  0.096  0.087
/  Capital cost annualized assuming interest rate of 121 and the following life span for various works. wells 20 years;
pimp units - 10 years; pump houses and distribution chambers - 20 years; and distribution systems - 30 years.
21 On average, it is assumed that a rehabilitated well unit would irrigate 65 ha, serving about 72 farm unite.
]/ Marginal cost of electricity generation and transmission is estimated at Re 1.03 per khh. The SSRS tariff for
agriculture (Sept 1985 weas R 0.35/kgh.
.4/ Pumping capacity 150 a /hr.



-65-
Tab le T-14
INDIA
=BIHAR PUBLIC TUIEWELL PROJECT
Present Watet Charges _,
Part A. Public Tubevells
No. of     Water Charges
Season                 Poliot                            Irrigation        go/ha
Kharif             June 25 - Oct. 25    Paddy                 3             126
Kharif             June 25 - Oct. 25    Paddy                 1              48
Rabi               Oct. 26 - Mar. 25    Wheat, Pulses        2               96
Other than Rabi            -             Potatoes             1              78
Other than Rabi            -             Potatoes             9             270
Zaid               Mar. 26 - June 24    Sugarcane            1               96
Zaid               Mar. 26 - June 24    Sugarcane            4              222
Zaid               Mar. 26 - June 24    Other than
Sugarcane          2               96
Part B. Surface Irritation Schemes
WaterSourc                       Season                    Water Charges 2J
Perennial                       Kharif                           90.5
Perennial                       Rabi                            47.5
Non-Perennial                   Kharif                          47*5
Non-Perennial                   Rabi                            38.5
1/ As of September 1985.
2/ Charges are for the season, regardless of the number of irrigations;
Source Irrigation Department, Bihar, February 1986.



an F stc umu Ea
NMIt mmii simm vsk cm inisn
I      2       3      4       1       6      1       0      9      10      11     12      13      *411-*7        3   15-21       22     23      24    2a
a_              11n ot u ffF rwii  cuu
0-i OS Sc a         mSt                                                             -      3      1t      23     42      63     E      106    117    M        M       123    1        2     In      U3      I       I       123    52
_11111, "       owl   ulssn                                                 -       -      3      IS      37     n      ij    as    IE9    2o         2z 22   2      220    220             20    220       220      m     22      20
- mtMtu           O lInu 21220 mm                                                   2   17   4   -101  1o  23   2S  W    MS   M    m   23  23  25 2M                                          n   m    M    M    M    Ms
_       m I- -E_  1115-                                                    2      23     7S    16       270    3m      U 12           6a5    636    63       46     66    63        43     6U J626    436    43           4U
011                                                                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0%
Ch~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
1inIy33        J IS 3    S    J1IUSIU         In O  IIIS                  -      2a     23      23      3      D3      33      -       -       -              2      3       3              -       -       9      t0      to     15          1
U1= ES1 UI       S                  It      25     3       37      ?      3?       -      -       -      -       2       1      0       a              -              20     25      295
_51UDthl       ims         16      23      36     22      21      -              a      13      14     14      12       *      -       -     3       6       35      Is     A       35
_inin~  U   2*SEuM   M           ULIS ON  UREIAS                            3       4      4   S           a      2       -      -       -       -                -       -            -                      -      - .   .
1_1" t                             t                      5       0 9            -       -          -       -       -      -   *              t          _   _ a  9                  _       _
ianuDt1 ru                           20   A    3t   46   40   21   2                       -    -                     -    -    -               -                   -    -
_ 63D11                * in Iium                                      1      2       3       1      I       1       1                  -      -           -      -       -       -      -           -          -       -
_rnia0u u umaU                                       I       1      6       2         1       1    1-                        -       -  -       -       -       -      -       -
n iwUtin to                                          3      to     20       3       4      1       2      -       -      -       -       -      *       -              - _
cm     LU 3515                                                              -       *      2       4       7     10      13      17     17      3?     17      37      17     17      17      17     1?      17      I?     17      17
MM=  llAm1                                                            -               t      4       9      13     to      23     22      22      22     22      22      22     22    2V        2      22      22     22      22
_          t_Ulin                                                     -       0      It     31      43     S3      62      62     62      62     62      62      62     62      62     42      Q       62    612      62      U
_u           _        c                                                    5?    *3       136   1u       232    1111         1$5       114    Us5   Its    117    109    la          113    IV      I"     t54    I"       Ut   
am         _       T nWIT                          t-                            -12     -1     -312    -71      97    20       403    460     54    3S2      11  52          24            452    470    402    470   6f*         4s
-~~ ~~ ~     ~                                                     _    _    _    _*             _    _    _i n         _    _         _



INDIA
BIHAR PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
Number d Public Tubowes
Prsenr Sikfl and Pv4xned Pn*d ActMNs
tt SOUIIWJO
in 1 6 Iowo oIsf
a lWbch
2t6? -
J144  NxirOpo*40
2.b23  Wdh (Afbtuoon 9i bm
16 93I W%l DdxO  &Sony
4 t 2 btO Etiwgloed
139 -*At*EnSt%
tO2E EXCLUDEDFOMb 9M  PROJECT                                               PROJECT                                                            FROJtCt
(ft$Wved tm fukM boolo~~~~~ PmgKoft) ~ACIMltES                                                                                 CW
&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     1 t                        4    xZt2inif4PIWS                                                 5ISWIltlowaDo
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~O  MaSdwsOO2                           ttsi
Oft" alfs to Do                                          .            t
cfbitcect .eotdeCarntOdto
k.t'.t, Conrwocteto                                                L
_  .wda'Iw _towet
Wffthslut ~ ~ ~    vm Ihtt                                          ta
I e-un I W. t4 Prft l
9t.,~ ~ ~~~~~ftl J, WS#$htt,sy$
-4 P. 844 .qM                 .LMLb- Pr-Ws
14Ws  Pu*jK ki~s 1'tmot                                                                                                                                                     0I24.W
ASceK  MWim kIIIWWWI owaU#4o       .  , S 1 wAu%utw' M6                                                                                           wo .'*x -.  *
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iSN  .301



-68-
Chart C-2
INDIA
BIHAR PUBLIC TU8EWELL PROJECT
Typicol Tubewell Design
CtoV  Gde 'SuDoonf                 45 c.m Atoove G L
CoLCre'eP Pn?t .
G L.
300 mm 00 Cosing for
600 mm Oiometer DOlWt Mole_ '50 m3: h *lel
(-educc 300/200 mm
200 mrn 00 S9ofe Cosng
450 mm  ,noter o0Ueo Mole          S
_    L    _   200 mm 003 St CaC sng
ant=traws5 :r.      Cees
T:; !00.150m
WC= BOnk -:Z.



Chart C-3
INDIA
BMAR PUBUC TUBEWELL PROJECT
Sc,ematc Lacot for a Dlnbutiv sbtm fto
Tpicol fmprod Standard Tubewe* Command
(150 m3/h ens  100 ha through a two loop stems)
IV'
LOW AMC A   s- -                                                                 -  toDAl
- L_ -                                                                    - o >oo
La= A  C                1         23 
/  u  ,av      II       2.      3.2
SoI~g  VI  78.9     10                                                       \Al
-   0D -      -                                                                          LOOID~ BMOn-0 A
\unagy       VII *1'Q10"   1610,xt,^p=
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -O-  _ -Out..... el V<7ve                           C A Wrea$ A  8 are Supotoa
\            lil            I l_[                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Simltloneouiro wvtm 0 7e CIJ#D Eocrs
< ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~s -o-_~ Stor=ssloe
*---D mmo DfrCKT,on S.js erms-ur ea P V C
AMo DM/  .-m -          v Ore                                                        Ouraa ot Areo Dav --,sfxr4wns
UOO A    coo b
v       _      ~~~1.2.3  23
TUOSO         0       2.3     3.4 0
_T eo        IVN    3S.o6      78_
Flo      .        V  107   5AZ-7.10
VI          7.8.9    9.1o0on 
SO*M         ^ii  to 19 10     r 160Voa ow=



-70-                                   Chat C4
IIIDIA
BIHAR PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
Pfoiect Implementstion Schedule
Number
of                        Work, Prgg
Project Comnonent                   Unit                 2       P3 iect             6   -
1  2    3       4      5       6 
------- -(Cumulative)           -----
A.  Irrigation Components
1. NkeyTubewells
- Well Point                     500         -      60   130    200    300    400   500
- Pipe Distribution System       500         -      60   130    200    300    400   500
- Energization                   500         -      60   130    200    300    400   500
2. Modernized Tubewells
- Replacement and/or Repair
Elements in the Well        1,000        -       60   200    400    600    800 1,000
- Pipe Distribution System   1,000           -      60   200    400    600    800 1,000
- Energization                 1,000         -      60   200    400    600    800 1,000
3. Rehabilitated Tubewells
- Replacement and/or Repair
Elements in the Well       3,712       470   1,460 2,450  3,130  3,712        -     -
- Pipe Distribution System   1,313         200     500   bOO  1,100  1,313
- Energization                 3,712      470   1,460 2,480  3,130  3,712
B. Other Components
4. Management Improvement             X       0     O100
5. Buildings                                           0            100
6  O&M1 Manual                                0 _100
7. Agro-economy Baseline Study 1/               A   _                                     C
8. Project Mid-Term Review
1/ Part A - Initial Baseline Study; Part B - Routine M&E of activities undt
initial baseline study; Part C - Final Baseline Study.



PWUR_IRARPROJEC                             -
Fb_hg- bD_-
ftoposedOqbAw Ch
64_
U
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'
coru
I  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
s"E             Cbds  .  enMa                   U:re
(K)       (6)      (4)         (3E)         _     (4)
.0 
mom{w             E        A.          A      .     1      li
(13)                           ~~~~~~~~~~Al  4 g
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~& 1  r                             hUa|
X, d X,M%C- MAv , W
_     |    {~~~~7U5  )  (1.146)  (  804)  (811t)  I   (46)  I I (844) 
)MwIiw~U~~s   :  } 04OtB  t4 (U                       ,    I I    .
WS-dC_n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
td n r _    teW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
*f_bS_h_/nht   ,                                        d-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-72-
BlEA PUBLIC TUBEVELL PROJECT
Documentas Available in Project File
General Documents
1.      Seventh Five Year Plan (1985/90) Irrigation Department; GOB          1985
2.      Ansual Plan (1915/86); Irrigation Department; GOB                    1985
3.      Seventh Five Year Plan (1985/90); Planning Department; GOB           1985
4.      Annual Plan (1985/86); Planning Department; GOB                      1985
Aaricultrn
5.      ICAR - IBRD National Agricultural Research Project Report;
Research Review Committee for Rajendra Agricultural University and Bihar
Agricultural University; Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR).  1982
6.      Agricultural Productivity in Eastern India, Volume II, Part IV -
Bihar; (Senn) Committee on Agricultural Productivity in
Eastern India; Reserve Bank of India.                                        1984
7.      Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project, Project
Completion Report; Department of Agriculture; GOB.                           1985
Proiect Preparation
8.      Bihar Public Tubewell Project; Agricultural Finance Corporation
(AFC) Limited; Bombay (prepared for Minor Irrigation Department; GOB).    1985
'An
9.      Bihar Irrigation Laws (A compilation of relevant Irrigation Acts);
Malhotra Bros; Patna; Bihar. 1/                                              1985
.1/ This document contains: The Bengal Irrigation Act, 1976; The Bihar
Irrigation Field Channels Act, 1965; The Bihar Public Irrigation and
Drainage Works Act, 1947; and Bihar Lift Irrigation Act, 1956.



-73-                              AnnL".
INDIA
SISAl PUBLIC TUBBWLL PIJDCT
A5ssUUtion for Financial and 3conomic Analysis
Tgble of Contents
Financial Prices
Bconomic Prices
-  Economic Prices for Traded Comodities.
- Economic Prices for Ron-Traded Commodities
- Economic Prices for Agricultural Inputs
-  Economic Prices for Project Investment Costs
Financial Analysis
Economic Analysis
List of Tables
I. Derivation of Economic Prices for Traded Commodities
2. Financial and Economic Prices of Outputs and Inputs
3. Crop Yields and Input Assumptions
4. Individual Crop Budgets in Financial Prices
5. Models of Cropping Patterns for the Financial Analysis
6. Summnry of Farm Unit Budgets at Financial Prices



-74-                             Page I
INDIA
BIHAR PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
Assamt ions -for Financial and Economic Aalaysis
Financial Prices
1.      The financial p'rices used in the financial analysis are the
prevailing farmgate prices as recorded and calculated by the appraisal
mission team in September 1985.  For traded comnodities,-the recommended
floor prices paid to farmer (fixed government prices), were quoted as the
farmgate prices; for non-traded commodities and farm inputs, the average
wholesale market prices in the major marketing ceuters of Bihar for the
preceding year to September 1985 were quoted. Farmgate prices of both the
traded and non-traded commodities were then calculated by subtracting the
marketing margin of about 301 from the wholesale prices. The farmgate
prices of both the traded and non-traded commodites, were verified during
field visits and interviews with farmers in September 1985, and then have
been updated to April 1986 prices.
Economic Prices
2.      Economic Prices for Traded Commodities. The economic price of
traded agricultural outputs and inputs (at farugate) were derived from the
IBRD projected 1990 and 1995 world market prices 11. Adjustments were made
for quality, freight, insurance, handling, local transport and processing.
A standard exchange rate of Rs 13.0 - US$1.00 was applied to convert prices
expressed in US dollars to local currency values. Table 1 of this Annex
presents the derivation of economic prices for the traded commodities
(including fertilizers).
3.      Economic Pgrices for Non-Traded Commodities.  These have been
derived from the financial prices using conversion factors. Since the
financial prices are considered to be a poor estimate of the economic
value, a Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.8 has been used to establish
economic prices of the non-traded goods. It has been assumed that these
economic value would remain unchanged over the project period.
4.      A somewhat different approach has been used to derive the economic
prices of oilseeds and pulses. In the case of oilseeds, a comparison was
made with the price of imported palm oil; in the case of pulses, the com-
pari.on was with the price of imported soybeans. A conversion factor of
0.95 was calculated for both commodities.
lJ. Macro and Financial Assumptions and Half Yearly Revision of Commodity
Price Forecasts; IBRD; July 31, 1985.



75                                 ANNEX 
Pasge 2
5.      Financial and Economag Price8 for Agricultural InoutI.  The
economic prices of fertiliaer nutrients were derived in the same manner as
for other traded commodities (para 3 and Table 1 of this Annex). The
economic price of agro-chemicals was derived by applying the SCF. The
financial price of hired agricultural labor in Bihar has been taken as
about Rs 10.5 per day of which Rs 8.5 is paid in cash and about Rs 2.0 is
given in benefits such as food and permission to collect farm produce
during post-harvest. However, analysis of farm labor supply and demand in
the State indicates that alternative labo,r opportunities are very few and
the conversion factor is correspoudiugly:low at 0.5. Given the high
population growth rate, an increase i-n the economic wage rate has not been
assumed to occur during the project period. The conversion factor for the
cost of draft animal work is estimated to be 0.80. A summary of financial
and economic prices for outputs and inputs is given in Table 2 of this
AAnex.
6.      Economic Prices of the Proiect Investment Costs.  The construction
of the project requires the use of equipment, materials, skilled and
unskilled labor.  The proportion and the degree of price distortion of
these costs vary, depending on proportion of foreign exchange, taxation
subsidies and other forms of support. In order to adjust for cost price
distortions, a Construction Conversion Factor (CCF) has been applied as
follows:
Cstexorv                 CCF
Civil Works            -0.75
Equipment                0.80
Materials                0.80
Imported Equipment      1.00
linancial Analysis
7.      Four indicative farm unit models were constructed to assess the
financial impact of the project on individual farm unit. The following
assumptions have been used in formulating the farm unit models and their
crop patterns and budgets:
(a) farm size has been taken as 1.0 ha, which is the represeuting size
of small farms in the project area;
(b) most units are 'subsistence' farms, selliug only small quantities
in the market place and having additional source of income from
work outside the farm unit.
(c) farmers with light soils, would follow under assured irrigation, a
maize/wheat/pulses rotation and would reduce their rice production
area;



-76-N M                                 l
Page 3
(d)  paddywhheat would remain the mset dominant crop combination or, all
farms;
(e)  under assured irrigation in vicinity of urban centers, farmers
would gradually increase production of vegetables;
(f)  there would be minor differences in crop yields asmro  the three
agro-climatic regions, however, it has been assumed ihat the four
indicative cropping models would have the same patterns for all
agro-climatic zones and the same an average crop yields irrespec-
tive of gone;
(g)  crop yields and input application data would be as presented in
Table 3 of this Annex;
(h)  crop yields in the "future without" project si-zation are higher
than crop yields in the "present" situation. This assumption has
been msde, since crop productivities are expected to increase
without the project because of the impact of the extension service
and improvement in input supply and usage;
5i)  it is expected that under the project, it will take six years for
typical farmers to reach projected crop yield levels; and
(j) in all farms there will be a surplus of labor power, or
under-employment, and farmers and their family members would seek
other employment opportunities, even though these may be limited.
8.      Individual crop budgets in financial prices are given in Tables 4a.
b and c. The four models of cropping pattern for the financial analysis
are presented in Table 5. The summary of the farm unit budgets is
presented in Table 6 which also records the gross margin and the net return
per farm unit. The return per capita has also been calculated. Calcula-
tions of the financial rate of return were not included in the financial
analysis, eecause all investments in the project would be public invest-
ments and not farmers' own investments.
BEOnomic Analysis
.1     In order to derive most accurate streams of benefits and cost to be
used in the economic analysis, six unit activity models were applied (a
unit activity is defined as a net area of 100 ha irrigated by one
tubewell). The model of cropping patterns for each of the three agro-
climatic zones are presented in Table T-5 of the Main Report.
10.     The economaic anaLysis of the project is related to 5,212 tubewells,
of which 500 are new tubewells; 1,000 are modernized tubewells (with new
pipe distribution systems); and 3,712 rehabilitated tubevells (of which
1,313 tubevells would include repairs of the distribution systems and 2,399



-77-         ,P age 4
tubewells which would have some minor parts replaced but their existing
distribution system would be left unchanged).
11.     The benefit and cost streams (Table T-15) assumed in the-economic
analysis iuclude:
(a)  Benefits: all the incremental production resulting from the
project, net of v.n-farm production costs.
(b) Costs: (i) all direct investments in the tubewells and the dis-
tribution systems; (ii) proportional investments (for the tubewells
included) in dedicated powerlines; (iii) proportional expenditure
for management improvements and institutional buildings; and (iv)
all O&M costs for modernized and rehabilitated tubevells.
12.     The following assumptions were used in constructing the cash flow
streams:
(a)  Reulacement LifesDan
(1) well                                                    - 20 years
(2)  pump unit                                              - 10 years
(3) pump house and distribution chamber                     - 20 years
(4) distribution system                                     - 30 years
(5)  power system - not replaced as a cost to the project
(b) Knergv Consumption and Costs
(1) average well discharge - 150 m3;
(2) average static water level - 6m;
(3)  average drawdown in the well - 5m;
(4)  average head loss in delivery - 2m;
(5)  delivery head above ground level - 4m;
(6)  total dynamic head (sum of 2-5) - 17m;
(7) wire to water pump efficiency - 0.6;
(8) energy consumption - 11.6 kWh/h of operation;
(9) hours of pumping per ha per operation:
Kharif - 31 hours
Rabi   - 34 hours
Zaid   - 39 hours;
(10) marginal cost of energy geueration and transmission has been
estimated at Rs 1.03 per kWh. However, power tariff for
agriculture is highly subsidized and, at present, the BSUB
charge              the agricultural sector Rs 0.35/kWh.



-78-                                    2
Page 5
(c) Qther O&N Costs
(1) operation and supervision
(establishment and overheads) RB 5,000 per year per well;
(2)  routine maintenance             Rs 2,500 per year per vell.
13.     To measure the impact of possible changes in the economic eaviron-
meut on the project's stream of benefits and costs, several sensitivity
tests were made including measurement of the economic rate of. return (for
the overall project and for individual components) under the following
assumptions:
(a) costs up by 502;
(b) benefits down by 502;
(c) costs up by 201, benefits down by 20%;
(d) benefits lag by 3 years;
(e) switching values at 12.0X; and
(f) exclusion of dedicated power lines from the project when
power supply of only 4-6 hours per day would be available (instead of
uninterrupted supply of upto 16 hours per day with dedicated
power line).
The results are snumarimed in the BAR.



-79-
Table I
INDIA
BIHAR PU8LIC TUSEWELL PROJECT
DerivAtiga of E0onomic Prices for Traded Commodities J
(in 1985 constant prices)
Unit       Paddy   shaL   Mai   --aut        Sular       N       P        K
Projected Wor-ld Market Price
(1985/86)                     U9S/t          225      158     114    502        87      172      123      87
Quality Adjustment                                     i 75    95      100    100        98      100      100     100
World Market Equivalent of                            169.
Indian Product                      US5/t          169     I0       114    502       85       172     123       87
freight and Inasurance                 US$/t            -       -        -      -        25       54       69      69
Domestic Border Price (CIE or
F0B Calcutta)                       US$It          169     150      114    502      110       226     192      156
Domestic Border Price iA
Local Currency U                   Rs/t         2,197   1,950   1,482  6 526    1,430    2,938   2.496   2,028
Domestic handling & Transport 3/       Rs/t           -64     -64      -64     64      -64        64      64       64
Processing or Nutrient Ratio             S             66     100      100     70        10       46      48       60
Processing Cost 3/                     Ra/t          -110       -        -     95      -94         -       -        -
Whole.sle Price                        RsIt         1,298       -   1,418  4,708        43    6,526   5,333   3,487
Transport to/froa  Farm                Rs/t           -25     -25      -25     25         -       25      25.      25
0co3omic. Farm Gate Price              as/t         1,273   1,861   1,393  4,733        43    6,551   5,358   3,512
Projected World Market
Price 1990/95                       U8$/t         333      151     113    269       293       230     143       96
Quality Adjustment                       2             75      95      100   '100       98       100     100      100
Vtird Market Equivalent of
Indian Product                     US9$t          250      143     113    269       287       230     143       96
Froight and tnsuranee                  Us$/t            -       -        -      -       25        54      69       69
Damestic Border Price
(CIF or 108 Calcutta)              US$/t          250      143     113    269       312      284      212     165
Domestic Border Price in
Local Currency Z/                  Rs/t         3,250   1,859   1,469  3,497    4,056    3,692   2,756   2,145
Dmestic Handling and
Transport J                        IRl/t          -64      -64     -64      64      -64        64      64       64
Processing or Nutrient
kantio                                             66      100     100      70       10        46      48       60
Processing Cost  )                     Rs/t         -110        -        -     95      -94         -       -        -
Wholesale Prito                        Rsat        1,993   1,795   1,405  2,588        305    8,165   5,875   3.682
Transport to/from farm                 Rslt           -25     -25     -25      25        -        25      25       25
Economic Farm Gate Price               Rs/t        1,968   1,770   1,380  2,613        305    8,190   5,900   3,707
.1 Pricing Basis:
Paddy Rice: Thai, Killed 52 Broken, FOB Bangkok.
Wheat: Canadian So. 1, Western Red Spring, FOB Thunder Bay.
Maize: Us go. 2, Tellow, F0 Gulf Ports.
Jute: Ba$glsdesh White D. FOS Chittagong/Chalua.
Sugar: World, ISA Daily Price, FOB and stored at Creater Carribean Ports.
Fertiliser - P: Urea, Any Origin Bagged, FOB !ortheast Europe.
- P: Triple Superphosphate, Bulk, F08 US Gulf.
- K: Potassium Chlori4e, Bulk, FB Vancouver.
U Machnge rate: Be 13.0 - U081.00
3U Adjusted by SCF - .80
Source: World Bank: Price Prospects for Major Primary Commodities.
Half Yearly Revision of Commodity Price Forecasts. July 31, 1985.



-80-
Annex 2
Table 2
INDIA
BIHAR PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices of Outputs and Inputs
Outputs                  Financial Prices         Economic Prices
1985/86           1985/86      1990195
(Rs/ton)                (Rs/ton)
Paddy                       1,400              1,270         1,970
Wheat                        1,450             1,860         1,770
Maize                       1,300              1,390         1,380
Pulses                      3,000             2,850          2,980
Jute                        2,270             4,730          2,610
Vegetables (Kharif)            550              440            440
Vegetables (Rabi)             650                520           520
Mustard                     4,200             3,990          3,680
Moong                       3,000             2,,850         2,980
-Sugarcane                     220                40            310
Potatoes                      750               600            600
Inputs
Fertilizer - N              5,000             6,550          8,190
= F              5,000             5,360         5,900
- K              3,000             3,510         3,710
Labor                        10.5 1/            5.0 1/         5.0 1/
Draft Animal (Bullock)         252/              202/           202/
1J Rs/Nan-day.
2/ Rs/Pair-day.



BlHUPUflHD w   fiJC
Croa Yields *nd Int Asasusmtion
Part A. Cgro Yields
Zone I                                ZoDe II                                Zone  111
Future      Future                     Future      Future                    Future      Future
Witbout    witb                        Without    with                       witbout    Witb
n  Se /so    Present    Proiect    Proiect          Preseng    Pro  Pro     Pro ect       Present    Pgoiect    Proiect
Y            0.9        1.2        2.25             0.6        1.0         2.0            0.9        1.2        2.25
?iddy                   K 6 it l  /    1.1      1.3         1.8             1.0        1.1         1.6            1.1        1.3         1.6
Pulse.                  K            1.1        1.2         1.4             1.0        1.1         1.2            1.1        1.2         1.4
Vegetables             X            12.0       14.0        16.0            10.0       12.0        18.0           12.0       14.0        16.0
Jute                    K            1.4        1.5         1.8             1.25       1.4         1.6            1.4        1.5         1.8
Wheat                   1            1.1        1.3         2.0             1.0        1.2         1.8            1.1        1.3         2.0
Pulses                  1            0.5        0.6         1.0             0.4        0.5         0.9            0.5        0.6         1.0
Vegetables              £ 6 2        -          -          15.0             -          -          13.5            -          -          15.0
ustatrd                 R            0.5        0.6         1.2             0.4        0.5         1.1            0.5        t.6         1,2
Potatoes                R            -          -          15.0             -          -          13.5            -          -          15.0
Fo0der                  a            -          -          15.0             -          -          13.5            -          -          15.0
lbeng                   I & Z C/    0.4         0.5         1.0             0.3        0.4         0.9            0.4        0.5         1.0
sugarcane               P            -          -          50.0             -          -          45.0            -          -          50.0
PArt 4. Lpt Asauriona
Seeds           Fertilizer-    Fertilir-P   Frtilizg             Ao l B a            hbo-. O rat An1
kg/ba              kg/ha           41ba             41ba            Rs/ba        Han-days/ba    Paii-Dayb/ba
Lssso  A,                     /  e it                             C    A  §                             A  1                        C    A A   §  °
Paddy (ainfe4)          K        40    40    40       25  30   30    - 10   10               5    5  100  150  150  125  125  135   22   22   25
Paddy (lrrigated)       K          -     -    40       -    -   40           -   20          -   10    -    -  300    -    - 125    -    -   22
Raise                   K &11    20    20    20       30   30   40   15   15   40             5   20  100  150  300   50   50   65   12   12   15
Pulsea (ainfed)         K         15    15    15      10   15   15    5   10   10            -    -   50  100  100   50   50   50   10  10          6
Pules (Irrigated)    K             -    15    15       -    -   20    -    -   40            -    5    -    -  200    -    -   55    -    -    8
Vegetables              K          8     8      8     50   70   90   30   40   50   25   25   30  250  35050  300  330  350   15   16  18
Jute                    K          6     6      6     30   30   30    -   10   10    -    -    5  150  200  250  220  220  260   22   22   24
Wbeat                   R        80    85    90       20   25   40    -   10   20    -    -   10   50  100  200   6    65   O11  24   24   26
Pulses (lRinfed)        a         15    15    15       -   10   10    -    5    5            -    -    -   50   50   35   35   35    6    6    6
Pules (Irrigated)    K             -     -    15       -    -   10    -    -   20    -             5    -    -  100    -    -   40    -    -    6
Vegetables             K & Z      -      -    15       -    -   90    -    -   30    -            45    -    - 500    -    -  300    -    -   20
lbwtard (ainfed)       1           3     3      3      -   10   10    -    5    5    -             -    -   50  50   3)   35   35  101 0    10
Muatard (Irrigated)   K            -     -      3      -    -   45      -    -  25      -          5    -    -  100    -    -   40    -    -   10
Potatoes                R          2  /  2 *    28/  60   65  100   30   35   80   20   20   20  300  350  500  260  260  2SV   25   25   26
Fodder                  1          3     3      3      -   10   20    -    -   30    -       -    -    -    -    -   70   70   60  20   20   22
MaOOg (Rainfed)         R  z      15    15    15       -   10   10    -    5    5    -    -    -    -   50   50   30   30   30    7    7    7                    ajo
Hoong (Irrigated)       QR2        -     -    15       -   -    .15    -    -   30    -    -   10    -    -   50         -    -   35    -    -    7;i
Sugarcane               P                      l e lo  /   -    -120    -    -   60              35    -        100    -    -  200    -    -   5
A/  K - Kbarif. R - Rabi, Z - Zaid, P - Perennial.
h   Ha1ize ia Rabi relates only to "future vith" project situation.
£/  Moong in Zaid relates only to  future with" project situation.
A A - prreant situation, a - "future witbout" project situation, C - "future vith" project situatzion.
s/ ton/ha



*-82- 
Amuex 2
itam flaM~P~'7  !LCI,   turnd tiws abrilleAt' h                                                                 V ~ ! 9~   'b~i   4' Gs   ftuu
th u (fit........ ..
Part A. Apro-climatic Zone I
I        6.9 t ,4*         -so    1,541    140       136       I5    (25         t       8      fit          55          58t 
Nle                 g        L.t    1,336        (2    3,55       t33     43       3e      II       7t5       U      too          43          VI      v?
Psl   (Arba)       I        t1     3,6"         n     3,3"       15      43       2       53       25       0        50          34          35      3,t65
Jett                K        1.4   2,76           3   3,171       36      I8       55      36         I       I      153          40          618     1,65
"Ue bl In           £       I2.1      56          1   6,043      453    si#        60      M       15        75     21           141        1,884     4,714
Sat                 *        1.t   l,46         361    I,m       32t      55 s             If         I       I       5t          25          6r0     1, 
Pus(oual            a        1.5    I,'          64    I,566    1i5       33       25       0        0        a       3           12          172     1,388
15144d         -             1.5   4,1            #  2,13         31      38       25       S        e       I        1            4          8   .2,011
1                   1        * 4   3.3,3 t         @  1,238       I35     30        33      0        6       e        25          31            1         3
Pad                 *        1.2    1,40        320    2,130      141    116        55    150      5s        Is       50          61          726     1,274
haim                U        1.3   1,3U6        13n   1,82e       i3      43        33    153       75       35     I35          62           655     1,163
psius (kW)          l        1.2   3,1411      1t$    3,703    is         43       25      45      5         I     1t6          42          43       3,23
late                £        (.5   ,27            6   3,465       36    (67        55    Iso         56       3     230          52          730      2,675
voletls,            1       14.3      55          I   7,73    451    553           75353           260      75      356          2         2,179     5,521
man                It        t 3     ,4.        33   2,2es    in          55       63     125      5a         I     16           71           71      1,424
P.3mg (16m)         t        3.6    3,6          76   I,m        Iff      3e       as      33        15      I       5D          24          279    1,5
Ultd  ..I                           4 4,281       3   2,523       3       30       25      36      *13    I          5            15         195    2,325
None                a         .5  3,"6            6   1,533    135        3e       36     5i        25        6      5e          31          351      1,149
f P"                   1        2.25   1,466       653    3,811'   14       III       60      206     163      36      300          92         1,37    2,763
Rin                 I1       1.8  I,3          33    2,54"      13       55       43      2t      203    6d        33           165        3,393     1,453
Fe1ig               1        1.4   3,31         126   4,321       ISO     47       33      to6     20        a5     263           el          833     3,46"
ueablo              I       16.6      56          6   8,66       666      5       IsO    4#        250      9       3a           213        ,850    5,s95s
If"                 I        1(.    2,271         3   4,393       42    221        68      15s      St       Is     21            63          846     3,241
ma                  I        2. e   1,45        64    3,5t636             68        4,    no0       13       1      26e          102        I,68m     2,423
Full"               I        1t6    3,          1l6    3,U06    I3        34       25      50       t3o      15    1it            44         473      2,627
FdW                 I       1$ 1       5.6  to    8 2,2           11      68       55    18       151       3         1         31         *415      1,835
Ptetmi              It      15.       756           Il 313     3,666     56       125    536       4        (23     5ee         617        5,762      5,40
I11wrd              *        1.2  4,21           a t5,366         31      35        3     u225     125      (5       I6o         63          62u      4,426
VlIqtable  (aIm) 14 15.1             65          1 6 t   9,7M   9f 1,51           60      4        t 1I   135  511             256         3,91     5,78
goa                 ( S      1.   3,11            33,660         13i      33       33      75      150       1        1          53          m       2,447
Iwcas*              P       56.0      223     1,351   12,356   2,116   1,34       20    660        31      105       0e          4e        5,671     6,683
V   Liwt css" b1g  o hirtn 13 o f hr raeqe m            et.,
If    tled pir Ctst kW u l  Mr9  Io lt lft Wtrmft.
F   kber ests ielis qatkAies, trct  ee              s (e.g.  MG, eatk  etc.
4i   16mst at 12  or  mmuss t        , fertiftWe of e     tness.
Id  Ihef vqt8e- ciqu                  c ulil.



-83-                                                               A=iU   2
Table 4b
!!~ fr.1               '         i gIgt Vw           yA                                      ta       S
ton  !sL      I      Itr£S 31101  1341t I,AWrs  miai   I                   t        !      0{thet/Ig7j    Yu               toir
thle  I/ten............                         ,,            ,            I....s.ha
Part B. Agro-cliaatic Zone 1I
Pad~               K         1.0    1,41        M75    1395.   141    166         551  25          1       0      1it         55          Sol       814
Itai               K         1.0   1,3H        III   1,410    t33        43       30     15e      75       1      Ill         43          VI        839
Pulash ,fb4 )      K         l.t    3,6         9    3,"9       15       43      25      55       25       1       51         34          385    2,715
iate               K         t.25  2,271              2,8312     36   t18        55      15        1       e      155        41          -f618    2,221
V.eeblej           I        I6.5     5M5         6   5,5IU      451    511        6e     M50     in5      75      I's        141        1,086    5,414
llit               a         1.61,455          31t   1,755      326      55       61    1t0         I      I      15          to          ti      1,145
PFll               a         6.4   3,65          6   1,`26      155      30      2a        0       6       e        1         12          172    I,0m
ustid              1         6.4   4,266         I   ,68         36      35       25       0       I       I        6         4.           0       ,sn
toq               1a         1.3   3,616         6      96      135      25        6       I       0       0        I        16           176       72
Fsts. 11thent frewet
fad"               K        1.6   1,416        311   1,76       15      166      55      155      so      15      IS O                    724        74
lai-               K        1.1   1,315        121   1,425      131      43       36    154      7n       15      151        62           655       765
Puol   (fer)       t        1.1   3,66        I    3,406       158      43      25      45       50       I      ISP        *2           463    2,937
loft               t        1.4  2,27            6   3,171       36  187          55 151           0       0     206         52           730    2,445
Igptable           1       12.6      556         6   6,666      456    55e       75     356      260      75      356       129         2,179    4,421
Uhte               t          .2   1,45        3651   2,645     32       55      60    125        50       I     10          71           791     1,25?
Pulg               I       .1.5   3,656         75   I,57m    1is        35       25     30       Is.      6      55         24           279     1,291
estid              e         1.5   4,215         1   2,151       31      35      25      35       t5       I       Is        l1           156     1,944
kaq                1        6.4   3,68           I   1255       135      35       35     se       i5       0      5s         31           351       o4
podd               t        2.0   1,455        665    3,4tt    141    t1s        6      2eo      to0      36      360        92          1,037    2,363
Mii                Kd        1.6   1,355       253   2,335    t13        55      45    2tt       206    6a        381        155        1,90      1,246
Fulms (areth       K        1.2   3,6          155   3,755      159      47      30    Ito       260      15      255         9           83      2,92
lote               K          .6  2,27           5   3,632       42    221       610    Ise               15      2S          66          848    2,794
'etabg             K        11S.6    sst         I   9,90       1       756     15      4;0      250    125       355       267         2,932     7,068
am                 I         1.6   1,456       4      3,661    321       68        6    250      lot      30      2t6        162         1,590    1,915
ulVI   (Vint        a        6.9   3,166       to    2,95       165      34      25      So      In       i5      is          44          473    2,327
feKW                a       13.5     151         1   ,625        it      68      55      lot     156       I        1         31          415      1,615
tateu              a        13.5     751         6  11,125  3,5l        5t       125    He       4t1    126       so        617         5,762    4,363
NtWE               a         1.1   4,260        65   4,685       Is      35      35      25      11       15      to6         66          620    4,065
VeQetl             nHB    13.5    6U             5   6,775    "I   Im            6 ,51 0  456    It      135      506        256         3,961    4,814
I5.q               i         6.9  3,66           6   2,711    135        35       36     75      155      30       56         53          S53    2,147
Suatai             p        45.6     221     1,215   11,115  2,615   1,34 6  62          666     300   t15        31         405        5,676    5,439
V   abe  costs  Mid 0  hit!"  1  at labotr reqvitemes.
I/  11led  Pa  cnt bae  en  tbg 151 of daft mqtirmt.
5/ hfr coSts lecIl WOrC1f41CALs, trace elmuts  .I(.  nS04), Atats etc.
Y   btrint at 1i  p   anm" e  sd, fettlie  ad teli  costs.
1/ hlf upt atIls - aiwqln aid thlli.



-84-                                                            Annex 2
Table 4c
>IOA
BIRAR - PUBLIC TUSEWELLS PROJECT
Individual Crop Budgets at Financial Prtses
iLid                     It                        k it!IIUP                     KI OL#_h.j/ to     !a
1/114   lgIton                                                           . ,   s     ..
Part- C.  Agro-climatic Zone III
*Padd   -           K        6.9    1,466        30    1,568  14t         131       65      125       1       9       li0         55           616       944
K        1.1    1,366       121   1,551       131      S3       40     156       75        I      160         U3           59t       959
PpIwms (4Iiat)      £        1 .    3,l06        n    .3,396      158      53       a0      53       25        0       50         34           400    2,96
JUte                K        1.4   2,276          1    3,178       36    231        65     151        6       0       150         46           672    2,516
Vuqaublu  5/   1       12.6      5S6          6   6,601      450     631       70     258      t50       75      2S         141         2,116    4,584
tOz?~t  t1.1   1,456        360    1,'5       320     6U        7      lo          I      0        S0         25           634     1,261
PJISuS (qra)        tI       6.5   3,111          66    l,56U     105      37       35       1        0        0       12         14           203    1,357
Nustrd              I         1.5   4,216          1   2,106       36      37       35       0        0        0        4          4           11I     1,991
'Atow               R        16.4   3,n0           61,201         135      37       30       1        I       t        Z5         31           258       942
?a"                 K         1.2   1,4U6        326   2,000      140     131       65      1o        s 50    15      15          it           761     t,299
IbUtt                I        1.3    1,36,       130    1,926     13       53       40    I50        7S       15      tS0         62           675     1,145
ulsug Wthar)        I         1.2   3,01         1le   1,700      t58      53       30      45       5s        I      1o         4            478    3,2
lute                I         1.5    2,27          0   1,40S       36     231       65     156        1       0      216          52          784      2,621
egtablfs            1       14.1      556          I   7,701      450     1t        70     250      151       75     29         141         2,096    5,604
W;eN                t        1.3   1,450         320    2,205     320      69       70     125       50        I      I00        71            805     t,466
P,lgs (C.           0         6.6    3,066        70    1,876     105      37       35      31        6        0      50          24           296     1,s74
Nustard             1        8.6   4,201           6   2,520       36      37       35      36        15      I       15         11           173      2,347
Neet               11         6.5   3,100          1    1,501     t35      37       30      50        25       1       50         31           358     1,142
PIdd,               £        2.25   1,401        650    ,960      240    141        75     201      too      31       308         92         1,678    2,722
bain               K1.6      1.8   1,301         200   2,546      136      68       so    2le       201      61      360         165         1,113     I,427
Pulss  atth.)       K        1.4   3,666         120   4,32       15e      58       55      I60     200       rs      201         86           86      3,454
lute                I        1.8   2,M             8   4,696       42    m          70     151       50      IS       250         60           909     3,191
ItabIus             t       16.6      536          0   8,906      556      84      106    350       20      100     35          186         1,920     6,996
1e1n                2        2.0   1,450         610    3,500     320      42       75     200       100      M      2tt         102         1,669     2,431
Pu1lus  (qran)      I        1.6   3,000        10    3,100      l05      42        31     50       I't      15  t    oo         i4           487     2,o13
Fsddb                        25.6     ISO          1   2,251       it      64        68    100      I51        a        1         31           444     1,806
Potates             6       15.       756          6  t1,251   3,160      615      154    5110      46       121      560        617         5,906     5,344
MQNstad                      1 1.2    4,200      61    5,106       36      43       37     22S      125       15    1in           61           635     4,465
Veqetables (suet  t4H        15.0     651          6    9,756     90    1,87        74      450     tse      II      s50         256         4,322     5,428
tOs"a               643       1.0   3,011          1   3,10       135      37        3      75      Ito      36        S0         53           567    2.433
svq,al'             p       50.6      *21      1,351   12,356   2,806   1,648      769     600      360     105      360         410         6,122    6,221
IOa klaif; I * lat.; ,NS * it Sujsoe (aid); P a  seruial.
J/  Labor costs baw  onf hiriq lIt of looter reqirelSt.
21  b.leck pair cust baed sf hiriuq 101 ol draft rsqSrefent.
3/ Itharl Csts Imnl.  Wirst"Cils, trace  elgmns (e.g. ZoSO41, suks etC
4/  Itfrtift it tfl W      M i sn Swt4, fertihtir aid ot er COSts.
5I   Oanf esetabls - aatwqngm  od chilli.



-85-
Tabl 5
INMIA
SIMl! PVULIC TUIEVILL PROJECT
Modele of Cro n         Sin  PatteMn for the Financ£l A1 alxgi
7Net Far Size Area 1.0 ha)
Hodel 1. S avw Soils
Seaaon            Present and FWV  1/      -w FI
"rOa                             Cro
EhJrif           Paddy           1.00             Paddy (8.F) ZI      .35
Uharif            -                 -             Paddy               .65
Rabi            Wheat              .30            Wheat                .72
Rabi            Pulses  i          .10           Phaees 1/            .14
Rabi            Mustard            0s Nustard                         .02
Total Crop Area              1.42                                1.88
Hodel 2.  mixed Crog,ins
Season            Present and PVW  I/                     iv 1/
Creu              hi             Cron                ho
be!rif          Paddy               85             Paddy  (R1.) 21   .25
harif            -                 -               Paddy              .50
ha!if           Maize              .15             maise              .25
Rabi            Wheat              .15             Wheat              .50
Rabi             -                  -              Maize              .2S
Rabi            Pulses  /          .10             Pulses 1/          .14
Rabi            mustard            02              Mustard            .02
Total Crop Area              1.21                                1.91
Modal 3. Liaht Soill
season            Present an      I PWO 1/                  FW 1/
Croo               ha              c
thain           Paddy             .75               Paddy (R.F) 2    .40
nthif             -                  -              Paddy             .20
tbai i         *sise              .25               Maize             .30
Khnif                                -              Pulses 4/          .10
Rabi           Wheat               .15              Wheat             .60
Rabi             -                  -               Maize             .10
Babi           Pulses 31          .10               Pulses I/          .10
Rabi           Mustard             02               Mustard           .02
Total Crop Ares               1.27                               1.82
lodel 4.  Uixed CropPinA With Vecetables
8sea              Ptecent and PIV 1                      N l/
Cm                  ha                               la
henif            Paddy             .75           Paddy (R.F) Vj        .30
ha"if              -                 -           Paddy                .45
sharif            aize             .20           Maize                .17
thuai            Vegetables 3       .05          Vegetables 5j        .08
Rabi            1heat               .15          Wheat                .50
Rabi              -                  -           maire                .10
tabi               -                  -          Vegetables 6/         .07
labi            Pulses             .05           Pulses 3              .09
tabi            Mustard            .02           Mustard              .02
Zaid              -                -             Vegetables  /         08
Total Crop Area               1.22                               1.86
11  MO - Future 'Witbout Project"'  YW - Future "With Project".
ain! .d Paddy, all other crops are under irrigation.
Mainly arm
Mainly Arbar
Mainly inbenrji and Chilli
ainly Onions



INDIA
B3IA. PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
Sumary of Fati  Unit Eudcets at Finanisia  Prices 1J
(in Ruppees)
Model 4: Mixed Cropping
Model 1: Heavy Soils        Model 2: Mixed Crouping          Model 3: Ligbt So,is                 With Veletabkes
*   IWO 2/  j/ V       ~Incremental F                             lacremental FLa                   2I WO_ 21 1114   kcmal  2  NX4/  P Incr =wiMal
(a) Gross Value of Production
-  Main Crop                          2,063   5,363      3,300       1,837   5,144      3,307       1,845   4,831      2,986      2.065   6,937       4,872
-  Ay-Product                           491   1.182        691         402      964       562         384     912        528         368     974      __M
Total Value of Production              2.554   6,545      3,991       2,239   6,108      3,869       2,229   5,743      3,514       2,433   7,911      5,478
(b) Production Onerating CoAts
- Purchased Inputs                      985   1,811        826         869   1,973      1,104         871   1,850        979         956   2,407      1.451
(c) Grose  N&Uain                         1,569   4,734      3,165       1,370   4,135      2,765       1,358   3,893      2,535       1,477   5,504      4,027
(d) Value of Pamily Labor and
Dra£^t Auiwl
- Family Labor 3J                     1,561   2,081        520       1,341   1,883        542       1,262   1,708        446       1,390   2,590      1,200
- Draft Animal  /J                      750   1.120        370         623   1.008        385         598     950       352          595   1.05         5
Sub-Total                             2,311   3,201        890       1,964   2,891        927       1,860   2,658        798      1,985   3,685       1,700
Z  .m  6f   ..m    wi-                         ...a..   m......                nm      .m.. *    u.n.W
(e) Met Return to Fa1il  Farm 51          -742   1,533       2,275       -594   1,244      1,838        -502   1,235      1,737        -508   1,819      2,327
IJ Unit Size: 1.0 ba.
,I IWO - *future witbout" project; FW - "future with" project.
I/ At financial price of Rs 10.50/Work-day.
A/ At financial price of Rs 25.00/Pair-day.
2/ Negative sign indicates that return for labor is less than the market
wage rate of Rs 10.50 per vork day.



-87-
Annex 3
INDIA
BIHAR PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates and Schedules for Provision
of Principal Materials
List of Tables
I.      New Tubewell Systems
2.     tModernized Distribution Systems on Existing Tubewell Systems
3.      Rehabilitation of Existing Tubewell, Systems
4.      Dedicated Power Supply
5.      Management Improvements
Note: All costs in this Annex are based on unit rates as of September 1985.



-88-
f. PORIMP                                                                                                                                                         101-0     Me 1316  Tabe  3
& us                            ilt                      4      0.5                        s       264        36             W-0        -0    US-0   12-6   At-(  1314 '4  42
Lommm                                      i~     ~      ~~~sa 2 3       4 a1to              M            1to , W    4424              M4    no-    0i-    M.          aiL    30-   1OO         
46"Mvjmoom                                  a~~~4         44   2.9    WM            5491    1440    344        341        I            44,4    744    74L   16.9%      44a     n.  I13.s#.u
2a0.4W                                     44~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  48    4      4.    14       US       14         34.11     LIS            '4.   MAl.    an..  Is.#    44   rA.0    ?.aegm               a
541gm"mi LS                                                                               isis   to  toa. to                                     -   mj m2.     *   4..  wu.a   13.  z.13    a,454.j   4.0
46 IWM NM            Ls              0       70       M       M       I*        M         M        1.1           M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 934  1.13.  blI1.  3,14  1,111.1 .,,34.4  '.441.4
.                                                               .     ,a ba.    IA     4.u   I2o.6   I,$*    b=.          4MWO        La4          1.4   61.2.1   Om5..   In.$3  am*in    a.m.  3.341.#  OAS5 
I  1MMAN11 $&aOm                                         L               it       is      34      to4     444      to4       34        I.            604    MA.   99.0   74.4    3.ak   tooA          .440.45    4
I. gm pm         Mai N MIINVn                  a      a*              x a      im       3iwi.     m      %A      sIn        464        4.44          de 24 4 3.    )., 1m    1 .,0 I .   1                 0.6 La
WMOM M~~~~~~~M                             u5           2.a        lea   2445     M.    3.54       21W      37454       LS             ]M 1234       a 42     43.   914        1 1.13.    46am      a
t-Is. Am      11 UU" 4W                                  Ls 4                             it54 7  to4     to      1to        W4         13        I-JI     I    4 1294-  246.4 3-444   14.34.   145.4   4.6 
UIXI.        mmuNW                            45 m              *    14 LSa             .41   M.6       16      203       26,         LS2          V"54     744    76.4   M.$5.   .499"    Og.m.*  .. 4.    44 4LO
LOW11811MOMM                               is~~4          a4       le       la     to4      to       to4        M        4.S           MA.   33.4    31.4     5.43L   31.*   54.4    a".   4.
6,49,11111111 M                                           Laa                     l- o                      o       t                              54614   334.0.1   4.07.17,121.   91    4 0.a71   4.4    OA4
5.                                                       Ls6U-1          44       le      le      144      W4      M4         M3       I.              ao11    49".   441.   t54.9   43    95.4    MA   4.44   4,
u.inSWnM                                                                                                                                                         2       9 7  4  45 14 I  .  44 34    .4 5.4 64 4. 314 44 
ON&11KMgM                                               Le4             4.       14      l4    1to       to4      to4       so       Ws               -  I-M.A   134154 174*4.4 7494 144.4  ?.nM.   4.6*
4.~~~~W14ah31W                             45             44~~~~~~~~i   if  540     too      W6      to4       M1         3      - 24        t.13L               014 2.       "    1          A
I.4 i      *                                              5      -       4         4      7.      144      1W      to         M4 4.                        Ime414 142 111,  I.Mf, 1.454.  1,.13.   G.311    46
LMMWUMOMM                                   .~~~I     loa       mm          54e   1446      46m      56M   UMNO                  - -W.       2144   22.4U.  1173'.4 I2544   13.4M  M.04    4.44  4.
5.LUW U                                                  15      -     ha         290    494    145        444     444      1-4       24        -15445,             2409.   13.w   3      2.6 .4O  a4144   4M
4. am   -15 Is                                                           44       29      T.      M4       M       444        IN       3.                  MA 1.   245.4   14.4  3154.   314.4  1-3.4   4.6SM
16 11 s      w                                           1 Ng        1141   MM   SWS              4441    445      16W       INM      41-           WA.    44   9614  WM*13.   .13.94.544.4  $.134  4am5
F.          11 w ufuwuin                               M*         164W        14.411   1.40    SON44   3346439.6    1.4M            46    1.      46.47,41346.4 I.51.434,2.6444.ij7241,=4 it.4g.4  041  4
a.0164               456                                   1            11        .1      .4       .4     264      26       1.4        4.              . 4144    294   194.4           2    -49. M4.4  134     0.4.
1.. 0    1 a  mm                                         w       * 1     a&     MM     54X0      40401   344W   MAN   &b                 34    1-61*4   2144  214.4    134  MM.4 t,d*.o  1..4   4.64.
1. Comm=   4p AM   in                      B           134         To.4    1.15324 M12.444o 3.6    4.1,6                .6              .     12.94    3L  4.  ,3756431.0 1431,14   MILO1  4.S64
04.aa aeG      m                                           9          246434            514       .     4.W 4MW 29M                    44       -     241I 34.s 7      ~    237    ~.gj 1.37   11  8.
L    4 4111.64
4. U- - ~   ~                  ~~                                  ~~                                 ~                          Z-     
I. 6451w 446)4 U4W  443           2.314    .4W    3.414    .459    2.45      2.64      14.44       4.1     -   34.4    *.ftt   'M, *Oft       444.  445"9  3M 544   .4 



B1IL PUBILIC JUERllLL P"=V
monI RD    DSthITUTIOn SYSTE    ON UISTiWG TUD1Um.S
DtaUed Cost Table
(RUPS  '000)
0 .mstltu                                  ,a  COS44                                                                Pb.
IAt 1        2        3         4          5                     7       TO            cot 1        2       3       4       5       6        7     To           u    .
A. DI MO c-        o
1. 311313111 ams
. RC KPE                         LS     -        60      140       200        200        200        200      2.000         3    -   190.0   420.0   600.0   00.0   60.    600.0 o#  0.                0
2. Lim    5                      LS      -       60      140        200        20        200        200      140           2    -   200   20    400.0   4000    40.0   400.0    M.0004  0.05    0
3. FMhW   N mmIC                 LS      -       60     t1          200        200       200        200      1.000       1.5    -    90.0   210.0   300.0   100.#   300.0    00.0   400.0  0A         0
4.       _ CU5 1  U CUE          Ls      -       60      t4         200        200       200        200      10too        12    -   720.0 1690.0 2*400 2,400.0 2oa.0.0 2#00  t1200.0  0.05    0
e-tal SmDtI5         cIWB    -- 1110.0 2s90e0 3.700*0 3ttoi00  3700,0 h7t.0    0.0
1. PMK 3 PSIDIIU  SYSTi
1.        W 2010 PK PIK1         a      -   2360   Z5.230        78.900     71.900    78#900     70O900     Memo       0.044    - 1041.5 24.1  3.47n.6 3,471.4 3,4n76 34t1.6  1720.B0   9.1  0o4
2. OKIr c 161  e P0  PPIK                -  220.00   S100X    7N0NW0    740.500    740.00    740.500  3.M700.O         o.02     - 6.300.0*5.02.0 21.474. 21474. 21W4.5 21,44.5 *07,100.9  0o1  0.6
3. SlfPLT U *6110ue PMC RISEI    13M29    -    1.200    2.800     4.000      4.000      4.000     4.000     2000        0.05    *    60.-   140.0   200.0   200.4   20o.   200.   1400.04  0-05  0.6
4. WIE 1 FM1  LM                         *       60      140        200        200       200        200      l.o0          3    -   100.0   4 0    600*   600    60.0   600.0 3.000.9  0.0   0.                   co
s. WIBI                           03     -  132.600  312200    446.200    446.280    446.210    446.200  2.230.000     0.005         6 663.4 14561.0 2231,4 2231.4  24211,4 3.211.4  1150.0  0.05    0
6. LOW MM FnILII PVt                     -  230a000  560.O      800.500     00.500    000.500    0050o0  40.0          0.001    -   238.0   560.0   800.5   800.5   100.5     O.s  4.,   0.0e    5    0
S-TOa P11   SIurtI  mmT                                                                                                           8*.562-9 20.W1.1 287110 20718.07 23.020 278  14.00.0
C. WILIUT 0815
1. SPPI.!    IJ4L*L 0011         11     -    1.200    2.800       4.000      4.0to     40ee       4.0P0     2e.eoo       0.3    -   360.0  t40e0  1.200.0 1.200   1.200.0 2,200.0  0.000.   0.05    0
2. 1193511 OF5C801               1t1I    -    I200   2a00t        400o0      4.000      4.000     4*.00     20.000       1.1    - 2,2.0 3,060.0 4.400.94.40.0  4#.4* 4.400.0 700.0  005    0
liTOta  11115 08013                                                                                                                   1,660.0 3I92.0 30400.9 544.400 5.4000 1.600*4 21,00.
1. CeT IM     f Wmm C            aS$   0    W.00 0     o   l.t0 0750  .1071000   1.170.0  ll.O170A   5e400    .00               - 1.0710- 2.50.0 345123 3.5224  3.5*2.3 3W13 V7A 0   04.              0
l otaW mm                                                                                                                             Ol7BSE  -   1*07 o 2.*0.  3512   3,512.  3 52.3  1w.   7640.0
.. _ME  ,i86313T
1. 10t U TWTA mm S               LS      -     ,21     2,52       4.10       400 410    40        4.200    20.784          1    - 1.2-0 291.01t  4.13.0 4,10.0 4.1890 410*.  20.34.0  0.05    0
otA-Totl IIBIIEI  As 601lltStWII                                                                                                   -   1.23.0 21.5.0 418.04  14.1.0 413.0 4.1800  20.34.0
tal lS'aJIINt  Wls                                                                                                                    -3.636.9 32.014.1 45773.1 .570.3 457*3 45oM.3 .      W23 .71e.
Total t                                                                                                                                 13.636.932.034.1 45.770345.77  J 445.770,77 0o 5   2    0 4   5 .3 2*



tNDILA
BINIR PUBLIC TU8EFLL tDOJECT
RERABILTATION  OF EXISTING TUrEWELL SYSTES
Detailed Cost Table
(RUPEES '000)
ats.aft
_______________  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~   ~    ~    ~   ~   ~    ~             *1co .  for.
thut    1       2      a       4      5    6   7   TOtal   03tCca          1        2                        -3  4  S  6   7   41    8          .
1. IlStlIIT COStS
A. EPiEOUT FTS
1. NU*TIE                                                    tS        35     75      70      4      46   -   -       271         3      0.0   225.0   250.0   135.    I118-0   -   -    81.0  0.-5    0
2. taM  mum  FO     ND m g                                  NRS    4,200  9s000  8s400  5.400  5.520   -   -  32.520           0.185    m.0 1.65.0  1,554.0   MA9  1*021.2   -              416-2   0.05    0
3. IseY O 3242sa CABlE                                        1      1050  2.50  2.100   350   WO    -   -   0.130              0.45    4n2.5  1.0125   9-40    07.5   621.0            -  3..50   0.05 D
4. 191Y  OF 200 0  3 CASINs                                   N     1.225  2.625  2.450  1575  1.610   -   -   9.4A5            0.3    367.5   787.5  7m.0   472.5    43.    -   -  2v45   0.05    0
S. 1S11. or 2       00s13aE                                  N      1.400  300o0  2.8@0   1.00  1.40   -   -  10.840            0.38    52.o0  1.14.0  le64.0   68440   699.2   -          4.119.2  0.05    0
6. RWRfY       1E  MKI1S                                     IrEN     350    750    700    450    460   -   -   2.710           0l.s     52,5   112.5   105.0    67,5    69.0   -            406.5  0.05    0
7. MlEC"S                                                    LS        35      75     70      45     46   -   -       271        0.7     24.5    52.5    49,O    31.    3242            -    lot.7? .e05      0
8. UIU    1TB                                                LS        35     75      70      45     46   -   -       271        2.5     87.S   1%7.5   175.0   112.5   115.4   -            677.5   0.05  07
9. Ni M WIESF FOR EI         SET                            MRS       20    600    560    360    360   -   -   2.168            0.05     14.0    30.0      0.e0   18.0    18.4   -   -    108.4   0AS    0
t0. F   OFJEL                                                il3   t.225  2,625  2M450  1,575  1.610   -   -   9.485           0.25    146.3   6U6.3   62 5   393.8   402.5   *   -  2,371.3   0.05    0
t1. tPUlATtoll OF WOW8                                       LS        35     75      70     45      46   -   -       271         2      70.0   150.0   140.0    90.0    92,0          -    542.0   0.0e      0
92. NIOS   IWEW6 SMES AnlO IlNIIIE                          tL         35     75      70      45     46   -   -       271          1     35.0    75.0    70.0    45.0    46-0   -   -        27.0  0.0e       0
13. NIIM DES  FOR FEW ~    S ESING EBMIIT  C11   N S    1.750  3,750   3.5OO  2.250  29300   -   -  13.#5                       0.2    350.0   750.0   700.    450.0   40.0             -  2,710.0   0.05    0
14. -KCN  PUPS                                               LS        25     50      75     75      50   -   -       275        25    625.0 1,250.0  1.85,0  1.75,0   250.4            -  6h75.0  0.5    0
15,18IS. FCR 1AINSIM.lATION                                  Ls        25    5s       75      75     50   -   -       275          1     25.0    50.0    75.0    7LO    50.0   -   -    275.0  0.05    0
1S. IEU SlFTA mm                                              S        00    B00    800    M@       573   -   -   3sn7             3  I#W.0 2#400.0 2Co-o.  2*6400.  Jzn9.0   -            41. -     0 .es    o
17. AEft        F COMTE pIMITS am  STARlEtS                  LS        SO   lo      100    100      59   -   -       409         20  1,400.0 2,800.0 2 .0  2.00.0  163260   -   - 11*452.0  0.85    0
is. TT8r3  MS IHSA.TION                                      LS        50    100    1oo    t0o       59   -   -       409          I     50.0   100.0   too.0   100.0   59.0    -   -    409.0   0.5    0
19. NUWP NE CWUPTE                                           LS       13      425    400    120    133   -   -   1.213          14.5  1,957.5  bo162.3  MOM80   1740.0  19929.5    -       17.38.5   0.95    0
lotl  KACM   nSf                                                                                                                          901.3 ;9.606.3 1437.5 13,06.3 10-56.0    -         72,047.3
8. WAI Sf135
1. Raw  oF PWUPIlTS                                          LS       200    300    300    30       371   -        -    .471      4    800.0 1.200.0  1400.0 6260.0  -A44          -       5,884.0   0.05    0
2. fewAI OF WINI CNI  S1ISE                                  L5       200    300    N00    300    213           -   1313          25   MOMo  7,500.0 7t50.0  7500.e0 5.325.            - 32,35.0   0.85    0
568Totl 11873 5wJ                                                                                                                        5S00.0 0.700o   70e0.o 8,700.0 6809o    *   - 38,709.0
C. am  am   W EXSTIINS gtS
3. 145 FE AM"                                                          40      80    120    120      40   -   -       400         30  1.200,0 2.400O0  3.60.0 3h00.0  1200.0   -   - J2000.0   4.05    0
2. M  COSTCTIW                                                KB      100    200    300    300    100   -   -    .oo0           4.37    437.0   874.0  1311.0  1411.0   437.0               4370.0   0.05    0
6-Totl MCCES NMS TO EXISTINI IELLS                                                                                                       1,W.0  3.274,0  4s.11 -0 9 1. *37,0    -   - 1h30.0
D. ES111EtIB An A8rNINSTrATION
1. 105 OF 0AL   COSTS                                        LB    1.649  3.150  3.305  2.7l  1.932   -   -  12.715                1  1s49.0 3,158.0  3.15.0  2U710o 1.932.0   -   - J2#715."   0-05    0
Sub-to.l FIE E11INB MS AINISISTBATIO                                                                                                     1.649,0  3#158.0 13,3.0  2,671.0  1.932,0    -   - 171540
Total  INIESTI IT  tDSTS                                                                                                                   184137.3   147 .3  U .3 5    2 57.3 21.234.0         19 8413
9-mn9 9.9nfla- =S.SS~ z=m9=a 04=4-2lS  SaS          aas. 
Toal                                                                                                                                         18,137.3 349738.3 36,353- 29,370.3 219234.0    -   -    439.841.1                .
tgatan  g        wgSag   5S.U#5 l* ttg#tt ne-San ag:s aS .



Annext 3
43TA                                                                                           fable 4
BIEM   991U.1 21U1U1. 99021
UDIAtO mm13 314. (4,112 mi= Am so33 110332*)
Dlots"14  490t 1092
4.4    140    2b    14         4       1 Ud   P-    t.4a4             41.4       4      2M SA    4-M       ?. 1.  7     34   11. 3  4,0*1-  9-1 41
0. u  Mau aum CA                           M      U.u     SANU   3443   143*  44.3  13.4319   6201   124093       4.43   s.Zo.  s.4 .o     3..ua   ,.rn.  ,4i0.e    MA3.    21414.       64*. 4A
II0  f S i V       u m  s11                      9.30  249.    slow 31   3213   44.9       2431    44104.0    4.42       j399   344.    71.4   124*   390.0  41-S2. 314.  4.291         44  4.43
4.  31 am  mm01"I     91W0  44.49   43.3   43.33   440   3.439   ZAK9  41.,430    0.444                                   oa I,1.    I.3.   M4 W. 4.44.  t,.9    W&0  492.4  0.43.    *4  0*.1
.. em In. silot W4                          4      4.1W    2.43    3*  HIM*   3,3    M.4O    4.0    42.4*    4.4*9    30.4   231.9   33.  193424.   442.)   14"           MA4.  2.*9.    94 04.
u6  p@40wa  lam09  gnUO Wm                          to  *0.3    *'.     31.4    1..4141   3142.40  IN4    6.      .ms   jft*    mis    On-    m.I   00.@    uS   29.  4.W3.&   O-$  .0-
P.4I"on"1133 1*13                           M3     9.43   4.33   MCIm  7.31   3.0311   2.0   4.43    0.319         043)  I4m*  1.").0  w.23.  I.-.4  94.,    =4.   *33.   1.33.4   94  9*0
to. 41w 34)3mm                              Li     M.J        M44  24 111,    *1.4a       " .4 M  .431   I0.1m      6w4,.4 4.3147. 40.9, W-               43.   432.4  3100  4 9.3        441 9*
it.31432    3344    340  4,4    1* 4.3 3.3                                                 431     440    4.3a93s4o92AV.04W.4a)9)   00                             424.)   11.544 fl .4   91 4A
49. 314 143159                              LI      .03     244    b Ml    39       o 431    13    449    440              o3.69   709.  3"9,9 " 39.4   9*4 W209.0   449.41.20.4            0.4 .3
44. go39611110331M                                    No          M    b*    9191   331    M3    39        "  2.33 1 134 3.13. 14.t 23,34.  2.43.  2.43.  4.443.             O 14492. &42    0.4  4.
M4. 9413444m   Inc3. WU*1144443                      M  43    4014.144     .00 4.5~a1      M      13    4,42       0.23*    2.42.M9L   244.2  2133   V90.4  t16.)   4349  4,444.4   0.4    *
4I. 1,14                                    3        M3   4.3    104.W*  4 15 433       70 M       2*    0.410     2.44  2.W65 2.4U4,  WV.32    2.420.), 4=.33   I.424.  4.30.3  44.3.?   9.4    O
W4 VAOT                                    a        111   14.4    143o  4.409   4,23       M7     M4    4.40       4.21)  4.4)4.2 I.1M.  1.434.5 4,972 I-M#0  1424   40?.4  41.14,    4.4    9
13w14444264 a Uu.;4*90.4212.4143   4914  514  7.32.3.  940.3, 4431.0
3,4U4) "  4.34!11130                        M3       a       40       3     a9      a1      2      24       3       4.42     Mt.  371          .   1-01.3 s.o2.  43  3   299   S1144   9*94
34003340930foa 1,                          51        a       4       a3    4a       a0      a       2       M      0.43      LS      9.4   40.4   34.    44         4.4    4.1    43.00.39La
4.443                                      me2        91     4       M       40     69       9      a2      3      O.m2      42.2     L     SU4 9.4037.1            9.1    0.4    1.04      509
4,3mom                                     314       0       09      a0     A0    4a        0      43      in      1.40      4.9l    9.2     .i    64.      7.9    2.      4.4     29*4  .449
4.4111044391IF111613330,4
I.44111433   1WI. 2S 20                    La*      4to     Sit    so       443    19       30            1.t23s    %.=    m.1.4 3,01.7 S.914,  3.M30.2.13.) 4,41410.1          31J411.21   9.0.0
2.3404it    313a.3M go                     n          3     39              to 44   M3     Is 43  .29               4.4 W In. M  4 .MU    934 1 4  4,4M.   394.4  424  5*V1.#  0.0  9.
3.m434                                     La        aW     a3      so      431    13      no    44    32129      0.40     224.   49   209.2    Mt3  W4.#    4.3    024   4.424   0.34*A
4. L   SIR34191130                          M3      43      M3      M0     ad1      M      ISO    14    Di"       0.4*      34A    234.   WU3.   1932   3M4.    43.4   43.2  4.2.   9.0  4A
9.4401)1433134*5                51~~~~~K  4.43   4,0    0.1*   4.93    3g#      M2     30    t944        L.42    140.  0 .43    '-*94.9 7* 2*           9.      004434               .
4.1111.M.40                                Lw       Is   14.0   4.49   3.23    4.34        in 40   443 0.30        4.140   4.43.7 4,310.  4.1.44,34U .214.3       "A 9114    13. 0434.4   4.A30*
1.      4393M   01114311                  ST       43      *3      30I    43       10     M3    440    1.23      3.313  .4.341.19 4.4 1*1,143  4.01.3 447A0.4 41.4  441.   7.49.4   9*.0 
3.                                         La        4       M3     M0     4        M4     23     t4o   3`23          4    0. L*3. MO        .    440*   33.0   8.0    t44.   3.23       4.0   41
,.M3                                     La       4       M3     a0      44     13      M3      14     'v  1.3   4.0     M.#  474.1  912.# 443.94,43.0             3     j* 24.01.34   0A*    0
5404434 3~~~4444~g3 4.3                                                                                              7,73.9 b.4.4 %U441.40914.M1,44.4  4.304 2,43.  34444.9
4.401333244                                S1        a3     M3      M1      M3   4,13      M0      M     4.6      0.43      .33.    14.1  334.6  422*   1Z.4   4234    3.9  2,143,   9.49 4.4
J.95313443 3an31                                    4*      13      39     19    4.43      330    43    4.949    4.1    4.31.?          UA M V.ISA.344.   4,99.    MA4    0.4  7.391       A 0.9.
4.333*                                     WV4       a*     M3    a3    9on    4.43    230        341  4Im         9OS      1.4   40.4   14.4    MA.   99.4   23.4   44.    393.2   O*           9
44.11444 £343            mom*4                                                                                              1334  1.01 23442.0.327 M. 4.,   43.  LIV4.94
3, lu  1                                   go3       3       24     a       3v      42     33      Is      In       41      "A2   044.    043.   29"    M"3    30.3   44.0  4934    0*    0
34.140144Oa a931                                                      is v413                as     Is      in1It4M 2.4*53.4942.73.   *.43*4 043 .2.                       MU 4,43.  49   OA3.
2. 03                                      LI       40      41      14      a       31     23      4      4w         4      0.4 194               *3*3I1.9 04 24.942.04 .99.4,
S.43110ow                                  LI       I3S     UN     I3      443    200      49      14    4."3        I    44   440.   144.   44.*   3*    49*    42.9431                  4.4    0
U9*ioiP 443111  3433331                                                                                                     4,749.9 4.913  2.143*  4,441.  2,28L.9    3.9    S   11.944.4L
M974a 0 333 M  C        411 43 143                                                 o14mtA                W           a     3.900447.M   4402.0 4. 3.9 9.05.  id"9.  l4.442,93494 me
14414 U30433  0454                                                                                                            0.03.40.47609.411,4 a.30      am"2103.3.941114 1 .) 10.13.4
1Too                                                                                                                          40.44.44429.943,449.44 .13. 042.304 Z4.93.411L.7 3 M..2



MM3* PuI  TUUUUU PIOJUT
3*3*46mm DwvoYw
9010.10 cost Tab]*
* ram .* . kms Tax
3*A11)    2        2     4    5    6    7  bwa     bit cat    A           2       3        4      5      6       7    TOW inIC1 RO b.bO
CLUMA            #ASI                liTi      -    -      2    -                -       2       so                    s004        -       -      .      . 1400.   00         0        0
S.JTSEWnUWSW                           Lo       -    -  2400    -    -    -    -  2.00               I       -          24000        -                        2400.0  DA0      0        0
6. IS UR1M                             to8      -    4      14   15   16   20   12       IS        221          I#1.36.  2,34.0 1,460 .4.Is.0,660.0 2,m.019.d35.    0.05    0           a
L.56533MB MD   3111813
1.16 ( 31141mem                        LS161    -   3   2.55   W6  436  462  277  4694              1        - 629.0 2485.0  347.0  4)6.0  0WA.  27P.0 4p694.0  0.05    0               0
w10Ie1 5515131  aS daUI3I                                                                                           6V0.   2149430.     416.   4624   2770 4.694.
C. 0011053 me go"ST
to6                                   1156n     0   5123                                           90  720.0  450.0         -       -                      11,00*00.05    .0    0.05
2.36                                   1113    23   20---               -    -     -     43        110 2,53.02.200.0         -       -                        4#730.0  0.05    0     0.05
2. n VI10 n113                                  -   lo                 .IS1                       150        - 2oX.21.               - -                      2.700.0 0.05    0      045m
4.WTmm     hIIi mm113                           -to 06                                  1to        300       - 5P40.00           -      -           -         5400.0 0,05    0        0.05
u.mmcvan                               I15      -   25      30   30    -05-              e          0        -   200.0   240.0  240.0       -                   40,0 0.15    0       0.00
4.P3mm Wm my FM m =WEl  lIE    -  I-- -    - - -                                          1        70    -  3.0              -       -    -                      3. 0.40   0   0.05
7. so"M    T                          INN3      -    1.1.               .             .is                    -    15.0       -                                    5.0 0.05    0      0.05
to SiUiM36-160                         111      4    4-6                                            Is    60.0   600         --                            . 120.0  M.0        0      0.05
9. lIIU TUE l1ow                                     -6                                             0    2400                                                   MA  - - -    4.  0.05    9  0.05
M0.1au1."aT cm5 T                               3                      -2                           2      9.        -       -       -                           9.00.'05    0       0.05
It. SPMIU wPIE     .                  UT        4t-o10 0.0                                                                                                      1 -   0.0 0.05  0    0.05
1?.WMIEIUS15M.IUIFIMNT  UT  4    6-~~~ ~~~~~~~~~12                          10    60.0    600         -                                120.0 0.05    0         0.05
IL3.       WSW. 1111911361             13            I                  I-                        60         -   600.0       -              -                  600.0  0,05    0       0.05
34. 6318111   ArS1111                  13       -    1        -        -                         2.700       - 2s70.0        -       -                        2,00.0  0.0      0      0.05
15. 5316 UUNUI                                                                            I     ISM00          10 -          -      .w.            .          Irmog   0.05    0       0.05
ml.8am  Om  Lob ENV=                   I3       -                      .                         3.000          1,00.0       -                     .       -1,0.0  0.05    0          0.06
17. VA631  IWIEIW                      13                              .                         2.000       -24M00.                                          2400.0  0.05    0       0.05
mm u    n owin   gpgj                so       1.                                               1.3*  1,50.0                .                                3*00.  0.05    0        0.05
5,119.0 10*420.0   240.0  240.0     -           -    24471.0
I*.110)3                                LB    S 95  0    400  400  400  N0         -  2.50           1   500.0   200.    400.0  400.0  400-1.0300,0        - 2500.0  0.05    0           0
2.63 am  TM 9me mm                      LB    26   200    200  200  200    -    -  3400              1   200.0   200.0   200.0  200.0  200.0        -      - 14r0o  0.05    0            0
s. wa II I    s I MD  5116              LB    250  25      350  250200   200  100  Is=0              I   250.0   250.  .0  0-  1500  2000  20A.  12000 11000  4.05    0                 0
4.   U1100211                           LB    x00  200    10       -          -    -    No0          1   200.0   200.0   *00.0              -                    00.0  0.05    0         0
9*-T*W  auMIAI*IU   DS1UIUU                                                                              1,110.0 1,110.0   950.0  0500  900.0   -00   00.0 5*006.4
loOm.                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6#329.0 26,59.0 29.17.0 4#".902.054.0 53*1.0 3.4104 011.200



-931-
INDIA
AIlAR PUBLIC TUBIVELL PRO3JCT
Draft Terms of &efgrezce - Tuewll Wing (MID) Manaaamant Study
Table of C,onptaxts
latroduction.
- Background.
*-  Study Objectives
- Management Study
Management Study Determinants
Information Management
- Background
- Project Recommendations
Financial Management
- Background
Recommendation
- Financial Monitoring
Organization
-  Background
- Consultants' Tasks
Monitoring and Evaluation
- Consultants' Tasks
Training
-  Consultants' Tasks
Water Charges
-  Consultants' Tasks
Conditions of Employment



Annex 4
-94-                              Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference - Tubewell Wing (MID) MnaMement Study
Introduction
1.      Background. The project introduces improved technology for new and
modernized tubewell systems which will make the irrigation service more
efficient and, provide public tubwell systems which are predictably m-anage-
able. In addition, the project includes a comprehensive program for
rehabilitating and modernizing ezisting public tubewells and provision of
dedicated power lines to most public tubewells in the State. Under the
project, public tubewells will be operated as clusters and thus the organiza-
tion. procedures for monitoring and evaluating performance, and assessment
and collection of water charges would be changed compared to present prac-
tices as undertaken under the Bihar Water Development Corporation.
2.      The GOB has recognized that when the existing technologies have been
substantially improved. potential benefits can only be fully obtained if
management can be made more effective and efficient. Since, the new tech-
nologies provide a predictable service, performance of management staff can
be systematically evaluated and beneficiaries can assess whether they are
getting the service promised. In particular. management improvements can be
structured to focus on specific measures which set standards of responr
sibility and accountability and may also introduce incentives in the manage-
ment procedures. Thus. GOB plans to: (i) strengthen the agencies responsible
for execution and management of the public groundwater development;
(ii) establish procedures to use and take full advantage of the tubewell
users' organization at individual tubewell and tubewell cluster levels par-
ticularly given the history and problems which have affected the performauce
of the BWDC; (iii) establish procedures to monitor progress of project
implementation, the irrigation service provided and realization of project
benefits; and (iv) formalize the linkages between the Tubewell Wing (MID) and
other agencies (particularly the BSEB and Bihar agricultural extension serv-
ices) so that the implementation and performance of public tubewells can be
effectively and systematically monitored.
3.      Already the GOB has taken far reaching organizational changes aimed
at winding up the BWDC and replacing It with a line organization which will
be appropriately staffed and provided w;t- -he necessary services and
facilities to undertake its responsibilitie*. Considerable progress has been
made in identifying areas where the new TW en be strengthened compared with
the erstwhile BWDC. However, the GOB h.e  --:ognized that there are limits-
tions to management improvements which can be generated from within an
organization particularly given the history and problems which have affected
the performance of the BWDC. The GOB believe that there will be considerable



~~~ _95_ ~~~~~~~Anuez 4
Page 2
advantages in having independent consultants to assist the new TW in the
analysis of the management problems within the public tubewell sector over
the last decade. Such consultants would provide a group of experienced
multi-disciplinary professionals who are not burdened with routine
administrative duties and who can evaluate the organization and management
problems of the TW from an outside perspective.
Study Objectives
4.      The basic objectives of the study would be to provide the TW with
recommendations on mAnagement improvements to improve the effectiveness and
efficiency of the existing TW administration and to ensure that project (and
existing) works can be managed to achi2ve projected benefits.
MaMnaement Study
5.      The GOB would retain the services of a Consultant Group experienced
in all aspects of management consultancy relevant to the needs of the
Tubewell Wing. In addition to technical and management expertise, the Con-
sultants would need to be familiar with the practices and procedures of the
Bihar Government Departments, particularly the minor irrigation sub-sector
(including legislation related to land and irrigation). The study would
first undertake a preliminary review of the problems which caused shortfalls
in performance of the erstwhile BWDC. the present structure of the new TW
organization, and predicted workload over the project period. This would be
followed by an in-depth study of the main areas for possible organizational
and management improvements identified under the preliminary review. The
in-depth studies would result in a comprehensive report which would recommend
practical improvements, and detail procedures and arrangements to implement
such improvements. The Consultants would have only an advisory role; respon-
sibility for deciding what would and should be done, and a timetable for
making changes, would rest with the TW/GOB.
6.      The existing and proposed organization structure and staffing under
the project are summarized in para 6.03 of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
The Management Study would review, evaluate and make recommendations in the
following main areas:
(a) Review the objectives and recommendations outlined in the SAR and
Supplementary Data Volume (SDV) dealing with management and technical
improvements under the project and any other information made avail-
able by the GOB, and evaluate what changes can be made given practi-
cal constraints inherent in the existing organization structure*
staffing levels, and Government/management procedures, and rules and
regulations governing the operation of a line Government Department
in the State.
(b)  Identify, evaluate and recommend changes which could be made in the
management and organization structure of the TW to enable it to more
efficiently implement the construction for new works to the agreed
schedule and undertake effective operation and preventive maintenance
of new and existing works under the project up to about March 1994.
In particular, the study would identify and review existing proposals
for establishing organization structure and staffing requirements and



-96-                              -Anes 4
Page 3
evaluate whether the existing workload norms are realistic given the
practical, physical, technical and legal determinants which affect
public tubewell development and management in the project area.
(c) Formulate guidelines and identify categories of data collection
required to monitor, evaluate and compare various aspects of manage-
ment performance both in terms of physical and financial parameters.
Cd) Undertake preliminary review of the following management problems
or issues identified at appraisal: (i) changes in the organization
structure or work units which will result from the introduction of
improved public tubewell technology and dedicated power lines in
Bihar; Cii) separation of construction and O&Z activities; (iii)
arrangements and procedures for using tubewell users' associations in
the managemant of individual tubewell units; (iv) problems related to
unionization or any other special interest group affecting staff
within the TW, particularly where such grouping affects staff manning
levels; (v) legislation. including terms and conditions of staff
employment, as a constraint to organization and staffing changes;
and (vi) assessment, billing and collection of water charges.
(e) Review of existing procedures for various work activities as prac-
tised under the BWDC and the effectiveness of these procedures in
fixing responsibility and accountability of staff; evaluation of the
TW accounting procedures including identification of shortcomings and
recommend changes so that costs of TW operations can be broken down
in sufficient detail to enable sound financial management.
(f) Review present,management training provisions and recommend improve-
ments.
Management Study Determinants
7.      In identifying and evaluating proposals to improve the management
capability of the TW, the following determinants would need special atten-
tion:
Information ManaSement
8.      Backaround.  Over the last decade, the performance of public
tubewells in Bihar under the management of BWDC has deteriorated such that
the main actions tend to be curative primarily to keep as many tubevells in
operation as possible. The magnitude of problems (particularly at field
level) has been such that systematic information required by management has
either not been collected regularly or is incomplete such that appropriate
management decisions cannot be made. The consequences of these shortcomings
have been insufficient information at management level to identify the causes
of problems and thus an inability by public tubewell authorities to present a
comprehensive case supporting essential actions needed either withia that
organization or by Government.
9.      Project Recommendations. Formulate a comprehensive but simple
reporting procedure for all work units in the TW organization so that: (i)
each unit cat quantify its performance and requirements on a continuous
basis; (ii) information can be passed up the management structure in such



_97_                              Annex 4
Page 4
format and in a timely manner so that managers at all levels can effectively
undertake their duties; and (iii) present data in guch a format that it can
be processed quickly and cross-checked (where possible) for accuracy and
consistency.  In addition. procedures at each management level for reviewing
information and for taking appropriate action need to be formalized; such
procedures would include provisons for enacting any management decision
particularly those which affect project performance and need to be monitored
at the next higher level in the management structure.
10.     Consultants' Task.  The existing information procedures used by
management would be reviewed and assessed as to their value as a management
tool.  The data requireiments for effective management of the TW in terms of
technical, operational. financial and administrative determinants would be
identified and appropriate information systems formulated trz'ether with
detailed formats to gather and present information required. Special atten-
tion would be given to: (i) the amount and frequency of data collection so
that only the information required at each management level is processed; and
(ii) the type of data collected to ensure that all data required to make a
management decision is available and that full advantage can be taken of any
data collection exercise (i.e. management information program should be
tested against routine monitoring and evaluation activities (para 14) to
ensure that full use can be made of any data collected and duplicated data
collection is avoided).
Financial Management
11.     Background.  The GOB did not make adequate budget provisions to the
BWDC to enable it to operate as a financially viable organization. One of
the reasons for this shortcoming is thought to be the poor quality of finan-
cial monitoring and accounting within the BWDC. Sufficient information may
not have been available for the BWDC to formulate a comprehensive management
plan which could be translated into a request to Government for the necessary
funds to undertake the responsibilities assigned to the authority for public
groundwater development.
Recommendation
12.     Financial Monitoring.  To enable the project management to finan-
cially monitor O&M activities. the existing accounting procedures in the TW
(and the MID) need to be strengthened. The Consultants would formulate
procedures to collect and present data to support the O&M budget request of
the TW to Government so as to enable public tubewell systems to be effec-
tively and efficiently operated and maintained to such standards that
predicted benefits can be achieved. The Consultants will not be responsible
for deciding the cost norms for the various activities of the TW which will
be decided by the TI technical staff and management. Thus, in this respect.
the Consultants would formulate procedures and data presentation formats such
that establishment, energy and maintenance costs can be accounted for under
separate headings and processed so that O&H costs for individual tubewells
and by tubewell clusters. O&M divisions and circles can be identified.
Accounting procedures would also be structured to enable OM costs for exist-
ing and new works to be separated so that costs can be analyzed. This will
enable the GOB to establish what portion of O&M costs can be attributed to
inefficiencies in management and what portion relates to technical or other
limitations. The GOB would then have data to assess the cost of the various



-98-                               Alne.4
Page 5
activities under the TW and the cost of any inefficiencies.  The Consultants
would also recommend how accounts can be kept so that GOB/TW can identify
costs of managing new and modernized tubewells and rehabilitated tubewells to
be constructed under the project as well as the costs of the overall public
tubewell irrigation program. The procedures should be such that, the MID
will have a basis for estimated realistic O&M budget requests for the various
existing and new works. Finally. the Consultants would formulate procedures
and detail data collection methods so that the TW can collect revenue
received from water charges on a seasonal basis and relate revenue assessment
and collection to O&M costs of tubewell operatior. through an annual irriga-
tion cycle.                             -
Organization
13.     Background.  In the setting up of the new TW. the organizational
structure of the BWDC will be considerably strengthened; at headquarters new
centrally managed units will be established and at field leve, operation and
maintenance (particularly below the sub-divisional level) will be improved
and tubewell users' associations will be set up. The changes proposed under
the project will introduce new or improved organizational linkages compared
to those within the BWDC structure.
14.     Consultants' Tasks.  Review and evaluate the present (and/or
proposed) organization structure of the TW and arrangements and timing for
introducing the changes agreed under the project. In particular, they will
review and, if necessary, advise on the proposed arrangements for linkages
between TW staff and tubewell users' organization so that: (i) works can be
implemented effectively and users are fully informed of the proposed work
program; (ii) users understand their responsibility and procedures for their
role under the project include cost recovery; and (iii) specific and detailed
procedures are available for O&M at individual tubewell level.
Monitoring ad Evaluation
15.     The project provides staff and facilities for M&E of agricultural,
technical and socio-economic performance in the project area. The existing
Training and Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (TMEU) would be strengthened at
headquarters of the TW with three field units set up at regional level. The
TMEU would be responsible for collecting and analyzing data on project
implementation and performance, particularly with respect to the quantity and
quality of the irrigation service. The operator of each tubewell or river
lift system would assist the TMEU by keeping certain daily and seasonal
records which reflect aspects of agricultural performance to be monitored by
the M&E Unit to be established in the Planning Department of the State
Secretariat.
16.     Consultants' Task.  In the course of all studies undertaken by the
Consultants, they would identify activities which need to be monitored and
evaluated on a regular basis to enable management performance to be
evaluated. In particular. they would make recommendations on: (i) the
format and how much data need be collected so that any task to be monitored
can be statistically analyzea; and (ii) recommend how. when. and in what
form, the monitoring data should be made available to various levels of
management. Thus, once the task to be monitored has been identified, the



_99_       -                       Annex 4
Page 6
Consultants would assist the TW in the preparation of necessary data collec-
tion sheets; frequency of collection of data; method of evaluation; how
management can use the processed data; and what feedback procedures should be
instituted to pass results back through the various levels of TW staff down
to the data collectors. The specific management aim of monitoring and
evaluation would be to provide a data base to enable introduction of account-
ability fo-v physical or financial performance of public tubewell development
and any other activities undertaken by TW management.
Training
17.     At present, there are no formal management training courses in the
TW. It is assumed that as technical staff are promoted, they will learn
management techniques on the job. The consequence of this practice has been
little or no chdnge of management procedures compared to long established
practises in force in typical line departments of GOB (as used in the BWDC).
Since senior TW staff have no formal training in modern management techniques
(particularly financial management), without any specialized advice ana
assistance, it is likely that they may only be able to make limited improve-
ments (accepted with or without modifications by GOB) to present management
effectiveness.
18.     Consultants' Task.  The project provided funds for management train-
ing for senior TW staff. When the review work under the Management Study has
been completed and the recommendations of the study generally agreed by
W/GOB, the Consultants will prepare the curricula for short management
courses for Senior TW staff (and other staff if requested). The outline
curricula for the courses will be presented in the Final Report to be
prepared by the Consultants. If requested by GOB. and under separate terms
of reference, GOB may request the consultants to assist in the organization
and running of training courses recommended under the study.
Water CharRes
19.     The procedures followed under the BWDC for the assessment. billing
and collection of water charges are inefficient, time-consuming and difficult
for management to monitor. The present procedures have been based on those
used by Revenue authorities within the Irrigation Department ror surface
irrigation systems and have not been amended to meet the special requirements
of public tubewells. In addition. the BWDC staff responsible for collection
have not been given the legal power vested in Irrigation Revenue staff and
take appropriate action against farmers who default in payment of water
charges. Present procedures are detailed in Annex 10 (SDV). Cost recovery
under the project are summarized in paras 8.10 to 8.19 of- the Main Report.
20.     Consultants' Tasks.  The consultants will review the existing proce-
dures for assessing, billing and collecting water charges for irrigation
services provided by public tubewells. identify the shortcomings in the
present system, and formulate proposals to streamline and simplify these
procedures such that:
(i) Assessments can be made and checked in a logicel and timely manner
given the system adopted by the TW for charging for water (i.e. if
water is to be charged on the basis of irrigated area by crops, the
Cons'iltants will identify what data needs to be collected by TW and



Annex 4
Page 7
establish the time schedule within which can such data be collected
by the tubewell operators or other TW staff).
(ii) Farmers can be billed for irrigation service within whatever period
the consultants deem to be practical from the end of a crop season or
the date when an assessment can be made (i.e. for changes which are
not related to full crop seasons).
(iii) Collection of water charges can be made promptly by whatever
authority is given the responsibility for making such collection.
tiv)  Farmers know of the procedures for appealing against assessment such
appeal procedures so that appeals can be heard and decided timely.
(v) The status of water charge assessment. billing and collection can be
monitored and evaluated by the TW in a timely manner so that manage-
ment can be kept informed of progress and appropriate action taken
should collection deteriorate from agreed norms, set both in terms of
level and timeliness of recovery.
In addition. the consultants would assess and recommend what data should be
collected and/or monitored by the TW for the study of the system of water
charges to be undertaken under the project (para 8.15 of the Main Report).
Conditions of Employment
21.     The Consultant Group would be responsible to the Chief Engineer. TW
and would be directed on a day-to-day basis through the Project Co-ordinator
or another suitable qualified and senior officer designated by the CE (TW).
A Management Study Committee, including Senior TW Officers and other repre-
sentatives nominated by GOB, would be set up and meet on a regular basis to
direct and to maintain close liaison with the Consultants as the study
proceeds. The Consultants are expected to be retained by December 31, 1986.
Subject to the indings of the Preliminary Report to be prepared by June 30.
1987 and the detailed tasks that GOB/TW would like the Consultants to review
and evaluate, the Consultants would prepare a draft Final Report by December
31, 1987. The date of the Final Report will be dee-ided after finalizing the
Consultants work program. The draft Final Report would be sent to IDA for
its review and comments, and taking into account IDA's comments, the G0B/TW
would take appropriate decisions including an agreed timetable. The
timetable would be made available to IDA for its review and coments by about
June 30. 1988.
22.     The staffing of the the Consultant Group would consist of qualified
professionals in the field of Management Studies, sufficient to undertake the
tasks outlined in these draft Terms of Reference. In addition to general
management skills, the Consultants would require specialists in the field of
law; administration; office equipment and facilities; organization of Govern-
ment departments, particularly those following the Bihar Public Work Depart-
ment procedures; and monitoring and evaluation.



-101-                              Annex 4
Page 8
23.     The Consultants would be provided with sufficient transportation*
equipment and facilities to efficiently undertake the studies; the costs of
these requirements would be included in the fees agreed for the Consultancy.
The TW would provide the necessary assistance to enable the Consultant Group
to undertake its tasks and fulfill its obligations.



g  ,   .  .-     -t  -   -   -        ;                        tV~~~~~~~~~~~~MFIt   t 7z, 
'9  s                                          I ~~~~~~~~~~N D I A
BIHAR PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
PROJECT AREA
/V~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f~
.  U T T A R      s       -   -      ,        i -"5*.
A   =,,_t,  Wi\,.,~~~~~~~~ '    '"''   '-    '' _           w       o 's e~~~i          25
24  ,,.   .24, .,                                               .        '                              4
,-  k  -'  .   e    .,.~ _ .5s .     -.    
~                                                                               PPC\  -   EC' A'.A  1 '"
~  'Ali    C PIA
-23                                                                    i <0                                  23'-
330              "' ~                ~                                     40T 'BOUDARIE   3
-                                               TF E0!JNOARIES~~~~~~~~~~~~60N,R
C    1 1CI A                                         30'-
PAKISTAN/ 
220                                                                                    V
-R3  R I SS A A                              2          I N  D I A         203-
0 X$54tAC  541                 -".
0.0£1' -                   .          - I                                 _  _ .o'    00.             10: iRx53iR
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,..t SW - ''  t    
NC.VEMBER 1985



IlStJ) I Y./b
> - ,                                     -      t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N D iA.
BIHAR PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
,) 4.   r'U}MEAN  ANNUAL  RAINFALL
21-  'V Ai' -5  s  +AND  AGRO-CLIMATIC  ZONES
06~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
U T T A R                   .      .         )   
PRADESH
*~~              ~     * '           _        
N~~~~~~~~PTN
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
24 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 -PS
.   M    +      \    ,               \, !,    -';.  -                  <
22'                                                                                                      22 ''
0 R  I H T A '   .   ' i vA :-. ,                  e
ORISSAfs,,,  *                                        * . -,;   '   o   f
/e .._, ', lt !; .        . ~             ., j .
M"O  "C~                                    '       'u -o '-
a.   '_ , ' .e<
.~~~.k.e.ma~~~~ ~ ~ ~ C-                                              -'-C    'R  
(\ fz >, ........... ;:, .... N='?t' N.t.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1C o:
.j   '  *-/"~~~~~~~~~'~~ 2}   l ~~~~~~s_4  tAs          v)'O'4Pf~ ~8



IBRV 19379
816
^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '       '-N D I A
BIHAR PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
-27'                                                 X                       MAJOR SOIL ASSOCIATIONS                                    27°
u r T A R                          X:                    i
o-.-9 ;o- (-%t_ o <t~~- ADH                            SAMis. s
<  ~5VU4w    Ef5 -  \MU'42PFARPUR      AR AGA r                   -        (   
i-                                     -
PURA ~    PUt4
P R A                                                                                           f S 
e                                                                                                                              :HAARW  2
24'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5~~~~~~~~~~21
1 A                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C ?I  42~  AO   80  101  120  KILOMETERS
0   -~~~~~~- -
-23-    <(<   ,V  ;t11W4tA  2        * RAtt;,1X ,4 -I,                                                            60  MitES           73-
* PROJECT AREA LIMITS
d6<tt                        S #               Kt                                             RIVERS
t                                                                                          STATE CAPITAL
j    -D    RDISTRICT BOUNDARIES
ORrISSA                                              STATE BOUNDARIES
56=C'. Xtll' 119 trifftG'  9<  55i>s                           \         -9- ~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
cevvv X s                                O~~~~~~ R I S S A
YOUNG AND0 OLD ALLUVIUM  -SA0NE
SUB HIMALAYAN FOREST SOILS                                                                   UPLAND AND HEAVY GRAY SOILS
HIMALAYAN FOREST SOILS          AN0 SAL;Nf ALK(A!'NF
RECeNT ALLUVIAL TERAI SO;LS                   I') AlLL !A.KAt  -- NON SAIINE. NON           HILL AND FOREST SOILS ON STEEP
__                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SALIC.i ALKA',NE                   SLOPES AND HEAVItY DISSECTED REGIONS
CALCAREOUC   NONNG SALINE    NOr;       ,      A! SOIL - MDl!AiU  TO HEAVY TEXIUKED    2    MIXED SOILS OF THE SINGHBHUM REGIOE'
,S, ,  RECENT AND YClNG AlLUVIULM -                   CYFNARY SOiLS OF VARIOWC   ItXIURES    c      lATRTE SOILS
L±2.~  CALCAREOUS SOILS                               AND COLORS                                     A      r ,
845                        85°                        86C                       8a7 0.
NOVEMBER 1985



85'                    186                       87                       88
BIHAR PUBLIC TUBEWELL PROJECT
.HYDROGEr' OGY
-27 0PAR                            A                    Al                                                                         270
U  T T A  R .^JES  
GOPAL- ~  CHAIAPARAN
GANJ                        ITAMARHI                          MADE
HAR= SA>                   T AREA   T
'- -- -s,SiWAN J      0\ MUZAFfARPUAV   AQURSH .
DAR  AA    OK  QIFR
P2~ R A D E S H          ARAN                                                       ADHE'    PURNIA                             220
P R A  0  E    H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PURA                                            APTA
54 @ V A15"~~AtSit  SAM9ASTP Iis\                              9         _       ,
.RISSA                                                             DISIC  BOUNDARIESJBH
PAT    0    SARA                               K~~~~~~~~- .-SATIMA UNARE
~~~~~~~~~~LAN
'- *0AS ,25:
GAYA  N                     HAGALPUR~~~~~n, INTRAIOALBONDR
v JW ~~AUR    NA8AD     
t       > DEOGHARE   ~~~~~DUiCA               'I
'\ *SE7 - A ~~~~~~~HAZAR18AGH                              GiRIDHt?t
24-                                                                                                              240  5  - 206-
< v ~PALAMiU  r ... 
Of, twr .      ORH- 
4   ,    ;<J  QDAGGAJ
<  A  j,;s  CUMLA      t     RANCHI [_,2°
2 .tcr                                                                                                                         23, O
s   tS      /~~~~~~~~~~s ~ ~ ~ ~            :                      ;z:a~~~~~mmw PRO,fsCf AREA LrMITS
g                  B.                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~HYDROGEOLOGY
>   >               ,          ~~~~~~~~~SINGHBHUM                                     T tNK ALLUVIAL AQUI0FERS
*  l  --++> > 8CiNu~~~~~~~~~~A UtVIlA- AtQUiFERS  WITH
jt      S                      ~~~~~~~~HARD ROCK AQUIfERS
-22'       R4'                         5'6FRS                                                                        802210
72G ;J@SIArN CAPETAL 298-
O  R { S S  A                               __ ~~~~~~~~~~~~D1516?;CT BOUNOARIES
nusi hBi 0w* _ . _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATi  80L3NDARIES
' b b                                                                  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ {~~~~~~~NTFPNATIONAL BOUNDARY
.c ;eswavsr*soe       °   7 0   40  60  80  100  120  KILOMETERS
i_*to _               ~ ~~~~0 20       40       60  MILE' 5
NOVEMBER 1985



