OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1737 IN
Project Agreenent
(Bihar Public Tubewell Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF BIHAR
Dated                      /3     , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1737 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       1l(vel2tf /3          , 1987, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATa    (the Association) and the
STATE OF BIHAR, acting by its Governor (Bihar).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifty-nine million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 59,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Bihar
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS Bihar, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
.mITICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Board" means the Bihar State Electricity Board estab-
lished by Bihar pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower's
Electricity Supply Act, 1948, as amended to the date of this
Agreement;
(b) "Project Coordinating Unit" means the unit established
within the Tubewell Wing and responsible for coordination among
the agencies, entities and departments of Bihar participating in
the carrying out of the Project or any Part thereof; and
(c) "Project Accounting Unit" means the unit established
within the Tubewell Wing responsible for carrying out the
accounting obligations of Bihar as provided for in Section 3.01
of this Agreement.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Bihar declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out
the Project described in said Schedule with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering, managerial and agricultural practices,
and shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, Bihar shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Association and Bihar.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Bihar shall carry out the obligations set
for-h in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Bihar shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) Bihar shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress- of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by Bihar of its obligations under
this Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Bihar shall cause its departments and
other agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof to: (i) maintain separate records and
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
principles and procedures consistently applied, its resources,
expenditures and operations related to the Project; and (ii)
furnish to the Association copies of their accounts and financial
statements related to the Project for each fiscal year, certified
as to their accuracy and authenticity by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Association, as soon as available but in any
case not later than nine months after the end of each such year.
(b) Bihar shall cause its departments and other agencies
and authorities responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof to: (i) have their accounts and financial stateMents
related to the Project, including the Special Account, for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association imme-
diately following its finalization, the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish, or cause
co be furnished, to the Association such other information con-
cerning said accounts and records, financial statements and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 3.02. For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, Bihar shall:
(a) maintain, in accordance with Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, separate records and accounts reflect-
ing such expenditures;
(b)   retain, until at least one year after the Asso-
ciation has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other docu-
ments) evidencing such expenditures;


﻿-4-
(c)   enable   the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(d)   ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in Section 3.01 of
this Agreement and that the report thereof con-
tains, in respect of such separate accounts, a
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
Section 3.03. Without limiting or restricting Bihar's obli-
gations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, Bihar shall cause
the Tubewell Wing to maintain separate records and accounts ade-
quate to reflect expenditures on operation and maintenance of the
irrigation systems under the Project.
Section 3.04. Bihar shall:
(a) by December 31, 1987, furnish to the Association, for
its review and comments, terms of reference for carrying out a
study to establish a water charge system for irrigated areas
served by the tubewell irrigation systems under the Project and,
thereafter, carry out such study; and
(b) by December 31, 1988, furnish to the Association, for
its review and comments, the results of the above-mentioned study
together with a proposed time-table for implementing its results,
and, taking into account the Association's comments, if any, by
July 31, 1989, adopt and implement an irrigation water charge
system in accordance with the appropriate results of such study
and a time-table satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. Bihar shall maintain, at all times, its irri-
gation water charges for all public tubewell systems at such
levels as shall be required to ensure that revenues from such
water charges shall cover the average cost of operation and main-
tenance, and a reasonable portion of the investment costs, taking
into account the payment capacity of farmers.


﻿-5 -
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Bihar thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreemeat terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Bihar of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspensi n under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-6-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For Bihar:
Chief Secretary
Government of Bihar
Patna
Bihar, India
Cable address:
CHIEFSEC
800001
Bihar, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Bihar may be taken or executed by      the
Chief Secretary, c: such other person or persons as Bihar shall
designate in writing, and Bihar shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence   of  the authority   and  the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
oF Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTTRNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF BIHAR
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE I
Procurement and Consultants' Services
I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in August 1984 (the Guidelines).
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, good-- manufactured in
India may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works not to exceed in the aggregate
$19,100,000 equivalent shall be let on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Association.
2.   Small contracts, estimated to cost in the aggregate the
equivalent of $2,900,000 or less, may be procured through piece
work or unit price contracts in accordan.e with procedures satis-
factory to the Association.
3.   Drilling of bore holes for tubewells estimated to cost in
the aggregate the equivalent of $3,100,000 or less, and scattered
and small works estimated to cost in the aggregate the equivalent
of $700,000 or less, may be carried out under force account.
4.   Contracts for the following items may be let on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance wi.h proce-
dures satisfactory to the Association: (i) submersible pump sets
and spares not exceeding in the aggregate the equivalent of
$3,000,000; (ii) ancillary pump set equipment, not exceeding in
the aggregate the equivalent of $1,800,000; (iii) concrete poles


﻿-9-
and general materials for power lines, not exceeding in the
aggregate the equivalent of $13,300,000; (iv) electrical equip-
ment, including conductors, distribution transformers and high
tension insulators, not exceeding in the aggregate the equivalent
of $9,300,000; (v) alfalfa valves, not exceeding in the aggregate
the equivalent of $1,000,000; and (vi) light equipment, includ-
ing vehicles, not exceeding in the aggregate the equivalent of
$3,700,000.
5.   Equipment for management improvement under Part D of the
Project, not exceeding in the aggregate the equivalent of
$800,000, may be let on the basis of competitive bidding adver-
tised locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
D.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract: (i) under Part B of the
Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more,
(ii) for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or
more, and (iii) for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Associa-
tion pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents evidencing such
expenditures) shall be retained until one year after the Closing
Date.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist Bihar in carrying out Parts D and E of
the Project, Bihar shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Exe-
cuting Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.   Bihar shall:
(a) locate, plan, design and construct the works under
Parts A through C of the Project in accordance with standards and
criteria satisfactory to the Association;
(b) operate and maintain adequately and efficiently the
irrigation systems under Part A of the Project, and provide
promptly as needed, sufficient funds to carry out such operation
and maintenance;
(c) by March 1, 1987, prepare and furnish to the Asso-
ciation, for its review and comments, drafts of design and oper-
ation and maintenance manuals for the tubewell irrigation systems
under Part A of the Project, and, thereafter, taking into account
the Association's comments, if any, adopt and utilize such
manuals, in the carrying out of the activities of the Tubewell
Wing;
(d) sanction staff positions in the Tubewell Wing in accor-
dance with organization and staffing schedules satisfactory to
the Association, and thereafter, appoint and deploy the required
staff pursuant to such schedules;
(e) provide appropriate staffing, facilities, services and
other resources required for carrying out agricultural extension
services throughout the districts of the Project Area; provided,
however, that prior to energizing tubewells under Part A of the
Project in a given district, Bihar shall ensure that such agri-
cultural extension services are operational therein; and
(f) provide to the staff referred to in sub-paragraph (d)
of this paragraph necessary training to enable them to implement,
operate and maintain efficiently the tubewell irrigation systems
under the Project.
2.   Bihar shall, maintain within the Tubewell Wing:
(a) the Project Coordinating Unit under the direction of a
qualified and experienced officer and assigned, at all times,
with such powers, functions, funds and staffing as shall be
required to enable it to accomplish its purposes; and


﻿- 12 -
(b) the Project Accounting Unit under the direction of a
qualified and experienced officer and assigned, at all times,
with such functions and staffing as shall be required to enable
it to accomplish its purposes.
3.   Bihar shall:
(a) by March 31, 1987, prepare and furnish to the Asso-
ciation, for its review and comments, draft work plans and sche-
dules for monitoring and evaluation activities under the Project,
and, thereafter, taking into account the Association's comments,
if any, carry out such work plans; and
(b) in consultation with the Association, on July 1 of
each year, commencing on July 1, .987, review and, if necessary,
revise the work plans for monitoring and evaluation.
4.   Bihar shall:
(a) carry out a management study of the Tubewell Wing in
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation; and
(b) by December 31, 1987, furnish to the Association, for
its review and comments, the results and findings of such manage-
ment study and, thereafter, taking into account the Association's
comments, if any, carry out the recommendations of such study
pursuant to a time-table satisfactory to the Association.
5.   Bihar shall make appropriate arrangements to:
(a) install and maintain in the Project Area dedicated and
independent 11 kilovolt electric feeder lines to energize each of
the tubewells under Part A of the Project;
(b) not later than two months after completion of each such
tubewell irrigation system under Part A of the Project, provide
each such tubewell system with electrical power required for the
efficient operation thereof; and
(c) provide electrical power to the tubewell irrigation
systems under the Project with a minimum of about sixteen hours
per day at peak demand periods and with a voltage fluctuation not
greater than six percent.


﻿- 13 -
6.   Bihar shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the Association, for
its review and comments, terms of reference for carrying out a
baseline agro-economic survey of the Project and thereafter,
taking into account the Association's comments, if any, carry out
such survey; (b) not later than July 31, 1987, furnish to the
Association, for its review and comments, the results and con-
clusions of such survey; and (c) thereafter, taking into account
the Association's comments, if any, carry out the monitoring and
evaluation activities recommended under such survey in such
detail as the Association may reasonably request.
7.   Bihar shall: (a) by December 31, 1989 furnish to the Asso-
ciation, for its review and comments, draft terms of reference
for undertaking a mid-term review of the Project; (b) taking into
account the Association's comments, if any, carry out such mid-
term review, and by June 30, 1990, furnish to the Association,
for its review and comments, the results of such mid-term review;
and (c) thereafter subject to the Association's prior concur-
rence, carry out the required adjustments to the Project.
8.   Without limitation to the generality of Section 9.06 of the
General Conditions, Bihar shall, until the completion of the
Project, furnish to the Association semi-annual reports of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request covering the progress of the Project during the periods
April 1 through September 30 and October 1 through March 31 of
each year, such reports to be furnished within two months after
the end of each reporting period, the first report to be fur-
nished by May 31, 1987.
9.   Bihar undertakes to take all such measures as shall be con-
sidered necessary to minimize the risk of malaria, filaria and
other water related diseases within the Project Area.


