OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1737 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Bihar Public Tubeell Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                   /       1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1737 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          -   , 1987, between INDIA, acting
by its President (th1 Borrow) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the State of Bihar
(hereinafter called Bihar) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
Bihar the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and Bihar;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01. The   "General  Conditions Applicable   to
Development  Credit   Agreements"  of  the   Association,  dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Bihar" means the State of Bihar, a State of India;
(b) "Project Agreement' means the agreement, of even date
herewith, entered into between the Association and Bihar, as the


﻿-2-
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(c) "Project Area" means the total number of sites and
their command areas selected pursuant to the provisions of para-
graph 1 (a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(d) "Tubewell Wing" means the Wing established within
Bihar's Minor Irrigation Department responsible, inter alia, for
the construction, operation and maintenance of the public tube-
well irrigation systems throughout Bihar; and
(e) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifty-nine million five hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 59,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Reserve
Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be May 31, 1994 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time.   The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing December 15, 1996, and ending June 15,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on June 15, 2006 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this


﻿4-
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restrin-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall cause Bihar to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of
Bihar therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and, other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Bihar to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Bihar in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for development assistance to the States of India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Pr(ject and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to in-
surance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project shall be carried out by Bihar pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) Bihar shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that Bihar
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agree-
ment.


﻿- 5 -
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by Bihar, and is legally
binding upon Bihar in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director or Deputy Secretary to the Department of
Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower, is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:                       Telex:
ECOFAIRS                           953-313546
New Delhi, India


﻿-6-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                         Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INDIA
By/      A   6     ~
Authorized 'Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/J      ~       I
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Civil Works:
(a)  Completed tube-        4,400,000        75%
well systems
under Part A (i)
of the Project
(b)  Completed tube-        4,900,000        75%
well systems
under Part A (ii)
of the Project
(c)  Completed tube-        4,600,000        75%
well systems
under Part A (iii)
of the Project
(d) Completed energi-      17,600,000        75%
zation works
under Part B of
the Project


﻿-8-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(2) Equipment, vehicles
and materials:
(a) PVC pipes and         14,000,000   )
fittings                           )
)   100% of foreign
(b) Pump units and        3,100,000    )   expenditures
ancillaries                        )   100% of local
)   expenditures
(c) Steel pipes,           2,100,000   )   (ex-factory
fitting and                        )   cost), and 75%
casings and                        )  of local ex-
general steel                      )  penditures for
items                              )  other items pro-
)   cured locally.
(d) Other equipment        3,600,000   )
and vehicles,                      )
including manage-                  )
ment improvement                   )
equipment                          )
(3) Management Improvements:
(a) Buildings              2,900,000       75%
(b) Training, study          500,000       100%
tours, monitoring
and evaluation,
technical assistance
and studies
(4) Unallocated                 1,800,000
TOTAL           59,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for


﻿- 9 -
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
(c) the term "completed tubewell systems" means a tubewell
irrigation system constructed either under Part A (i), Part A
(ii) or Part A (iii) of the Project, which is certified to have
been constructed and installed in accordance with the planning,
design and construction standards and criteria provided for in
paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, and is
energized with a connection to a dedicated feeder line; and
(d) the term "completed energization works" means works
carried out under Part B of the Project to connect any tubewell
under Part A of the Project with power supply from a dedicated
feeder line.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 900,000, may be made in respect of: (a) materials for
tubewell energization under Category 1 (d); (b) equipment,
vehicles and materials under Category 2; and (c) management
improvement activities under Category 3, on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after October 1, 1985.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to raise agricultural pro-
duction and farm incomes in the Project Area by applying appro-
priate technology for the exploitation of groundwater resources,
taking into account the agro-economic characteristics of the
Project Area, and to strengthen the Tubewell Wing of Bihar's
Minor Irrigation Department.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
(i) Construction, installation, operation and mainten-
ance in the Project Area, including connection to
dedicated power lines, of about 500 tubewells with
an improved design, each capable of automatically
discharging about 150 cubic meters per hour to
serve a command area of about 100 hectares.
(ii) Modernization of about 1,000 existing tubewell
systems in the Project Area     through  the: (a)
repair or replacement of the wells, pumps switch-
gear, pumphouses and staff quarters; (b) construc-
tion of distribution chambers such that each well
can operate automatically; (c) construction of new
buried pipe distribution systems; and (d) connec-
tion to dedicated power lines.
(iii) Rehabilitation of about 3,700 existing tubewells
in the Project Area, including repair or replace-
ment of wells, pumps, switchgear, pumphouses and
staff quarters, as required, repairs of the exist-
ing distribution systems (for about 1,300 tube-
wells), and connection to dedicated power lines.
Part B:
Installation of dedicated and independent electrical power
transmission lines to serve public tubewell irrigation


﻿- 11 -
systems from substations in the Project Area to the tube-
wells under Part A of the Project.
Part C:
Provisions of equipment, vehicles and buildings for the
construction, operation and maintenance of the tubewell
irrigation systems under Part A of the Project.
Part D:
Strengthening of the Tubewell Wing through, inter alia:
(i) training of Project staff;
(ii) the carrying out of studies related to Project
management,  water   charges  and   socio-economic
development; and
(iii) provision of technical assistance for the pre-
paration of design, and operation and maintenance
manuals of tubewell irrigation systems.
Part E:
Monitoring and evaluation of the various activities under
the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by November 30,
1993.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to SDR 4,400,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Accoup,t and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 13 -
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any


﻿- 14 -
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


