Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22493
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37270)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$460 MILLION
TO
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FORA
XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
June 28, 2001
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 2001)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Yuan 1 = US$ 0.12077
US$ I = Y 8.28
Year Average
1994  --- Y8.70
1995  --- Y8.30
1996  --- Y8.30
1997  ---  Y8.30
1998  --- Y8.28
1999  --- Y8.28
2000  ---  Y8.28
2001  ---  Y8.28
FISCAL YEAR
January  December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EIA           -Environmental Impact Assessment
EIA/XLD       -EIA for Xiaolangdi Project
EIRR          -Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP           -Environmental Management Plan
EMO           -Environmental Management Office
FIRR          -Financial Intemal Rate of Retum
MWR           -Ministry of Water Resources
NPV           -Net Present Value
POE           -Panel of Experts
RPDI          -Reconnaissance Planning and Design Institute
RS            -Resettlement
SAR           -Staff Appraisal Report
SBC           -Special Board of Consultants
SOE           -State Owned Enterprise
XECC          -Xiaolangdi Engineering Consulting Company
XLD           -Xiaolangdi Project
YRWHDC        -Yellow River Water and Hydropower Development Corporation
YRCC          -Yellow River Conservancy Commnission
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:    Yukon Huang
Sector Manager/Director:    Mark Wilson
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Daniel J. Gunaratnam



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  2
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   15
6. Sustainability                                                                       18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        20
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      21
9. Partner Comments                                                                     22
10. Additional Information                                                              22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   32
Annex 8. Project Scope                                                                  33
Annex 9. Loan Covenant Compliance                                                       37
Maps IBRD 25525 and 25533
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003562                                       Project Name: XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE
Team Leader: Daniel J. Gunaratnam                         TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE                        L/C/TF Number: CPL-37270
Country/Department: CHINA                                                Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: Al - Irrigation & Drainage; PH - Hydro
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  07/21/1988                              Effective: 09/22/1994          09/22/1994
Appraisal:  04/08/1993                                MTR: 06/30/1996            06/30/1996
Approval:  04/14/1994                              Closing.  12/31/2000          12/31/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency:  People's Republic of China/Yellow River Water and Hydro. Dev. Corp.
Other Partners: US EXIM Bank
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Gautam Kaji
Country Manager:     Yukon Huang                                Nicholas Hope
Sector Manager:      Mark Wilson                                Joseph Goldberg
Team Leader at ICR:   Daniel Gunaratnam                         Daniel Gunaratnam
ICR Primary Author:   Daniel Gunaratnam
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main objectives of the project are to: (a) introduce flood control in the lower reaches of the Yellow
River Basin to protect major infrastructure and 103 million people; (b) control siltation in the 800 km
downstream channel of the river and prevent further aggradation; (c) provide water for assured irrigation
and more stable water supplies for downstream cities and industries; and (d) generate 5,400 GWh per year
of hydropower for supplementing the base load of thermal stations in Henan and the Central China Power
Network and Shanxi Power Network.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of the project were not revised during the project.
3.3 Original Components:
The main components consisted of the following components:
Component                                  Costs /a       Performance
(in $ million)    Rating lb
Construction of a Dam across the Yellow River              390.6             HS
Construction of Intake and Outlet                          625.6              S
Construction of an 1,800 MW Hydropower Station             184.3              S
Implement and Environmental Management Plan                 22.6              S
Technical Assistance (TA) for training YRWHDC Staff           1.0            S
MWR and YRCC Institutional Support                           3.0              S
Administration and Engineering                             111.5             S
/a Costs do not include minor works amounts which total about $317 million.
/b HS--Highly Satisfactory, S--Satisfactory.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were substantially unchanged to date.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no quality at entry assessed. Normal performance reviews rated the project as very satisfactory.
However, the second stage of this project was assessed as highly satisfactory for quality at entry.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
All the objectives of the project were achieved by the time the loan was closed. This was not originally
anticipated in this loan period. The main objectives of the project and achievements are presented below:
Objective A: Introduce flood control in the lower reaches of the Yellow River Basin to protect major
infrastructure and 103 million people.
Achievement: The Xiaolangdi Dam was completed in early 2000 and the reservoir was partially
filled during the 2000/2001 dry season. The dam is now capable of regulating the flows of the
Yellow River during the flood and dry seasons. The flood forecasting system has been significantly
enhanced and the institutions are in place to undertake flood forecasting. The reservoir is capable
of completely reducing flood losses downstream. The reservoir is also capable of regulating flows
-2-



so that ice floods can be completely avoided. During the 2000 winter, ice appeared on the piers in
the river in Shandong but there was no freezing of the river because adequate flow was released
from the reservoir to prevent freezing.
Objective B: Control siltation in the 800 km downstream channel of the river and prevent further
aggradation.
Achievement: The Xiaolangdi Dam is now being operated for sediment control. In the year 2000
the reservoir stored 233 million tons of silt and a further 19 million tons eroded downstream of the
river channel, giving a total amount of silt control of 252 million tons in the first year of operation,
which is very remarkable. The average sediment control for an year should be about 300 million
tons. In a dry year the amount of silt control could be far less (say 100-150 tons per year) but even
in the dry year, 100 percent more silt entrapment occurred.
Objective C: Provide water for assured irrigation and more stable water supplies for downstream
cities and industries.
Achievement: The project was already supplying water in 2000, one year ahead of schedule, to
industries and to cities. In 2000 when there was a severe drought the Xiaolangdi Dam regulated the
flows so that Tianjin received 860 million cubic meters (Mcm) of water. Another 1,150 Mcm were
supplied downstream for irrigation and for industry (Shengli Oil Fields) and for cities, giving a
total of 2.0 billion cubic meters (Bcm) supplied during one of the worse droughts of the 20th
century.
Objective D: Generate hydropower for supplementing the base load of thermal stations in Henan and
the Central China Power Network.
Achievement: Power generation has not done as well as the other objectives. The power station
started power generation in February 2000 as scheduled after the first unit was installed but could
not sell its power because the power sales agreement did not have a tax code. However, this was
rectified and in 2000, 550 GWh (33 percent) were generated was compared with the 1,650 GWh
that should have been generated in 2000. The decrease in power generation was mainly due to the
change in priority in reservoir operation to releasing water for water supply due to the massive
drought (1 in 80- to 90-year recurrence period) throughout northern China. This change in priority
of operation of the dam deprived the system of water supply and water heads for power generation.
In a normal water flow year, however, power generation will reach projected generation amounts.
Other Achievements:
1. The dam regulated water flows in FY 2000 and managed to keep water flowing in the lower reaches
with no days when the river dried up. In 1990 the river would dry up for up to 180 days. The
continuous flow of the Yellow River will have significant impact on the estuarial ecology.
2. For the first time for many centuries the water below Xiaolangdi is clear and silt free. This will
significantly reduce the cost of water treatment for urban and agricultural use. It will also enhance
freshwater ecology in the river since most freshwater fish cannot nornally survive in highly silted
water.
-3-



3. The dam has managed to regulate the flows even in a 1-in-80-year drought and was the only main river
in northem China that had water to supply to many cities that ran out of water resources.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The major outputs from the five components have been essentially satisfied as defined in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR):
(1) Dam and Inlet and Outlet Structures. The diversion of the river occurred on November 26, 1997. The
dam and most of the outlet structures were essentially completed by June 2000, almost 12 months ahead of
schedule. The construction of the dam and appurtenant structures was completed to exactly the same
geometric requirements as required in the appraisal (see Annex 8 for detailed quantities). The quality of
works was excellent. All concrete, steel and earthworks met the highest requirements of engineering
standards. Most of the main works were handled by international contractors while some of the smaller
works were by local contractors. The main outputs of the dam were:
(a) Flood Control: With the dam completed, a reservoir was created with a storage capacity of 12.1
Bcm. The reservoir storage is three times the flood storage for regulating even a catastrophic flood
of 45,000 cubic meters per second (cm/s) so that levels of water downstream are fully contained
between the dikes and breaching of the dikes can be avoided. In addition the high frequency of
floods (1 in 2 years without the dam) has now decreased to I in 7- to 10-year recurrence. The
floods presently spill over the riverbanks into the floodplains between the dikes and can cause
considerable (44 percent) damage for 1 million people living in these floodplains. In 1996 the one-
to two-year flood destroyed thousands of houses and farmland of people living between the dikes.
(b) Sediment Control for Downstream River Channel Siltation. During the first year of operation
over 250 million tons of silt was trapped in the reservoir or eroded downstream. This level of silt
control in the first year of operation clearly demonstrate that silt control by the dam is working
very well. Silt control is extremely important because the river flow capacity has decreased from
22,000 cm/s in 1958 to 7,000 cm/s in 1996. The riverbed has been aggrading during this period
and has lost 65 percent of its flow capacity. With the Xiaolangdi dam it will be possible to recover
some of these losses in capacity in the river channel because the dam will release water to flush out
the silt from time to time.
(c) Water Supply for Irrigation and Municipal and Industrial Water. The dam has been supplying
water to irrigation and to cities and clearly this output has become a very important because of the
dire need for municipal and industrial water due to the drought in northern China. Presently the
losses due to water shortages amount to Y60 billion per year. The water supplied for firming up 2
million ha irrigation and to several cities has been resimulated and is similar to the output defined
in the Staff Appraisal Report. Water for irrigation increased by 2.3 Bcm/year to Henan Province
and by 1.2 Bcm to Shandong (see Table 1). Groundwater is not changed but surface water use for
municipal and industrial (M&I) purposes increases from 2.72 Bcm/year to 5.22 Bcm/year. Even
under low flow conditions M&I water supply is increased. This increase should meet the deficit in
water for cities in the lower reaches. Grain production increases by 3.6 million tons and added
value will increase by Y7.5 billion (Table 2).
- 4 -



Table 1: Supply of Water to Henan and Shandong
River Regime         RivErblw  Diverted to  Diverted to  GW use in  GW  use in  Municipal
Henan    Shandona    Henan    Shandona    and
Industrial
Water Use
Without Proiect
Average Flow           34.1       6.5       11.1       0.9       2.5       2.7
Maximum                70.6       10.2      23.0       1.0       2.5       2.9
Minimum                13.3       4.3       3.1       0.8        2.1       2.5
With Proiect
Average Flow           34.5       8.8       12.2       1.0       2.5       5.2
Maximum                71.0      12.7       21.6       1.0       2.5       5.3
Minimum                13.1       3.2       2.6        0.8       2.1       3.1
Table 2: Effective Irrigated Areas and Added Value
EFF-AREA  IRRARE   SIM-DIVR  VAL-ADDED  GRAINS
mil ha    mil-ha    BCM/vr     Bil Y    Mil-Tons
With      Project
Henan        13.3      21.3       11.5      6.5        5.4
Shandong     26.7      40.0       15.2      11.2       7.9
TOTAL        40.0      61.3       26.7      17.6      13.3
Without    Proiect
Henan        10.0      10.0       6.0       3.5        2.4
Shandong     26.7      30.9       9.1       10.1       7.3
ITOTAL        36.7      40.9      15.1      13.6       9.7
(2) Power Generation. Power generation was commissioned in January 2000 on schedule. However, due
to the drought conditions, the high priority for city water supply, and the lack of water in the river, power
production was much lower level (30 percent) of power production for the first year. However, it is
expected that in normal years power production will increase to almost the appraisal levels of power
production. In addition, the power markets in China have declined considerably. There is now a surplus of
power compared to the period of the appraisal of the project (1993/94) when there was a deficit of power.
With power market reform, many of the smaller inefficient and polluting coal-fired plants being banned,
and introduction of two-tier power pricing, the power markets should be restored. GOC has decided that
during drought conditions it is more important that Xiaolangdi is used to reduce water shortages for M&I
water supply, thereby limiting economic losses (by about Yl5 billion) rather than generating hydropower
which may generate Y1.4 billion in income.
(3) Environmental Management Component
(a) Environmental Impacts and Environmental Protective Measures (EPMs). As described in the
Environmental Impact Assessment for Xiaolangdi (EIAIXLD), the major adverse impacts due to
the project included resettlement of some 180,000 people, risks due to reservoir-induced
earthquake, loss of cultural relics and potential for public health disasters. Corresponding
environmental protective measures (EPMs) were developed in the EIA to compensate, mitigate or
minimize the impacts. Basically, all these EPMs have been implemented during project
- 5-



implementation as described below.
a. 1 Resettlement. The implementation of EPMs for the resettlement program was carried out
separately by the Environmental Management Office for Resettlement (EMO/RS) in a separate
IDA project: Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project. Detailed information was available in the EMO/RS.
The people to be relocated due to the Xiaolangdi Project was estimated and confirmed to be
197,000 and a fund of Y8.6 billion was approved for the overall resettlement program. By the end
of March 2001, a total of 148,000 people had been successfully relocated with available funds of
Y6.8 billion.
a.2 Dam Safety. All dam safety measures including establishment of a panel of experts, setup of
an earthquake monitoring network, and all earthquake-resistance design measures have been
implemented and all are working effectively. Several small-scale and medium-scale earthquakes
were recorded in the project area and no effects on the dam were identified, which now is
completed.
a.3 Cultural Relics. The cultural relics program was also a component of the Xiaolangdi
Resettlement Project. Excavation and preservation of cultural relics sites have been carried out by
the Henan and Shanxi provincial archaeological bureaus in accordance with a program plan, with a
budget of some Y30 million. All programs for excavation and preservation of identified relics
below El.235 have basically been completed as planned. Two summary reports (books) have been
prepared and published separately by the Henan and Shanxi provincial archaeological bureaus in
2000. Detailed information is available in the EMO/RS.
a.4 Public Health. Effective measures on public health including provision of safe drinking water,
food sanitation, medical screening, rat and mosquito killing, and vaccinations have been
continuously taken by all contractors and the project owner. Only a few separate communicable
disease cases including hepatitis, tuberculosis and dysentery occurred in the entire project area and
no outbreak has happened since commencement of the project in 1993.
(b) EPMs During Project Implementation
b. I Worker Safety. XECC has a special department, Safety Department (SD/XECC), with
responsibilities of surveillance of safety in construction areas. Each contractor has a corresponding
safety division with responsibilities of safety management. All possible measures have been taken
to reduce work accidents. Overall work accident statistics show that a total of 1,852 injuries
occurred in the six-year period, from June 1995 to February 2001, in which 187 workers were
seriously injured and 36 were killed. However, considering the total number of workers involved,
nearly 10,000 at peak, and the duration, six years, in such a complicated project, with over 100
tunnels and huge underground powerhouse, the number of accidents was within the acceptable
range.
b.2 Solid Waste Management. All solid waste including production waste such as construction
spoils and wastes from camps are collected and transferred to designated disposal sites.
b.3 Water Pollution Control. All wastewater discharged from all the project construction areas
and camp areas basically meets the national standards and continuous monitoring results have
shown that the impacts of the wastewater discharge on the Yellow River water quality was
-6 -



negligible.
b.4 Dust and Noise ControL Responsibilities for dust control in all construction areas and roads
were assigned to different contractors and project owners. Regular road watering was conducted by
contractors and YRWHDC on their responsible roads in every 20-40 minutes during working
hours, except for rainy days. Noise due to construction was monitored and controlled at acceptable
levels. Measures were taken for those noise sources with impacts to local residents. As an example,
the Heqing Village School near the construction area was relocated due to the noise impact with
funds provided by the contractor and YRWHDC.
(c) Environmental Monitoring. A complete environmental monitoring system was established and
has been functioning well in XLD. Environmental monitoring tasks related to the XLD darn site
such as water quality, public health, air quality, water pollution control are assigned to and carried
out periodically by different monitoring institutes. Systematic and large amounts of monitoring
data were obtained and some actions were taken to resolve environmental problems identified by
monitoring such as the Heqing School relocation, use of wastewater treatment facilities by the Lot
II contractor, etc.
(d) Comparison of Environmental Components. Table 3 shows the comparison of environmental
components required in project SAR and the components implemented during project
implementation. It was seen that all the components required in project SAR have been
implemented with satisfactory results and some even with highly satisfactory results.
Table 3: Comparison of SAR Requirements with Implementation
SAR Requirements                     Implementation                               Evaluation
1. Establishment of EMO with Competent Staff  Established from 1994 to now             Satisfactory
2. Employment of International Panel of Experts  Employed from 1994 to now             Satisfactory
3. Environmental Protection Measures on
3.1 Dam Safety                         3.1 All measures planned have been implemented   Satisfactory
3.2 Cultural Relics                     3.2 Planned program has been completed      Satisfactory
3.3 Public Health                       3.3 All measures have been taken with excellent    Highly Satisfactory
results
4. Resettlement                           Some 148,000 people have been successfully   Satisfactory
relocated with 6.8 billion yuan fund (A separate IDA
____ ____ ____ ____ ___ ____ ____ ____ ____ ___ project)_                      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
5. Measures to mitigate adverse impacts cause by An effective environmental management system has Highly Satisfactory
project construction                    been established and been functioning well with
minimized impacts by project construction
6. Timely EMP Implementation              EMP implemented with project progress        Satisfactory
7. Review of detailed action plans by Panel and  Yes                                   Satisfactory
Bank
8. Ensure YRCC, Henan, Shanxi participation    Yes                                     Satisfactory
(e) Review of Panel of Experts Reports. The International Panel of Experts on Enviromnent and
Resettlement (POE) was established in June 1994. The objective of the panel was to ensure
implementation of the Enviromnental Management Plan and minimize adverse environmental
impacts caused by the implementation of the project. By the end of March 2001, a total of 12 panel
meetings had been held and, accordingly, 12 panel reports have been prepared. Review of all the
reports shows that the panel has played a very important role in the whole process of environmental
management in the XLD project, especially on establishment, improvement and effective
- 7 -



functioning of the environmental management system mentioned above. The Xiaolangdi
experience has suggested that such a panel is necessary to ensure successful implementation of
EMPs, especially for those large-scale projects with significant environmental damage
potential.
(4) Training and Technical Assistance. Training has been an important aspect for the project. Local
training was undertaken by the intemational consultants for construction supervision, inspection of works,
quality control, construction scheduling, claims management, etc. Local training was also undertaken for
professional staff for financial management. About 100 staff were trained in financial management. For
very specialized training staff were sent overseas to the United States, Canada, Switzerland, Italy, France,
Germany, England, and Hong Kong (China) and some 107 staff were trained, which essentially follows the
SAR table 1 page 134. Details of the training undertaken are as given in Table 4.
Table 4: Forei Mn Specialized Training
Foreign Courses Number Trained
Engineering
Engineering supervision        2               23
Project Scheduling             1               2
Hydropower Engineering         2               9
Construction Management        5               35
Claims Management              2               6
Computer Systems
Information Systems            2               10
Computer Systems               1               3
Financial
Internal Auditing              3               8
Financial Planning             3               6
Transitioning from
Construction to
operation                      1               5
Total                          22             107
The ICR mission assessment on training was that although the training followed most of that which was
prescribed in the appraisal document there are two key areas of training that were not done which needs to
be done during the operation of the project. The areas left out were in (a) Cash /Treasury Management and
(b) Personnel Management. In addition some of the courses should have for longer durations. Overall,
considerable training was undertaken during the project and had significant impact on building up the
capabilities of the staff.
(5) Institutional Program. The institutional program was mainly for YRCC and MWR. The five major
areas identified in the SAR under the institutional program para. 3.25 and a summary of the evaluation of
each component is given in Table 5. MWR regarded this component as very important. However, it took
MWR some time to get organized before it could start the executing it because of the lack of familiarity
with Bank procedures.
-8 -



Table 5: Institutional Program
SAR requirements                               ICR                 Evaluation
Resources Mobilization and Management           partialy completed   marginal. Satisfact.
Accounting Reform                               completed          satisfactory
Water Pricing                                   completed          satisfactory
River Basin organization and Licensing system   completed          highly satisfactory
Real Time Dispatching System for Yellow River basin  partially completed  satisfactory
(a) Resource Mobilization and Management. This component was initially created to determine how
water agencies could mobilize their resources and be self-financing for all sectors of water
resources including flood control. There was no major study undertaken but several small studies
incorporated in the studies of other components. It was determined in the early stages of the project
that there are no really successful examples of large-scale rural water institutions that were
successfully mobilizing their own water resources. Hence this study faded away and more focus
was put into other studies.
(b) The accounting reform component was very timely because in March 1993 the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) and the People's Bank of China (PBC) issued a regulation to reform the accounting
systems of all public and private enterprises. This regulation was for starting an Accounting Entry
System (Charting of Accounts, forming of Journals and General Ledger Systems). Subsequently
the State Council issued a regulation in July 1993 to request MOF to develop an accounting system
that is not cash-based (accrual system), double-entry, etc. and to develop proper financial
statements (balance sheets, income statements, etc.). Under the project for accounting reform a
study was completed to review the accounting system of the water sector for about 10 countries
(developed and developing) and to make reconmnendations for the accounting reform in China.
MWR used the project study and other local studies to initiate MOF's accounting reform for the
water institutions, which is still being undertaken. Clearly this component was very timely in
assisting MWR to implement its accounting reforming program.
(c) Water Pricing Reform. Under this component the Yellow River Basin was selected as the area to
undertake the study. The study investigated the pricing system on several large- and medium-scale
irrigation schemes and the water price to ensure self-financing capability. The study also identified
some of the shortcomings of the institutional arrangements in the irrigation system level which need
to be rectified before water pricing takes effect. As a result of this study and others MWR has
developed several regulations on water pricing. This study was therefore fairly effective.
(d) River Basin Organization and Licensing. This study also seemed very timely because GOC was
in the process of developing a new law on managing river basins. A study was undertaken to
review intemational experience in river basin management systems. MWR also studied and
developed a river basin law for managing the waters within a basin. The licensing system was also
developed by MWR for both the Yellow River Basin and independently for all of China. and 80
percent about the waters of China are licensed today.
(e) Real Time Water Dispatch System. The component was initially developed for the lower river
reach because MWR did not have authority over the operations of the key reservoirs in the middle
and upper reaches of the basin. Hence in 1999-2000 with the assistance of a foreign consultant a
contract was given to Reconnaissance Investigations Planning Design Institute (RPDI) of YRCC to
-9-



develop the dispatch models for the lower reaches from upstream of Sanmenxia dam to Lijin which
is at the mouth of the Yellow River in the Bohai Sea. The model was developed and was
successfully verified. The main issue was that RPDI, the designer of the models, does not have the
authority to operate the dispatch system and this has yet to be resolved. The main authority to
undertake the dispatch system would be the Flood Information Center in YRCC in conjunction
with YRCC's River Bureau. However in 2001 it became apparent to the State Council that the
water dispatching of the whole Yellow River Basin is extremely important in times of drought and
therefore YRCC was given the mandate to develop a real-time dispatch system for the entire
Yellow River Basin. YRCC has therefore submitted a proposal Y76 million to be funded locally
for equipment and software development for a dispatch system for the whole basin. This
component has achieved it stated goals of initiating a pilot program, which has motivated the
Government to invest almost 10 times the amount to develop a basinwide real-time water dispatch
system. The institutional arrangements for the dispatch system are being worked out by YRCC and
MWR.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Net Present Value and Economic Rate of Return.
At appraisal, the internal economic rate of return (IERR) was estimated at about 17.9 percent, based on
the shadow-priced investment and operation and maintenance (O&M) costs and the benefits were computed
for the various uses of water:
(a) Flood Control: (ice and summer) floods based on damage avoidance due to the dam;
(b) Sediment Control based on reduction cost in the raising of levees
(c) Irrigation supply to increase crop production
(d) Hydropower generation based on peak and energy tariffs
Benefits for water supply for M&I were not estimated separately in the appraisal due to the lack of
inforrnation. It was therefore included as part of the irrigation benefits. The benefits were reestimated for
the implementation completion report (ICR) using a similar constrained optimization model used for the
appraisal mission. Prices were updated for the most recent output and input values. Table 6 shows a
comparison of the revised appraisal estimates compared to the ICR estimates (in year 2000 values).
- 10 -



Table 6: Appraisal and ICR Estimates of NPVs and EIRRs
Project/Component             Appraisal Estimate  \a              ICR Estimate
Benefits Costs      NPV    EIRR\b Benefits  Costs        NPV        EIRR
(Y bln)  (Y bln)  (Y bln) I  (%)    (Y bln)  (Y bln)   (Y bln)      (%/6)
Flood control             7.49     5.73      1.76    12.0%     8.11     3.88     4.23       22.0%
Sediment control          2.89      2.46     0.43    11.0%     3.95     1.93      2.02      22.0%
(environmental -direct)
Irrigation water supply   13.85     5.28     8.57    33.0%    10.12     4.01      6.12      21.0%
M & I Water                na       na        na       na      1.90     0.75      1.14      21.0%
Power station             7.44      4.73     2.71    14.0%     8.28     6.53      1.75      12.1%
Enviroment benefits        na       na        na       na       na       na        na         x
(indirect)                                         _            _
Total Project             31.67    18.20    13.47    17.5%  ! 32.35    17.10     15.26      17.9%
\a Appraisal estimates were up dated to end-2000 values and to exchange rate changes
\b EIRR estimated from approximated distribution of costs and benefits
It will be noticed that although the overall benefits computed for the ICR are only 2 percent above the
appraisal estimates and costs are only 5 percent lower, the benefits for each of the different sectors did
change significantly. Flood control and sediment benefits have increased because the value of assets being
protected have increased. Sediment benefits have also increased and are based on the Xiaolangdi Stage II
evaluation done in 1997. Inrigation benefits have declined because of the reduction of output prices. M& I
benefits have been included for the ICR evaluation. The hydropower benefits are more in the ICR
evaluation because the energy tariffs assumed during the appraisal of 3.95 fen/kWh were very low
compared to the current energy market prices of 10 fen/kWh. Peak power values assumed during the
appraisal of 51.7 fen/kWh were too high and a value of 40 fen/kWh was adopted based on the power sales
agreement reached between YRWHDC and the Henan Power Bureau. The benefits estimated reflect that
water supply for irrigation and for M&I is a very important priority for the project viability.
Despite these variations in benefits the overall rates of return of 17.5 percent (reestimated) for the
appraisal value compare very closely with the ICR estimate of IRR of 17.9 percent. The net present value
(NPV) has increased 13 percent from YI 3.47 billion to Y1 5.26 billion.
Figure I shows more graphically the changes in the discounted costs and benefit estimation.
- 1 1 -



Appraisal & ICR Discounted Costs and Benefits
35
30i ;S 
25l
0     20
WAppraisal Estimate
O >  i                                                        ;15  3 1 CR Estimate
10I
5 - ~   ~    .5    0     0        
2     °    E      C                 0 ,
i-- X 
U. 
Component
Environmental Benefits
There are two significant enviromnental benefits that have not been included in the quantitative estimates
of benefits. First, the water downstream of the reservoir is very clear (silt-free) and does not need any
sedimentation basins that would reduce the costs of water treatment for municipal supplies and the costs of
silt removal in irrigation canals. Second, the hydropower component would displace many inefficient and
other coal-buming power thermal stations burning about 1.9 million tons of coal per year. This would also
save on emissions from coal burning which will produce 4.6 million tons of carbon dioxide, 33,000 tons of
sulfur oxides (SOx) and 18,700 tons of nitrogen oxide (NOx) gases. The damage by SOx and NOx gases
vary from $400 to $500/ton through acid rain and health impacts. Reduction of burning will also reduce
PMI0 (10 microns and less) particulate, which also reduce health impacts of those suffering from
pulmonary diseases.
Risk Analyses
Risk analyses have been performed using a probabilistic approach to assess the impact of the perceived risk
factors that affect the return of the project. Four categories of risk have been considered in the analysis:
(a) Demand Risk for Power. Demand risk is related to lower load growth than expected and/or
breach of contract by the purchaser. Demand risk is not perceived as a major risk factor in the
short or long term since the Government is restructuring the power sector and all small, inefficient
coal-fired power plants will be closed down. Hence it is expected that power/energy demand will
always be there. In addition Xiaolangdi will be the only major peaking plant in the Central China
Grid and there will always be a need for peaking power.
- 12 -



(b) Price Risk for Agricultural Commodities and Power Tariffs. Price risk is related to (i)
agricultural output prices for crops which form about 44 percent of the benefits and (ii) the
willingness and ability of the power purchaser to pay and/or changes in pricing policy. The
agricultural commodity prices used for the analysis are at an all time low and it is high unlikely
that prices can go much lower. This risk of power prices is normally mitigated or managed through
long-term contractual arrangements.
(c) Cost Risk This risk is eliminated at this stage of the project with all the major contracts and works
completed at costs 5 percent lower than original cost estimate.
(d) Hydrological Risk. The uncertainty of hydrology was captured in the basic economic simulation
model analysis where a 70-year hydrologic series was used for generating the agriculture
production and the hydropower system energy yield. Under very low hydrology which can only last
for a few lean years and it is expected that there will be sufficient surplus years of benefits to tide
over the lean years. For financial viability it has been covenanted that they form a reserve fund to
defray expenses during the low hydrology years.
Based on the foregoing considerations and extensive sensitivity analyses, three variables have been selected
as the crucial risk variables because of their significant impact on the project economic viability. Table 7
summarizes the project viability under different risks. It will be noticed that the project is viable even
under severe risks in benefit reduction. The lowest EIRR of 15.9 percent when all risks happen together
indicates that the project is fairly robust.
Table 7: Comparison of IERRs and NPVs for Different Risk Assumptions
Case                                                          NPV (billion Y)         EIRR
1. Base Case Appraisal 1994                                          6.5              17.9%
2. Base Case Appraisal (Revised 2000)                               13.5              17.1%
3. Base Case ICR (2000)                                             15.1              17.8%
4. -20% change in Power benefits (equiv. 25% price or demand)       13.5              17.0%
5. -20% change in agricultural prices                               13.1              16.7%
6. -20% change in power and -20% agricultural benefits              11.5              15.9%
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The role and structure of the future YRWHDC organization is to own and operate the XLD facilities. At
appraisal and during the year 2000 review the enterprise model foresaw the establishment of three profit
centers: (1) Hydropower, (2) Irrigation and M&I Water Supply, and (3) a Flood Control Unit. As of the
ICR the YRWHDC Management clearly underlines its role as that of being a de facto Agency operating
under State-Owned Enterprise (SOE) conditions. The enterprise model suggested for the overall XLD
project is not to compartmentalize the organization into three profit centers. Commercial activities are
placed with and will remain under the control of only one overall organization. Only the Resettlement
Bureau is separated as its own Department.
It was made clear that the economic benefits accruing from the dam (flood control, water for irrigation and
M&I) has highest priority. Hydropower production has been kept at a level substantially lower than
projected in 1997 and 2000. When water is short the loss to the economy, especially cities and industry in
northem China amounts to Y60 billion/year. Water Supply from Xiaolangdi can reduce the losses by
YIO-15 billion. In drought conditions in northem China the Government prefers to subsidize XLD for the
loss of hydropower generation and have it supply water to the water-short cities in northern China because
- 13-



the benefits are 5 to 10 times larger than the subsidy.
Table 8 summaries the assumptions and results of the three alternatives analyzed regarding the projected
volumes sold of power and water. For information the assumptions of the World Bank 2000 Estimate and
the Appraisal Report 1997 estimates are reproduced in the rightmost columns.
Table 8: Financial Anal sis of Alternative Scenarios
Alternative 1 Alternative 2 WB 2000 Appraisal
Source of revenue                       Units         Base case   Worst Case    Average    Estimate    1997
Total Operating Hours m    no. ot
Hydropower        Nornal Year             hours/year     19,440      10,800       15,120      17,280
Net Power Sales (average
base load sales)        Million GWh    5,346       3,325        4,158       4,850     5,105
Irrigation Waterper year 1)               Mcm            12,200        0          12,200      13,500     12,000
M & I water per year 1)                   Mcm             3,200        0           3,200      3,000      3,000
Flood control, sedimentation etc.                          n.a         n.a         n.a.        n.a.      1,000
NPV at a Discount Rate of 10%             Y million      -10,641     -17,185      -13,074     -11,595
Act. IRR                                   %              4.22        1.72          2.8        4.13       9.37
Gov't Subsidy for Operating Expenses                      none        none         none
Govt Subsidy for FX Loan Interest Coverage  Y million     -45.4       -45.4        -45.4
Govt Subsidy for FX Loan Amortization     Y million       -45.4     -1,836.50    -1,185.70
1) It is assumed that YRCC will pay for water supplies equal to a value of 35% of the water volumnes indicated, which is standard for China.
Cash flow projections have been made at three levels to estimate the capability of the projected income to
cover first direct and indirect operating costs (less depreciation) and the costs of servicing debt (foreign
exchange--FX--loan interest second and then FX loan amortization third). If the calculated flows are
negative, a government subsidy will be needed. The main results are:
(a) The flow corresponds to the margin before FX interest, i.e. at this level all cash-based operating
costs have been covered. The result is unanimous in all thee alternatives: no subsidy will be needed
(b) The second flow is calculated after FX interest charges. In all three cases a subsidy will be needed
ranging from Y45.3 million to Yl,185 million in the Worst Case.
(c) The third flow  is calculated after FX Loan Repayment including interest during construction. A
subsidy will be needed in all three cases from Y45.3 million (Base Case), to Yl,185.7 million
(Average Case) to Yl,836.5 million in the Worst Case scenario.
It is noted, however, that the accumulated subsidies quoted above are projected for the years 2001-05 only
or until the YRWHDC reaches full production. After year 2005 the cash flow is able to cover all costs at
the three levels analyzed.
Regarding the financial internal rates of return (FIRRs) it is noted that the Base Case result is only
marginally lower than the World Bank 2000 estimate. However, it will be necessary to monitor operating
costs closely and to improve the financial position through negotiating better tariffs. It is highly
recommended that separate tariffs for peak and base load are established.
- 14 -



4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional impacts are indicated sections above.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The only factors outside of the control of the government were foreign exchange rate fluctuations. The
Deutsche Mark (DM) and US dollar exchange rate varied considerably from DM1.5 = US $1.0 between
1994 and 1997 to DM2.0 = US$1.00 between 1998 and 2001. During the early period of the project
YRWHDC had foreign exchange losses of up to US$30 million, but it subsequently recovered most of
these losses.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The factors that were subject to government control were the taxes and duties and local inflation estimation
for local materials procured and for labor escalation. The local escalation was initially determined fairly
clearly and payments were made that were acceptable to the contractor. Subsequently, it was determined
that the escalation figures were incorrectly computed and this resulted in considerable dispute between the
contractors and the client. The labor escalation was especially difficult to resolve and is still an item of
dispute with the Lot II contractor.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Implementation Organization
The Yellow River Water and Hydro Development Corporation (YRWIDC) is the executing agency for
the project. It assigned construction supervision and management responsibility to Xiaolangdi Engineering
Consulting Company (XECC). XECC was formed from staff from several design institutes and
construction companies. This was the best that could be done in 1994 to create an independent Engineer.
The Yellow River Construction Commission's (YRCC's) Reconnaissance Planning and Design histitute
(RPDI) was contracted as the designer of the project. RPDI in China has been responsible for the design
of several large dam projects and therefore is highly qualified. Since the start of project preparation, RPDI
and XECC have been assisted by an Advisory Group consisting of international consultants, as well as
two expert panels: the Special Board of Consultants (SBC) and the Environment and Resettlement Panel
of Experts (POE). The SBC and ERP are composed of prominent foreign and Chinese experts in their
respective areas and have convened regularly to review and advise on important technical and management
matters. With the progress of the project, a mechanical and electrical branch of SBC also met to review
bid documents for the main equipment. The Dispute Resolution Board (DRB) was set up in 1998 to
facilitate prompt resolution of disputes relating to civil works contracts. The contractors and YRWHDC
each selected a member of the DRB and the two sides selected the third member, the chairman of DRB.
Resettlement of people and reconstruction of structures being displaced by the reservoir and the
construction site areas were carried out by YRWHDC's resettlement office, as a separate project financed
by the Bank.
Implementation Schedule
The implementation schedule established in the Staff Appraisal Report required commencement of the
main civil works in July 1994, river closure by November 1997, commissioning of the first unit in January
2000, the last unit in December 2001 and project completion by the middle of 2002. The schedule to build
this large and complex scheme in only 7 years instead of the originally planned 12 years, even for
- 15 -



experienced international contractors, proved to be extremely challenging.
Despite some delays at various stages, but particularly at the beginning, project management with the
support of all concerned parties, has been able to recoup the delays and keep the construction on schedule.
The Yellow River was successfully diverted in November 1997. The dam foundations and cut-off walls
were completed on March 10, 1998. The dam fill to 283 meters (the top) was completed on June 30, 2000
(14 months ahead of schedule).
The intake and outlet works were initially delayed because of underground collapses, partially due to poor
construction techniques used by the contractor. However, the entire works of inlet and outlet tunnels,
plunge pool, and spillway constructions were completed in September 2000, one year ahead of schedule.
For underground works, excavation was substantially completed in the powerhouse cavem, headrace
tunnels, the main transformer chamber, tailrace surge chambers and tailrace tunnels by September 1999,
also ahead of schedule. Power conduits and penstock tunnels were completed in advance of the date
required.
Major factors causing the delays were initially due to institutional problems and poor performance by one
of contractors. At the early stages of project implementation, YRWHDC's inability to make quick
decisions to solve problems encountered during the construction was the major cause for initial delays.
This was largely overcome after the incorporation of the foreign consultants as part of the team. Other
factors were due to some geological conditions, such as fault zone collapses, which occurred in the outlet
tunnels, causing much delays. However, all these delays were overcome by reorganization within
YRWHDC and the Ministry of Water Resources (MWR).
Procurement
The Project included 3 major international competitive bidding (ICB) packages, 14 local civil works and
some 30 electromechanical and minor contracts. The total amount of procurement including the second
phase was $1,200 million equivalent in ICB contracts and Y2,810 million in local contracts. All the
procurement activities funded by the Bank were performed in accordance with the Bank's procurement
guidelines and were carried out satisfactorily. Involvement of foreign engineering consultants in the
procurement process and the use of standard bidding documents contributed to efficient procurement.
Procurement of the ICB contracts was carried out as scheduled. The three major civil works contracts
were signed one month before the loan became effective. There were no major delays in the civil works
contracts. However, there were delays in the turbine procurement because of delays in confirming
agreements with the US EXIM Bank.
The major civil works contracts (Lots I, II, III) were awarded to three joint ventures, each consisting of a
number of foreign and domestic contractors.
For supply of electrical and mechanical equipment there were 5 international contracts (funded by the US
EXIM Bank ) and 30 local contracts. The supply contracts were generally performed fairly expeditiously.
However, the large number of local contracts did create some problems initially in interfacing with
international contractors. Fortunately, many of the interfacing problems were resolved fairly quickly.
- 16-



For the procurement of the main civil works, the DRB was set up in January 1998 to facilitate prompt
resolution of disputes. The DRB did resolve all disputes for Lots I and III. However, Lot II has two major
claims that have yet to be resolved.
Consulting Services, Training and Studies
Due to the magnitude and complexity of the project, international consulting firms have been engaged
throughout the project period to assist XECC and RPDI in construction management and design, including
contract administration, cost control, scheduling, construction inspection and quality assurance, design
engineering services, and construction site administration.
About 774 person-months of consulting services were contracted for the project. These services were
financed through the Loan. The advisory services were performed satisfactorily and made a contribution
to efficient project management.
The advisory service had been retained for the second phase of the project and the agreement was signed in
January 1998. The budget covered the services of (a) the core advisory group providing general support
and consultation on contractual matters; (b) the DRB; (c) specialists in civil, underground, mechanical and
electrical engineering; (d) establishment of a cost control system; and (e) startup coordination during the
commissioning stage. Since there were problems on claims, specialist claims management consultants
were hired to assist in claims and variation management. The projected level of input and the anticipated
staffing mix is considered appropriate.
Specialized Consultant Training
The consultants carried out training on (a) construction supervision, (b) scheduling, (c) quality control, (d)
contract management, (e) variation analysis, and (f) claims. Most of this training proved to be useful to
XECC and YRWHDC staff.
Technical Committee Meetings and Consultations
Apart from the use of consultants and international panels, YRWHDC employed several local experts to
review issues as they arose. These were called technical committee and consultant meetings. Some 288
people met 27 times to review several technical issues.
Compliance with Loan Covenants
The Borrower and the Project Executing Agency essentially complied with all the covenants except the
financial covenants (see Annex 9). The financial covenants should be only considered under normal
operating conditions.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Projects Costs
The estimated cost of the project at appraisal (excluding interest during construction) was $931.1 million in
foreign costs and $1,095.8 million in local costs, equivalent to a total of $2,026.8 million. The latest
estimates of the project cost to completion were $814 million in foreign costs and $1,117.5 million in local
costs, equivalent to a total of $1,932 million (see Table). In total, there is a cost underrun of about 5
percent when expressed in US dollars. The cost underrun is largely due to (a) lower civil works costs and
(b) much lower electrical and mechanical equipment costs. The foreign costs underrun is about 13 percent
(equivalent to $116 million) when expressed in US dollars, which can be attributed to (a) lower foreign
- 17 -



exchange costs in civil works, (b) lower costs of turbines, and (c) lower costs of generators.
The physical contingencies of 8 percent for dam and powerhouse, and 12 percent for intake and outflow
tunnels was adequate. The 10 percent contingency for electromechanical equipment was found to be
unnecessary.
With respect to price contingencies, it was found that the price contingency for foreign currency adequately
covered actual inflation except for foreign exchange losses resulting from the devaluation of the US dollar
against major European currencies. The exchange losses were, however, largely offset by deduction of
duties and taxes. The price contingency for local currency was significantly lower than the actual inflation
level. The local contingencies adequately covered the local price increases.
Project Financing
Financing of the project followed fairly closely that which was predicted in the Staff Appraisal Report.
About 90 percent of the Bank Loan was used to fund civil works, 7 percent for interest during construction
and 3 percent was for consultants and technical assistance. This first Bank Loan formed only 20.5 percent
of the total cost and at the time of the appraisal it was envisaged that Government would cover the rest
(79.5 percent) of the costs. However, in 1997 the second-stage loan of $430 million was awarded for the
project and this resulted in an overall Bank financing of 40 percent of the project cost while the
Govermnent of China (GOC) and other cofmanciers (US EXIM Bank) provided 60 percent of the funds.
Local counterpart funding was generally adequate throughout the implementation of the project.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The project is sustainable because all necessary conditions were or are likely to be achieved: (a) the
construction of the first phase was on time and the second phase has already completed the project; (b) the
project implementation organization is being structured following modem management practice and has
had a proven record of working efficiently in the last five years; (c) the institutional capability of
YRWHDC has been strengthened in the course of implementation; and (e) transfer of modem management
technology will continue in the second phase through continued involvement of international consulting
services.
As an essential extemal element, the demand for water supply and electricity remains high. In year 2000
Xiaolangdi Dam had to supply 2.0 Bcm of water to key cities like Tianjin because of a major drought that
affected all of northern China. The Yellow River was the only river with water to supply because of the
Xiaolangdi Dam and reservoir. On the commercial side, in May 2000, YRWHDC signed an agreement
with Henan Power Bureau for sales/ purchases of power generated from the Xiaolangdi scheme to the
provincial grid. Despite the fact that the agreement is not a full power purchase agreement (PPA), it laid
down the pricing principles that will allow YRWHDC to cover all operating costs, portion of repayment of
loan principal and interest. GOC has now realized that Xiaolangdi Project will be a strategic project for
water supply as well as for flood and sediment control, all of which have economic benefits that cannot
derive revenues from user charges. Hence GOC will subsidize the operation of the dam if it cannot meet all
its financial obligations.
The resettlement objective, i.e., to provide the affected people with a better standard of living than before
the project, can be achieved because of a very comprehensive resettlement plan and separate project and
budget in place, and an effective monitoring system with participation of an independent agency.
- 18-



With respect to environmental sustainability, the project has relatively positive environmental impacts to
regulate water in the lower reaches and keep the river flowing all the time to sustain river and estuary
ecology. The project also provides silt-free water for water supply to cities and for irrigation supplies. In
addition the hydropower component, when compared to thermal alternatives, will provide cleaner energy
source than the thernal sources.. Through continued monitoring, additional mitigation measures can be
devised and implemented as necessary.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The ICR mission focused attention on the role and structure of the future YRWHDC organization to own
and operate the XLD facilities. A substantial deviation from the point of Appraisal is now seen. At
Appraisal and during the year 2000 review the enterprise model foresaw the establishment of three profit
centers: (1) Hydropower, (2) Irrigation and M&I Water Supply, and (3) a Flood Control Unit. As of the
ICR the YRWHDC Management clearly underlines its role as that of being a de facto Agency operating
under State-Owned Enterprise (SOE) conditions. It was made clear that the economic benefits accruing
from the dam (flood control, water for irrigation and M&I) has highest priority with the Management.
Hydropower production has been kept at a level substantially lower than projected in 1997 and 2000.
Where the enterprise model suggested for the overall Xiaolangdi project is implemented it is not the
Management's intention to compartmentalize the organization into three profit centers. In fact, YRWHDC
has decided not to collect fees for flood control, etc. Commercial activities are placed with and will remain
under the control of only one overall organization. Only the Resettlement Bureau is separated as its own
Departnent. The future YRWHDC organization will have a total staff of approximately 600 including the
Resettlement Bureau. The following Departments are considered key to the World Bank evaluation:
(1) Hydropower Station. The Hydropower Station is responsible for the entire operational and
maintenance aspects of the dam and basin. A new Director has recently been appointed for the Station; he
will have total of 172 staff at hand. The organization chart indicates a rational setup of offices and
workshop units. The Station will carry out cost calculations for the various activities related to power
generation and the release of water. The calculations are reported monthly to the Finance Department for
accounting and consolidation purposes. Hydropower production is based on the presently installed capacity
of three units of 300 MW each. A fourth unit will be put in operation in May 2001 and the remaining two
units will be ready for production before the end of year 2001. However, actual power production will be
limited to an estimated total 200 GWh for baseload power output for year 2001 due to the prevailing
drought condition and priority given to irrigation water release. Sale of peakload energy is at present being
negotiated with the concemed parties.
(2) Finance Department. The Finance Department is headed by a newly appointed Chief Accountant and
two Finance Directors and has a total staff of 23 distributed in five units. The Department is responsible
for all accounting and computerization of financial information. A new software package, King Dee version
8.8, was acquired and implemented in year 2000. The package makes available all standard features of a
modem financial accounting and management information system. The staff has received the necessary
training in how to operate the system. In general, the accounting principles applied follows the International
Accounting Standards (IAS) recommendations adapted to the Chinese legal provisions on financial
reporting. One unit "Investment Settlement Section" is responsible of the raising, disbursing, monitoring
and repayment of the World Bank Loans. The unit is headed by a competent and trained accountant and
has a total staff of five.
(3) Business Management Department. The Business Management Department is the commercial center
and is responsible for the marketing and sales of the outputs from the XLD, i.e. hydropower, and irrigation
and M&I water. The Department plans and establishes the overall YRWHDC budgets for the operation,
- 19-



together with the Finance Department and the Power/Water Management Department. The Business
Management Department, together with the Chief Economist and the Hydropower Station Director, is
responsible for negotiation of contracts with the main clients, YRCC, the power distribution companies:
Henan Electricity Power Company, the Shanxi Electricity Power Company, and Henan and Shandong
Municipal authorities.
However, it is noted that the YRWHDC management sees itself more as a SOE in that the economic
priorities for the all dam facilities would outweigh the financial performance results.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance from project preparation to implementation was highly satisfactory. At the early stage,
the Bank assisted in preparing the project. The Bank's assistance in review of the designs using
international panels was useful in confirming the designs for the project. The Bank's major assistance was
in the area of procurement, which reduced the cost of the project by about 20 percent from the Engineer's
estimate. The Bank's assistance was also very clear in developing a separate resettlement project and in
clearly defining the environmental requirements. The Bank also supported the establishment of YRWHDC
as commercially independent entity responsible for construction of the project, instead of Central
Government Project Office as was the practice at that time in China. In order to meet the implementation
schedule, the Bank arranged the second loan in a timely manner to allow for the continuation of
construction.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank regularly supervised the project and attached high priority to implementation issues related to
technical, implementation, financial, and environmental aspects. The Bank had 12 supervision missions
(averaging two per year except for the last year) to review the project. In the initial phases the Bank's
supervision focused on technical and implementation issues. In the later phases the focus was more on
contractual issues, environmental and financial matters. The Bank's supervision was severely handicapped
in 1999-2000 by the lack of budget to introduce specialized staff needed for claims management, dispute
resolution and financial management. Overall, the Bank supervision brought significant added value to
YRWHDC in ensuring the project was on track.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The Bank's overall performance is satisfactory since it was able to guide YRWHDC to such rapid
completion of such a large project and with some cost savings.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government's performance in preparation of the project was highly satisfactory. The Government was
very responsive to all comments made by the SBC and Bank missions. YRWHDC was fully responsible for
all the design and tender document preparation with the assistance of foreign consultants. Most preparation
work was done in a record time of two years to ensure timely startup of the project. YRWHDC invested
considerable amount of funds and prepared the resettlement and environmental plans to very high quality.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
MWR who represented the Government for this project was very responsive at all stages of the project
preparation and implementation. MWR place very high importance to this project. In 1996 when there were
delays in Lot II implementation, MWR stationed a Vice Minister at the site to ensure that the project
- 20 -



problems were resolved. It ensured that adequate counterpart funds were made available for the project.
MWR organized some 27 meetings to review the project at different stages to ensure that any special issues
that arose from design or implementation were resolved. Overall MWR's performance was highly
satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
YRWHDC has successfully implemented the first phase of the project. Its primary achievement was to
meet all the milestone dates of the physical construction and quality of works was excellent. The project
has been essentially completed one year ahead of schedule. YRWHDC has been open to new technologies
and construction management techniques and willing to adopt the best practice in terms of organization and
project management systems. The successful integration of the Consultant Advisory Group into the
management team was largely responsible for efficient management of construction. When delays occurred
at various stages of construction, YRWHDC was able to promptly identify the problems on the critical
path and take measures to solve them. YRWHDC has a strong sense of project ownership of the project
and the overall performance is satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance.
The Borrower's performance was satisfactory because they demonstrated ownership of the project,
completed the project a year ahead of schedule, with high quality of works. The Borrower is now deeply
involved in ensuring that the project operation is successful.
8. Lessons Learned
Xiaolangdi is the first large-scale multipurpose dam project in China to use only international contracting
and construction management procedures. Many of the difficulties experienced in implementing the new
system were caused by the relative newness of economic and enterprise reform in China. The key lessons
are summarized as follows:
(a) In implementing a project of the magnitude and complexity of Xiaolangdi, implementation will be
greatly assisted if there is an implementing organization in place at the outset of the project that is
commercially independent and has full decision-making authority and responsibility for its
performance. YRWHDC for most part operated as a Bureau of MWR, which made it difficult to
make any decisions on construction management since all decisions had to be transmitted back to
MWR for final authorization.
(b) Prior to the start of construction, construction management personnel should be trained in contract
administration and modem project management techniques. This training should include deputation
for substantial periods to ongoing projects where these techniques are in use. China routinely
undertakes similar training of operating personnel prior to the commissioning of all large
hydropower plants and this is very successful. Similar training of construction management
personnel will increase their competence and improve response time through allowing increased
delegation rather than involving senior management in matters of detail.
(c) Improved communication among various parties (owner, engineer, designer, advisors and
contractors, etc.) should be actively pursued from the outset, to avoid misunderstandings that could
cause delays and/or losses to the project. Communication difficulties were perhaps the most
difficult to resolve in construction of the Xiaolangdi scheme. This issue is not simply of translation
between different languages, but of communicating ideas and concepts across intemational
boundaries of training and culture.
- 21 -



(d) Development of project management systems should also commence before construction in order to
manage construction more efficiently. These should include contractual documentation
management systems, a project master schedule, a procurement and delivery schedule for
employer-supplied equipment, a design drawing control system and cost control system. This
resulted in less exposure of YRWHDC to claims resulting from delays between interfaces of
equipment suppliers or between contractors.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The borrower's comments were mainly editorial and were incorporated into the final document.
(b) Cofinanciers:
The only parallel financier was the US EXIM Bank which provided export credit to a US supplier for the
turbine procurement. However no comments were received from them although comments were solicited.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
No NGO comments were received.
10. Additional Information
- 22 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IndlatorMatrx                      Projectd In last PSR                 Actua/Last Estimate
Reduce flood damage within the dikes and   n/a                             Flood damage reduction will definitely
eliminate catastrophic damage from major                                   happen because the reservoir is completed
floods                                                                     and flood mitigaton will occur
Increase farm incomes                 n/a                                  Project has been completed and is in the first
year of operation and farm income can be
monitored from the Henan and Shandong
Statistics Reports
Improved performance of urban and    n/a                                   In the first year of operation the project
industrial growth through provision of water                               supplied water to several major cifies under
and hydroelectric power                                                    extreme drought conditions
Prevent river diversion              n/a                                   Sediment control in the lower reach has
occurred already in the first year of operation.
Output Indicators:
lndfcato*VMaux                     Projected in bst PSR                 ActuaU/Latest Estimate
Flood damage for 2-year recurrence vill only n/a                           Flood damage reduction will only be
occur if there is a 7-year flood. Catastrophic                             observed over operation of the project. At this
flood will not breach the dikes.                                            stage there is little to report.
Silt control by the dam/reservoir will result in  n/a                      In the first year of operation 250 million tons
the dikes being not raised in the next 20-25                               of silt was trapped in the dam which is 80
years.                                                                     percent of the average annual requirement
Assured irrigation will result in grain yields   nla                       In 2000 to February 2001 a total volume of
increase by 20 percent from 4.0 tons/ha to                                 4.5 Bcm was transferred to urban centers
4.8 tons/ha.                                                               and to irrigation. During March this year
water for spring irrigation amounted to 4.2
Bcm. It is difficult to predict but it is clear that
this additional water will give each mu, 150
cubic meters, which is sufficient to increase
yields to over 4 tons/ha in grain yields.
Assure urban and industrial water supply and n/a                           In the first year of operation 1.2 Bcm were
reduce the shortage to 2 days per year.                                    supplied to several water-short cties to
reduce shortage losses.
Reduce sediment deposition in the lower    n/a                             In the first year the a total of 250 million tons
reaches of the river                                                       of silt was trapped in the reservoir and this
amount is 80 percent of the silt for a normal
year.
End of project
- 23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuaUlLatest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million    US$ million
Site Preparation/Local Civil Works                  317.00          290.10             92
Dam and Appurtenances                               1200.30        1164.80             97
Turbines and Gates                                  205.80           92.20             45
Generators and Electrical Works                      166.60          91.30             55
Institutional Development & Training                   1.60           2.50            158
Engineering and Administration                       86.30          158.80             55
Implementation Consultants                           23.70           22.00             93
Environmental Management Component                   22.70            7.80             35
MWR/YRCC Institution Support and Training             3.00            2.80             93
Total Baseline Cost                                2027.00         1832.30
Physical Contingencies                                             100.00
Total Project Costs           2027.00         1932.30
Interest during construction  267.90         314.20
Total Financing Required            2294.90         2246.50
- 24 -



Project Costs by Procureme t Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                 Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB         Other         N.B.F.     Tota Cost
1. Works                    1200.30        33.60         0.00        283.40       1517.30
(384.40)      (21.90)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (406.30)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00          1.20         371.20       372.40
(0.00)       (0.00)        (1.20)        (0.00)       (1.20)
3. Services                  4.80          0.00         35.90         96.80        137.50
(4.80)       (0.00)       (17.70)       (0.00)       (22.50)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                    1205.10        33.60         37.10        751.40      2027.20
(389.20)      (21.90)      (18.90)        (0.00)      (430.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuaUlLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB        NrcB           Othero        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    1164.80        0.00         0.00         290.10      1454.90
(414.50)      (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (414.50)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00          1.20        182.30       183.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.20)        (0.00)       (1.20)
3. Services                   1.10         0.70         24.30        166.80       192.90
(1.10)       (0.60)       (12.30)       (0.00)      (14.00)
4. Miscellaneous             100.00        0.00          0.00         0.00        100.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                    1265.90         0.70        25.50        639.20       1931.30
(415.60)      (0.60)       (13.50)       (0.00)      (429.70)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
- 25 -



2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equivalent)
Per:entage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Late stEstimate       -       -     -
: Bank       Govt.     CoF.      Bank      Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt  CoF.
Site Preparation/Local   21.90    317.00                0.00     290.10              0.0   91.5
Works
Dam and Appurtenances    384.40    815.90              414.50    750.30              107.8  92.0
Mechanical Works         1.20     204.60                1.20      91.00              100.0  44.5
Electrical Generators &  0.00      166.60               0.00      90.00              0.0   54.0
Other Works
Admin & Engineering      4.80      109.90               1.10     158.70              22.9  144.4
Impl. Consultants        11.50     12.20                12.30     9.70               107.0  79.5
Environ. Management      3.00      23.30                0.00      7.80               0.0   33.5
Instit. Support/Training  3.20      3.90                0.60      3.70               18.7   94.9
Contingency                                                      100.00
Interest During          30.00    237.90               30.00     284.00              100.0  119.4
Construction
-26 -



o  40  0%   0%  0  - ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    l Ii     n1       %  l    ln1
00  0    -  'Otto ~     ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~           ---            ---              ---           
* N  0%   .%  000000000000000%  0000000000000000000000000000000000.000I00000000000.
0  0% ~0%   ~    N     CON - 0          000000000009000000000000000000000000000000- --  --  --  -                                                     -     - 
Z %     0             0     00       -0        NNNNN                 NNN             N        NNNN            N    NNN              N    N            N           
00-0                                      000 
OF'             0      0N                  0     %
ui ~   ~      ~        0               %     0%0   00-0  0   %00C                    000            0          m'0 0             00        %00          00    %000N0
C-i*                 0     0       0    0          00%0%00   %0  %00% N                        %NC N0%00%0%NON-       %NO0t                                           0000  
x ~    ~    I        .                                    0% 0      -      OC0    %    %00    %%%0000    %00    %00                            N 0000-                 O00   %0



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
fStig of Prect                            No. ofPersons and Specialty .:                        Ra.   4 
(e.g. 2 E o t1 FMS, etc.)             Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count             Specialty                       Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
Mission 1                    16   3 Economists, 2 FMS, 1 Water
Resources Eng, 2 Environrnental,
2 Social Scientists, 2 GW and
SW Specialists, l Procurement
Spl, I Hydropower Eng, 2 Inst
Specialist
Mission 2                    15   2 Economists, I FMS, 2 Water
Resources Eng, 2 Environmental,
2 Social Scientists, 2 GW and
SW Specialists, I Procurement
Spl, I Hydropower Eng, 2 Inst
Specialist
Mission 3                    13    1 Economist, I Cost Estimator, 2
Water Resources, 2
Environmental, 2 Social
Scientists, 2 GW and SW
Specialists, I Procurement Spl,
I Hydropower Eng, 2 Inst
Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal                    16   2 Economists, 2 FMS, I
Water Resources Eng, 2
Environmental, 2 Social
Scientists, 2 GW and SW
Specialists, I Procurement
Spl, I Hydropower Eng, 2
Inst Specialist, I Legal
Negotiations                  3    1 Water Resources/Dam, I
Legal, I Disbursements
Supervision
1                             2   1 water resources/dam, I             HS             HS
geotechnical
2                             3   1 water resources/dam, I             HS             HS
geotechnical, training specialist
3                             3   2 water resources/dam, I dam         HS              S
4                             4   1 water resources, I dam             HS              S
specialist, I geotechnical, I
procurement/cost specialist
5                             3   1 water resources, I dam, I          HS              S
geotechnical
6                             1   1 water resources/ procurement       HS              S
7                             5   1 water resources, 1 dam, 1          HS              S
geotechnical, IFMS, I claims
specialist
- 28 -



8                              6   1 water resources, I                  HS              S
dam/construction, I dam, I
geotechnical, I FMS, 1
Environment
9                              6   1 water resources, I                  HS              S
dam/construction, 1 dam, I
geotechnical, 1 Financial
Specialist/Auditor, 1
Environment
10                             2   Water Resources/economist, I          HS              S
dam/construction specialist
11                            10   I water resources/economist, 1        HS              S
underground works, I
geotechnical, I dam, I dam
safety, 1 FMS, 1 Principal
Financial Spl.,2 Environmental,
1 Claims Spl.
ICR
ICR                            5    1 Water                              HS              S
Resources/Economist, I
Finance/Economist, 1
Economist, 1
Environmental, 1
irrigation/water resources
modeler
GW  = Groundwater; SW = Surface water.
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
| __________________________          No. Staff weeks                 US$  ('000)
Identification/Preparation                   130                           650
Appraisal/Negotiation                         50                           200
Supervision                                   64                           460
ICR                                            8                            25
Total                                        252                          1305
- 29 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
FSector Policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Physical                                * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
ER Financial                              O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
F Institutional Development               0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                           O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
ZGender                            O H OSUOM ON O NA
O Other (Please specify)           OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
? Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
* Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 30 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
0 Lending                                            *HSOS Ou OHU
F Supervision                                       OHS OS  Ou  OHU
F Overall                                           OHS OS  O u  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
F Preparation                                           HIS OS  O u  O HU
F Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
X Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS  0 U   O HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O u O HU
- 31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
I. Staff Appraisal Report: Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project, Report 12339-CHA March 25, 1994
2. Progress Reports 1995-2000, by YRWHDC, CCPI, Xiaolangdi Engineering Consulting Company.
- 32 -



Additional Annex 8. Project Scope
Project Scope Parameters
Amount
Item                                                              Unit               Or iinal     Revision
A. Hydrolozv
Total Yellow River Basin                                          km2                 795,000      no revision
Drainage area, upstream of Xiaolangdi                             km2                 694.155
Mean annual runoff                                                Bcm                  42.32
Long-term average flow                                            cm/s                 1,342
Flood volumes:
observed max., 12 days                                            Bem                  9.19
design, 12 days                                                   Bem                  13.9
check, 12 days                                                    Bcm                  17.2
Natural water levels:
recorded lowest (Feb. 2, 1961)                                    m                   133.44
recorded highest (July 17, 1958)                                  m                   144.88
histoTic highest (August 1843)                                    m                    150.9
B. Flood discharge at XIAOLANGDI
50 year:
before regulation                                                 cm/s                23,600
after regulation by Sanmenxia                                     cm/s                17,960
after regulation by Sanmenxia and Xiaolangdi                      em/s                 9,910
100 year:
before regulation                                                 cm/s                27,500
after regulation by Sanmenxia                                     cm/s                19,410
after regulation by Sanmenxia and Xiaolangdi                      cm/s                 9,860
1,000 year:
before regulation                                                 cm/s                40,000
after regulation by Sanmenxia                                     cm/s                28,000
after regulation by Sanmenxia and Xiaolangdi                      cm/s                13,480
10,000 year:
before regulation                                                 cm/s                52,300
after regulation by Sanmenxia                                     cm/s                37,600
after regulation by Sanmenxia and Xiaolangdi                      cm/s                13,990
Recorded max.(July 17, 1950)                                      cm/s                17,000
Historic max.(August, 1843)                                       cm/s                32,500
B. Flood discharge at XIAOLANGDI(cont'd)
Design:
before regulation                                                 cm/s                40,000
after regulation by Sanmenxia                                     cm/s                20,000
afteT regulation by Sanmenxia and Xiaolangdi                      cm/s                13,4B0
Check:
before regulation                                                 cm/s                52,300
after regulation by Sanmenxia and Xiaolangdi                      cm/s                13,990
Total discharge capacity at FSL of all outlet works,
exclading power tunnels, including emergency spillway             cm/s                20,310
Maximum discharge during flood storage level                      cm/s                17,000
Maximum discharge during design flood level                       cm/s                13,360
Maximum discharge during check flood level                        cm/s                13,570
Maximum discharge during normal dead level                        cm/s                 8,758
Maximum discharge during abnormal dead level                      cm/s                 8,032
Maximum discharge power generation                                cm/s                 1,560
- 33 -



I7  _   1   7   |   Amount
Item                                                            lUnit          i    Original      Revision
C. Reservoir parameter
Max. water level                                                 m                     275
Check flood water level                                           m                    273
Design flood water level                                         m                    272.3
Min. water level                                                 m                     230
Extreme min. water level                                         m                     220
Area at water level                                              km2                  272.3
Length                                                           km                    128
Length of shoreline at water level 275                           km                    950
Storage capacity:
at FSL, EL 275                                                   Bcm                  12.65
for flood control                                                Bcm                   4.05
for sediment management                                          Bcm                   1.05
for ice control                                                  Bcm                    2
Sediment deposition                                              Bcm                   7.55
D. Sediment
Mean annual volume                                               million tons         1,594
Mean content                                                     kg/cm                  37
Recorded max. content(August 7, 1977)                             kg/cm                941
E. Dam and power station
Dam parameters:
type                                                              zoned earth and rockfill with sloping, impervious core
foundation                                                       sand and gravel alluvium, maximum depth 70 m
crest elevation                                                   m                    281
crest width                                                       m                     15
dam width at FSL, EL 275                                          m                    41.1
crest length                                                     m                    1,317                1,667
max. height of dam(above foundation)l                             m                    154                  160
embankment slopes, upstream                                       2.0 H: 1 V(above EL 274.33)
2.6 H: I V(below EL 274.33)
embankment slopes, downstream                                     1.5 H: I V(above EL 268.72)
1.75 H: I V(below EL 268.72)
volume of dam                                                     Mcm                  48.5                50.73
freeboard                                                         m                     6         No revision
Flood-and sediment tunnels:
Orifice tunnels                                                  using closely spaced orifices as energy dissipation devices
number                                                           nos.                   3
shape                                                                circular ID: 14.5 m
length                                                           m                     1100+/-
invert elevation: upstream EL 175, downstream EL 129.0 and 138.5  1632+2x1580=4792m3/s
max.capacity at FSL
Free flow tunnels:
number                                                            nos.                  3
shape                                                                                 city gate
width                                                            m                      10
height                                                           m                   11.5-13.5
length                                                           m                    1000+/-
invert elevation: upstream EL 195,209, and 225, downstream El 152.13, 173.79 and 175
max.capacity at FSL                                     2680+1973+1796=6449m3/s
- 34 -



Amnount
Item                                                                lUnit                 Original     Revision
Sediment tunnels:pressure tunnels with reinforced and prestressed concrete linings
number                                                               nos.                    3
shape                                                                      circular ID : 6.5m
length                                                               m                     1000+/-
invert elevation: upstream EL 175.0, downstream EL 148.0
max.capacity at FSL                                                       3"675=2025m3/s
Service spillway: chute type
width                                                                m                      28
weir crest EL 258.0
length                                                               m                      932
max.capacity                                                         cm/s                  3,764
Emergency spillway: weir, closed off by Tockfill dam with imperviou core.
In case of emergecy, the dam wold be breached.
width                                                                m                      100
weir crest 268m, top elevation of dam EL 280.0 m
max. capacity at FSL                                                 cm/s                  3,000
Intake towers:
number                                                               nos                     10
free standing height of the towers
above the substructure                                               m                      53
total height including substructure                                  m                      112
Plunge pool: One concrete-lined plunge pool to serve all flood-and sediment tunnels as well as the
service spillway. Pool is divided into three cells by two concrete walls. M ax. depth of pool 25.2 m.
Power tunnels: pressure tunnels with reinforced concrete linings
number                                                               nos                     6
shape                                                                      circular ID : 7.8m
length                                                               m                      37 5
invert elevation of intakes                                          2 at EL 190,4 at EL 195
penstocks: steel lined, encased in rock
number                                                               nos                     6
shape                                                                      circular ID : 7.8m
Powerhouse: underground, 160m x 26.2m. The six generating units spaced at 26.5mn.
One service bay, 59m long.
Draft tube tunnels: reinforced concrete
number                                                               nos                     6
shape                                        rectangular, 9.5x7m changing to 9.5" 13.5m
Tailrace tunnels and channels: reinforced concrete
number                                                               nos                     3
shape                                                                  city gate I2m x1 9.6m
Sediment gate at dischare of tailrace:
number                                                               nos                     6
openings                                                                      11.5m x 14m
elevation of sills                                                                          EL 130
Switchyara: conventional, outdoor, 220 kv. Overhead circuits connect the switchyard to six 220 kv
and one 500 kV power transmission lines.                             500 kVpower transmission lines is canceled.
- 35 -



I               |                 Amount
[tem                                                                  |Unit                 Original       Revision
F. Main mechanical and electrical equipment
Turbines:
number                                                                 nos                      6
type                                                                      Francis, vertical shaft
rated output                                                           MW                      306
rated head at initial operation                                        m                       112
max- head at initial operatioin                                        m                      128.9
min. head at initial operation                                         m                      64.9
rated head at future operation                                         m 112
max. head at future operation                                          m                      139.2
m in. head at future opration                                          m                      86.5
max. speed                                                             rpm                    107.1
rated discharge                                                        cm/s                    306
max. discharge                                                         cm/s                    316
Generators:
number                                                                 nos                      6
type  -totally-enclosed, vertical shaft, synchronous, three phase
rated output                                                           MWA                     334
max. output                                                            MWA                     367
rated power factor
rated voltage                                                          kV                      0.9
frequencyxxxxx                                                         Hz                      18
rated speed                                                            rpm                     50
isolation class                                                                               107.1
F
Step-up power transformers:
number                                                                 nos                      6
type                                                                   three phase, 18/242 kV, 50 Hz, 360 MWA, OFWF
Step-up power transformers:
number                                                                 nos                      2
type 3-phase, 240/550 kV, 50 Hz, 540MWA, OFAF                                                              Canceled
Power bridge crane:
number                                                                 nos                      2         No revision
hook (2) capacity:                                                     t                     2020250
Intake towers, gantry cranes:
number                                                                 nos                      2
hook (2) capacity                                                      t                       20400
Draft tube crane:
number                                                                 nos                      I
hook (2) capacity                                                      t                       2x250
G. Civil W orks Quantities
Approximate quantities for major civil construction items:
dam, rockfill                                                          Mcm                    35.8
dam, impervious material                                               Mcm                     9.3
dam, filters                                                           Mcm                     2.5
open earth excavation                                                  Mcm                    15.2
open rock excavation                                                   Mcm                    13.1
underground excavation, tunnel                                         Mam                     2.7
underground excavation, power facilityes                               Mcm                    2.52
concrete                                                               Mcm                     2.8
prestressed concrete                                                   cm                    37,000
shotcrete                                                              cm                    174,000
grouting, consolidation                                                m                    260,000
grouting, curtain                                                      m                    260,000
steel reinfoTcement                                                    t                     I60,000"
- 36 -



Additional Annex 9. Loan Covenant Compliance
Agreement   Section    Cove-        Original      Revised           Description of covenant               Comments
nant    fulfillment    fulfillment
type        date          date
_______________   (Revised)
Loan          3.04          10          C                      Dam Safety inspection arrangements for
Sanmenxia Dam
3.05(a)      07          C                      Implement resettlement plan
satisfactorily
3.05(b)      07          C                      Coffer dam is not closed if resettlement
lags by four months
3.05(c)      10         NYD                     Ensure water in damn does not go over
level 265m before resettlement over
265m is completed
3.06         10          C                      Transmission lines will be constructed for Transmission lines to Shanxi
power grids to Shanxi and Hunan     were not required and
therefore canceled
5 para 1     05          C                      Maintain project coordinating groups at
all levels
5 para 2     10          C                      Undertake all technical assistance and
training for the institutional component
satisfactory to the Bank
S para 4     09          C         06/30/1996   Borrower/YRWHDC shall carry out a
Mid-term review
5 para 5     06          C                      YRCC and Project Provinces carry out
their respective parts of the EMP
5 para 3     02          PC         4130/1998   YRWHDC shall enter into a power sales
(9/30/2000)  aeement with power companies
Project       Para 7       09           C          6/30/1996   Borrower/YRWHDC shall carry out a
mid-term review
3.04         02          PC         4/30/1998   YRWHDC shall enter into a power sales   Power sales agreement on
_______  ____________  (9/30/2000)  agreement with power companies         principles is agreed
4.02         02          PC                     Financial covenant-debt service ratio
4.04         02          NC                     Charge water rates to recover full costs
including depreciation and rate of
collection should not be less than 85
nereent.                             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
2 para 3     05          C                      YRWHDC maintain its PMO with
competent staffwith adequate numbers,
___                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~etc.
2 pars 4     05          C                       YRWHDC furnish annual financing
Iplan and implementation program
-37 -



Agreenient   Section    Cove-      Original      Revised           Description of covenant              Comments
nant    fulfillment    fulflllment
type        date          date
(Revised)
2 para 5     10          C                      YRWHDC shall employ intemational
panel of experts for reviewing dam
_ _ _ _ _   _____     ________      ~~~~~~safety.                       _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _
2 para 6     06          C                     YRWHDC shall: (a) employ intl. Panel
of experts for reviewing implementation
of the Environmental Management Plan
(EMP); (b) maintain an Envirommental
Management Office. Acceptable to the
Bank and (c) EMP is undertaken in
timely and acceptable manner
4.01         01                                 Borrower shall have records audited for
all financial project accounts including
the Special Account. Furnish to the
Bank no later than June 30 audit
reports of the last year
Covenant Type
I = Accounts/Audits                                 10 - Project Implementation not covered in 1-9
2 = Financial Performance                           II = Sectoral and Cross-sectoral budgets and resource allocation
3 =Flow and Utilization of Project Funds            12 = Sectoral and Cross-sectoral policy/regulatory
4 = Counterpart Funding                             13 = Other
5 = Management Aspects of the Executing Agency      C = Complied with
6 = Environmental Covenants                         NC= Not Complied wit
7 = Involuntary Resettlement                        NYD = Not yet due
8 =Indigenous People                                CP Partially complied with
9 = Monitoring Review and Reporting
- 38 -



Xiaolangdi Intake Structure Completed
Xiaolangdi Outflovw W~orks in 2OOO
- 39 -






MAP SECTION






-   International Boundories                                                                      CHINA
Province Boundaries             in                                XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Mongolia                                         EXISTING & PROPOSED DAM/HYDROPOWER PLANTS IN BASIN
IJ/ < f $ W<~~~~~~~~Yellow Sea
Inner Mongolia Plain
Ningxia Plain
The\    .adh   chime,) 
de--n,nti-n  -n  -OY
other dnamtu  shon-
onthi  mp  d   no
-npty  on tht  Phd  of
zh  fiorA  tf=   G-DP,                                                1    1>    (      \\/\ ,                              7Jc   
-ny judgment an the legal
tatus of _ny  toay.7
or ay  endorsen
haundhnea. ~ ~ ~ ~ inha H
R     A  P     i  k B             U        D o             1. Tianqiao           9. Liuntaxia
\ m                                                                                            8 \<  >   >Wei Plain  2. Wanjiazhai  10. Bapanxia
Yello Ri-e ,Flooded Areas and Dams                   3. Qikou             11. LongyangDia
) _ /<tv  1            S1  ~~~~~~~~Beijinti Flood Detention Basin  3Lakes          4. Longmen           12. Laxiwa.
v  X    S          A      r                                                              S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 Xiaolangdi   13. Lijiaxia
>                                                             [ Dongping Laske Flood Diversi.. Aren   Cat.hmen Area   6. SanmenLida        14. Daxia_
:>                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7. Sanshungong    15. Qingtongxia 
;                                            m  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Area Flooded if Dykes Break  *  Eisting DamiPower Plant   8.Ynuxa1.Dluh
H               ~~~Kmr                                                                                            .Ynuxa             1.Dluh
I-   --*  Yellow River Floodplairl                                                   * Planned Dain/Powcer PlaLnt 
0             200            400                    -






-International BoundaoriesCh a  Xiaolangdi Multipurpose  Project
Province Boundaries         Cina                     Fod                  ra    n               ouainAfce
Mongoia                                         Fo                    ra   n    ouainAfce
Flooded Areas/Population
Area Flooded if Dykes Break
(100 Million People)
Beijinti Flood Detention Basin
...  ...                             ~~~~~~~~~~~(1.3 Million People)
*Dongping Lake Flood Diversion Area
(0.4 Million People)
UFloodplain (Yellow River)
(1.4 Million People)
(Note: Total affected population
is 103 million.)
---                                                                                    Pe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Yrsions/Km
IXiaolangdi  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~D< 100
E      ~100 -  200
LII     200 -  400
400 - 660
~~      600 -800
> 800
* - -    -   Zhengzho      Kaif~~ong                                                              County Boundaries
.~~~~~*..*'\'-                                           Thn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7,  Wotd  9onk  Gsoop,
Luoyang                        KCm                                      O,-k-kO,Y.-y           Local Rivers
*  .  - - - -        C0              100              200            b dd



