Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3727-0 CHA
Project Agreement
(Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
YELLOW RIVER WATER AND HYDROPOWER DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated June 2, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3727-0 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 2, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and YELLOW RIVER WATER AND HYDROPOWER DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION 
(sometimes also called "Yellow River Water and Hydroelectric Power Development 
Corporation") (YRWHDC).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to Four Hundred and Sixty 
million dollars ($460,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that YRWHDC agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and YRWHDC, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement will be relent to YRWHDC on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS YRWHDC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) YRWHDC declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Parts A,B,C and D.1 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility 
and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Parts A,B,C 
and D.1 of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and YRWHDC shall otherwise agree, YRWHDC shall carry out Parts 
A,B,C and D.1 of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and so as to facilitate implementation of the 
provisions of Sections 3.04, 3.05 and 3.06 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for Parts A,B,C and D.1 of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. YRWHDC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A, B, C and 
D.1 of the Project.
Section 2.04. YRWHDC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, YRWHDC shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) YRWHDC shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts A, B, C and D.1 of the project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
YRWHDC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A, B, C and D.1 of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by YRWHDC of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of YRWHDC
Section 3.01. YRWHDC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, public utility and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. YRWHDC shall: (a) at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, public utility  and
environmental practices; (b) not dispose of any of its assets necessary for the 
Page  3
implementation of the Project and operation of the Xiaolangdi Dam; and (c) take all 
steps within its authority to assist the Borrower in the performance of its 
obligations under Sections 3.04, 3.05 and 3.06 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.03. YRWHDC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. (a) YRWHDC shall enter into a power sales agreement, acceptable to 
the Bank, before April 30, 1998 with the relevant electric power companies in each of 
the Project Provinces, which shall make provision for:
(i)
the procedure for initially setting, and for periodically 
adjusting the 
average tariff needed to ensure that YRWHDC 
achieves a real financial internal 
rate of return of not less than 
10 percent (which shall be computed in a 
manner acceptable to 
the Bank) over the projected life of the Project relating 
to the 
generation of power;
(ii)
the principles for determining tariff structures; and
 
(iii)
the relative responsibilities of YRWHDC and such electric power 
companies in 
operating the power plant and the reservoir, and in 
dispatching the 
electricity produced, to maximize the 
benefits generated by the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section, "internal rate of return" means the 
discount rate that would equate (i) the present value of the sum of YRWHDC's expected 
revenues from all sources related to operations and expected net non-operating income 
related to the generation of power to (ii) the sum of YRWHDC's expected cash expenses 
related to operations related to the generation of power (including administration, 
provision of maintenance special fund, and sales and income taxes and payments in lieu 
of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation and interest and other charges on 
debt).
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) YRWHDC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
YRWHDC shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year:
 
(A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year 
as so 
audited; and
 
(B)
the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and 
in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, YRWHDC shall ensure 
that net revenues of YRWHDC attributable to the generation and sale of power for each 
fiscal year after that ending in 1999 shall be at least, for its fiscal year ending in 
Page  4
2000, 1.2 times, and for each fiscal year thereafter, 1.6 times the estimated maximum 
debt service requirements of YRWHDC for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of 
YRWHDC attributable to the generation and sale of power in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of YRWHDC maturing by its 
terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
 
(A)
under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument 
providing for 
such debt or for the modification of its terms 
of payment on the date 
of such contract, agreement or 
instrument; and
(B)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement 
providing for 
such guarantee has been entered into.
 
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
adjusted to 
take account of YRWHDC's tariffs in effect at the 
time of the 
incurrence of debt even though they were not 
in effect during the 
twelve-month period to which such 
revenues relate and net non-operating 
income; and
 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges 
and interest and other charges on 
debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
 
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) YRWHDC shall open and maintain a deposit account with a bank 
and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (including appropriate protection 
against set off, seizure and attachment) and shall therein deposit out of its net cash 
earnings from operations such amounts
as will enable it to establish and maintain a balance in the account at any time of at 
least 15% of its Annual Cash Requirements at that time.
(b)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, YRWHDC shall not:
 
(i)
make any new non-Project investments or;
 
(ii)
incur any non-Project debt or
Page  5
(iii)
make any distribution of its earnings, capital, surplus or capital 
reserve to 
the Borrower or YRCC or any of its other investors, unless 
immediately before 
the investment is made or the debt is incurred, or 
immediately after such 
distribution, the amount in the deposit 
account is established under Section 
4.03(a) as at least 15% of its 
Annual Cash Requirements at that time.
(c)
The term "Annual Cash Requirements" means at any time, and for any 
period, YRWHDC's forecast annual cash requirements for operations and debt service at 
that time for that period.
Section 4.04. (a) YRWHDC shall charge water rates for the supply of water for 
irrigation and municipal and industrial purposes from the Project at a level which 
shall ensure that it recovers, for each of its fiscal years immediately following 
commissioning of the dam constructed under the Project, no less than the full 
operating and maintenance costs for each such fiscal year attributable to the supply 
of water in a manner acceptable to the Bank, and that it recovers, by no later than 
the end of its twelfth fiscal year after commissioning of the dam, the full costs 
(including depreciation) attributable to the establishment and operation of the dam 
for the supply
of water in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
(b)
YRWHDC shall take all necessary measures to ensure that the collection of 
such water charges shall be at least at the rate of 85% of full collection by the end 
of such twelfth fiscal year.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of YRWHDC 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify YRWHDC thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Page  6
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For YRWHDC:
Yellow River Water and Hydropower
   Development Corporation
11 Jinshui Road
45003 Zhengzhou
Henan, People's Republic of China
Telex:
460127 YRWHDC
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of YRWHDC may be 
taken or executed by the General Manager or such other person or persons as the 
General Manager shall designate in writing,
and YRWHDC shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
YELLOW RIVER WATER AND HYDROPOWER
   DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
Page  7
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one 
to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the 
bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, 
YRWHDC shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes 
of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the 
Bank, YRWHDC shall use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized 
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
Bidders for works shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,000,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,200,000 may be 
awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank where the required goods are proprietary and obtainable only 
from one source.
3.
Site preparation works may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $1,000,000 or more and for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special 
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of 
the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) 
shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the 
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
Page  8
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist YRWHDC in carrying out Parts A,B,C, F.1 and G.1 of the 
Project, YRWHDC shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms 
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall 
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on 
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by 
The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, 
time-based assignments, YRWHDC shall employ such consultants under contracts using the 
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard 
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, YRWHDC shall use other standard forms 
agreed with the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
YRWHDC shall cooperate with and assist YRCC and the Project Provinces in 
relation to the timely implementation of the Resettlement Plan and the Environmental 
Management Plan, and shall cooperate with and assist the independent experts and 
members of the panel appointed under Section 3.04 of the Resettlement Project 
Development Credit Agreement to carry out their responsibilities for review and 
monitoring.
2.
YRWHDC shall ensure that all training and technical assistance under Part D.1 of 
the Project, including local and overseas study tours and consultancy services, shall 
be carried out in accordance with a training and technical assistance program 
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
YRWHDC shall maintain its project management office with competent staff in 
adequate numbers with responsibilities and functions satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
YRWHDC shall, by December 15 in each year, prepare and furnish to the Bank for 
review, the proposed financing plan and implementation program for Project activities 
in the next calendar year, as approved by the Borrower.
5.
YRWHDC shall:
 
(a)
employ an international panel of independent experts, with composition 
and functions acceptable to the Bank, to conduct periodic reviews of the dam and its 
related structures no less frequently than the Bank requires during final engineering 
and construction, to examine whether any
new grounds for making changes in the design of the dam or technical specifications 
have become apparent; and
(b)
promptly report the findings of each such panel review to the Borrower 
and the Bank.
6.
YRWHDC shall:
 
(a)
employ an international panel of independent experts with composition and 
functions acceptable to the Bank to review and make recommendations in respect of the 
Environmental Management Plan, the detailed action plans to be developed under it, and 
Page  9
their implementation;
(b)
maintain its environmental management office with competent staff in 
adequate numbers and with responsibilities and functions acceptable to the Bank to 
manage, coordinate and monitor the implementation of the Environmental Management 
Plan;
(c)
ensure:
 
(i)
that all activities under the Project comply with environmental 
standards and 
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, including in 
relation to dam safety, the 
preservation of archaeological relics 
and public health and disease control;
(ii)
that all necessary measures are taken to minimize and to mitigate 
any adverse 
environmental impacts caused by the construction and other 
activities under 
the Project, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
 
(iii)
that all detailed action plans to be developed under the 
Environmental 
Management Plan are furnished to the 
environmental panel and to the Bank for 
review at least three 
months before being implemented; and
(iv)
that the Environmental Management Plan is implemented in a timely 
manner.
7.
YRWHDC shall participate in the midterm review of the progress of and prospects 
for Project implementation, carried out with Borrower and the Bank in accordance with 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
