RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                    Report No.  P-588
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
YUGOSLAV INVESTMENT BANK
FOR THE
BELGRADE-BAR RAILWAY PROJECT
March 11i 1968



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE YUGOSLAV INVESTMENT BANK
FOR THE BELGRADE-BAR RAILWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $50 million to
Jugoslovenska Investiciona Banka (Yugoslav Investment Bank) to assist in
financing the completion of a railway from Belgrade to the port of Bar on
Yugoslavia's southern Adriatic coast.
PART I. HISTORICAL
2.        The Bank has made ten loans to Yugoslavia for a total amount of
$281.2 million of which $248.2 million was outstanding as of January 31, 1968.
Following the permanent settlement of the Yugoslav prewar external debt in
French francs in 1958 and the temporary settlement of the debt in sterling,
Swiss francs and US dollars in 1959, a permanent settlement of the US dollar
debt was reached in March 1967, of the sterling debt in June 1967, and of the
Swiss franc debt in November 1967.
3.        The proposed loan would be the third for railways in Yugoslavia.
A loan of $35 million (361 YU) was made in 1963 for construction of the
Sarajevo-Ploce railway line; and a loan of $70 million (395 YU) was made
in 1964 for the reconstruction and modernization, including electrification,
of the main lines of the Yugoslav railway system.
h.        The Yugoslav Government first submitted the Belgrade-Bar railway
project to the Bank for preliminary consideration in February 1966, and
subsequently requested a loan of about $80 million.    Following Bank missions
to Yugoslavia in the fall of 1966 and in July 1967, it was concluded that
the project was acceptable for Bank financing in the amount of $50 million.
Negotiations were held in Washington from February 5 to 20, 1968.    Principal
members of the Yugoslav delegation were Mr. M. Bojanic, General Manager of
the Yugoslav Investment Bank, Mr. G. Popovic, Economic Counsellor of the
Yugoslav Embassy in Washington, and Mr. T. Batev, Director Investment
Department, Community of Yugoslav Railwaya.
5.        Yugoslavia is a Part II member of IDA but has received no IDA
credits.   It has applied for membership in IFC.   The following is a
summary statement of Bank loans to Yugoslavia as at January 31, 1968:



-2-
Loan                                                       Amount (US$ million)
Number    Year         Borrower             Purpose         Bank    Undisbursed
20 YU    19h9    Federal Government    Industry             2.7        __
51 YU    1951    Federal Government    Industry, Power,
Agriculture &
Transport           28.0        --
73 YU    1953    Federal Government    Industry, Power,
Agriculture &
Transport           30.0        --
277 YU    1961    Yugoslav Invest-      Power               30.0         .2
ment Bank
318 YU    1962    Yugoslav Invest-      Power               30.0        .2
ment Bank
3L4 YU    1963    Yugoslav Invest-      Roads               35.0        --
ment Bank
361 YU    1963    Yugoslav Invest-      Railways            35.o        --
ment Bank
395 YU    1964    Yugoslav Invest-      Railways            70.0      50.5
ment Bank
h85 YU    1967    Yugoslav Invest-      Roads               10.0       8.4
ment Bank
504 YU    1967    Yugoslav Invest-      Industry            10.5      10.5
ment Bank
Total                                    281.2
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                     33.0
Total now outstanding                    248.2
Amount sold                   h.6
of which has been repaid   1.6          3.0
Total now held by Bank                   245.2
Total undisbursed                                   69.8
6.        Execution of most of the projects has been satisfactory.   The
closing dates of the two power loans (277 and 318 YU) were postponed by about
18 months because of delays which were outside the control of the Yugoslav
authorities.   Both projects are now practically completed.   Progress on
the first railway project (361 YU) was delayed last year primarily because
of a major increase in its cost which had to be covered by additional
contributions from the Federal Government and the Republics concerned.
Agreement has recently been reached upon Government action to cover cost over-
runs on both railway projects (361 and 395 YU) and work is now progressing



- 3 -
satisfactorily.   The Sarajevo-Ploce railway project (361 YU) is now
substantially completed.   The railway modernization project (395 YU) was
delayed mainly by slow awarding of contracts resulting largely from the
1965 foreign exchange reform and by modification of designs.   The project
should be completed in 1971.   The Bank has reached agreement with the
Government, the Yugoslav Investment Bank and the Railways for prompt action
in the future to meet increased costs on railway projects financed by the
Bank.   Work on the highway loan of 1963 was completed on schedule in 1966
and work on the highway loan of 1967 is proceeding very well, somewhat ahead
of schedule and within the original cost estimates.
7.        The Bank is presently appraising various industrial enterprises
in Yugoslavia for a proposed second loan for industrial modernization.
Discussions have continued for over two years, so far without result, between
the Yugoslav Investment Bank, a Yugoslav enterprise and foreign companies
on an aluminum project involving possible Bank financing.
PART II. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
8.   Borrower:                      - Yugoslav Investment Bank
Guarantor:                     - Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Beneficiary:                   - Zeljeznicko Transportno Preduzece
Beograd and Zeljeznicko Transportno
Preduzece Titograd
(Railway Transportation Enterprises
Belgrade and Titograd)
Amount:                        - various currencies equivalent to $50
million
Purpose:                       - to assist in financing the completion
of a railway between Belgrade and Bar
Amortization:                  - amortization in semi-annual installments
beginning March 1, 1974 and ending
March 1, 1993
Interest Rate:                 - 6-1/4 per cent
Commitment Charge:             - 3/4 of 1 per cent
Relending Terms:               - the proceeds of the loan would be passed
on by the borrower as part of the
Government grant contribution to the
beneficiary enterprises.



-4-
PART III. THE PROJECT
9.        A report entitled "Appraisal of the Belgrade-Bar Railway Project--
Yugoslavia" (TO-620a) is attached.
The Yugoslav Railway System
10.       Railways provide the backbone of Yugoslavia's transportation system.
The main lines of communication run northwest to southeast along the Sava-
Danube valley serving the principal agricultural and industrial areas of the
country.   In the west and north the railway system has been developed almost
to Western European standards, but in the south development did not really
begin until the establishment of the Yugoslav state in 1919.    The mountains
across the center of the country block access to the coast except at a few
points and are a serious handicap to transport.   The recently completed
standard gauge railway between Ploce and Sarajevo, and the proposed railway
between Belgrade and Bar, will substantially complete the railway network.
11.       In 1966 the railways accounted for 55 per cent of the freight ton-km
and 4l per cent of the passenger traffic.    Rhile the absolute level of railway
traffic is expected to be maintained or to increase gradually, the percentage
of railway to total traffic will continue to decline.   Despite the more rapid
growth of highway, river, and air transport, the railways will long remain
important for the routes served and the types of traffic carried.
12.       The organization of the railways is based on the Yugoslav concept of
"workers' self-management", and is decentralized.   There are six railway
transportation enterprises responsible for the operation of the system. There
are also about 70 auxiliary enterprises which are responsible for such matters
as the maintenance and repair of track, the repair of rolling stock and the
design and supervision of new construction.   The "Community of Yugoslav
Railways", in which all the enterprises are represented, is responsible for
the supervision and coordination of railway matters for the whole country as
well as for general questions such as rates and tariffs, technical standards
and overall planning.   The formulation of transport policy and the
coordination of transport matters is the responsibility of the Federal
Secretariat for Transport and Communications.   Although these arrangements
appear complex, the enterprises cooperate well with one another and the
railways are efficiently operated.
13.       The various enterprises have their own separate finances.    Since
1966 each enterprise has retained its own earnings, and established its own
schedules of rates and fares within the overall policy of the Community of
Railways.   For the Skopje and Titograd enterprises, government subsidies are
being provided at a decining rate from 1966 through 1970 when they are
scheduled to cease.   A consolidation of the accounts of all the railway
enterprises shows that for the system as a whole operating revenues in 1967
were about $330 million equivalent and operating expenses about $328 million.
In 1966, before the economic recession, the figures were more favorable, with
operating revenues of about $351 million equivalent and operating expenses
of about $333 million equivalent.   The Railways' earning position has not
been satisfactory.   Agreement has been reached that by increases in rates
and fares and other measures the Railways will earn a return of at least
3.5 per cent in 1970 and at least 6.0 per cent in 1972 and thereafter.



- 5 -
14.       In addition to construction of the Sarajevo-Ploce and Belgrade-Bar
lines, the railways are carrying out a seven-year investment plan, 196h-70,
which provides for capital investments of about $658 million equivalent over
the seven-year period.   The main items of the plan are:   1) the electrification
and installation of modern signalling equipment on three main lines, 2) the
construction of six new marshalling yards, 3) renewal of the permanent way,
bridges and structures of the entire system, 4) purchase of locomotives and
rolling stock, and 5) remodelling of stations and freight yards, and the
conversion of narrow gauge to standard gauge lines.    The Bank is helping to
finance the first two items of the seven-year investment plan under Loan 395-YU.
The railways are financing the purchase of locomotives and other rolling
stock as far as possible from suppliers' credits, and the improvement of line
and station capacities mainly from their own funds but also in part from loans
from interested cities and republics.   The remainder of the plan will be
financed by the railways' own funds.
The Belgrade-Bar Project
15.       The only major railway construction project now planned in Yugoslavia
is the completion of the Belgrade-Bar railway line, for which the loan here
proposed would be used.   The project is the completion of standard gauge sing].
track, electrified line from Belgrade to Bar for a total length of h62 km. and
includes earthworks, structures, track, buildings, and the procurement and
installation of signalling, telecommunication and electric traction equipment.
Two sections of the rai'way, totalling about 90 km, have been in operation sincc
1959 without electric traction or final signalling.    Work is in progress on
some sections and completion of the project is scheduled for the end of 1972.
The project is defined to include also the supply of motive power and rolling
stock, although Bank financing is not required for this part of the project.
The project will be constructed by the Railway Transportation Enterprises of
Belgrade and Titograd.   The organization and staff of the railway enterprises
are competent both administratively and technically.    The authorities have
undertaken to expand the port of Bar so that it can handle the traffic arising
from completion of the project.
16.       The major economic benefits of the project consist of (a) savings
on traffic which now has to travel on longer circuitous routes by truck and
by standard and narrow gauge lines,(b) inducement of traffic that cannot at
present move because of prohibitive costs or the lack of any transport outlets
and (c) other benefits such as shorter sea transport distance to Bar and
electrification of existing sections of the line.    The quantifiable expected
benefits to the Yugoslav economy in the railway's zone of influence affect
principally agriculture, forestry and minerals.    The economic rate of return
of the project is estimated to be 8-1/2 per cent, calculated from
January 1, 1968 to the end of the railway's economic life of 35 years.
17.       There are also other benefits which have to be taken into account
and which cannot be reflected in an economic rate of return.    A major policy
of the Government has been the promotion of the less developed areas to
achieve a more balanced economic structure within Yugoslavia and specifically



- 6 -
to promote greater national cohesion between the underdeveloped Republic
of Montenegro and the richer republics.    Investment in infrastructure in
these areas permits the better utilization of manpower and other resources
of the region and mitigates some of the problems resulting from large
discrepancies between incomes in different regions of the country.
18.       The estimated total cost of the project, including contingencies,
wihich the proposed loan would assist in financing, is $211 million equivalent
for the period 1968-72.   According to the Law on Participation of the Federal
Government in Financing the Investment Works of the Completion of the Belgrade-
Bar Railway Line, dated July 1966, 85 per cent of the total cost of the project
will be provided as a grant by the Federal Government of Yugoslavia, 8.3 per
cent by the Republic of Serbia, and 6.7 per cent by the Republic of Montenegro,
the latter for investments in their territories.
19.       The foreign exchange component of the project will depend on the
awarding of contracts between local and foreign bidders, and is estimated to
range between a minimum of about $24 million (11 per cent of the project or
48 per cent of the loan) and about $70 million (33 per cent of the project or
140 per cent of the loan.)   The total amount of contracts to be put to
international competitive bidding and costs of foreign consultants, including
contingencies, is estimated at $l142 million.  The Bank is proposing to
provide about a third of this amount, or an amount near the mean between the
estimated minimum and maximum foreign exchange component, i.e. $50 million.
It is proposed that the full amount be provided regardless of the outcome
of the bidding.
20.       All the contracts in which foreign suppliers and contractors might
be interested (i.e. earthworks and structures, supply of rails, points,
crossings and accessories, signalling,telecommunication and electric traction
equipment) would be subject to international competitive bidding.    Contracts
for sleepers,ballast and track-laying, buildings, and miscellaneous items,
are not suitable for international competitive bidding.
21.       As for previous railway loans to Yugoslavia, bids would be evaluated
taking into account existing customs duties, which for goods to be imported
for the project average about 12 per cent.
The Borrower
22.       The proposed loan, which would be guaranteed by the Yugoslav
Federal Government, would be made to the Yugoslav Investment Bank, an
investment institution established in 1956.   The proceeds of the loan would be
passed. on by the Yugoslav Investment Bank as part of the Federal Government
grant contribution to the beneficiary enterprises.   Where, as in the loan
now prcposed, the loan proceeds are passed on as grants, the Federal
Government undertakes to provide the Investment Bank with the funds required
for debt service.   The Investment Bank has served as a conduit for seven
Bank loans to Yugoslavia since 1961, totalling $220.5 million.    Its



- 7 -
activities remain substantially as described in Appendix 1 of the Appraisal
Report of Yugoslav Industrial Projects (LA-Za) dated June 29, 1967 which
was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 3, 1967.
PART IV. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
23.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Yugoslav
Investment Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.   The draft
Loan and Guarantee Agreements are substantially similar to those of the
previous loans to the Yugoslav Investment Bank and contain the usual
provisions for railway projects.
24.       Under Section 3.06 of the Guarantee Agreement,the Government will
agree to enable the Yugoslav railway system to realize sufficient revenues
to (i) cover all their operating expenses including depreciation and (ii) earn
an adequate return on the value of their net fixed assets.
PART V. ECONOMIC SITUATION
25.       An Economic Memorandum dated March 6, 1968 is attached.   A report
on the Yugoslav economy (EA 162a) circulated to the Executive Directors on
September 21, 1966 and an updating memorandum circulated on July 3, 1967
recorded the impressive growth of the Yugoslav economy since W4orld W4ar II,
described the economic reform of July 1965 and the measures associated with
it, and reviewed the subsequent progress of the economy until the early
months of 1967.   These papers outlined the comprehensive changes in relative
prices, in taxation, in the banking and credit mechanism, and in foreign trade
regulation which together constituted the economic reform and marked a
further major step towards the creation of an economy guided by market forces
and one inthich a freer exchange of goods and services with the rest of the
world would lead to a more efficient allocation of resources.   The attached
Memorandum reviews developments in the Yugoslav economy during 1967, and
concludes that despite the difficulties encountered in carrying out the
economic reform, much has been achieved in providing the framework needed to
secure a more efficient use of resources and in laying the foundation for a
resumption of economic growth.   The memorandum also concludes that the
problem of servicing the country's external debt, though difficult, appears
manageable and that Yugoslavia continues to be creditworthy for Bank
lending.
PART VI. COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
26.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 8 -
PART VII.  RECONTEDATION
27.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
Resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Yugoslav Investment Bank in an
amount equivalent to U.S. $50,000,000 to be guaranteed
by Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Yugoslav Investment Bank to
be guaranteed by Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in an amount in
various currencies equivalent to fifty million United States dollars
(U.S. $50,000,000), to mature on and prior to March 1, 1993, to bear
interest at the rate of six and one-quarter per cent (6-1/4%) per annum,
and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially
in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan
Agreement (Belgrade-Bar Railway Project) between the Bank and Yugoslav
Investment Bank, and the form of Guarantee Agreement (Belgrade-Bar Railway
Project) between Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bark,
which have been presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 11 1968



FILE COPY
YUGOSLAVIA
Memorandum on the Economic Situation
1.        A report on the Yugoslav economy (EA-162a) circulated to the
Executive Directors on September 21, 1966, and an up-dating memorandum
circulated on July 3, 1967, recorded the impressive growth of the
Yugoslav economy since World War II, described the economic reform of
July 1965 and the measures associated with it, and reviewed the subse-
quent progress of the economy until the early months of 1967. This memo-
randum reviews developments in the Yugoslav economy during 1967 against
the background of the economic reform.
2.        Yugoslavia has achieved a remarkable rate of economic growth
over most of the post-war period, with gross material social productl/
rising on average by 9-10%2 annually. This rate of growth has reflected
in part a high rate of investment, which in most years absorbed over
40% of the gross material product. The Yugoslav authorities have pro-
gressively moved away from the system of central direction of the economy
adopted immediately after the war; the oconomic reform of July 1965
marked a further major step towards the creation of an economy guided
by market forces.
3.        Despite the fast rate of growth, by the early 1960's certain
weaknesses in the structure of the economy had emerged. The great empha-
sis given to the expansion of manufacturing had resulted in a distortion
in the pattern of production, ref'lected in lagging output of agricultural
products and basic raw materials and deficiencies in power and transport
services. Sheltered by severe restrictions on external trade, industrial
diversification had been pressed to the point where in some sectors too
great a range of products was produced in too small a quantity to be
economic. ]loreover, the diversity of producticn and the emphasis given
to developing the capital goods industries requiredhigh investments if
industry were to keep pace with advances in technology and remain competi-
tive. It also became clear that with a limited internal market, the
continued growth of the economy required a greater emphasis on production
for export and greater specialization.
4.        Thus the tuconomic reform of July 1965 and the measures associated
with it were designed to provide the framework for a more efficient alloca-
tion of resources, partly by limiting still further political influences in
investment decisions, partly by correcting long-standing distortions in
relative prices, and partly by measures to integrate more closely the
Yugoslav with the world economy. The latter measures included devaluing
the dinar (from $1=7.5 to $1=12.5), approximately halving customs tariff
rates and liberalizing imports. These changes occurred over several years.
The major reductions in the taxation of economic enterprises, designed to
leave with the enterprises the major responsibility for investment decisions,
occurred in 1964, the devaluation of the dinar and the principal price
/ The gross material social product corresponds to the gross national
product in customary national accounting concepts, but excludes
certain services such as public administration and defense, education,
health and professional services.



-2-
adjustments in July 1965 and the liberalization of imports and the foreign
exchange regime in January 1967.
5.        For the devaluation of the dinar and import liberalization to be
effective, it was essential that the inflationary conditions of 1963 and
1964 should be greatly moderated. Thus major policy objectives and major
achievements of the past two years have been the curbing of inflationary
pressures and the strengthening of the country's external position. With
a restrictive credit policy the money supply has barely increased since
the beginning of 1965, and there has been a marked decline in the rate of
increase of prices. Producer prices were stable during 1967 at the average
level prevailing in 1966 after increases of 15% and 11% in the two preceding
years, and the cost of living index rose by 7% in 1967 compared with 32%
and 28% in 1965 and 1966 respectively. The rise in living costs in 1967
reflected largely increases in indirect taxation (particularly on liquor
and tobacco), further adjustments in rents and increased costs of services.
Credit restraint and the devaluation of the dinar brought a marked strengthen-
ing of the balance of payments, with a sharp reduction in the current deficit
from the level of almost $213 million in 1964. The deficit amounted to only
$36 million in 1966 and provisional figures indicate a slightly larger
adverse balance on current account in 1967.
6.        The cost of these considerable achievements was a marked slowdown
in the growth of the economy and some increase in unemployment. Output in
1966 rose by about 8%, almost equalling the fast expansion achieved in
earlier years, but this was mainly due to an exceptional year in agricul-
ture. Industrial production rose by little more than 4% compared with
growth rates averaging 11% annually from 1960 to 1965. Though 1967 was
also a good crop year, agricultural output as a whole is estimated at
2-4% below that of 1966.   In industry,experience in different branches
varied markedly, but the overall index of industrial production showed no
increase in 1967 over 1966. A decline in fixed investment depressed demand
in the investment goods industries, and although private consumwption in-
creased with sharp rises in personal savings and greater imports of
selected consumer goods, output of the consumer goods'industries as a
whole declined slightly in 1967. Employment in the socialized sector of
the economy was estimated at 3.4 million in November 1967, about 4O,OOO
less than a year before. There was some movement of unskilled labor back
into private agriculture in which returns had increased following two good
seasons and the major price adjustments of recent years.
7.        One of the aims of the economic reform was to achieve higher levels
of consumption with some reduction in the share of investment in the social
product. It was hoped that with a more efficient use of investment re-
sources and the incentive of higher living standards, a satisfactory rate
of growth of output could be maintained. In giving effect to this aim
taxes on the incomes of enterprises were abolished and this together with
other tax adjustments made possible an expansion of personal incomes. The
extent of the increase in personal incomes in recent years was, however,
greater than the authorities had expected. Real personal incomes in the
social sector were 12% greater in 1966 than in 1965 and rose again by 7%



- 3 -
in the first 11 months of 1967, much more than the rise in labor producti-
vity.  The rise in personal incomes brought a relative reduction of invest-
ment funds of economic enterprises, and although the rate of investment
continued at a relatively high level, fixed investment as a proportion
of output fell from 32% in l964 to 2i% in 1966. It is probable that there
was a further decline in the ratio of fixed investment to output in 1967.
Total investment as a proportion of output declined less sharply, from
43% in 1964 to 37% in 1966, because of large additions to inventories as
producers in a number of industrial branches met increasing difficulty
in disposing of output. Further additionsto inventories in 1967, which
absorbed resources that might otherwise have been used to finance fixed
investment, were regarded by the Yugoslav authorities as excessive.
8.        The decline in domestic demand came at a time when, with a slow-
down in the Federal German economy and the implementation of the agricul-
tural policies of the EEC, the demand for many Yugoslav exports slackened
in convertible currency markets, and new opportunities for Yugoslav workers
abroad were curtailed. The number of Yugoslavs working abroad in 1967 at
300,000 remained unchanged from 1966. Exports rose by 2.7%, to $1.25 billion
in 1967 (compared with an increase of 1h% annually in 1960-66); the increase
in exports to convertible currency countries in 1967 reflected large'y the
exceptional crops (particularly maize) of 1966, while expanded exports of
manufactures to bilateral trading partners tended to exacerbate the problem
of the persistent trade surplus with those countries. Imports rose by 8.4%
to $1.71 billion in 1967 (compared with increases of 11.5% annually in
1960-66), but with rising invisible earnings (largely from tourism) and a
small net capital inflow, convertible currency reserves at $134 million
in December 1967 were well maintained. The progress of the economic reform
and the modernization of industry require expanded imports from the West;
imports of raw materials and semi-finished goods, liberalized in January
1967, increased rapidly in the year. A renewed expansion in Western
Europe would assist Yugoslav exports in 1968, but it is clear that the
continued growth of net invisible earnings of convertible currencies will
also be particularly important in the future. Gross earnings from foreign
tourism are estimated to have risen by about 20%0 in 1967, following in-
creases of about 30% annually in 1965 and 1966, and further growth is
expected in 1968.
9.        As indicated above, restrictive credit policies have been applied
in the past three years. The Yugoslav authorities have stated their firm
intention to continue the policy of credit restraint for as long as is
necessary to permit the economic reform to be successfully concluded. But
while maintaining overall restraint, they plan to provide some stimulus
to expansion by increasing credit to finance production for export and by
expanding medium-term credit to assist Yugoslav suppliers of equipment to
compete more effectively in both domestic and foreign markets. Consumer
credit wihich fell by almost 30% in the past two years will also be moderate-
ly increased. These measures do not imply a major reversal of past credit
policies, and the reconciliation of selective credit expansion with overall
restraint will be aided by further progress towards surplus in the public
sector. Government budgets have been in moderate surplus in recent years,



- h -
and the authorities have taken steps to eliminate the deficits of the
social security funds which emerged in the past three years.
10.       The structural changes envisaged by the economic reform can only
occur rather slowly. However, there has already been encouraging progress
in agriculture, though aided by good seasons, and substantial investments
are being made in expanded capacities and in modernization of infrastructure -
railways, roads, electric power - and of basic raw materials - iron and
steel, non-ferrous metals, chemicals, and petroleum products. Progress
towards increased specialization in production is also being made. Yugoslav
enterprises in a number of industrial branches have agreed between themselves
to rationalize production, and many have eliminated unprofitable product
lines. New arrangements with foreign firms are being made, which often
enable Yugoslav enterprises to benefit from more modern technologies and
in some cases involve an exchange of components with the foreign partner.
The new law on private foreign investment in Yugoslavia is designed to
attract capital and technical know-how to help modernize the economy, and
the authorities plan gradually to proceed to further import liberalization
as a spur to increased efficiency.
11.       The structural changes in the economy and the modernization of
industry require large investments, and progress has been hampered by the
reduction in savings of enterprises in favor of greater personal incomes.
Under the system of workers' self-management great discretion ir. determining
the level of personal incomes rests with the economic enterprises, but while
the growth of incomes has moderated in recent months, the Yugoslav authorities
are considering how future increases in personal incomes might be linked more
closely to productivity gains. The authorities are also considering how to
increase the effectiveness of the banking system in mobilizing and channell-
ing investment funds to the most productive uses.
12.       Yugoslavia's total external debt outstanding, repayable in convert-
ible currencies (including undisbursed) at June 30, 1967, was $1.86 billion,
$30 million greater than in December 1966. The amount undisbursed totalled
$520 million. $400 million of the total debt is owed to international
organizations, $800 million represents suppliers' and bank credits, and
$635 million official loans from Western countries. Loans from East
European countries totalled $310 million equivalent, of which only $16
million had been disbursed. While the country's external debt has risen
appreciably in recent years, approximately doubling since 1963, with the
fast growth of foreign exchange earnings, the debt service ratio has risen
quite moderately. In the past two years as the growth of the economy has
slowed, the increase in the total foreign debt has greatly moderated and the
debt service ratio has not risen. Nevertheless, with Yugoslavia's heavy
reliance on suppliers' credits, reflecting the limited availability of longer-
term loans from the West, and with only limited success in bilateral debt
re-scheduling negotiations, debt service in convertible currencies in the
next four years is heavy, being equivalent on average to about 25% of
prospective convertible currency earnings. This figure is high but it must
be realized that it represents Yugoslavia's total obligations to Western



creditors, not only those of the public sector.
13.       To make possible further substantial progress in import liberali-
zation, some strengtLening of Yugoslaviats ex;ernal reserves Aill be neaded.
In this context and having regard to Yugoslavia's obligations to the I.M.F.,
the authorities are aiming to achieve a moderate over-all surplus in the
balance of payments in the next several years. The authorities do not expect
that having regard tc Yugoslavia's internal needs in this period the country
could dc more than be in broad balance or in small surplus on current acco'mnt
and could not now become a capital exporter on a significant scale. Hence
she will need to borrow abroad an amount at least sufficient to roll over
the bulk of the existing external debt. This would amount on average to
about $250 million in each of the next three years. There seem good prospects
of rolling over supplierst credits, but Yugoslavia will clearly need further
assistance, preferably on longer-term.
lL.       In retros;ect, it appears that the attainment of the objectives of
the economic reform has proved more difficult and the process of adjustment
required of enterprises slower than was earlier expected. The marked shift
in the use of resources from investment to personal consumption added to
the difficulties, as did the slackening of growth in some Western economies
which came at a rather critical time in the implementation of the economic
reform. Nevertheless considerable progress has been made in providing the
framework needed to secure a more efficient resource allocation. The
Yugoslav authoritieshave showm great determination in pursuing the objec-
tives of the reform and have been ready, if necessary, to make quite far-
reaching adjustments In economic and social policies.   The country s exter-
nal debt position has not worsened in the past year, and the problem of
servicing the external debt, though difficult, appears manageable. In
these circumstances, Yugoslavia's performance can be considered as satis-
factory and an adequate basis for further 3ank lending.
Europe Department
March 6, 1968



Yugoslavi.n
Annex 1                  STATISTICAL APPENDIX     Attachmrc-nt
Gross Material Social Product
1967:   D 104-.01 billion  (Preliminary)
Rate of growth (1960-65):  7.5%
(1?66)   : 8.0%
(1967)   : 1.0% (Preliminary) 1/
Per capita     (1967)   : U.S. $500 (approx.)-
Per cent of Gross Soc:ial Product                 1966
Agriculture and forestry                       31
Mining and manufacturing                       33
Construction                                    7
Transport and comnunications                    8
Trade and catering                             15
Other                                           6
Per cent of Gross Social Product                  1966        1962-65
Gross investment                               37            41
Gross savings                                  37            40
Current deficit on the b'alance
of payments                                 --             1
Investment income payments                      1           0.5
Government curren-t revenues                   18            23
Money and Credit                                 Change    Rate of Change
in 1967      1962-66
Total money supply                           - 0.2%         14%
Time and savings deposits                    +60.0%         20%
Short-term credit to private sector          + 9.9%         13%
Rate of change in prices (retail)            + 1.9%         18%
Public Sector Operations 2/                       1966     Rate of Change
(D. billion)    i964-66
Government curren-t receipts                  17.6          9.0%
Government current expenditures               16.3          9.6%
Surplus                                 1.3           --
Government capitaL expenditures                0.9           __
1/   Adjusted to OECD National Accounts concept.
2/   Excluding social security funds



- ii -                      Yugoslavia
External Public Debt                             1967        1960-66
(U.S. $ million)                              (June)       Average
Total debt outstanding                     2,1- l,240
Annual debt service                          302           155
Ratio of debt service to foreign
exchange earnings                        16%           14%
Balance of Payments                              1966     Rate of Change
(U.S. $ million)                                            1960-65
Exports                                     1220           14%
Imports                                   - 1575            9%
Net invisibles of' which                     261           26%
interest payments                    -   70           31%
Net current balance                       -   36           --
Forein Exchanf Reserves                          1967         1960-66
(U.S. $ million)                            (December)      Average
Convertible currencies                       134           73
Payments agreements                          187 (Nov.)    39
I.M.F. Position                                  1967         1960-66
(U.S. $ million)                              (Dec.)        Average
Quota                                        150          124
Drawings outstanding                        11             85
Europe Department
March 1, 1968



