Document of
The World Bank                                  - -----
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report pNo. P-3553-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT'OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP}
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$25.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
SFAX FLOOD PROTECTION PROJECT
April 29, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Tunisian Dinar (TD)
The excbange rate of the Tunisian Dinar is floating. The rate used
in the Staff Appraisal Report, which approximates the rate as of February
1983, is:
US$1.00  =  TD.630
TD 1.00 = US$1.587
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS
DHU     -   Directorate of Urban Hyciraulics (Direction de l'Hydraulique
Urbaine)
MA      -   Ministry of Agriculture
ME      -   Ministry of Equipment
ONAS    -   National Sewerage Authority (Office National de l'Assainissement)
SONEDE  -   National Water Autbority (Societe Nationale d'Exploitation et de
Distribution des Eaux)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
SFAX FLOOD PROTECIION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Tunisia
Amount:                   US$25.0 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee
Terms:                    17 years, including four years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
Project Description:      The proposed project would minimize loss of life,
protect public and private property, reduce production
losses from floods, and ensure permanent, efficient
maintenance of flood protection infrastructure in Sfax
and surrounding areas. It consists of rehabilitation
of existing water courses (oueds) and extension of
dikes; construction of a belt canal in Sfax and minor
flood protection works in neighboring villages;
provision of maintenance equipment; staffing,
equipping and operation of a unit to maintain and
repair flood protection works; and provision of
consulting services for related design and construc-
tion supervision. The beneficiaries of the project
cannot be easily identified, since the areas of Sfax
which would be affected by future floods cannot be
predicted, and since these floods would also have
repercussions on surrounding areas as well as on the
national economy. The risk of slippage, and the
consequent escalation of costs, would be minimized by
the provision of consultant assistance for project
supervision and close Bank monitoring. Creation of
the special unit for repair and maintenance would
minimize the possibility of deterioration of flood
protection infrastructure.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance ofi
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Project Costs:                 Local         Foreign        Total
------    US$ 'lillion-----------
Rehabilitation of Sfax Oueds               4.9            8.6          13.5
Extension of Dikes                         0.8             1.3         2.1
Belt Canal                                 3.1            5.5          8.6
Minor Flood Protection Works
in Neighboring Villages                  0.4            0.6          1.0
Land Acquisition/Relocation                4.6            0.8          5.4
Maintenance Equipment                      1.0            2.2          3.2
Operation and Maintenance                  0.3             0.1          0.4
Consultant Services                        0.4             1.5          1.9
Base Cost                            15.5           20.6         36.1
Physical Contingencies                1.3            2.5          3.8
Price Contingencies                   3.4            4.6          8.0
Total Project Cost                   20.2           27.7         47-9
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan             -             0.1          0.1
Total Financing Required             20.2 /I        27.8         48.0 /1
Financing Plan:                          Local         Foreign        Total
------    US$ Million-----
Bank                                        -            25.0         25.0
Government                                20.2            2.8         23.0
Total         20.2           27.8         48.0
Estimated Disbursements!    Bank FY  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
-------------US$ Million------------
Annual                                   2.3   4.5   6.0   5.0   4.2   3.U
Cumulative                               2.3   b.8  12.8  17.8  22.U  25.u
Economic Rate of Return: 17.5 percent
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4421a-TUN, dated April 27, 1983
Map No. 17067
/1 Including $10.1 million of taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DiEVELOPNtENI
REPORI AND RECOMMENDATION OF 'THE PRESiDENI OF IthE
IBRD TO lHE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISiA
FOR A SFAX FLOOD PROTECTION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan to the Republic of Tunisia for US$25.U million equivalent to help finance
a Sfax Flood Protection Project. The loan, which includes a capitalized
front-end fee of 0.25 percent on the Bank loan, would be repaid over 17 years,
including 4 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - lHE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A special economic report entitled "Tunisia - Review of the Sixth
Development Plan (1982-86)" was prepared by two economaic missions which
visited Tunisia in October 1981 and March 1982. A draft of the report served
as a basis for discussions with the Government on macroeconomic policies and
sectoral investment programs. The final version of the report includes a main
volume (No. 4137-TUN) dated March 16, 1983, ana a second volume on sectoral
aspects to be issued in May 1983. This part reflects the report's findings.
Country Data sheets are attached in Annex I. 2/
3.       Much of Tunisia is arid or semi-arid.  Only three percent of arable
land is irrigated, and areas where rainfed agriculture is possible are Subject
to severe year-to-year fluctuation in rainfall. Tunisia's most important raw
materials are phosphates, petroleum, and natural gas. While the known
exploitable reserves of oil and gas are approaching depletion, and the
pbosphate deposits are of relatively low quality, there have recently been
promising indications of new reserves, although it is too early to assess
their exact potential. There is also considerable tourism potential, and
efforts have been made during the last decade to develop it rapidly.
4.       Since independence in 1956, Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort
towards development of its human resources, paying special attention to family
welfare, education, and technical and vocational training. As a result, the
infant mortality rate declined from 150 in the early l960s to 90 at the ena of
the 1970s, the adult literacy rate increased from under 15 percent to about b2
percent, and average caloric supply per capita increased from about 80 to 115
percent of minimum standard requirements. The sharp decrease in mortality
rates was not fully compensated by the simultaneous decrease in fertility and
birth rates, despite an active family planning policy pursued by the
Government.  Therefore, the annual natural demographic growth rate decreased
only slightly from 2.6 percent in the 1960s to 2.4 percent in the 1970s.
Moreover, after 1976, the net emigration of Tunisians abroad was sharply
1/ Part I is substantially the same as Part I from President's Report No.
3482-TUN of March 7, 1983, for a Third Urban Sewerage Project.
2/ Country data have been updated on the basis of this review, and thus
sometimes differ from the Country Data sheets.



-2  -
reduced by restrictive measures taken in the EEC countries and Libya. As a
consequence, the residential population of 6.57 million by the middle of 1981
exceeded the level projected five years earlier by 130,000.
5.       Agriculture still occupies near-Ly one out of every three Tunisians in
the labor force. To accelerate job creation, more than half of the total
investments of the Fifth Plan (1976-81) was allocated to directly productive
sectors, but the direct employment effects of the leading sectors (petroleum,
phosphate mining and processing, and tourism) are small. These sectors,
however, make a vital contribution to GD]?, public savings, and exports. They
provided 65 percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings in 1980 while
manufacturing activities, except phosphate-based chemicals, provided 17
percent.
6.       Recent Economic Developments.  During the Fifth Plan the growth
performance differed from the impressive growth achieved from 1971 to 1976,
not so much in terms of overall growth as in terms of the underlying growth
factors: output in agriculture and in food industries has grown on average
below the demographic rate since 1976, partially as a result of bad weather
conditions; textile production and tourism development grew at a slower pace
than projected mainly because of the slurmp in European markets.  By contrast,
manufacturing industry other than textiles, as well as energy, phosphate
processing, construction, and construction materials expanceci at a fast pace.
7.       In spite of the considerable increase in domestic demana,
particularly in investments, the balance of payments situation remained
favorable from 1976 to 1981. Imports in current prices grew at a slower pace
than exports, and the terms of trade improved significantly due to sharply
higher post-1974 export prices for crude oil. As a result, the resource gap
remained relatively small, and domestic savings financed on average over 7b
percent of investment, which increased from an average of 23 percent of GDP
for 1972-76 to 30 percent for 1977-81. The current account deficit averaged
$450 million per year (1977-81), and was easily financed; grant aid ane
private investments (mainly for oil exploration) provided about 30 percent,
while the remainder was mainly covered by long-term foreign borrowing. Thus,
during the 1970s total foreign debt increased little relative to GDP, and the
debt service ratio dropped.
8.       The public sector hlas played a major role in mobilizing and
redistributing domestic resources. Central Government revenues were
equivalent to about one-third of GDP on average for the Fifth Plan period, one
of the highest shares among middle-income countries. Over 30 percent of these
revenues was saved, and public savings financed close to two-thirds of total
Government capital expenditures. This comfortable public finance situation
permitted a rapid increase in subsidy payments to private consumers and public
enterprises. Such tranfers including those for social security accounted for
19 percent of total current budget outlays and over 7 percent of GDP in 1981.
9.       The main objectives of the Fifth Development Plan were achieved,
except for the employment target. The actual GDP growth fell short by 1.2
percentage points of the planned rate of 7.3 percent p.a., mainly because of
poor performance in agriculture, while the investment objective of $9.8
billion in current prices, or 30 percent of GDP, was fully met. Completion of
some large projects in the public sector (steel, expansion of the oil
refinery) were, however, delayed, but private sector investments, both foreign
and national, exceeded Plan targets.



-3-
10.       Open and hidden unemployment is a serious problem for the Tunisian
economy at present. During 1977-81, although job creation objectives were
achieved in all non-agricultural sectors except construction, these sectors
could only absorb 90 percent of new job seekers at a time when migration to
Libya and Europe slowed down. The overall unemployment rate, estimated at
about 13 percent of the labor force in 1980, has therefore not declined.
11.      Medium-term Prospects.  The Sixtb Development Plan (1982-bb) was
approved by the Parliament in July 1982. The main objectives are employment
generation, export promotion, and maore rapia growth in the three least
developed regions of the country (North-West, Center-West, and South).
Sectoral priority is to be given to agriculture, tourism, and electrical and
mechanical industries.
12.      The outlook for investment and growth during this perioc and beyond
will partly depend upon future developments in the oil and natural gas
sector. Oil and gas exploration programs under way have been encouraging.
Based on known reserves, and with the possible exploitation of smaller fields
that recently became profitable, it is generally expected that domestic oil
and gas production would at best be stabilized at about its present annual
level of 5-6 million tons of oil equivalent until the end of the decade.
However, barring large new oil or gas discoveries, and given the rapia rise in
domestic demand for energy, Tunisia will have to face the consequences of a
relative decline in energy revenues. The Government considers that the
situation requires immediate policy changes and is analyzing the most urgent
ones to be included in the Sixth Plan. By introducing these changes on time,
Tunisia expects to reduce the associated economic and social strains, and
avoid major balance-of-payments problems.
13.      The Sixth Plan recommends a GDP growth objective in the range of 5.9
to 6.1 percent depending on agricultural performance. This growth rate is in
line with recent trends. Projected growth of traditional exports (tourism,
textiles, and phosphate-based chemicals) is insufficient to compensate for the
projected decline in oil export revenues; these exports should be supplemented
by new ones, in particular electrical and mechanical products. Production
diversification and export promotion will, however, take time to bear fruit
given, in particular, the depressed world market prospects. The Plan strategy
therefore rightly aims at containing domestic demand in order to control
import growth. The macroeconomic scenario assurmes no improvement in terms of
*         trade, as was brought about by oil price rises in 1973-74 and in 1979-80. This
would not only affect the external account but also result in slower growth of
domestic savings, particularly public savings.
14.      Consequently, the Sixth Plan projects a drop in the fixed investment
rate from 30 percent of GDP in 1977-81 to about 25 percent for the Plan
period. This would still imply an increase of 24 percent in constant prices
relative to the Fifth Plan investrment. A major objective is to correct recent
capital intensive biases in projects by appropriate sectoral allocation of
investments. More resources would be allocated to small and niedium
manufacturing enterprises in the underdeveloped regions, in order to ease the
unemployment problem and reduce income disparities between rural and urban
areas. Since June 1981, a new set of policy measures has targeted the
incentive system toward this objective. The Investment Code was modified to
offer free industrial zones and direct subsidies to job creation for new



- 4 -
projects in underdeveloped zones, and a Promotion Fund for Handicrafts and
Household Workshops was created. In order to promote a more efficient
technical and financial management of the public and private modern sector,
the Plan assigns a major role in project promotion and supervision to an
expanded network of new Development Banks (two opened in 1981 and three in
1982); they are joint ventures with foreign investors and should alleviate the
pressure on the budget to finance too large a share of public investments.
15.      Increasing budgetary constraints will require a reassessment of the
present policies of subsidies for energy, basic foodstuffs, transportation,
and public sector enterprises. In addition, interest rate policy and a
better-adjusted fiscal system should be used to restrain final consumption and
stimulate savings.  As first encouraging steps in 1981 and in early 1982,
sizeable price increases in energy and agricultural products were implemented,
and the whole interest rate structure was revised upward, rates on saving
accounts and term deposits being increased by 1.5 to 2 points. There was a
sizeable increase of the legal minimum wage (30 percent) in March 1982, mainly
to improve the low-wage earners' living conditions, but the Government
recognizes that overall wage and salary policies should keep labor cost
increases (including social costs chargeable to enterprises) in line with
productivity increases, particularly since Tunisia wants to stimulate tourism,
and improve its international competitiveness for exports of manufactured
goods.
16.      Social Issues.  Tunisia's social performance has been impressive
since independence, and the country has come a long way towards meeting the
basic needs of its population and reducing absolute poverty. About 16 percent
of GDP is now devoted to social programs. However, unemployment among the
young and regional pockets of poverty still present serious social problems.
17.      Recently published data show that the continued attention of the
Government to poverty oriented social programs resulted in a reduction of the
ratio of people under a minimum standard income from 17 percent of the total
population in 1975 to 13 percent in 1980. During this period, the overall
number of this group declined in urban areas but remained the same in some
rural zones in the center of the country, as a consequence of poor agricul-
tural performance. Income differentials between the coast (East) and the
interior (West) widened, in part because Lhe system of price controls and
subsidies as well as budgetary expenditures had a weak redistrilbutive impact.
The Government is using the Sixth Plan to focus on the largest zones of
poverty, with a view to eradicating them before the end of this century.
Reducing the demographic growth rate is considered an important factor in this
endeavor.
18.      Education expenditures rank first: among budgetary outlays.  The
comprehensive education system provides free access to all students, and the
gross enrollment rate has reached 100 percent for primary ecucation, and 30
percent for secondary education. The performance of the system could,
however, be improved by expanding vocational training programs, and by
improving their relevance and responsiveness to labor demand, as well as to
the special needs of tne poor and rural groups.



- 5 -
19.      Public health services are second among social expenaitures, and
their overall beneficial effect is reflected in the improvement of the vital
statistics (para. 4). There remain, however, regional disparities in the
availability of hospital beds, doctors and nursing personnel; health services
have concentrated largely on curative medicine, ana the medical referral
system is not functioning properly. As a result, the rural poor are often
excluded. Closely linked to nutritional deficiencies, intant mortality
remains high relative to middle-income countries,
20.      In the Sixth Plan, investment in education, health, housing and water
supply is focussed more on deprived areas, provided at lower costs (health,
shelter), and made more relevant to the needs of the economy (training). In
education, two reforms are under discussion: the first one would provide a
nine-year schooling period for all children, and the second would create
polytechnical high schools combining basic and technical education.
In bealth, the Sixth Plan allocates more resources to preventive medicine and
nutrition education. Finally, as regards housing, public subsidized programs
will be directed to the neediest population groups. The housing aemana from
households above the minimum standard income limit will be satisfied by the
private sector.
21.      External Assistance and Foreign Debt.  As mentioned above, the growth
of foreign borrowing was modest during the second half of the 1970s, and a
growing share of foreign funds was provided by public sources at relatively
soft terms. During the 1977-80 period, foreign loan commitments averaged
about $700 million per annum, 62 percent of whicb in the form of official
assistance (ODA). About 65 percent of ODA commitments came from bilateral
sources, chiefly France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Canada, and sorae
oil-surplus countries.   About 24 percent of total ODA was committed by the
Bank Group, and some 11 percent by other multilateral sources. Borrowing
terms were favorable, averaging 5.8 percent interest and 18.5 years maturity,
including a grace period of 5 years. At the end of 1981, debt outstanding and
disbursed was estimated at about $3.4 billion, or 40 percent of GNP; debt
service was 12 percent of exports of goods and services, as compared with 17.7
percent in 1970.
22.      The external trade deficit reached $608 million in 1981, and is
projected to grow to about $1.2 billion in 1986. New loan commitments from
abroad, projected at $1.2 billion per year on average (at present dollar
exchange rates), should not be difficult to obtain, with ODA providing half of
the total. Leaving aside the possibility of major oil and gas discoveries,
external debt service would be about 13 percent of total export revenues in
1986.
23.      These relatively favorable prospects would depend on a timely
implementation of the already mentioned policy changes to curb domestic
demand, promote exports, and improve public sector savings. It should be
noted, however, that the Sixth Plan recommends a low growth scenario in order
to preserve the country's relatively high financial stability and
creditworthiness. This objective is even more crucial if the country is to
succeed in mobilizing the large inflows of direct foreign capital assumed in
the Plan. Foreign investments were small during most of the 1970s but have
gained momentum during the last three years in line with increasea activities
in the oil sector, and new incentives offered to foreign investors in



manufacturing. Such investments have inc'reased from $50 million in 1976 to
about $200 million in 1981, and have been equivalent to 10 percent of total
investments for 1977-81. The Plan's growth scenario estimates that about 15
percent of total investment could be financed by foreign capital, equivalent
to an annual inflow of $400 million. The newly created Development Banks
(para. 14) are expected to play a significant role in this context.
24.      In conclusion, the balance-of-payments outlook can be considered
favorable in the medium term. In the longer term, much will depend on the
policy changes to be initiated during the next few years, and on developments
in the hydrocarbon sector.  Considering its long record of prudent and
skillful balance-of-payments and external debt management, there are good
grounds to assume that Tunisia will formulate and implement the necessary
policy changes and will continue to be creditworthy for future Bank lending.
The Bank's close dialogue with the Government on several policy aspects at
the macro and micro levels will be pursued in connection with the
implementation of the Sixth Development Plan.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERAI1ONS IN TUNISIA 1/
25.      Since 1962, the Bank has committed to Tunisia fifty-five loans and
eleven IDA credits amounting respectively to $1,158.8 million and $70.0
million (net of cancellations) of which thirty-two loans and credits have been
fully disbursed. Annex II contains a sununary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1983, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects. Project implementation is generally satisfactory. As of
December 31, 1982, overall disbursements amounted to 55 percent of appraisal
estimates, which compares favorably with other countries in the region.
Disbursement performance for irrigation, industrial finance and port projects
has generally been above the country average, while larger than average
disbursement delays have been experienced! for agricultural credit, education,
highway, urban and fisheries projects, due to project specific problems that
are being addressed through supervision missions and sector discussions. In a
number of sectors, important institutional improvements have been achieved,
and autonomous agencies have been created or strengthened to ensure the
efficient management of the related sectors or subsectors.
26.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Government
efforts to:  (a) increase employment; (b) encourage more balanced growth and
distribution of income among regions and income groups with particular
empbasis on rural areas, and on operations targeted to low-income population
groups; (c) promote export-oriented policies, technological changes and labor
productivity; and (d) provide selective support tor the development of basic
infrastructure and for institution building in key public services. An
important feature of this strategy is to support the Tunisian authorities in
the timely and well-coordinated preparation of projects through missions and
advice by Bank staff, the assistance of the IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program, the
use of the Bank's Project Preparation Facility, and the Technical Assistance
Project (para. 27). The Bank is also supporting the Government in its efforts
1/ Part II is substantially the same as Part II from President's Report No.
3482-TUN of March 7, 1983, for a Third Urban Sewerage Project.



to increase the mobilization of domestic resources, and to secure cofinancing
for the projects it assists. The latter is particularly important in view of
the extent of Tunisia's external resource needs.
27.      Within this broad framework, past lending emphasized support for
long-term investments in infrastructure and social development. Lending for
urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage, education,
health, urban development, and the Tunis planning and public transport project
has accounted for 31 percent of Bank/IDA commitments in Tunisia since 1971.
Lending for transport, power and tourism infrastructure has accounted for 29
percent. Agriculture and fisheries have received 24 percent, and industrial
and botel financing, mostly through the Economic Development Bank of Tunisia
(BDET), 16 percent of total commitments. In addition, earlier this fiscal
year, the Bank made a first loan for technical assistance aimed at improving
the Government's capability for project identification and preparation.
28.       In line with its lending strategy, the Bank will pursue its efforts
in key sectors of the economy that offer prospects for economic and social
development. It will also assist projects which address the needs of the
least developed regions of the country, develop research capabilities,
increase productivity, and help reduce the gap between income groups, and
between urban and rural areas. Particular attention will be paid to
employment creation, institution building, and agricultural development. In
addition to the proposed flood protection project, proposed future lending
would include projects in agriculture, industry and mining, energy, health and
water supply.
29.      The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to focus on
strengthening the macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program; it
will be more centered in the future on the analysis of economic issues and
policies related to the necessary adaptation process from a petroleum
exporting to a petroleum importing country. This analysis, which was included
in the special economic report entitled "Tunisia - Review of the Sixth
Development Plan (1982-86)" (No. 4137-TUN), dated March 16, 1983, will be
pursued by an updating economic mission tentatively scheduled for early 1984.
Further economic and sector work will include a review of employment creation
issues, monitoring of incentive and pricing policies (in association with the
study on effective protection), a study of the financial system, and a review
of the education and management training, transport, energy and construction
materials sectors.
30.      The Bank and IDA accounted for about 19 percent of total public
commitments to Tunisia during 1979-1980. Their share in total debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1980 (including loans from private
sources) was 11 percent and their share in debt service during 1980 was 9
percent. The share of the Bank and IDA in Tunisia's disbursed external debt
is expected to remain at about 10 percent and their share in the debt service
to increase to about 13 percent through 1986.
31.       IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in BDET, in
Compagnie Financiere et Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest
in tourism projects), in Societe Touristique et Hoteliere RYM (a large hotel
development), in Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which produces aluminum
fluoride from local fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord integrated



8-
tourism development project. IFC's net commitments in Tunisia totalled $9.9
million, as of March 31, 1983. Currently, IFC is looking into the possibility
of financing a fertilizer plant which would produce phosphoric acid for
exports.
PART III - FLOOD PROTECTION AND STORMWATER DRAINAGE
32.      General.  The Atlas mountain chain, which runs from west to east
about 280 km south of Tunisia's northern coastline, separates the country into
two distinct regions. The nortb is semi-arid, with average annual rainfall of
about 600 mm; the south is arid, with about 200 mm of average annual
rainfall.  Despite these relatively low rainfalls, bowever, precipitation is
often torrential, leading to flash floods of varying intensities.
33.      Sector Organization.  The Directorate of Urban Hydraulics (DHU) of
the Ministry of Equipment (ME) is responsible for constructing urban flood
protection works. Maintenance and repair of this infrastructure is the
reponsibility of the ME's regional directorates, but until now, there have
been no specialized units within these directorates devoted to these tasks,
and attention bas been given largely to maintenance of other infrastructure,
especially roads. Under the proposed project, such a unit would be staffed,
equipped and provided with adequate operating funds in the Regional
Directorate of Sfax (para. 50). As regards the rest of the country, the
Directorate of National Land Planning of the NE, which handles planning of
flood protection measures, is currently preparing a countrywicle flood hazard
map with the assistance of Stockholm University (para. 43). Studies and
research related to rainfall and river flow are handled by the Bureau of
Hydraulic Inventory and Research of the Ministry of Agriculture (MA), while
rainfall data is collected by the MA and the Meteorological Service of the
Ministry of Transport and Communications. The National Sewerage Authority
(ONAS), under the authority of the ME, is responsible for urbain sewerage and
stormwater drainage systems.
34.      Bank Involvement in the Sector.  The proposed project, would be the
first Bank-financed project dealing solely with flood control in Tunisia.
However, the Bank has assisted flood control efforts indirectly through
stormwater drainage components of sewerage projects, and has been very active
in the related water supply and sewerage sectors. It has helped inter alia to
establish and develop the National Water and Sewerage Authorities (SONEDE and
ONAS) and, through a number of projects, has engaged in close dialogue with
these institutions and the Government on sector policies and operations.  The
Bank Group has made five loans and one credit for free-standing water supply
projects, totalling $124.5 million, and is considering a national rural water
supply project. Four loans and one credit have been provided for sewerage and
stormwater drainage under the following four projects. The Tourism
Infrastructure Project (Loan 858-TUN and Credit 329-TUN, both of September 28,
1972, for $24.0 million) included $16.64 million for sewerage facilities in
six tourism zones. The project was revised as tbe result of changes in the
Government's tourism development objectives in 1975 and suffered further
delays due to related changes needed in the detailed design and additional



-9
time needed to complete detailed land-use plans and acquire land. The revised
project was, bowever, completed in 1981 and is making a significant contribu-
tion to Tunisia's tourism development program. The First Urban Sewerage
Project (Loan 1088-TUN of February 18, 1975, for $28.0 million), which has
recently been completed, belped establish ONAS as an effective operating
agency, improve sewerage facilities in the Greater Tunis area, and clean up
Lake Tunis by building a stormwater drainage canal along its shores. The
Second Urban Sewerage Project (Loan 1675-TUN of April 13, 1979, for $26.5 mil-
lion), which will improve and extend wastewater collection, treatment and
disposal facilities and stormwater systems in the Greater Tunis and Greater
Sfax areas, is progressing satisfactorily, although three stormwater collectors
are being retendered as bids were considerably higher than anticipated and
additional local funds had to be allocated (para. 40). The Third Urban Sewe-
rage Project (Loan 2255-TUN, approved by the Board on March 29, 1983, for
$34.0 million) will rehabilitate and expand the existing sewerage and storm-
water systems, including the provision of sewage treatment, in 30 urban centers
including four communities in the suburbs of Sfax. In addition, three urban
development projects contain sewerage and stormwater drainage components. The
first (Loan 937-TUN and Credit 432-TUN, both of October 5, 1973, for $18 mil-
lion) included several sewerage studies, and the second and third (Loan
1705-TUN of May 31, 1979, for $19 million, and Loan 2223-TUN of January 11,
1983, for $25 million) include $6.6 million for improving and expanding water
supply and sewerage systems in low income settlements.
35.      Project Performance Audit Reports have been prepared on the first two
water supply projects (PPAR No. 1902 of February 13, 1978) and on the third
water supply project (PPAR No. 3914 of May 14, 1982). The reports concluded
that all tbree projects had met their objective of providing water of accept-
able quality for the increasing requirements of the population in the areas
served, and contributed greatly towards the development of SONEDE into a
technically sound and financially viable institution. However, the audit for
the third project concluded that more detailed engineering should have been
carried out prior to Board presentation. The Operations Evaluation Department
(OED) has also published a Sector Operations Review on the Water Supply and
Waste Disposal Program in Tunisia (Report No. 4146 of October 20, 1982) which
emphasizes the success of the Bank's involvement in the water supply and waste
disposal sector in Tunisia. This success is attributed to the Government's
commitment to its sector policy objectives, and the harmony of the Bank's
program with these objectives.
36.      Project Area.  Sfax is Tunisia's major port and second largest city,
with a 1982 estimated population of about 313,000, including suburban areas.
It is located on the east coast 267 miles south of the capital and consists of
the port area, industrial zones on both sides of the port, a traditional quar-
ter and, moving gradually to the west, densely-populated slumns, public and
private residential developments and low density family homes built on garden
lots. The latter are gradually being subdivided and commercial centers are
springing up in the area as Sfax urbanizes. Because of its importance as a
port, its industries, its strategic position as a service center for southern
Tunisia and the agricultural base of its surrounding areas, Sfax has been
growing at 2.7 percent per year, faster than the rest of the country; slightly
more rapid growth (2.8 percent per year) is expected in the future.



- 10 -
37.      A number of factors make Sfax particularly susceptible to flooding.
Although the soil is quite porous, its absorptive capacity is reduced by a
higb water table.  Furthermore, Sfaa: lies at the low end of a gently sloping
plain, whose gradient from the sea to about 15 kilometers inland averages
about 2 to 3 percent. This makes it very difficult to evacuate stormwater.
In addition, as urbanization pushes further inland, protective hedgerows built
along the large garden lots, which help hold the soil, reduce runoff and
increase absorption of rain water, are being destroyed. They are often
replaced by walls which, along with new streets created in the area, exacer-
bate the flood situation by blocking and redirecting the natural water flows,
diminishing soil absorption and increasing the velocity of water runoff.
Finally, since Sfax is located in a semi-arid area, its sparse vegetation
tends to be overgrazed, reducing soil absorption capacity and constituting
another flood enhancing factor.
38.      The annual average rainfall in the Sfax region is about 200 mm, but
annual precipitations ranging between 37 and 650 mm have been observed.
Summers are dry, and most of the rain falls between September and December,
and to a lesser extent in March. Floods usually occur in October, when rains
are torrential and have recorded intensities as high as 20 mm per 15 minutes.
The typical flood starts within hours of the onset of the rain, leaving little
or no time to evacuate the population or their belongings. Because of the
unpredictability of the storms, no advance warning system is feasible. While
minor flooding generally occurs every year, major floods occurred in 1934,
1957, 1969, 1973 and 1982. The 1982 flood is discussed in more detail in
paras. 41-42. The history and severity of floods in the Sfax area are such
that only a few large commercial concerns have been able to obtain flood
insurance coverage. Insurance companies have indicated, however, that they
will extend insurance once the level of risk has been substantially
diminished, at premiums which are considered reasonable.
39.      Existing flood protection in Sfax consists largely of dry river beds
(oueds) on two sides of the city which act as channels for flood water: Oued
Khalifa leading into Oued Maou to the south and Oued Ezzit to the north.
These oueds and their tributaries are dry for all but a few days of the year.
Oued Maou has been leveed with earth dikes; the left bank levee contains a
"blow-out" section designed to wash away under extreme flows in order to
maintain the integrity of the rest of the system. Oued Ezzit is not leveed.
Altbough a 1975 law (the Code des Eaux) forbidding construction in water
courses has usually been enforced, there have been some squatters and other
isolated exceptions, such as an olive oil factory, which cluttered the
channel, along with trees and debris. After the 1982 flood, the olive oil
factory, which bad blocked the free flow of water a.uring the flood, was
removed at Government order. Furthermore, most homes which were built by
squatters in the Oued Ezzit were washied away by the flood; those remaining
will be removed during rehabilitation works. The oueds are rarely lined,
protective structures such as bridge abutments and gabions are seldom used,
and there are no adequately sized retention basins to reduce the velocity of
rushing water and capture some of the sediment and debris it carries, which
are only removed when deposits have created immediate problems. The tendency



- 11 
to use the oueds for roadways and dumping sites has also exacerbated the
situation.
40.      As noted in para. 34, the Second Urban Sewerage Project includes
three stormwater collectors which are needed to capture and remove stormwater
from the impluvium of the inner city and which form an integral part of the
flood protection measures envisaged in the proposed project. Construction has
been held up because of a casb shortfall to finance the local cost component.
This shortfall results from bids being substantially higher than the original
estimates (TD 5.4 million as opposed to TD 2.8 million). During negotiations
for the proposed project, the Government confirmed that it would make the
required funds available, and indicated that construction would start by
November 1983.  In view of the importance of these collectors to the success
of the project, contract(s) award for the collectors would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01).
41.      The 1982 Flood.  On October 30 and 31, 1982, rains of unusual
intensity fell to the north and west of Sfax. A total of 177.3 mm of rain was
registered over a 13-hour period with a peak hourly rate of 45.2 ma. The
storm has been estimated to have had a frequency of occurrence of once in 150
years, i.e a probability of occurrence of 0.66 percent. Although the
"blow-out" section of the Oued Maou levee functioned as planned (para. 39),
the intensity of the flood was such that other parts of the levee collapsed.
The flood took at least 69 lives, destroyed about 700 houses, and damaged
another 8,000 bouses as well as streets, roads, railways, briages and power
supply lines and telecommunications equipment. It also took its toll on
business, industrial and public buildings, equipment and supplies, and on the
personal belongings of those whose houses were destroyed or damaged.    Since
most of the residents of Sfax lack institutional insurance (para. 38), they
themselves must bear the considerable cost of repairing and replacing their
own personal property. Apart from the loss of lives, total damages in Sfax
have been conservatively estimated at about $75 million. This can be compared
(in constant 1983 prices) with the about $4 million damage sustained from
floods in normal years, and the about $23 million and $56 million, respective-
ly, for the 1973 and 1969 floods, which had a frequency of occurrence of 18
and 50 years.
42.      Soon after the severity of the 1982 flood was ascertained, the
Tunisian Government and international community responded with the following
assistance; $1.1 million from the Tunisian Government for immediate aid to the
flood victims; disaster aid teams from France; disaster assistance personnel,
tents and blankets from Germany; two large pumping trucks from the United
States to help clean up drains; and $10.5 million in grants from oil surplus
countries for damages sustained throughout the country. Emergency relief is a
necessary but costly form of assistance in cases wbere economic means of
protection are feasible. Flooding in Sfax is no exception to this rule. In
view of the susceptibility of Sfax to future floods and the need to rehabili-
tate damaged dikes quickly before the 1983 rainy season, the Government gave
immediate attention to developing a project which would help provide long-term
protection to the city at a reasonable cost. In 1977 and 1978, a French
consulting firm (SOGREAH) bad produced a sewerage and storm drainage master



- 12 -
plan proposing a belt canal which would evacuate stormwater runoff into the
sea and Oued Maou. As no financing was available at that time, however, the
project was not implemented. Soon after the 1982 flood, the Government re-
vived the project and requested financial assistance from the Bank to carry it
out swiftly.
43.      Sectoral Approach.  The technical, financial and economic approach of
the proposed project has been elaborated in close cooperation with the DHU and
is intended to be used as a model for future flood protection projects in the
country. The Bank is reviewing and commenting on a study being carried out by
the ME's Directorate of National Land Planning, assisted by Stockholm Univer-
sity, to evaluate Tunisia's flood sensitive areas. This study would lead to
the establishment of a national flood hazard map and would also look into
possible increases in land values resulting from flood protection projects.
Increased land values and resulting increased property taxes would contribute
to cost recovery of flood protection projects. The study may lead to future
bankable projects, using the approach established under the proposed project.
PARL IV - THE PROJECT
44.      Background.  A feasibility study, consisting in part of the updated
1978 master plan and 100-year hydrological data, was urgently prepared in
January 1983 by a team of 14 highly qualified specialists from a consortium of
consulting firms (SOGREAH, CNR, SOTINFOR), under the guidance of the Bank.
The project was appraised in January/February 1983 and negotiations were held
in Washington from April 20 to 22, 1983. The Tunisian delegation was led by
the Director General of the Budget, Ministry of Planning and Finance, and
included the Director General of Urban Hydraulics, Ministry of Equipment (ME),
and the General Manager of the National Sewerage Authority. The Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 4421a-TUN, dated april 27, 1983) will be distributed
separately; the main features of the project are summarized in the Loan and
Project Summary and in Annex III of this report. A map showing the location
of areas covered by the project is also attached.
45.      Objectives.  The main objective of the project is to minimize the
flood damage potential in Sfax and neighboring communities.  It would minimize
loss of life, protect public and private property, reduce production losses,
and ensure permanent and efficient maintenance of flood protection
infrastructure through the strengthening of the Regional Directorate of the ME.
46.      Description.  The project would consist of:
(i)   rehabilitation of Oued Ezzit;
(ii)   rehabilitation and extension of the existing dikes along
Oued Maou and Oued Khalifa;
(iii)   construction of a belt canal of about 8 km in length,
located at about 4 km from the Sfax city center;
(iv)   construction of minor flood protection works in neighboring
villages;



(v)   provision of equipment to maintain flood protection
infrastructure; and
(vi)   staffing, equipping and operation of a special section
within the Sfax Regional Directorate of the ME, to be
responsible for maintenance and repair of flood protection
infrastructure.
The project also provides for consultant services tor detailed engineering and
works supervision needed for (i) - (iv) above.
47.       Project Cost and Financing.  The total estimated cost of the project
(base costs, April 1983), excluding the front-end fee, is $47.9 million, of
which $27.7 million is in foreign exchange. The cost estimates are based on
the January 1983 feasibility study and recent bid awards for similar works in
Tunisia, and are considered to be reasonably accurate. Taxes and duties
estimated at $10.1 million have been included, as well as physical
contingencies of 15 percent for civil works. Price contingencies of 10
percent for 1983, 9 percent for 1984 and 8 percent thereafter for local costs
and 8 percent for 1983, 7.5 percent for 1984, 7 percent for 1985 and 6 percent
thereafter for the foreign cost component have been included. The project
provides for an estimated 125 man-months of foreign consulting services for
the preparation of detailed engineering studies and bid documents, and 200
man-months of local consultants for works supervision. The estimated cost of
these services, including foreign travel and subsistence, is $9,600 per
man-month for foreign consultants and $3,500 per man-month for local
consultants.
48.       The proposed Bank loan of $25.0 million would finance 90 percent of
the foreign exchange cost for civil works, equipment and consultant services,
representing 52 percent of the total cost or 66 percent of the total cost net
of taxes, as well as the front-end fee of $62,344. The remainder of project
costs, representing 10 percent of the foreign exchange cost and the entire
local cost component, would be financed by the Government. Government
financing would be partly provided from the following special countrywide
relief and repair funds: grants received from Saudi Arabia and the Islamic
Conference Organization after the October 1982 flood; an exceptional national
tax levied by the Tunisian Government after the 1982 flood; and a solidarity
tax instituted by the Tunisian Government ten years ago to provide funds
annually. Any additional requirements will be provided through normal
budgetary procedures from the Government's own resources, or from the proceeds
of a possible loan which the Government has requested from the African
Development Bank. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Government would provide all the funds required for a timely completion of the
project (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01). Details of project costs and
financing are contained in the Loan and Project Summary.
49.       Implementation.  Project construction works would be implemented by
the DHU, which would hire consultants to provide assistance for supervision
when and where required. Detailed studies of the new works are well advanced



- 14 -
and are expected to be completed by June 1983; the related bid documents
should be ready by November 1983. Works would start before mid--1984 and be
completed by mid-1988.  Retroactive financing of up to $600,U0O is proposed
for expenditures incurred for the preparation of studies and bid documents
after January 1, 1983, but before expecteci loan signature (Loan Agreement,
Schedule l, para. 4).
50.      Maintenance.  By Ministerial Decision of February 2,  198i, the
Minister of Equipment specifically chargecl the Regional Directorate for Sfax
with the responsibility for maintenance and repair of flood protection works.
To execute this directive, a new Section in the Regional Directorate would be
provided with staff, equipment and adequate annual operating budgets.
Assurances that these would be provided in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
were obtained during negotiations (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.01 and 3.02).
This Section would be staffed by one engineer and 14 permanent support staff,
which is considered adequate. During emergencies, temporary help woula be
recruited and seconded by the Transportation Section of the Regional
Directorate. Pending the recruitment of permanent staff anG the provision ot
equipment, the Transportation Section is undertaking some of the most urgent
repair works, which have to be completed before the 1983 rainy season.  Funds
for the first five years operation of the Flood Protection Infrastructure
Section (estimated to amount, in constant 1983 prices, to TD 7U,000 per year
by project completion) as well as for provision of equipment are included in
the project costs.  In order to provide the equipment as quickly as possible,
advance contracting in accordance with Bank guidelines is appropriate. No
expenditures for this equipment are expected to be incurred prior to signature
of the proposed loan.
51.      Procurement and Disbursement.  Major civil works and equipment
contracts, expected to total about $35 million, will be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures according to Bank
guidelines. Small contracts, which are not expected to attract international
competition, will be procured through local competitive bidding (LUB), in
accordance with Government procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. In
these cases, individual ceilings of $800,000 for civil works and $150,000 for
equipment, and aggregate ceilings of $4.0 million and $0.6 million,
respectively, would be applied. In addition, repair and rehabilitation works
on force account would be executed by the DHU and the Flood Protection
Infrastructure Section, after approval by the Bank and up to a maxirmum value
of $1.5 million. Small works related to connections to, or deviations or
protection of, telephone, gas, electricity, water, sewerage and railway
services and lines, expected to amount to about $200,000, would be executed by
the National Authorities for Post, Telephone and Telegraph (PTT), Electricity
and Gas (STEG), Water (SONEDE), Sewerage (ONAS) and Railroads (SNCFT), under
negotiated contracts. These arrangements are satisfactory to the Bank. All
ICB bid documents, covering about 80 percent of total contract value, would be
reviewed by the Bank on a prior to award basis. LCB contracts anca the PIT,
STEG, SONEDE, ONAS and SNCFT contracts would be subject to ex-post reviews.
Consultants would be employed in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
52.      The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of six years
as follows: 58 percent of total expenditures for civil works, 90 percent of
foreign expenditures and 63 percent of local expenditures for maintenance
equipment, and 72 percent of total expenditures for consultant services. The



front-end fee would be withdrawn by and paid to the bank at loan effective-
ness. Disbursements for works carried out by force account would be made
against statements of expenditure, the supporting documentation for which
would be retained for review by Bank supervision missions.
53.      Accounting, Auditing and Reporting.  The internal accounting system
of the ME is adequate for the recording and control of project-related
financial transactions, including maintenance and repair activities.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that an audit of project accounts
would be submitted to the Bank within six months after the close of each
fiscal year, and that these audits would include a review of statements of
expenditures (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02). An understanding was reached
that the Controller General of Finance, who has independent status and is
acceptable to the Bank, would do this audit.   The project implementation
schedule was agreed upon during negotiations, and assurances were obtained
that the ME would report quarterly on the progress of the project (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.05(b)(iii)).
54.      Cost Recovery.  While the benefits of the proposed project would be
widespread, the beneficiaries cannot be easily identified. First, different
floods affect different parts of the city and it is impossible to predict
which residents and the extent to which they may be affected by future
floods. Second, the public infrastructure of the entire Sfax Governorate
suffers from floods. Third, the whole Tunisian economy is affected because of
the essential rail, highway, port and telecommunications links through Sfax.
The Tunisian policy that the state should pay for the cost of flood prevention
infrastructure out of general revenues is therefore acceptable. As noted in
para. 48, part of the cost would be met by the proceeds of special national
taxes for relief and repair works. In addition, municipal taxes including
property taxes, which are pooled in a national fund (the Fonds Communs des
Collectivites Locales) are allocated by the Government to, inter alia,
construction and maintenance of flood protection works.
55.      Benefits.  The aim of the proposed project is to protect the
population of Sfax from as great a flood magnitude as can be economically
justified. Considering the topographic and land occupation characteristics of
the city, an intercepting canal between the outside impluvium and the
agglomerations to be protected is the most logical solution. Canal design
took into consideration several alternatives of construction costs, types of
lining, and ongoing maintenance costs to determine the least cost solution, at
a discount rate of 10 percent, which is considered appropriate for Tunisia.
The level of protection, i.e. size and capacity of the canal, was established
in such a manner that the marginal cost of providing the protection equals the
marginal benefits. The selected system will provide protection against a
flood with a frequency of occurrence of once in 100 years.
56.      The project would have a minimum economic rate of return of 17.5
percent. The cost stream includes the investment, operating and maintenance
costs (free of taxes and duties) over a 40-year period for the project
facilities, as well as for the three stormwater collectors (para. 40), whicb,
although not financed under this project, form an integral part of the flood
protection system. The benefit stream consists of the damage cost which would
be averted by constructing the project, including the expected value of losses



-  16  -
to public and private property as well as foregone production. Other important
benefits, which are not quantified in this analysis, woula be the potential
for reducing loss of life, and improvements to health and the environment. A
sensitivity analysis indicates that if project costs increased by 10 percent,
the rate of return would decline to 16.2 percent, and if benefits aecreased by
20 percent the rate of return would be 14.0 percent; a combination of both
factors would result in a rate of return of 13.5 percent.
57.      Environmental Impact.  The environmental impact of the project woula
be positive. It would contain and channel flood waters in a designed system
and reduce erosion in the project area. It would also prevent the occasional
spread of overflowing sewage and garbage over the area of inundation, drain
currently stagnant bodies of water in the city and reduce related health
hazards.
58.      Risks.  The project presents no unusual risks.  The possibility of
slippage and related cost overruns would be minimized by the hiring of consul-
tants under the project to assist the DHU. The possibility that project flood
protection works might deteriorate due to lack of maintenance would be mini-
mized by project provisions to provide the new Flood Protection Infrastructure
Section of the Sfax Regional Directorate with adequate staff, equipment and
operating funds. Furthermore, the Bank would closely monitor the establish-
ment of this new Section and implementation of the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Special features of the project are listed in Section
III of Annex III. Award of contract(s) for three stormwater collectors in
Sfax, included in the Second Urban Sewerage Project (Loan 1675-TUN), would be
a Special Condition of Effectiveness.
60.      I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDaTION
61.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 29, 1983
Washington, D. C.



- 17 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                           REFERESCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVER4CES
AREA (THOUSAND S  km.                                                                 - MNOST RECENT ESTIMATE)8&
TOTAL     --163-6                                                    MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTUlRAL    75.2                                MOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA &          KIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST       LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                230.0       380.0   1310.0                1253.6                  1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    165.2       289.7    589.9                 713.5                  1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, mID-YEAR (THOUSANON) 4221.0      5127.0    6354.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36.0       43.5      51.7                 47.3                    65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     10.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       17.8
9                 YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2080
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KH.                      25.8        31.3      37.9                 35.8                    35.2
PER SQ. KE. AGRICULTURAL LAND    60.7        72.9      82.4                420.9                    92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        43.4        46.2      41.4                 44.3                    39.7
15-64 YES.                        52.5        50.0      54.9                 52.4                    56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  4.2         3.8       3.7                  3.3                     4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1.8 /c      1.9/c     2.1                  2.8                     2.4
1R18AM                            3.2         3.8       3.9                  4.6                     3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    48.9        41.8      34.9                 41.2                    31.4
CRUDE IDATi RATE (PER THOUSAND)    21.0        14.6       9.2                 12.2                     8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.4         3.2       2.6                  2.9                     2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..        29.2    180.9
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOKEN)   ..        10.0      21.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         97.0        96.0    132.0                 100.4                   110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  83.2        88.2     115.1/d              108.5                   108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         51.8        56.6      75.17;i              71.9                    66.0
OF WiHICH ANIHAL AND PULSE     12.9        13.5      22.77d        -      18.0                    34.0
CUILD (AGES 1-4) HORTALITY RATE    36.1        24.5       9.8                 15.1                     5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   48.1        54.2      60.2                 56.9                    64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PFR TIDUSAND)                    158.9       131.3      90.0                104.3                    64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPUIATION)
TOTAL                              *-        49.0      70.0/.               59.1                    65.6
URBAN                              ..          ..      63.071               83.1                    78.9
RURAL                              ..          ..      77.071               39.8                    43.9
ACCESS TO ECgRFTA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *         62.0        ..                   ..                    59.3
URBAN                              ..       100.0        ..                   ..                    75.3
RURAL                              .-        34.0      60.0/e                 ..                    30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        10026.1      5934.0   3576.2                4015.5                  1617.3
POPUIATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..       727.5   1167.8                1802.2                  1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           405.2       409.1    463.7                 641.7                   477.4
URBJN                           277.3/f    302.8    340.7/e                538.3                   679.8
RURAL                          1040.97f    1269.3   1275.87T              2403.3                  1903.4
AII1SSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        24.1      25.0/.               25.5                    27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              *-         51        *-
URBAN                              ..         5.1..
RURAL                              ..         5.1 j
AVERAGE iMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOK
TOTAL                                         3.2
URBAN                                         2 7  g
RURAL                                         3.6
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..        24.0
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..



-18 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE%AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AJIERICA 4 CARIBbEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                66.0        100.0     102.,0                 88.7                    104.3
MALE                 88.0        121.0     119.,0                104.5                    106.4
FEMALE               43.0         80.0      85.0                  72.5                    103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                12.0         23.0      25.0                  39.7                     41.3
MALE                 19.0         33.0      31.0                  49.3                     40.4
FEMALE                5.0         13.0      19.0                  29.0                    41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY) 23.5          11.1      35.0                  10.1                     33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMAIRY                          61.1         47.5      39.2                  34.1                     29.9
SECONDARY                          !.88        27.8      20.4                  23.7                     16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        15.5        24.0/    62.0                   43.3                     79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPUIATION                        10.5         13.0      18.3/S                17.8                     42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        40.3         75.7      94.8                 131.3                    270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.1         14. r                           44.1                    107.7
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 19.0         16.0      43.8                  31.5                     63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATrENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0           ..       1.,5/d                1.7                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    1137.9        1214.8    1631.1
FEALFLE (PERCENT)                  6.0          7.7       8.3                  10.6                     24.i
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             56.0         50.0      34.0                  42.4                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                18.0         21.0      33.0                  27.8                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               27.0         23.7      25.7                  26.0                     33.6
MALE                                 50.2        44.2      46.5                  46.2                     50.4
FDtALE                               3.3          3.6      -T3                    5.6                     16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.8         2.1       1.8                   1.9                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEOLDS       ..          ..      17.0/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           ..      42.                     ...
LOwEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..       6. O7.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..      15.07.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     204.0/d               279.2
RURAL                               ..           ..      97.07a               178.6                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOmE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     193.0/d               403.6                    518.0
RURAL                               ..           ..     193.07i               285.6                    371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URA                                  ..          ..      20.0/d                22.1
RURAL                               ..           ..      15.07i                30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indiLcators depends on availability of data end i.o not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwis  noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recont Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Due to migrotion population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1977; /e 1976;
If 1962; /S 1966; /h 1975.
May, 1982i



Page 3 of 6
Sat..:  AI.the.ag   o   asatdanft   ea2e1aceb                        ettnh        aaaCZ.d_     t -e   ~,AYJJjC     y   bartotbv   tad  aIo.c   zi<2Obet.2t-gfc  .tey  bt
-.taaL.-,      mrfk   acac It tea in~ 0  tiaiirtatd dettlt.i  I.-              cotess  toe          dltbara-i  _cstacciccicly     d-2c   Th   cc   c.  e
mIh..5.  -t.ed     C. daarh-   adaaataatftas  Ladissos tcawds,  .I  .has                   ...t..tatt Cstar ditttceroa   cooshc.ac
70.  -sas*aa   r  212 'Ma  a                      8aar  tco  cf OCc  -tts-Ctaer  ad (2) a c-,sity test. dith  -aatsa  histhe. .....t hocae cues LIt  -teay arots
of  hs ajC.= cuTr  (---aIt Ea           th   kaea0e--  Il   teyoo  ICeto .5ev,  04541. Ibe-t  Attth attica et  KIddIe EsAti Ia chs.-  cc-,se  aith.               t
atf  e.                  ICtin ttd  PA-1a9atIio.t tat ltsaditsala  b  Cba..l -.h.ae  ca  -f Psbstcac ~LtJ
ron-by5 DIt C .tt.o .I .eo  ea.Clftfe   racdt. 4.  fy.k sa          ; 1979 dab.               aad.   SdC-rt   cteb   ycat   eaaba   iso   ol hehtI,  ti.:.l
aebsod h  tencottrel . mtd cc tIbldla  .201 0 b79-dO  haehe, 194.0.                       SOd ttd.Ia attolrt hb stteel   alec   yaSystat                      ,t i
1970  . as  1940 Oats.                                                                           adLoibataoc  sa.  ideit. ea.Itih    tothohtttea-
dtbt s.d Al   at P d.. aL" ot D ran.. at besia   auite    a   et
..CrittYl L. ttLIVS.m  De ceotoL   eaa        - rct caIC.. MO. 2994. .od 1579                    cate..- SfaesISa   aPlct   see teakad  ziy  .-C.,.arot
Sate.                                                                  f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dsdaobst et.H .. lcLt  ha%d    Tatel -tea  at adibabt    -a arlct.h-as
fra  festtasia dibtlJd by bOO  wea., athOt
tPOhLALaTtb oAM VITAL STATISTICS
fats.                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A-tett  stot  af inaholt It(P.,  et  tieahed)    at.sot   a   I-ret
Urhas Potboat  (socot  dc- al  De         rstti aCa&. Os  b . tattl  yo.1.1 aa                   a fbV1.LtA h-twid ell t  a   dthott at ittdtadt Aq-tstm.ik                 C..aon .
dlttyfo  attlett  at a5h5  -ra  to   ftaccha.ar                    Dea ad  a-                  sAtd theta  tto  -eek..  A hoardo  at kCA5St ay so toy itt it  Lblaaad L.
ast   attt Zt16.1970 Ie  141  datah.bitt                                                          Uf. bo   ..h.dta   sceafaaa.  ra.soe
totalpopatastasby st ad   at be  that  antactayass itotaity Caa.helao,roantsy.dtCkatx OLttoa  atlAbstase-sere ,    Acacare  O
Pre-isebe  sor-Pct  far anrIacloy rotti  comaca  of th.ee L.-L.a to_nP- otast                                 , oe.
t,"   If, expeteta  ec  IetCh hteaesaka   kett  c-ttry e Par tasit. tase.                   tAaa...rt fl-itrtcii  fotat   tILacths    - It...b, -bret  .ad  -orl
Ltoei,  W. tmkt life  tei.i  atbftkabs6 Ia 77.9 F-ta    he sot-                              Cat-".tIai  4snllbod  ottO   -isaCullhy 1-It lChO  q-wttr  aD st-ttt
tmes Ifan  -tartlty  -ots slo  Iat  than  bo.-I. hooboh  doabio  is                        at bato.  .Z-et  Daid rtars  deellkeet.. ts 4t -akak
Osafe cataty ha the asIVt.  at  at chant ti-  -cwoletits  at anOtsity                   Et0tATICth
.ed tetility traedo  a  sttltathaei P.."---o                                              Aidloted f-raba1    Cta
atstssey  aslaIte-fotek   b9Pir.tLtattohint  Ia a stott  otto                           7O2ts ahOa 1- taral. raele   tao- Grat  -a1i.el  -i0  free
th Cirh Laat Aq-t Ca the dedb rats, tnt skaa tin   s   tatt                             tiralloos   of        .       :,a oh  25 'ytteer   kat  speratgaostPe.to.
ale   aesat   Tiheis Iacho-da aey if tsr Sfnlmlytaa datlia  to                                 P,totoyp Icht,k-eaaSsyaots    nattatlycaat cii               "e     d h-it
CM.tpltse  I.-el tt tosit   tt cds-,ia  teat, tOt  s-bhaaate                                   Y-tm  hc adjtotd for difbtae-  latotNe of arcerySea.ts    f-r
satiate   W    bin  oat  at tOn svatehd ctrcahta.f tin sassLst. Ltas                                        P       -lbt ~. 02.    shast  toe odrt.as  aIsatihe
Ittn Ca  000."   th. rot  ot dItI.n  at Lityflibty veto to roykets-sante- r cise . - I ait .sl -                         t. I. estit   Cae.-ta  Is tha-    -."aeY
eso Loya.                                                                                 t--aisobeL t.tla   at F-C.t  stysoo bretered   Inty Siat-shib
hadavn  1040 Am9S ad 109dt,Iaaotsnal   tietil   tsitsTtaeeth PC                                                                                      erate        Lbepe
Psr s. he asrtalsaol led  -Cmyta C.- cbure  tar) eaisatselm-3 bead                   ptley Lrhoda _seetao    dtetddsby                  .a.-h-. astCh
IttlA_t1940. IMfO. sd 19910 data.                                                            Ad.   it-kbe,ee  rate  ?-or... I - LI,-.,a. aS.Ia  lath. ra tCed da-Iw.t
red  sP sti. fa  1990-40. 1960-Mf. sod17-40.
_boahttbst  tets    VC rana  - -bhae-  atail ra-be  r-e  at aeho  P5*5'               Ch4U_Tlt
staafr950-640.13    -0   Pa 904.tA----a  Co-  (sot biatat-d  aata  5 0 -                                                                   -?snss  idra C I-aecn
Cr=sMrh a.fs =1itarastodi 1- tiaosa  Il- tittit  Mar tbit.Sed at sd-sta                          cas  tett  loot tins  so            -; sor ..a saladaaankta.  hOtod00
oaasl.   940 0. I   ad  96  dtat.                                                         kteyoh.f.
lO.Ds  ..at   at Me t rhtisd   A-5.0   tasaha  e   baot  St..atros                             RAS        (. teeit  ottotaa   tooit      b  cI st  ItI td           nt fa  -hL.
Isslota; 1940, 19M   sad 2090 data.                                                          hra-daot   e  tea   P-it. Sat ehtC-a  at "Pta.tsb.- rdha- 
tear ~ ~  ~ ~ P.i tra   sveaa oa lae1   msevici   re ame     teh f I   o-               st.tet   tfta;Oa  tar. recan  ri-r  -tt an  0    as.k                   Ie
tilkartttt  aebasly flt_-Feer tA-srae  .a .Is to 940, 297.aM  .~910.                      ...,.as   imrs   holtaadltaos
-M. oP child-h ..rto  a0. 210-c4 Y--r-) 4e  sa         ettrh-sa l  4-teeo         t.              Lst   irtalatim  ( O.. th5otted                   Itotttl - is  bi  se-rte car-
ALI. ta1tit  seatItm  tat PCOratMs.                                                            tcaiod  dehy 6testa  Lotaree   atesor.tdited so a strtJhtt
StOD 0100 4ifftXTC.o9                                                     to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C be  'deOY, Le it aepet -   ISt a  Cat- I ie    set-h.
odtatodPCa   sa   e   alt(14-lll)-tdotO oar -pi" o..-L                                 Close bAtes hot-ttea    ot CXPtta met Tir - CoA." at: dthe soet  af
sr-d-ttle  at al  toed T'"hI"tt.  StOdatttit e.tkade  soo  he tee  sod                         tiaheo   "Id ds thab  the ytar, LiseLelg ~d mlsoso  Sdrt-          CIt a s,
to an tolesSo  Yes  bes..  C-PSJItis  ease  71rtary  &sot  f(... matne                         "A0 IM G -tis..
Lintea  ad  steen  -thin  ar  stbibt       -ceeht b   rec  10.5. coffi  ad
eatsee   osets  psodasC-r prica eehjOt; 1961-65. 1970. ad iWO dat.".                         50.. baher Pates  ub-bsda  - u-aoA4.Asa          ot-ti- P.,-a--  kanhacdhto
..r ...... .ai at .Y   latat(statis 00 rmaiseestt   - CaRttd tr,mtreed tarta  aedseaLared btt aneltoo  hea-tOs. thds t.  ...
P.. day.  AyobI..aantis   toro .          a-P tia   tdmttoIet,L".".s lint                     me COatthl     1000. 1970 te  1lO  Ohio.
stert.sd cheeg   to  t-ot.   .Lt  -     -slt  etaltd   a-LM& feed. seed.                 tamle fasroana  - Pttie   ebte fort. so stahanoSa  00 tatol 2dkt  dOra
teatiLes_ t.e  t. fatS P-.-the.  re -Asost L.dotibsi                   teome-994.lsrey   LbeS faDh   in tattle0.  It.-ry v oto   a
sI?Otieth Cantielot anfrtaet.ak  atweractteo. hady  w eD. o                             oetit  aeat      aO   tersa to L.oIaet.  attyetia.    wtsO .ttI
f                    -6~~~~a   sanOhttibo Atm of stsea.sti, set           LaO941  M-tee  ta - soa  fbtatrrktyAaeat- abed ate      yaa                           fsb   at     . talWbke  tat-
h.-MUel  L5yai7196L-bO. 1h70 cod 1077 4005.                                                      1940   1070  a      14-0 ote
P..ceht  L.nk  at tRatt-      I ta.   V       Id  - Otetot   --oe  at Par aestoc              Paoatota  ae  tree  -_tet,tk ,Ja EcA.t   -  aaoTs  -- ba  5
W55esok   t         Rtdso   a.ta  tspi  a         ita  daOf isd -o 5055   h-                                        ...i....Csthayoot       abk    sl.td  et  bkrtoea
Otiresta  ar ol atsrhsatahellahad by 1554 pt.hdt tIt  imeana-Cses  at cat.osoh   fek  Pp-attlea                                                 00 ski sWs .es     at
elltsae   ad 40  Arcts at h      L-kertt  P.h day -A 20 Cr--  00 ottet  he                     1940. 1070. so  1900 data,  rt.m Dra boatd -  ULO   pstihsl I rAte
,.I.. srstto.l  at  kbah 10 tra     Dateod he  _sek   rtoo    Chos  tid-                       taimk1   s-a   atrbtar  at heCW pbt.sI-, Sad lane th    re-d.  A
arde  Cre bain  thee thos  at (5 Cr_  at tota  PttId  DAd bI  a-  att-a ..t-hote  art  telm int1otL sose.=
.ink  sass.t. as a    -yna   far sit ankd. yrsyaad he rAt isOh Ch.  rd.                                 "~9p9~~4yet. - 15010. at PesIstise  "d    15 he  .5 eod S
W-orId  o-d io-o-t-yi  1941-65. 1070 ash b97 dat.                                              t. tdatsl LsateCds.
ta  on.trtttaataIrnatgF                            LI aata-Pott  asir ad tat  J-
rhaE-aE        nseotOOlt  I   rsyaky  1941-6.4.1900 eA  1077 dat....                          5C  iilta
ChlChild     - 1   hohtt  orihmeaf-505   asaspa   kaho   t                                        staoa  tiaa  tac   hss  acata   cei-                          t    by yriio
brtstos  errs  fanlt,.hp teich  1790. A9-L en  19.2 doe.  a.t httaL5bttda.'d,IL
at. hi.t. ~d.  1910 he 2Lf0 Cltca.          .LM-.  IU"A                                        ad  ahatId.h.otycadvb   tadttl   ebl
5ehst tahat  Wetr rocie Lt ataeta    cr.ah.td  oa      hn                                 hirtao    as'qet-edAltO  ott  etanoctal anta    stt                         a
eater stslt (IttIoto  croaet savfsa escortat ostsasae oat sntoaaeishrid  CarItettd ialahicccyarerte bsase loyl (Jibempi-irWts  -a-(a-itd_a_sL.
foathisadyst   etta  ica  ecaca   200 maar  Trc o ha.-   mY be                          iattoatabchma  t   M h.r ..ac of  ItisI   raacd
cc_tt..rtd atID   a    Cih-aCarb  Ia_o  ad cads hatf-   It  -.1o sesa                       tais"P.-,cooOtt O5sat oat  IttefaL Inttet     ta
ytteeshs oteeataId itoby te    -ma  to.aaa as Seet. of tho hbatat1id                     td ....t  - DP...cista   aoei   (arOet sad iarat te at 'stit
haee t  tortafltot.  -ama It                             C.atCb-  a . abe.#-. atI -.
Sotal  o    hysiata  - aP.",a  atI OlIheka  bye tae   o   -Lt Itecatebyti--. Itaa                                                       ". iSaLIa  55.- DL-sh
oh-  4todadtd tra  s         laa bb. nsda  ikata   karl.                                                                      _ttd   A-et7sLt ste P-titai-  0oportas
mt!jttn M     9,artetrt   Tasltlb VW            054h  tb      r  t  pra-Iteto                                                                   Mis  1992
ead  eS  asto  raasm   aes.Ae-la.   taa   Ccla    ia.  a



20
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
TUNISIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 6.5 million (mid-1981)
GNP per Capita:  il,420 (1981)
Annual Growth Rates
Amount                                             (at 1980 prices)
(million US$                          Actual                                            Projected
Indicator                     at current prices)
1981            1977    1978    1979       1980   1981         1982    1983       1984    1985    1986    1987
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /1              8,224.0            5.3     7.1      7.1       6.0    5.0          3.8     7.3       6.0      5.8      5.6      5.3
Agriculture                          1,111.2         -10.2      4.5    -4.8        6.1    9.0        -4.3    11.5        4.0      3.9      3.7      3.5 5
Industry                             2,663.6           9.8      9.0    11.9        9.9    2.1         3.9      7.5       7.3      7.0     6.7      6.4
Services                             3,329.3           5.6      7.4      8.7       3.9    6.4         6.5      6.3       6.1      5.9      5.7      5.5
Consumption                            6,350.7           10.4     5.8      4.6       9.9    7.0          7.0     4.1       7.4      6.3      4.1      5.3
Gross investment                       2,539.5            6.9    12.9      3.9       5.8    9.2        -5.0      8.8       1.1      1.0      1.8      3.1
Exports of goods and NFS               3,475.1            5.5     8.2    23.3        0.7    2.0          4.4     8.3       6.9      8.0    13.4      8.2
Imports of goods and NFS               4,141.4          16.7      9.6    14.3        7.2    8.4          4.0     3.5       6.2      5.8      7.8      6.9
Gross national product                 8,292.8            5.8     7.9      7.5       6.5    5.2          3.6     7.2        S.9     5.5      5.3      5.2
Gross national savings                 1,942.1          -7.2    14.8    21.8        -7.2   -0.8       -19.4    17.8       -2.0      0.5      7.9     4.6
PRICES
GDP deflator                                             76.0    80.1    88.3    100.0  109.7
Exchange rate                                            2.33    2.40    2.46        2.47   2.02
Share of GDP at market prices (1)                                       Average Annual Increase (t)
(at current prices)                                                (at constant prices)
1971      1976       1981       1986       1987       1991             1971-76    1976-81    1981-86    1982-87         1986-91
Gross domestic product /1  100.0        100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0              8.8         6.1         5.7          6.0          4.9
Agriculture               18.8       18.1       13.5       13.0      12.7       12.1               8.2         0.7         3.6         5.3 /2       3.5
Industry                  20.6      25.9       32.4       32,4       32.7       33.7              10.2         8.5         6.5         7.0          5.8
Services                  47.7       42.9      40.5       41.6       41.7       41.9               8.3         6.4         6.1         5.9          5.1
Consumption                   82.0       77.5       77.2       78.1       78.0       74.5              9.6         7.5         5.8          5.4          4.0
Gross investment              20.0       30.4       30.9       24.6       24.1       23.8             14.1          7.7         1.4         3.1          4.2
Exports of goods and NFS    23.8         29.1       42.3       44.1       45.3       46.5              5.6         7.6          8.2        9.0           6.1
Imports of goods and NFS    25.8         37.1       50.4       46.8       47.5       44.7             13.1        11.2          5.5        6.0           4.0
Gross national product        99.6       98.7      100.8       99.6       99.4.      99.1              8.5         6.6         5.5         5.8           4.9
Net factor income             -0.4       -1.3        0.8       -0.4       -0.6       -0.9               -           -            -          -             -
Gross national savings        17.6       21.1       23.6       18.0       17.9       20.6              2.9          3.6         0.2         5.5          8.0
As % of GDP
(at current prices)
1971      1976       1981
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                21.4       24.2       30.0
Current expenditure                                            18.9       18.5       22.3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                      2.5        5.7        7.8
Capital expenditure                                             6.9       11.4       10.6
Foreign financing                                               3.2        1.7        1.4
1971-76         1976-81         1981-86          19812-87        1986-91
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (M)                                            8.4              6.6             5.5             5.8              4.9
GNP per capita grovth rate (x)                                 5.4             4.0              2.8             3.1              2.2
ICOR                                                           2.7             5.5              5.2             4.8              5.3
Marginal savings rate                                         24.0            25.2             20.6            23.0             30.2
Import elasticity                                              1.51            1.84             0.96            1.0             0.82
/I  GDP at market prices and components at factor cost.
/2  This growth rate reflects the decline expected in 1982; a least square growth
rate for the same period (1982-87) is 4.9, but the long-term projections for
agriculture are better reflected in the growth rates for the individual years
shown above.
EMENA CP II-C
July 1982



Page 5 of 6
TUNISIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Populationt 6.5 million (mid-1981)
GNP per capita: t1,420 (1951)
Annual Growth Rates
Amount                                                (at 1980 Prices)
(million uSt                            Actual                                          Projected
Indicator                at current prices)
1981              1977   1978    1979    1980    1981            1982     1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports             2,434.2              9.7     9.6    20.7     0.8     3.7            3.6    8.8      6.7     8.2    16.0      8.4
crude oil                     1,249.7             12.4    12.8   12.4      0.2   -5.0             1.1     2.7   -1.8      1.8   -0.1      3.7
Other primary                   125.8 -            4.9  -15.7    25.1  -11.9   -3.3              11.6     8.7    8.8      9.0    8.9       7.7
Manufactures                  1,058.7              6.8   10.4   33.3       3.6    16.3            5.3   14.9    14.3   13.2    28.1/2  11.0
Kerchandise imports             3,801.5             14.1   10.7    15.7      7.7    9.5             3.7     3.0    6.0      5.6     7.8      7.1
Food                            421.4              9.6    7.7    39.6   -6.8       9.4            2.9     1.1     2.7     5.3     5.0   -4.8
Petroleum                       756.6             13.8   15.1      9.7    13.5   13.9            18.5    0.6    11.3    8.2    21.7/2  13.8
Machinery and equipmsnt         979.5              5.5   15.4   -2.6   -4.4    32.9              -7.1   -1.0   -0.7       0.0    0.0      7.7
Others                        1,644.0             21.6    6.5    24.9   15.3   -2.3               4.4     6.7     7.9    7.1      5.6     5.9
Price Index                                       Price Index
PRICES
Export price index                                54.8   58.7   75.5  100.0  118.6              117.4  122.5  131.6  141.8  152.0  163.5
Import price index                                72.6   76.6   85.3  100.0  116.8              127.4  135.6  147.6  160.2  172.2  184.3
Term of trade index                               75.5   76.6   88.5  100.0  101.5               92.1   90.3   89.2   88.5   88.3   88.7
Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)                          Average Annual Increase (S)
(at current prices)                                   (at constant prices)
1971    1976    1981    1986    1987           1991    1971-76    1976-81    1981-86    1982-87     1986-91
Exports                             100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0                   4.1        8.7        8.6        9.6         5.2
Crude oil                       24.5   40.9    53.7   36.3   35.2   30.7                   4.6        6.3        0.7        1.3        -0.1
Other primary                    19.2   13.4      5.2    5.6      5.5     5.5             -5.4       -1.2        9.4        8.6         5.8
Manufactures                     56.3   45.7   41.1   58.1    59.3    63.7                 6.4       13.6       14.9       16.2         7.7
Is1ports                            100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0                  13.1       11.5        5.2        5.9         3.9
Food                             21.2   12.3   11.1   11.0        9.8     6.8              0.6       10.9        3.4        1.8        -5.3
Petroleum                         3.9   11.1   19.9   22.9    24.9   31.0                 29.2       13.2       11.8       10.9         8.6
Machinery and Equipment          30.1   31.9   25.8   17.9   17.9   13.2                  13.5       10.5       -1.8        1.2        -1.0
Others                           44.8   44.7   43.2   48.2   47.4   49.0                  10.6       12.9        6.3        6.6         4.8
Shars of Trade with               Share of Trade with                   Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (Z)          geveloping Countries (2)          Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (M)
1970     1975     1980            1970     1975     1980                 1970    1975    1980
DIRECTION OF TRAIN
Exports                                62.6    48.6       n.a.           23.4    41.4       n.e.                14.0   10.0    n.a.
Imports                               62.9    67.1       n.a.            33.7    25.7       n.a.                 3.4    7.2      n.a.
/I Constant price data at 1980 prices.
/1 Increase in refining capacity.
ENA CP 2C
July 1982



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
BALAMCE OP PAYES, EXTI'RIAL CAPITAL AND DEB?
(-ill iov L'$ at current prices)
Population; 6.5 million (mid-1981)
GNP per Capita: $1,420 (1981)
Actual /1                                                  Pro-ected
1971       1976       1979       }980        1981            1982        1.983      1986      1987         1991
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Net exports of goods 4 services                    -57.4    -417.0    -356.0    -472.6    -607.5                -934.4    -893.3  -1,171.4 -1,265.7   -1,258.7
Exports of goods & services                      469.4   1,479.5   3,137.5   3,912.3   3,902.4              4,120.5   4,680.2   7,403.0  8,546.4   13,632.1
imports of goods & services                      526.8   1,896.5   3,493.5   4,384.9   4,509.9              5,054.9   5,1;73.5   8,574.4  9,812.1   14,890.8
Net transfers /2                                    52.0       52.7        61.0      100.0       36.4             32.4       32.4        24.3      24.0        24.0
Current account balance                             -5.4    -364.3    -295.0    -372.6    -571.1                -902.0    -860.9  -1,147.1 -1,241.7   -1,234.7
Direct private investment                           27.6      102.6        50.9      236.0      354.6            400.0      300.0      400.0    400.0         500.0
MLT loans (net)                                     55.3       167.9      494.2      323.9      188.0            502.0       651.0     916.3  1,010.9         994.7
Official                                          59.2      130.4      198.5       270.9      262.2           434.4       416.1      423.6    476.1         690.0
Private                                           -3.9       37.5      295.7        53.0     -74.2              67.6      234.9      492.7    534.8         304.7
Other capital                                       13.7       55.1    -126.2    -122.4         134.2               -           -          -         -
Change in reserves                                 -91.2        38.7    -123.9       -64.9    -105.7                -       -90.2    -169.2   -169.2         -260.0
International reserves                             114.8      304.5      415.5       455.7      568.6            568.6      658.8   1,087.4  1,256.6       2,176.6
Reserves as months of imports                        2.6         2.2        1.6        1.4        1.6              1.4        1.4         1.5       1.5         1.7
Actual /1                                                   Projected
1971      1976       1979       1980      1981              1982       1983        1986       1987       1991
GROSS DISBURSEFN7TS
Official grants                                     35.5        50.2       50.7       41.5      26.3              32.4       32.4        24.3       24.0       24.0
Gross disbursements of  .LT loans                  105.2      229.5      643.8       535.1    514.9              842.9   1,048.4   1,485.1   1,689.7   2,247.1
Concessional                                        61.0      104.0       154.5      217.5    284.1              343.8      326.2      284.4       309.2      427.2
Bilateral                                         52.8       95.1      153.7      197.3    277.6              256.6       264.6      238.6      255.2      337.6
IDA                                                4.8        8.9        0.2         1.0       0.6               1.0         -          -          -           -
Other multilateral                                 3.4        0.0        0.6        19.2       S.9             86.2        61.6       45.7       54.0        89.6
Non-concession6l                                    44.2       125.5      489.3      317.6    230.8              499.1      722.2   1,200.7   1,380.5   1,819.9
Private                                           28.8       60.1      377.6      191.4    117.3              294.2      475.6       801.5      918.7   1,00.7
Official export credits                            3.2        9.9       42.6        52.5      36.3              76.2       96.3      214.5      268.5       522.3
IBRD                                              12.2       25.3       55.4        51.1      53.5             83.6       123.2      195.1      159.9      173.9
Other rultilateral                                  -        30.2       13.7        22.6      23.7              4S.1       27.1       29.6       33.4        43.0
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt Outstanding and Diabursed                     619.5   1,166.2   2,996.4   3,188.8  3,370.7               4,024.2   4,675.3   7,360.9   8,371.9  12,611.8
Official                                         440.0      971.6   1,830.7   2,024.0  2,280.3              2,76q.0   3,t15.2   4,423.2   4,899.3   7,422.2
IBRD                                           39.3       127.9      232.0      269.0    303.8              345.3      426.6       725.8      811.9   1,049.5
IDA                                             21.1       64.1       67.3       67.9      67.9              68.9        68.1       65.3       64.1       58.2
Other                                          379.6      719.6   1,531.4   1,687.1  1,908.6              2,352.8   2,690.5   3,632.1   4,023.3   6,314.5
Private                                          179.5      194.6   1,165.7   1,164.8  1,090.4              1,255.2   1,490.1   2,937.7   3,472.5   5.18Q.6
Undisbursed debt                                   352.5   1,109.5   1,694.6   1-,S85.5  1,170.6               1,539.9   1, 515.1   1,851.4   2,143.4   3,036.9
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service paymnts                          69.8       98.6       308.8      432.7    547.6              567.6      642.4      991.5   1,177.9   2,037.2
Interest                                          19.9       36.9      159.2      221.5    220.7              226.6      245.0       422.6      499.2      784.9
Paymnts as Z exports                                14.9         6.7        9.8       10.9      13.9              13.8       13.7        13.4       13.8       14.9
Payments as 2 GNr                                    4.1         2.2        4.3        5.1       6.6               6.1        5.9        6.1        6.3         6.8
Average interest rate of new Loans (2)               4.9         5.4        7.1        7.1       6.7               7.2        8.0        8.2         7.3        7.4
Official                                           4.6        4.3         5.6        6.2        -                 -          -          -           -          -
Private                                            6.1        7.9        9.8        11.2        -                 -          -          -           -          -
Average maturity of new Loans (years)               23.3       16.6        15.8       17.3      19.6              16.7       15.2       14.5        14.9       15.0
Official                                          26.2       20.4        19.4       19.1        -                 -          -          -           -          -
Private                                           13.8        8.6        9.2         9.4        -                 -          _          _          _           _
As S of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1980)
DEBT STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (2)
Amortization due within 5 years                                              36.8
AKx.tizatiar  due within 10 years                                            64.9
Interest structure of debt outstanding (2)
Interest due within first year                                                4.5
/1  Preliminary estimtee for 1981.
/2 Including grants.
ENENA CP 2C
July 1982



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE SfATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1983) aJ
US$ Million
Loan or                                                                                                   Amount (less
Credit                                                                                                    Cancellation)
Number       Year            Borrower                       Purpose                               Bank       IDA e/  Undisbursed
Thirty-two Loans and Credits Fully Disbursed                                                     277.B6      d9.95
1068         1974     Republic of Tunisia             Irrigation Rehabilitation                  12.20                   0.94
1155         1975     Republic of Tunisia             Third Education                              8.60                   3.62
1188         1975     Republic of Tunisia              Second Highways                           28.00                   12.55
1340         1976     Banque Nationale de Tunisie  Second Agricultural Credit                     12.U0                   0.46
1431         1977     Republic of Tunisia              Irrigation Development                    42.00                   10.69
1445         1977      SONEDE                         Fourth Water Supply                        21.U0                    4.00
1504         1977     BDET                            Development Finance Company                30.U0                    2.65
1505         1977      Republic of Tunisia             Small-Scale Industry Development            5.00                   1.41
1601         1978     Republic of Tunisia             Rural Roads (Third Highways)               32.00                   21.41
1675         1979     Republic of Tunisia              Second Urban bewerage                     26.50                   18.39
1702         1979      SONEDE                         Fifth Water Supply                         25.0U                    2.59
1705         1979     Republic of Tunisia              Second Urban Development                  19.00                   15.20
1746         1979     Republic of Tunisia             Second Fisheries                           28.50                   22.86
1796         1980     Republic of Tunisia             Southern Irrigation                        25.00                   22.56
1797         1980     Office des Ports Nationaux   Third Port                                    42.50                   14.49
1841         1980     Republic of Tunisia             Fourth Highways                            36.50                   32.41
1864         1980      Societe Tunisienne de
l'Electricite et du Gaz        Second Natural Gas Pipeline                37.00                   23.51
1885         1980     Banque Nationale de Tunisie  Third Agricultural Credit                     30.00                   25.28
1961         1981     Republic of Tunisia             Fourth Education                           26.00                   25.73
1969         1981     Republic of Tunisia             Small-Scale Industry Development           30.00                   29.92
1997         1981     Republic of Tunisia             Northwest Rural Developmiient              24.00                   21.46
2003         1981      Societe Tunisienne de
l'Electricite et du Gaz        Third Power                                41.50                   40.33
2005         1981      Republic of Tunisia            Health and Population                       12.50                  12.48
2012         1981      Republic of Tunisia            Textile Rehabilitation                      18.6U                  12.43
2052         1981      Republic of Tunisia             Grain Distribution and Storage            42.00                   41.76
2108         1982      Republic of Tunisia            Fifth highway (Rural Roads)                 35.50                  35.50
2113         1982      BDET                           Electrical and Mechanical Industries   30.50                       30.50
2134         1982      SONEDE                          Sixth Water Supply                        30.50                   24.96
2157         1982      Republic of Tunisia             Irrigation Development                    22.00                   21.67
2197 b/      1982      Republic of Tunisia            Technical Assistance                        4.50                    4.50
2223 c/      1983      Republic of Tunisia            Urban Development III                      25.00                   25.00
2230 c/      1983      Republic of Tunisia            Education V                                27.00                   27.00
2234 H/      1983      Republic of Tunisia            Central Tunisia Irrigation                  16.50                  16.50
TOTAL                                                                  1,124.73       69.96      604.31
Of which has been repaid                                                  124.U2       7.41
Total now outstanding                                                   1000.73       o2.55
*                            Amount Sold                             14.33
of which has been repaid              14.23                               0.10
Total now held by Bank and IDA e/                                       1000.83      o2.55
Total Undisbursed                                                        604.31                  604.31
a/  Does not include the Third Urban Sewerage Project, Loan 2255-TUN of $34 million approved March Z9, 1983.
b/  Signed on October 29, 1982; not yet effective
c/  Signed on January 11, 1983; not yet effective
d/  Signed on February 28, 1983; not yet effective
e! Prior to exchange rate adjustment



-  224  -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as of M[arch 31, 1983)
Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligator                      Type of Business      Loan   Equity   Total
1962     NPK Engrais                    Fertilizers            2.0    1.5        3.5
1966     Societ4 Nat. d'Invest.         Dev. Finance Co.               0.6       0.6
(now BDET)
1969     COFIT (Tourism)                Dev. Finance Co.       8.0    2.2       10.2
1970     Societe Nat. d'Invest.         Dev. Finance Co.               0.6       0.6
(now BDET)
1973     Soci4te Touristique            Tourism                1.6D   0.3        1.9
et Hoteliere RYM SA
1975     Societe d'Etudes et            Tourism                2.5    0.6        3.1
de Developpement de
Sousse-Nord
1974     Industries Chimiques           Chemicals                      0.6       0.6
du Fluor
1978     BDET                           Dev. Finance Co.               1.2       1.2
Total Gross Commitments                              14.1    7.6      21.7
Less Cancellations,                                  10.(    1.8      11.8
Terminations, Repayments,
and Sales
Total Commitments now                                 4.1    5.8       9.9
held by IFC
Total Undisbursed                                     0.0    0.0       0.0



Page 3 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Ln, 1068:      Irrigation Rehabilitation Project;  US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974;  Date ot Effectiveness:  September 18, 1975;
Closing Datet December 31, 1982.
Irrigation rehabilitation works in the Medjerda area are complete.
However, farmers are not fully using the available water resources due to
limited distribution hours, and unwillingness of farmers to irrigate at
night. Land reform is progressing and is expected to be completed by the end
of 1984. In the Nebhana area, rehabilitation investments have been
satisfactorily completed. Credit demand for basins and storage facilities was
less than originally expected, and a grading and packing station was not built
because of lack of capacity on the part of the cooperative which was to
construct and manage it. Land consolidation in Nebhana is expected to be
completed by mid-1983. Production of off-season vegetables under greenhouses
is encouraging. Disbursements are in progress for commitments made prior to
the Closing Date. About $0.7 million of funds allocated for credit are not
expected to be used and will be cancelled.
Ln. 1155:      Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date: Marcb 31,
1983.
Implementation of this project was delayed following a change in
education policy and priorities in Tunisia. The project was subsequently
amended to reduce the number of manual work training (ITM) centers to be
equipped under the project, expand the teachers' training component for ITM,
and increase technical assistance. As a result, the Bank loan was reduced by
$0.3 million to $8.6 million, covering the full foreign exchange cost of the
amended project. Disbursements are in progress for commitmaents made prior to
the Closing Date. An undisbursed balance of about US$1.0 million is expected
to remain and be cancelled. The Completion mission is scheduled for May 1983.
Ln. 1188:      Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date: September
30, 1983.
Civil works on the Tunis-Bizerte highway and on the Hammamet-Korba
road in Nabeul have been completed. The remaining construction works on
1/      These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-  26  -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
other roads are well-advanced. The Sfax by-pass under Lot 8 on which there
is a difficult problem of expropriation will not be undertaken as part of
the project. All studies under the project have been completed and their
results are being implemented. A loan balance, due to appreciation of the
dollar since loan approval, may be cancelled.
Ln. 1340:       Second Agricultural Credit Project;  US$12 million loan of
December 17, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Disbursements are ongoing for commitments made prior to the loan's
Closing Date and about 97% of the loan has been disbursed.  It is expected
that approximately $0.2 million of the loan balance may not be used and will
be cancelled. Subloans to commercial farimers, agro-industrial investors and
small and medium farmers were fully used. Project implementation for the
establishment of date palm plantations has improved and is now progressing
satisfactorily. However, due to start-up delays, works will not be
completed before Spring 1984. Some investments will have to be financed
under the Third Credit Project (1885-TUN).
Ln. 1431;       Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project; US$42 million loan of July
5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
For the project as a whole, progress in implementation continues to
be satisfactory. The land reform and consolidation program is smoothly
underway. The Sidi Salem dam is completed and in operation. The first
filling-up of the reservoir has progressed well.  The power plant is
expected to be in operation by mid-1983. After some initial deLays,
construction of the Medjerda-Cap Bon interconnection canal is proceeding
more rapidly and completion by the end of 1983 seems possible. The
reinforcement in the water supply of the SONEDE grid during the peak
consumption period (June/July) would be possible now that works on the 1,400
ha Testour perimeter are ready, and irrigation is scheduled to start during
the current cropping season.  Works on the Medjez el Bab perimeter of 3,800
ha are now progressing satisfactorily, and are expected to be completed by
the end of 1983.  Contracts for works for the Safeguard of Citrus
Plantations subproject in the Cap Bon area have all been awardecL; the
anticipated completion date is end-1983. This subproject is experiencing
important cost overruns, and discussions are underway with the Government to
resolve this problem.
Ln. 1445:       Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
Most of the project facilities are now completed and in operation.
Disbursements including release of retention monies to contractors will be
completed in early 1984.



-  27  -
ANNEX' 1I
Page 5 of 12
Ln. 1504/1505: Industrial Finance Project consisting of a Seventh Loan to
Banque de D4veloppement Economique de Tunisie (BUET) and a
Pilot Pro;ect for assistance to SSI; Loans of $30.0 rmillion
to BDET and of $5.0 million to the Government of January 25,
1978; Date of Effectiveness:  October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983.
Both loans are fully committed. Under the project, BDET is giving
priority in its financing to projects which are located in the less
developed regions, sponsored by new entrepreneurs, characterized by high
labor intensity or export-orientation.  Under the Small Scale Industries
(SSI) pilot project, the commercial banks' initial reluctance to utilize
Bank funds for SSI financing has subsided. Considerable progress has been
made by the Tunisian authorities toward setting up a comprehensive program
delivered by Tunisian and foreign technical assistance experts, specifically
catering to the needs of SSI. A new project approved by the Bank in May
1981 supports this program (see below Ln. 1969).
Ln. 1601:      Rural Roads Project; US$32.0 million loan of July 24, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness;  April 30, 1979; Closing Date:  June
30, 1984.
Road construction is now underway in all the eleven provinces. The
complementary agricultural component, after an initial delay, is now
progressing satisfactorily, with the exception of the use of credit for
agro-industries whicb has generated little interest.
Ln. 1675:       Second Urban Sewerage Project; US$26.5 million loan of
April 13, 1979; Date of Effectiveness; August 31, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Works under construction are progressing satisfactorily, although
three stormwater collectors need to be retendered as bids were considerably
higher than anticipated and additional local funds had to be allocated.
Thirty-one contracts have been awarded for a total dollar equivalent of
US$50.2 million. Bank's commitments amount to US$20.8 million. Tenders for
civil works of the Choutrana Treatment Plant are being evaluated. This
component would be about one and one-half years behind schedule.
Ln. 1702:      Fifth Water Supply Project; US$25.0 million loan of May 31,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 19, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The execution of the project is progressing well and sbould be
completed by mid-1983. Most of the project facilities are already in
operation.



-  28  -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Ln. 1705:       Second Urban Development Project; US$19.0 million loan of
May 31, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Responsibility for project imjplementation was transferred from the
Ministry of Interior to the Ministry of Housing following the creation of
the latter in 1981.  About 60% of the civil works are now completed.  They
are advancing well in Sfax but less satifactorily in Tunis due to managerial
problems and budgetary constraints. Difficulties related to site
acquisition cost overruns are being resolved.  Responsibility for the
implementation of the solid waste component was transferred recently from
the District of Tunis to the National Sewerage Authority (ONAS).  The
technical assistance and studies are advancing well. A two-year extension
of the Closing Date is envisaged to alLow the time for settlement of
management and budgetary issues, and full implementation of the Tunis
component.
Ln. 1746:       Second Fisheries Project; US$28.5 million loan of July 20,
1979; Date of Effectiveness:  May 14, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
Port infrastructure construction is well underway at all sites and
general progress is satisfactory. Procurement of boat hulls is underway
although more than two years behind schedule mainly due to management
problems. Contracts for the purchase of boat engines have been signed and
cold storage and ice making plants for existing ports have been procured.
Civil works superstructure at three new ports is underway.
Ln. 1796:       Southern Irrigation Projiect; US$25.0 million loan of
February 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 30, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
After a slow start in 1980, the project has gradually developed
momentum and is now progressing satisfactorily. However, delays already
experienced will set back the completion date of civil works from 1983 to
1985. Work is underway on 13 of the 16 project perimeters. The other three
are expected to start in 1983.  The agricultural impact of rehabilitation is
already noticeable.
Ln. 1797:       Third Port Project; US$42.5 million loan of February 8, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1985.
Civil works at la Goulette are progressing satisfactorily. About
two-thirds of the cellular caissons for the quay have been precast and
positioning is underway. Passenger terminal construction is behind
schedule, but the project's completion date of June 30, 1984 is unaltered.
A request to finance rehabilitation of the port access road from the loan
was received by the Bank and is currently being reviewed. Civil works at



- 25
ANNEX I1
Page 7 of 12
Sfax are near completion, with some dredging left in the RoRo berth area,
and further works to be done to modernize the salt export berth and to build
the new access road. Execution of the contract for construction of
buildings and utilities incurred some delays. Full completion of the
contract is due by September 1983. Supervision is satisfactory in both
ports. Implementation of training programs for port personnel has started,
technical assistance being provided by UNCTAD. Execution of the study on
workshops reorganization and maintenance procedures started in January 1983.
Ln. 1841:       Fourth Highway Project; US$36.5 million loan of May 22, 1980;
*                         Date of Effectiveness:  November 21, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984.
The rehabilitation program is progressing well. The 1982 action
plan for maintenance is being implemented, and tenders are being analysed
for civil works for the 1983 program. Road maintenance equipment has been
delivered.
Lo. 1864:       Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; US$37 million loan of
October 22, 1980 - amended on July 15, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness: December 9, 1981;, Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
The original project scope was modified because of uncertainties
related to the purchase of gas from Algeria; the project has been redesigned
to utilize royalty gas from the Algeria/Italy intercontinental pipeline as a
substitute for premium liquid fuel products. The pipeline aistribution
system to be constructed under the project is expected to be completed by
mid-1983. The conversion to gas program of the consumers is progressing,
albeit witb some delays. Agreement between Algeria and Italy on the gas
price was reached in early 1983 and gas supplies are expected to start in
the second balf of 1983.
Ln. 1885:       Tbird Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million loan of
August 6, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is financing part of the agricultural three-year
lending program of BNT (Banque Nationale de Tunisie) for medium and
long-term credit to small and medium farmers, production and service
cooperatives, commercial farmers and agro-inaustries. Disbursements have
started for production cooperatives, commercial farmers and agro-
industries. However, because Government funds have also been available for
similar purposes to farmers under otber programs which, unlike the
Bank-financed program, offer subsidies, disbursements are below the expected
level. Also, little progress has been achieved in resolving priority credit
problems.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Ln. 1961:       Fourth Education Project:; US$26 million loan of May 18, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: Nlovember 18, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The implementation of this project, which is devotecL to skilled
worker and apprentice training, is proceeding satisfactorily. The staff
recruitment and training plan progressed slowly but improvement is underway
in connection with the reorganization of the project's executing agency.
Construction lags behind appraisal estimates with delays varying from six
(Phase II) to nine months (Phase III). However, these delays are being
reduced as the second phase equipment contracts have been awarded for Phase
I and tenders for Phase II are scheduled for May 1983.
Ln. 1969:       Small Scale Industry Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of May 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: July 21,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project supports the Government's comprehensive assistance
program for small-scale industries through financial and technical
assistance. $29.35 million is to be administered by the Central Bank of
Tunisia and made available to small entrepreneurs through participating
banks. The remainder of the loan ($0.65 million) would strengthen the
appraisal and SSI technical assistance capacity of the Investment Promotion
Agency responsible for screening eligib'Le subprojects. $1.6 maillion has
been committed to date.
Ln. 1997:      Northwest Rural Development Project; US$24.0 million loan of
July 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1982; Closing
Date: September 30, 1987..
The project is designed to help finance a five-year time slice of
the Government's 15 year development program for the Northwest Region
through the establishment of institutions which could implement the program,
and the development of extension, research, credit, and livestock services.
The project would also start up specific agricultural, soil conservation and
forestry activities, together with productive infrastructure works. Project
implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. 2003;      Third Power Project; US$41.5 million loan of July 15, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: April 21, 1982; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
The project will assist Tunisia in implementing the first three
years of a five-year program for the development of rural electrification,
and in rehabilitating the urban distribution systems by connecting to the
national network about 35,000 new customers living in about 650 villages
situated in 15 Governorates, and improving the supply of electricity in
about 60 towns. Project implementation is progressing very well. However
disbursements are behind appraisal estimates due to a revision in the
procurement procedures which were not in compliance with Bank guidelines.



-  31  -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Ln. 2005:       Health and Population Project; US$12.5 million loan of
July 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is designed to support Government efforts to extend
basic health care to the whole population by 1990, through the provision of
better and more cost-effective health, family planning and nutrition
services to lower income groups in eight selected Governorates. It would
strengthen the Ministry of Public Health's management capacity, improve and
expand the basic health care delivery system and health education programs,
upgrade the training system, and train health personnel. All project
activities are well coordinated and project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily and according to schedule.
Ln. 2012:       Textile Rehabilitation Project; US$18.6 million loan of
October 27, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: May 7, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
Equipment procured under bilateral financing as well as major
productive machines financed under the Bank loan have recently been
commissioned and are running on three shifts. Technical assistance to the
SOGITEX group is progressing satisfactorily. Financial performance of the
primary beneficiary of the Bank loan (SITEX) continues to be satisfactory.
Ln. 2052:       Grain Distribution and Storage Project; US$42.0 million loan
of October 27, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: April 2, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is designed to strengthen grain storage capacity;
reduce congestion, handling costs, demurrage charges and grain losses at the
main Tunisian seaports, and the cost of transport and handling of grain;
strengthen the technical capacity and financial management of the Office of
Cereals (OC); and lay the groundwork for further mocernization of the system
of collection, storage and transport of domestic grain. The invitation to
bid for construction of silos has been delayed about a year and a half and
has not yet been issued as a result of OC's difficulties in recruiting
consulting engineers. This recruitment is now well underway. Procurement
by SNCFT of rail hopper cars and materials for construction of silo railway
sidings is underway. Consultants for technical assistance in management and
finance have been recruited by OG.
Ln. 2108:       Fifth Highway Project; US$ 35.5 million loan of May 14,
1982; Date of Effectiveness: April 21, 1983; Glosing Date:
December 31, 1987.
The project will help the Government continue its efforts to
provide farmers with improved roads, support services, and farm credit.
Some 1,200 kilometers on about 100 road sections throughout the country will
be improved, 55 extension centers will be constructed and equipped, and



-  32  -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
credit will be provided. Consultant services to assist the Highway
Department and the Ministry of Agriculture will also be providea. The
Project Coordinating Committee has been established.
Ln. 2113:       Electrical and Mechanical Industries Project; US$ 30.5
million loan of May 14, 1982; Date of Effectiveness:
December 2, 1982; Closing Date; December 31, 1987.
The Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) provides
a $28 million credit line for supporting priority electrical and mechanical
industries and for general purpose lending to industry in Tunisia. The
remainder of this loan is being used by the Tunisian Government to provide
technical assistance in setting up a Technical Center for Mechanical
Industries, and a National Institute cf Standardization and Quality Control
for manufacturing industries, and in conducting a study on effective
protection.
Loan 2134;      Sixth Water Supply ProIect; US$ 30.5 million loan of May 14,
1982; Date of Effectiveness: October 20, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1966.
The project provides for the expansion and improvement of water
supply systems in about 150 rural centers. It also includes the provision
of credit facilities to help finance individual house connections and the
installation of 80,000 meters for these connections.  Seventeen subprojects
that would be implemented in 37 rural centers and financed under the loan
have already been selected by SONEDE and approved by the Bank. Civil works
contracts for a total amount of US$4.2 million have been placed for ten of
the subprojects; works on these contracts are underway.  Bidlding for the
remaining subprojects and equipment is also underway.  So far, credit
facilities have been extended to 31,900 customers for a total amount of
US$10.5 million.
Ln. 2157:       Medjerda/Nebhana Irrigation Development Project; US$ 22.0
million loan of June 8, 1982; Date of Effectiveness:
February 1, 1983; Closing Date:  December 31, 1988.
The project will provide funds for a development project in which
emphasis will be placed on improving irrigation works and marketing
facilities in the regions of Medjerda near Tunis and Nebhana near Sousse.
The implementing agencies, the Medjerda Valley Development Agency (OMVVM)
and the Nebhana Development Agency (OMIVAN), expect to increase the
production of vegetables, fruit, forage, industrial crops, livestock and
milk. The project will also provide farm access roads, fruit and vegetable
processing centers, cold stores and milk collection centers. The project
has just started and the OMIVAN component is progressing well, altbough
there are some delays in recruiting consultants.  The OMVVM component has
been slow in starting due to Government budget allocation difficulties.



-  33  -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan. 2197:    Technical Assistance Project; US$ 4.5 million loan of October
29., 1982; Planned Date of Effectiveness: May 27, 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project will provide technical assistance to the agriculture,
industry and energy sectors through the provision of experts and training to
(i) increase the number and improve the quality of investment projects; (ii)
strengtben local project preparation capabilities; (iii) provide a sound
empirical base for the formulation of sector-wide policies; and (iv)
reinforce institution-building efforts. In spite of delays in loan
effectiveness, implementation of the project has started with training for
Tunisians in energy conservation and with the signing of the first
consultant contracts for agricultural studies.
Loan. 2223:    Third Urban Development; US$ 25.0 million Loan of January
11, 1983; Planned Date of Effectiveness: July 12, 1983;
Closing Date: June 30, 1990.
The project consists of: (i) comprehensive upgrading in four
settlements; (ii) a sites and services/housing credit scheme in three of
these settlements; (iii) a pilot program of upgrading and reconstruction of
the Hafsia neighborbood in the Medina of Tunis; and (iv) technical
assistance for project implementation, institution building, and
pre-investment studies. Of the five project sites, three are in Greater
Tunis and two are in the Northwest region. The executing agency (ARRU) is
now fully staffed to implement the project and the technical assistance
experts are expected to arrive in May 1983.
Loan. 2230:    Fifth Education Project; US$ 27 million Loan of January 11,
1983; Planned Date of Effectiveness: July 12, 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
The project will improve the planning and management capacity of
the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and assist the Ministry of Education (MOE)
in expanding its primary school teacher training capacity. It consists of:
equipping and providing technical assistance to the Bureau of Agricultural
Education Studies and Planning under MOA; providing didactic and farming
equipment to six high level technical training institutions, four
agricultural secondary schools, fifteen agricultural training centers; and
providing equipment and technical assistance to the National Agricultural
Instructor Training Center. It will also construct and equip four new
primary school teacher training colleges under the MOE and finance studies
on the country's needs for middle and higher-level technicians in view of
designing appropriate methods and systems for their training. The project
unit is already in place and equipment lists are in the final stage of
preparation for ICB. Civil works for the MOA component are slightly ahead
of schedule wbile drawings for the MOE as well as the studies components are
slightly behind schedule.



- 34-
ANNEX II
Page 12 ot 12
Loan. 2234:    Central Tunisia Irrigation Project; US$ 16.5 million Loan of
February 28, 1983; Planned Date of Effectiveness: June 28,
1983; Closing Date; June 30, 1990.
Central Tunisia, one of the least developed parts of the country,
receives low and irregular rainfall. The project will focus on better use
of existing resources and will create new public irrigation perimeters only
where resources are under-exploited. About 1,600 of the project area's
5,900 shallow wells and 37 of the 51 public irrigation perimeters will be
rehabilitated. Steps to initiate project activities are progressing well.



-  35  -
ANNEX III
TUNISIA
SFAX FLOOD PROTECTION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare
the project:                        Three months (November 1982-January 1983)
f
(b) The agency which prepared
the project:                        Directorate of Urban Hydraulics, with the
assistance of Consultants (SOGREAH, CNR,
SOTINFOR)
(c)  Project first identified by Bank: November 1982
(d)  Date of Bank appraisal mission:   January/February 1983
(e)  Negotiations completed:             April 22, 1983
(f) Planned date of loan
effectiveness:                      October 15, 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(i) As a condition of effectiveness, contract(s) woula be awarded for the
three stormwater collectors in Sfax (para. 40); and
(ii) The Government would provide the Flood Protection Infrastructure
Section of the Ministry of Equipment's Regional Directorate in Sfax
with staff, equipment and annual operating budgets satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 50).



I



Sqki.t Ei-                                         Sdi.MQROREt' 
<1\t='- -- <- TR><E51F'10E'
i   El Ain~~~~ lSfAX  FtOOD  PROTECTION
REH-ABIiLITATIIIN A ND RE ,ZINAG OF liJES
I4ANA1OkAND RESIZINPBO DR f\ES
x~~~~~~~ EXTENSORN OF SINJULE ElITE CARt) DIKE-
STORM IGATEP COLLECTORS (SECONE URBAN
UMW  .-RBLfOW OUT SECTION  -   -          -
A       URBAN ZONES AND SUILI UP AREAS
_[ [| GARDEN I0  S AlTH CONSTRUCTION
Iei Cazs  00  <   < ,   [  \   ' \   a   i ;i 4  0 e ,. z . .! iGARDEN ZONES
AGERICUtTURALZGNES
PRIMARY ROADS
fis ng Fbr  r                         -~~~~~SECONDIARY ROADOS
-F ~  RAILROADS
RIVERS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
IA     LAL
0                     1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~UISIA                                                            35
1h.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
1RD                  L                                                                  I E  Y A   2, ZF4,B PR RRP Aa0  ' oK G A 5  0 ALG R A  N   i  5
X   0:          /        /       0                    g   1    t:     i    t _ L t        i        5 i     i  g  0    i  ; 2 t        t v: ==V  ,1     0
w'E   iC;T i I                                                         /I          .1 `4
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N   'P                               SIdR  ER0'KEI     ;  I      tSP ;;PIkI.;  ,0   OIBJclRev/PRRRAIP RIM  rAIP     LIBLY  A    r
t 0 ;i  ; i  t X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 101 RAE ElX Co PINPA                              |.ER  ,a .IR     ,aB          , PRRI5P,
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I IDe RiARN   REP IPA   RN EDPCERPO RPEERROROEDEI,



