Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  58212 
Operation Name 
Fourth Infrastructure Development Policy Loan 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Infrastructure (Energy, Water, Roads, PPP) 
Project ID 
P118531 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance, Coordinating Ministry of the Economy, and 
Bappenas 
Date PID Prepared 
Updated September 14, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
September 28, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
November 18, 2010 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
The IDPL program supports Government efforts to address the infrastructure backlog that arose following 
the 1997 Asian financial crisis, when infrastructure investment fell from over 8.2 percent of GDP to about 
3.2 percent in 2000.  By 2009, infrastructure investment had risen to over 3.5 percent of GDP, but was 
still insufficient to meet the country’s growth aspirations and the growing demand from existing 
infrastructure users, let alone satisfy the large population who lack access to any basic infrastructure 
services. The decline in investment as a share of GDP over the years was manifest in many areas, but 
dramatically felt in the energy sector where widespread rolling blackouts and load-shedding recently 
caused policymakers to examine sector wide issues that threaten the country’s investment climate and 
quality of life. Investment in water and sanitation has long been insufficient to expand access to piped 
water or to begin to develop sewerage systems, but has been particularly absent since decentralization 
began in 2001. In transport, investment as a proportion of GDP has been steady, but realizing the benefits 
of expanded expressways, urban mass transport systems and rural roads requires efficiencies and 
resources which extend beyond today’s levels.  In response, the Government is ready to launch the 
architecture to leverage additional finance and expertise through partnerships with the private sector. 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The Infrastructure Development Policy Loan (IDPL) program intends to:
 
·
Increase the quantity and efficiency of Government spending on infrastructure with reduced and 
better targeted Public Service Obligation (PSO), and expenditure planning and budgeting;  
·
Improve sub-national infrastructure services through increased sub-national government spending 
and improved incentives;  
·
Increase private investment in infrastructure through the establishment of a fiscally sound, credible 
and transparent PPP framework spurred by appropriate risk mitigating measures;   
·
Enhance governance for infrastructure through improved land acquisition, environmental 
protection, better procurement and improved audit processes; and  
A
“Core Areas of Engagement” of the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) FY09-FY12 is “to increase the 
level and efficiency of public and private investment in infrastructure.”  All policy areas in the IDPL 
program contribute to this objective, in part or in full.    
 
Page  2
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
The current operation, as set out in the IDPL policy matrix found in Annex 2, represents a stage of 
deepening of the Bank supported agenda.  Whereas IDPL4 focuses on the most important infrastructure 
reform achievements of 2010 as “prior actions,” there is already evidence of significant progress towards 
achievement of the overall program’s objectives for 2010. After four years of the IDPL series, the current 
operation represents a logical point for the Government and the Bank to assess achievements over the 
period and take stock of the unfinished agenda.  IDPL4 therefore provides a timely opportunity to make 
the necessary strategic adjustments in objectives and approach which arise in the context of rapid 
development and geographic challenges.  
 
4. Financing 
 
The Borrower is the Republic of Indonesia and this operation is a single-tranche IBRD development 
policy loan of US$200 million that would be made available upon loan effectiveness, as all policy actions 
supported by the loan would have been completed prior to Board presentation.  
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The proposed fourth Infrastructure Development Policy Loan (IDPL4) for US$200 million is the fourth 
and last in the current IDPL series. The IDPL series recognizes the GOI’s reform progress and serves as a 
central element in a comprehensive reform dialogue between the Bank and the GOI.  The IDPL has 
served both the GOI and the Bank in this regard, by consolidating efforts across sectors and activity 
throughout various ministries, into a coherent framework which can be effectively managed and 
efficiently evaluated.  The program supported by the IDPL series has aimed at increasing the supply of 
infrastructure in the country through additional infrastructure expenditures, conducive policy frameworks, 
improved regulatory frameworks, institutional development and transaction support.  
 
The IDPL series also serves to align policy priorities at the sectoral or ministerial level, and increasingly 
at the sub-national level, with broader strategic national objectives. Under the current series, a four-loan 
program is built around the development objective to “mobilize systems for infrastructure finance,” with 
four specific areas of engagement: (i) national infrastructure (electricity and roads); (ii) sub-national 
infrastructure (water); (iii) public-private partnerships (institutional framework); and (iv) cross-cutting 
governance issues covering land acquisition, environment impact analysis, and e-procurement. The 
common theme across each area is increasing the amount and effectiveness of infrastructure spending in 
order to contribute to growth and poverty reduction.  
 
6. Benefits 
and 
Risks 
 
The main risks associated with the IDPL4 deal with Indonesia’s macroeconomic stability (considered low 
risk), corruption (high risk), government capacity (high risk), and government commitment (medium 
risk). Indonesian corporations are believed to be reasonably well diversified financially and not 
significantly leveraged. However, Indonesia is a financially open economy and there are significant 
foreign holdings especially in the stock market and Government bonds.  A significant depreciation could 
affect some corporations and result in rising NPLs and erosion of bank capital. A prolonged recession 
with continued risk aversion episodes may pose challenges from a balance of payments perspective.  
Mitigating these risks requires good macroeconomic management, cooperation between Bank Indonesia 
and economic ministries and crowding in of private investment.  Infrastructure investment is vulnerable to 
corruption at all stages of the project cycle, posing risks that the full development potential of increased 
infrastructure investment will not be realized. It also poses reputational risks for the Bank through 
association with infrastructure expenditures under the IDPL series. Though the Government is clearly 
committed to reform objectives at the highest level, particularly in the case of infrastructure, the ability to 
Page  3
translate that commitment into practical achievements is limited by the implementation capacity of the 
bureaucracy. While the momentum from President Yudhoyono’s re-election will continue and the broad 
Government directions will be maintained, the change of Finance Minister has led to a review of 
government policy priorities. There may be some risks in achieving full ownership and sustained 
implementation of prior actions as a result. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The successful implementation of the IDPL 4 will likely lead to increased and improved infrastructure 
services, with both positive and negative poverty, social and environmental consequences. In general, the 
policy actions supported by the operation do not have significant adverse poverty and social impacts. The 
IDPL program is intended to lead to increased investment plans over the next several years, which in turn 
will take several years to induce construction and delivery of infrastructure services. In fact, the poverty 
and social impacts of increased infrastructure investment will be positive, through the benefits of induced 
economic growth, and through the direct provision of and increased access of the poor to much needed 
infrastructure services, such as piped water, electricity and roads. Potential negative impacts include 
traffic accidents associated with increased road usage, social dislocation and inadequate compensation for 
infrastructure related land acquisition, and potential price increases for electricity and water services.  
Many of the reforms supported by the IDPL program will help to improve environmental outcomes.  
Potentially higher electricity prices can promote energy conservation, but also run the risk of an increase 
in the use of fossil fuels, e.g. for cooking purposes. The improvement of water and sanitation services; 
promotion of the ‘3R’ concept (reduce, reuse and recycle) together with sanitary landfills; and improved 
AMDAL processes are all reforms with positive environmental effects. As for policy actions with 
potential negative environmental effects, the IDPL program seeks increased infrastructure investment, 
which has to be matched with rigorous implementation of environmental management processes. These 
potential negative effects include changing the natural landscape, increased emissions of greenhouse 
gases and of other pollutants due to increased electricity generation capacity, as well as increased ambient 
air pollution from traffic on increased road capacity, and local environmental impacts associated with 
construction works for all forms of infrastructure facilities. The Government has promoted effective 
environmental resource protection and management as a national priority, as demonstrated by the 
strengthening and required implementation of Environmental Impact Assessments on all new 
infrastructure projects as well as international cooperative arrangements to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions such as the Letter of Intent recently signed with the Government of Norway.  
8. Contact 
point 
Contact: Hongjoo J. Hahm 
Title: Lead Infrastructure Specialist 
Tel: 5781+3012 / 62-21-5299-3012 
Fax: 5299 3111 
Email: hhahm@worldbank.org 
Location: Jakarta, Indonesia (IBRD) 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
InfoShop, The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Page  4
