                                           CONFORMED COPY


                                        LOAN NUMBER 7974-ID




     Loan Agreement
  (Fourth Infrastructure Development Policy Loan)


                     between


           REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA


                       and


INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
           AND DEVELOPMENT




             Dated November 24, 2010
                                LOAN AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT dated November 24, 2010 , entered into between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions
which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an
appropriate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore
hereby agree as follows:

            ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01.   The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
        referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million United States
        Dollars (US$200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
        through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
        of this Agreement (“Loan”).

2.02.   The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
        in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
        percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
        not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.

2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
        equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
        provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
        the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
        such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
        Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
        amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
        payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
                                           -2-


        the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
        General Conditions.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
        provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.07.   (a)     The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
                of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
                (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
                amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
                Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
                portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
                from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable
                Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
                Rate; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all
                or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
                outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
                Collar on the Variable Rate.

        (b)     Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
                is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
                in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
                provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
                Guidelines.

2.08.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
        (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this
        Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
        promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
        Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

                             ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01.   The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
        To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

        (a)     the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
                either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
                framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
                                           -3-


                carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
                request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
                Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
                that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
                Program or any action taken under the Program including any action
                specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

                    ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: A situation has
        arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it,
        will be carried out.

               ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consist of the following: The Bank is
        satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program
        and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

5.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date sixty (60) days after the date of this
        Agreement.

                ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.

6.02.   The Borrower’s Address is:

                Ministry of Finance
                c/o Directorate General of Debt Management
                Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
                P.O. Box 1139
                Jakarta 10710
                Indonesia

                Cable address:           Telex:                   Facsimile:

                FINMINISTRY              45799 DJMLN-IA           (21) 381 2859
                Jakarta                  44319 DEPKEU-IA
                                             -4-


6.03.      The Bank’s Address is:

           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America

           Cable address:           Telex:                Facsimile:

           INTBAFRAD                248423(MCI) or        1-202-477-6391
           Washington, D.C.          64145(MCI)

           AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above
written.



                                    REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA



                                    By: /s/ Rahmat Waluyanto



                                                          Authorized Representative




                                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                                    By: /s/ Chris Hoban



                                                          Authorized Representative
                                         -5-


                                   SCHEDULE 1

      Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds; Access to Information

Section I.     Actions Taken Under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:

1.      The Borrower has maintained the proposed 2011 APBN allocation for national
        infrastructure at least thirty percent (30%) over the 2007 APBN level.

2.      The Borrower has issued a Ministerial Regulation (Permen ESDM 7/2010) which
        adjusts electricity tariffs in order to reduce and better target PSO subsidies.

3.      The Borrower has prepared the MPW medium-term plan and submitted the
        MPW budget based on medium-term budget estimates.

4.      The Borrower has submitted for inter-ministerial consultation a draft
        Government Regulation and a draft Presidential Regulation establishing a Road
        Preservation Fund which covers national and sub-national roads and defines the
        source of funding.

5.      The Borrower has enacted Perpres 29/2009 which provides for a government
        support regime to assist financially viable PDAMs to access long-term loans.

6.      The Borrower has enacted Perpres 13/2010 which amends Perpres 67/2005 by
        extending application to projects of sub-national governments and state-owned
        enterprises.

7.      The Borrower has established the Infrastructure Guarantee Fund including
        staffing of senior management and drafting of operating procedures.

8.      The Indonesia Infrastructure Finance Company has been staffed and business
        license awarded.

9.      The Borrower has drafted Government Regulations on waste handling and waste
        minimizing and circulated the drafts for intra-ministerial consultation.

10.     The Borrower has used the Semi E-procurement system for at least 75% of all
        MPW national-level procurements above Rp.50 million, and issued a Circular
        Letter requiring the use of the Semi E-procurement system in at least twenty
        three Provinces.

11.     The Borrower has launched Risk-Based Internal Audit (RBIA) programs in nine
        (9) Provinces with staff training programs in place.
                                           -6-


Section II.     Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.      General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
        with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
        may specify by notice to the Borrower.

B.      Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal
        tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.
        The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

                    Allocations                           Amount of the Loan
                                                               Allocated
                                                          (expressed in USD)
         Single Withdrawal Tranche                            200,000,000
         TOTAL AMOUNT                                         200,000,000

C.      Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan
        Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.

D.      Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the
        Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program
        being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the appropriateness of the
        Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

E.      Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

        1.      all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
                into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
                and

        2.      the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
                Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
                Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
                Bank.

F.      Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
        Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
        at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
        Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
        refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
        refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.

G.      Closing Date. The Closing Date is March 31, 2011.
                                        -7-


                                  SCHEDULE 2

                              Amortization Schedule

1.     The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
       percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
       Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
       withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
       Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
       determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
       first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
       Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
       amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
       Conversion applies.

        Principal Payment Date                        Installment Share
                                                  (Expressed as a Percentage)
 April 01, 2020                                              2.17
 October 01, 2020                                            2.22
 April 01, 2021                                              2.28
 October 01, 2021                                            2.34
 April 01, 2022                                              2.40
 October 01, 2022                                            2.46
 April 01, 2023                                              2.52
 October 01, 2023                                            2.58
 April 01, 2024                                              2.64
 October 01, 2024                                            2.71
 April 01, 2025                                              2.78
 October 01, 2025                                            2.85
 April 01, 2026                                              2.92
 October 01, 2026                                            2.99
 April 01, 2027                                              3.07
 October 01, 2027                                            3.14
 April 01, 2028                                              3.22
 October 01, 2028                                            3.30
 April 01, 2029                                              3.38
 October 01, 2029                                            3.47
 April 01, 2030                                              3.56
 October 01, 2030                                            3.65
 April 01, 2031                                              3.74
 October 01, 2031                                            3.83
 April 01, 2032                                              3.93
 October 01, 2032                                            4.02
 April 01, 2033                                              4.12
                                          -8-


 October 01, 2033                                                 4.23
 April 01, 2034                                                   4.33
 October 01, 2034                                                 4.44
 April 01, 2035                                                   4.71

2.     If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
       Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
       each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

       (a)     To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
               the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
               Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
               of this Schedule.

       (b)     Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
               repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
               withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
               amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
               the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
               Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
               and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
               Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
               date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
               amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
               Conversion applies.

3.     (a)     Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
               any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
               the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated
               as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
               following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
               Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
               Date following the date of withdrawal.

       (b)     Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
               at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
               invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
               provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
               withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

4.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
       Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
       Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
       repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
       Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
                                      -9-


     currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
     exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
     payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
     Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
     Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

5.   If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
     the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
     in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
     each such amount.
                                        - 10 -


                                    APPENDIX


Section I. Definitions

1.     “APBN” means Anggaran Pendapatan dan Belanja Negara, the Borrower’s
       national government budget for a Fiscal Year.

2.     “Circular Letter” means a Surat Edaran, a letter of instruction issued by a line
       ministry of the Borrower.

3.     “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:

       (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
               international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
               or grant;

       (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
               International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
               by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
               (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
               revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
               Borrower:

                         Group           Sub-group            Description of Item
                         112                                  Alcoholic beverages
                         121                                  Tobacco, un-
                                                              manufactured, tobacco
                                                              refuse
                         122                                  Tobacco, manufactured
                                                              (whether or not containing
                                                              tobacco substitutes)
                         525                                  Radioactive and associated
                                                              materials
                         667                                  Pearls, precious and
                                                              semiprecious stones,
                                                              unworked or worked
                         718             718.7                Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                              thereof; fuel elements
                                                              (cartridges), non-
                                                              irradiated, for nuclear
                                                              reactors
                         728             728.43               Tobacco processing
                                     - 11 -


                                                           machinery
                     897              897.3                Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                           platinum group metals
                                                           (except watches and watch
                                                           cases) and goldsmiths’ or
                                                           silversmiths’ wares
                                                           (including set gems)
                     971                                   Gold, non-monetary
                                                           (excluding gold ores and
                                                           concentrates)

     (c)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
            consumption;

     (d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
            which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
            agreements to which the Borrower is a party;

     (e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
            United Nations; and

     (f)    with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
            collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
            Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
            (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
            satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.

4.   “Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing January 1
     and ending December 31.

5.   “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
     Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010 with the
     modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

6.   “Government Regulation” means Peraturan Pemerintah, a regulation issued by
     the government of the Borrower.

7.   “Indonesia Infrastructure Finance Company” means P.T. Indonesia Infrastructure
     Finance, a non-bank financial institution established by the Borrower and
     development partners to provide the needed long term local currency debt for
     private infrastructure projects.
                                       - 12 -


8.    “Infrastructure Guarantee Fund” means PT Penjaminan Infrastruktur Indonesia,
      the institution established by the Borrower to facilitate the provision of
      guarantees by the Borrower for public-private partnership projects.

9.    “Ministerial Regulation” means a Peraturan Menteri, a regulation of a line
      ministry of the Borrower.

10.   “MPW” means the Ministry of Public Works of the Borrower, and any successor
      thereto.

11.   “PDAM” means a Perusahaan Daerah Air Minum, any one of the Borrower’s
      region-owned water companies; and “PDAMs” means more than one PDAM.


12.   “Permen ESDM” means Ministerial Regulation of the Ministry of Energy and
      Mineral Resources of the Borrower, and any successor thereto.


13.   “Permen ESDM 7/2010” means Ministerial Regulation No. 7 of 2010 issued by
      the Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources of the Borrower on electricity
      tariffs.

14.   “Perpres” means a Peraturan Presiden, a regulation of the President of the
      Borrower.

15.   “Perpres 13/2010” means Presidential Regulation No. 13 of 2010 issued by the
      President of the Borrower regulating public-private partnership in infrastructure
      provision.

16.   “Perpres 29/2009” means Presidential Regulation No. 29 of 2009 issued by the
      President of the Borrower regulating the government’s guarantee and interest
      subsidy for the acceleration of drinking water provision.

17.   “Perpres 67/2005” means Presidential Regulation No. 67 of 2005 issued by the
      President of the Borrower regulating public-private partnership in infrastructure
      provision.

18.   “PLN” means Perusahaan Listrik Negara, the Borrower’s state-owned electricity
      company, and any successor thereto.

19.   “President” means the head of state of the Borrower.

20.   “Presidential Regulation” means a Perpres, a regulation of the President of the
      Borrower.
                                          - 13 -


21.     “Province” means the administrative sub-division of the Borrower below the
        national level; and “Provinces” means more than one Province

22.     “PSO” means a public service obligation subsidy being provided by the
        Borrower to PLN to make up PLN’s financial shortfall due to rising cost of
        supply and inadequate tariffs.

23.     “Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
        promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
        referred to in the letter dated October 12, 2010 from the Borrower to the Bank
        declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
        requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
        execution.

24.     “Risk-Based Internal Audit” or “RBIA” means an approach to audit that is driven
        by a systematic analysis of risk and focuses on higher risk areas.

25.     “Road Preservation Fund” means a financing mechanism to be established by the
        Borrower for the preservation of all roads including sub-national, local and rural
        roads.

26.     “Rp.” means Rupiah, the currency of the Borrower.

27.     “Semi E-procurement” means the MPW’s electronic procurement system which
        at a minimum publishes advertisements, provides bidding documents, answers
        queries and notifies contract awards electronically.

28.     “Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
        category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
        Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.      Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
        in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
        accordingly.

3.      Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
        Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
        Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.
                                      - 14 -


4.   Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above
     and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

5.   Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4
     above) is modified to read as follows:

            “Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

            …       (c)      The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
            invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
            under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
            shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.”

6.   Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4
     above) is modified to read as follows:

            Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

            …       (c)     The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
            furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
            report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
            request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
            Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
            Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.

7.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
     deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
     alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
     accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as
            follows:

             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in
            support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
            pursuant to the Loan Agreement.”

     (b)    The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their
            entirety.

     (c)    The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is
            modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout
            these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):
                      - 15 -


“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made.”
