                               Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)

                                                                                                 Report No: AC665
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/01/2004
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: SENEGAL                                             Project ID: P069207
Project: SN-Casamance Emergency Recovery Program             Task Team Leader: Moctar Thiam
Authorized to Appraise Date: May 4, 2004                     IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: July 15, 2004                                 IDA Amount ($m): 20.00
Managing Unit: AFTTR                                         Sector: Roads and highways (70%); General water,
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL)            sanitation and flood protection sector (30%)
Status: Lending                                              Theme: Conflict prevention and post-conflict
                                                             reconstruction (P)

I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The development objective of this project is to allow a quick reintegration of all the Casamance population
in a propitious economic and social environment and to prepare long term sustainable development.

The specific objectives will be to depollute from mines, provide basic social infrastructure and improved
rural transport infrastructure, in order to increase access and mobility of people and goods. Other project
objectives include specific post-conflict actions such as mine clearing, assistance and treatment of victims
of mine accidents, demobilization of guerillas, return of refugees. The program is proposed to be an ERL.
The program will last two to five years depending on the component.

The overall objectives of the Emergency Recovery Project in Casamance (ERPC) are to assist the
Government of Senegal to:
1.       Complete the demining process starting with the most urgent areas;
2.       Demobilize and reinsert 3,000 combatants and affiliates and their respective families;
3.       Help their social and economic reintegration as well as that of all refugees and internally displaced
         persons in their original communities;
4.       Support the Casamance communities affected by conflict to rebuild their local social and economic
         infrastructures through a community-based approach;
5.       Rebuild or rehabilitate major social and economic public infrastructures in Casamance in the three
major sectors: transport, health and education;
6.       Prepare a long-term development program aimed at upgrading the Casamance development level to
         the average of other Senegalese regions while abating the original causes of the conflict.


I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
The program has five components: (a) demining, (b) demobilization and reinsertion of combatants, (c)
community-based development support, (d) infrastructure reconstruction and rehabilitation, and (e)
technical support for long-term development program preparation.

Components:
A.       Mine Clearing Component - The component would finance:
1.       The implementation of organizations and procedures in charge of performing the demining process;
2.       The technical assistance, including training for mine clearers, instructors, and possibly dogs, where
such dogs are trained to identify the location of mines;
3.       The mine awareness program aimed at limiting mine related accidents;

                                                          2
                                                                                                           ISDS


4.       Surveys (level I and II) to circumscribe the mined zones to allow normal use by local people; and
5.       The clearing of mines starting with areas of high priority for economic reconstruction and the
related quality assurance of cleared areas.

B.       Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration of combatants - The Government considers
national reconciliation a fundamental element to support peace building. In this context, the demobilization,
reinsertion and reintegration program of ex-combatants and refugees has been singled out as essential for
the country's long-term stability. The component would finance a comprehensive and transparent program
in three phases:
A.       demobilization of combatants (formal discharge of 3,000 combatants and affiliates), which entails:
         1.   the establishment of Demobilization Centers;
         2.   transport of veterans from collection points to the centers;
         3.   activities such as registration, provision of an identity card, collection of socio-economic data,
              and health screening and counseling (including HIV/AIDS counseling);
         4.   transport to the veterans' area of origin.
B.       reinsertion (transition of those combatants to civilian life immediately following discharge over a
6-12 months period following the return of war veterans to their community of choice). This Project will
facilitate the veterans' return to their communities through transitional subsistence support (TSS). The
transitional subsistence support (TSS) is the cash equivalent of a defined basket of basic goods and services
designed to enable the beneficiary family unit to re-establish a civilian household
C.       reintegration (achieving sustainable livelihoods) of those combatants. This subcomponent will
focus on information to the beneficiaries on existing employment opportunities (generated through the
implementation of components 3 and 4 or else) as well as their training in bankable, economic activities.
Reintegration will be limited in this component to counseling. Activities to benefit ex-combatants will be
carried under the next component, Community-Based Development Support. This is to limit differences in
treatment between combatants and civilians, as well as to benefit from economies of scale and to avoid
duplication. The internally displaced populations and the refugees will receive their main support from this
component.

C.       Community-Based Development Support - The component will assist vulnerable households.
This support will have two dimensions: community social infrastructures and income-generating activities
and infrastructures. The latter should mainly be health centers, primary schools, small water and sanitation
structures and community access infrastructures with some occasional other social infrastructures such as
markets.

Because community-based development programs are already present in or near the area of PRAESC
intervention, this component activities will be fully outsourced.

D.       Infrastructure Rehabilitation - This component will finance the reconstruction and/or
rehabilitation of major infrastructure in the transport, education and health sectors. The extent of needs is
to be determined precisely by the pre-appraisal mission. Yet most of the infrastructures to be rehabilitated
are expected to be secondary schools, small hospital as well as secondary roads. All investments in this
component will be limited to rehabilitation or reconstruction with no or very limited changes in the
infrastructure features.

E.       Support for long-term development program preparation - This component will design the
second phase. It will focus on policy and institutional reforms specific to the Casamance: transport;
tourism; local private sector support; environment and natural resources management; and land ownership.


I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or

                                                        3
                                                                                                         ISDS


critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)

The project is expected to have beneficial social consequences because it aims at rebuilding working,
cohesive communities through components B and C. The former will support combatants and displaced
populations for their reintegration in their original communities (with an emphasis on vulnerable groups
such as women and children). The latter will emphasize beneficiaries participation in solving of communal
problems and in the provision of local social and economic infrastructure.

With regard to environment, components C and D may have a very limited negative impact. Although
limited to emergency reconstruction or rehabilitation of primary infrastructures such as schools, hospital,
transport infrastructure or administrative facilities, those activities may generate very slight adversary
impacts on local environment since no significant changes in these infrastructure features should occur. The
component D, because of the likely occurrence of community infrastructures may generate similar impacts
but even more insignificant because of the infrastructures' very limited size.

Conversely, component A will have a significant positive environmental impact because it will significantly
abate the mine population.


B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)

Comments: There are no major environmental or social issues identified. The classification of the project is
Category B due to potential but a priori insignificant environmental impacts of rehabilitation or reconstruction
of primary or community infrastructure.

Because of the importance of showing the government's commitment toward Casamance's development,
this project should start as soon as possible. Compliance with policies and procedures in OP4.01 would
prevent such a prompt start. It is therefore suggested that, pursuant to OP8.50, the project be relieved from
those requirements, with adequate justifications included in the loan document. Furthermore, the CERP
does not respond to an emergency following some "environmentally inappropriate" activities. Appropriate
EA will be conducted in the first 6 months of the project for all components and investments that require
one. The relevant appropriate EA is thought to be a regional environmental assessment (REA) that would
cover a majority of all the activities carried out in the project. In addition a Social Asssessment (SA) will
be prepared to gather appropriate information on the social situation in the region to better determine
priority zones for interventions and possible social interaction between activities.

C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on   for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                     Policy                                           Triggered
    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                         Yes      No     TBD
    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                 Yes      No     TBD
    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                  Yes      No     TBD
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                    Yes      No     TBD
    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                Yes      No     TBD
    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                 Yes      No     TBD
    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                        Yes      No     TBD
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                            Yes      No     TBD
    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                 Yes      No     TBD
    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                      Yes      No     TBD

                                                        4
                                                                                                            ISDS


Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.

By its very nature, the project will have a positive social impact since it aims at rebuilding stable and viable
communities through community-based development sub-projects, and allow for peaceful and constructive
reintegration of both combatants and displaced populations (thought to number 12,000 and 60,000
respectively) in their original towns. Special attention will be drawn on vulnerable groups such as women
and children who have been especially affected by the conflict.

The environmental issues are deemed to remain very local in their extent since this emergency project's
component 3 will focus on rehabilitating or reconstructing infrastructures that suffered from either direct
fight damages or absence of proper maintenance due to conflict hampering. Construction of new
infrastructures will be very strictly limited to those that are absolutely necessary for rapid economic and
social recovery, major new infrastructures being postponed for later projects.

With regard to environment, components 3 and 4 may have a very limited negative impact: Although
limited to emergency reconstruction or rehabilitation of primary infrastructures such as schools, hospital,
transport infrastructure or administrative facilities, those activities may generate very slight adversary
impacts on local environment. The component 4, with the likelihood of some reconstruction or
rehabilitation of communities infrastructure, may generate similar impacts but even more insignificant. On
the other hand, component 1 will have a significant positive environmental impact since it will significantly
abate the level of mine-infested land (hopefully by more than 99.9 %.). Component 2 is very likely to
generate building of new infrastructure but of very limited impact to their size. Such infrastructures will
have their environmental impact assessed according to usual procedures (screening and assessments) for
community-based development projects.

II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.

Will be determined at pre-appraisal mission.

II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.

Will be determined at pre-appraisal mission.

II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)

Will be determined at pre-appraisal mission.

II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues

To better prepare the project to the possible investments that may be selected when the project is effective, an
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) will be prepared prior to appraisal. This ESMF
will describe screening mechanisms of sub-projects along with the required institutionnal arrangements.
Likewise a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) will be prepared to prepare for possible unvoluntary

                                                      5
                                                                                                           ISDS


resettlements occuring during the project.

II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.

Will be determined at pre-appraisal mission.
The EA will be fully disclosed at the latest 6 months after effectiveness through Infoshop as well as within
Senegal both at the national and the local level.

E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or
on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.

[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
          management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
          technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
          projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
          issues.

F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                         Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                        Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                             Not Applicable Not Applicable

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                             Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                             Not Applicable Not Applicable

Pest Management Plan:                                                      Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                             Not Applicable Not Applicable

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                                Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                             Not Applicable Not Applicable

                                                      6
                                                                                                   ISDS


If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.

Signed and submitted by               Name                                               Date
Task Team Leader:                     Moctar Thiam                                       02/03/04
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:

Approved by:                         Name                                                Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Thomas E. Walton                                        02/05/04
Sector Manager/Director               C. Sanjivi Rajasingham                             02/05/04

