                                 PROPOSALTO RESTRUCTURE
      CASAMANCEEMERGENCYRECONSTRUCTIONSUPPORT PROJECT                                           42528
                                       (CREDITNO.3982-SE)

                                      PROJECTDATASHEET

Date:          February20,2008                      Task Team Leader: DembaBalde
Country:      Senegal                               Sector Manager:        C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
Project Name: Casamance Emergency                   Sector Director:       John Henry Stein
ReconstructionSupport Project                       Country Director:      MadaniM.Tall
Project ID: PO69207                                 Environmentalcategory: B




FY                    2004           2005          2006          2007          2008          2009




The project'soverallobjectives are to (i) facilitate speedy restoration inCasamanceo f a favorable
economic andsocial environment, similar to that existinginthe rest of Senegal; (ii) lay the ground
for the region's sustainablelong-termdevelopment,while respectingits specificities. This is
achievedby (i) demobilizingand reintegrating2,300 combatantsand other victims directly affected
by the conflict as well as their families and ensuringthe social and economic reintegrationo fex-
combatants,their families and other groups directly affectedby the conflict; (ii) reconstructingand
rehabilitatingpublic, social and economic infrastructureinthree major sectors:health, transport and
education; and (iii) formulatinga long-termdevelopmentprogramaimedat bringingthe levelo f
development in Casamanceupto the averagelevelof other regions in Senegal.
RevisedProjectDevelopmentObjectives/Outcomes:
Contributeto strengtheningthe conditions for a lastingpeace and sustainabledevelopment inthe
CasamanceRegionthrough the provisionof essentialinfrastructureand securing key investments.
One proposednew outcome indicator:one significantinvestment inthe tourism sector andtwo in
agri-businessin Casamanceare secured.


A.        INTRODUCTORYSTATEMENT

1.            This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to introduce the
following changes in the Casamance Emergency Reconstruction Support Project (CERSP) and
accompany amendments to the project's legal documents.

2.            The proposed changes will support the full realization o fthe revised Project Development
Objectives and outcomes as well as optimal utilization o f undisbursed funds from IDA (US$5.4
million equivalent or 27 percent, as o fto date).

3.        The restructuring measuresbeingproposed are to:

          (a) simplify, but not hndamentally alter, the scope o f the original Project Development
          Objectives (PDOs);

          (b) scale back and refocus the Demobilization, Reinsertion, and Reintegration (DRR)
          component on information, sensitization, and social mobilization o f all stakeholders and
          beneficiaries;

          (c) refine the outcome and intermediate outcome indicators to better monitor actual project
          activities and impacts;

          (d) clarify and simplify the institutional arrangement for implementation o f the project;

          (e) strengthen the environmental implementation performance;

          (f)reallocate credit proceeds to scale up infrastructurerehabilitation; and

          (g) extend the credit closing date by one year.

4.        As a result o f these changes, the project is expected to be more effective at achieving the
proposed PDO: Contribute to strengthening the conditions for a lasting peace and sustainable
development in the Casamance region through the provision of essential infrastructure and
securing key investments. As revised, this PDO is in line with the government strategy o f creating an
environment conducive to a lasting peace in Casamance.

B.        BACKGROUNDAND REASONSFOR RESTRUCTURING

5.        The CERSP is co-funded by IDA (US$20 million) and by the Government o f Senegal
(US$l.60 million equivalent in counterpart funding). The project was approved on September 9,
2004, and the IDA Credit became effective on January 12, 2005. Actual implementation o f activities
only started on February 1, 2006 due to delays in putting together the project implementation team.
The closing date o f the project is May 31, 2008. The original project development objectives were to
(i)facilitatespeedyrestorationinCasamanceofafavorable economicandsocialenvironment,similar
to that existing in the rest o f Senegal; and (ii)lay the ground for the region's sustainable long-term
development, while respecting its specificities. The specific objectives were to: (i)demobilize and
reintegrate 2,300 combatants and other victims directly affected by the conflict as well as their
families and ensure the social and economic reintegration o f ex-combatants, their families and other
groups directly affected by the conflict; (ii)reconstruct and rehabilitate public, social and economic
infrastructure in three major sectors: health, transport and education; and (iii)formulate a long-term
development program aimed at bringing the level o f development in Casamance up to the average
level o f other regions in Senegal.

6.       The original components o f the project were structured around three objectives, as briefly
described below:



                                                       1

         Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration of Combatants (USS3.15 million): The
objective of this component was to support the demobilizationof 2,300 combatants, their reinsertion
over a 6- to 12-month period and their socio-economic reintegration through local development
projects and other communityactivities.
         Infrastructure Rehabilitation (US12.46 million): The purpose o f this component was to
finance the reconstruction and/or rehabilitation of major infrastructures in the transportation,
education, andhealthsectors.
         Support for Long-Term Development Program Preparation and Cross-cutting issues
including monitoring & evaluation, conflict warning and prevention, social mobilization, social
and environmental activities, project management (US4.39 million). This component aimed at
funding studies (hydraulics, land tenure, transport, tourism, private sector development,
environmental and natural resources), and salaries, equipment, and capacity building of the Project
CoordinatingUnit.

7.       ANRAC, the administrative structure under the authority of the Prime Minister, has so far
playedthe role of the Project's implementingagency. ANRAC's OversightCommittee is in charge o f
the strategic orientationof all development interventions in Casamance,while the SteeringCommittee
reviews and approves annual action plans, budget and financial reports o f the project and carries out
liaisonfunctions.

8.       The projecthas been rated MarginallyUnsatisfactory (MU) for ImplementationProgress (IP)
and Development Objectives (DO) due to difficulties with the DRR component and weak
management, Disbursementshave laggedexpectations, and by the end ofNovember 2007,44 percent
of project funds had been disbursed as opposed to 51 percent disbursement forecast for the same
period. The indicators related to the DRR component were not attained: (i)100 percent of identified
ex-combatants reintegrated; and (ii) 100 percent o f persons identified as directly affected by the
conflict have received reintegration support. Progress, however, was made in some components. In
particular,significantprogress was made in the InfrastructureRehabilitationcomponent as detailed in
Annex 1 and summarized below. In the transport sub-sector, the initial objective of building 50
kilometersof rural roads was revised taking into account the social demands made by the population.
As a result, 251 kilometersof rural roadshave been built. Inthe health sub-sector, 24 healthposts out
of 50 (48 percent) and 25 maternity clinics out of 30 were reconstructed or rehabilitatedto meet the
population's demand for basic social services.Rehabilitationwork of the psychiatricclinic in Keniais
under way. The objective in the education sub-sector was achieved beyond the target as 141 (117
percent) classrooms, insteadof 120originallyplanned, were reconstructedand rehabilitated.

9.       While some progress was achieved, performance was not satisfactory. The main
constrainingfactors were:

          Overambitious Project Development Objectives.The originalproject was a responseto a
         20-year conflict with complex political ramifications. Currently, the socio-economic and
         political context in Casamance and the changing realitieson the ground are not conducive to
         achieving peace objectives, as anticipated during the project design under the DRR
         component. The original PDO, therefore, addressed higher level outcomes that were beyond
        the technical scope and capacity of what the projectcouldachieve.

            Complex institutional arrangement for project implementation including the
         Environmental Management Plan (EMP). Key shortfalls includedthe lack of clarity in the
         distribution of roles and responsibilitiesbetween ANRAC and other implementationactors;
         for example, the General Director of ANRAC plays both supervisory and implementation
        roles at the same time. Implementation of the Environmental and Social Management
        Framework (ESMF) and the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) was weak due to lack of
        understanding of the role of the environment in the overall project implementationprogram,
        as well as poor sensitizationof the stakeholders.




                                                   2

           Weak leadership and strategic project management. In the face of a no-war-no-peace
         situation, it was difficult to attract the best staff in the region. In addition, the project team
         does not have any communicationstrategy, whereas it is in dire needofone.

10.      As a result, projectIP andDO ratingshaveremained"Marginally Unsatisfactory"to date.

11.      Based on the above-mentioned constraints, as well as the difficulties related to the
unstable situation of the Casamance and the subsequent disruption of the economic and social
life of the population, the Government and IDA agreed to restructure the project. This would
allow the IDA and Government funds to be put to more productiveuse in order to achieve expected
outcomesand preparethe conditions for lastingpeaceand development ofthe region.

12.      The restructured project is in line with the government strategy of creating a favorable
security climate in order to fully exploit the great economic potentials of the region that could
bring significant economic development to the local population. The restructuring has been
endorsedby the projectOversight Committeechaired by the Prime Minister.

C.       PROPOSED CHANGES

13.      Outlinedbelow is an overview of proposedchanges in the restructuring.Annex 3 provides a
snapshot ofthose changes.

           The PDO is more focused in terms of content and outcome indicators, so that it is easier
to implement and monitor. For efficiency purposes, the initial PDOs of the project have been
consolidated into one stronger and more precise PDO as follows: Contribute to strengtheningthe
conditions for a lasting peace and sustainable development in the Casamance Region through
the provision of essential infrastructure and securing key investments. Given current conditions
in Casamance, the project can support the creation o f an enabling environment conducive to private
investment and the resumption of local economic development activities.One proposednew outcome
indicator is to secure one significant investment in the tourism sector and two investments in
agribusiness inCasamance.

            The DRR component is redesigned and scaled down. As restructured, the DRR
component will focus on information, communication, social mobilization o f all stakeholders and
beneficiaries. The objective of the Information sub-component is to reinforce the foundations for
peace and the conditions for sustainable development by conducting workshops, sensitization
programs, capacity building activities, and disseminating the achievements of the projectto all actors.
The objective o f the Communication sub-component is to establish a participatory mechanism to
reach out to opinion leaders, political, religious and civil society leaders, artists and other influential
community members and foster them in buying into and owning the peace process. This will
encourage them to take the lead role in implementation.Communicationactivities will be conducted
through media campaigns, roundtable discussions, socio-cultural,youth and gender related activities.
The objective o f the Social Mobilization sub-component is to reinvigoratethe communal dynamics
that existed but were negativelyimpacted by the conflict. More specifically, the goal is to revive the
traditional intra-communal mechanisms designed to enhance conflict resolution and management.
The launching o f the social mobilization sub-component will be done through the celebration o f a
Peace Day andthe identificationo f a Peace Champion. The idea is to bringthe community together to
commemoratetheir accomplishments annually. The day will be markedby the celebration of cultures,
political debates, communityradio andTV programs,sportingactivities and other diverse events.

           Infrastructure, the most successful component to date, is scaled up. This component
seeks to improve key infrastructure in education, health, transport, including the electrification of
rural medical centers. Most o f the work is close to completion. The revised component will bring in
additional functionalities to increaseconvenience, usage and durability:safety fences, sanitary blocks,
wells, shutters, medical equipment and bedding. The Education sub-componentwill concentrate on
the constructionof 31 school fences, 15 sanitary blocks with six units each, 21 wells equipped with
manual pumps and the rehabilitationof 14 additionalwells. The Health sub-componentwill focus on

completing the psychiatric clinic of Kenia, which will be fully equipped and connected to the
electricity grid and water distribution network. Fences for 20 medical centers will be built, 21 wells
equipped, 4 additional wells equipped and rehabilitated, and 25 centers will be linked to the electricity
grid. The Transport sub-componentwill focus on completing two earth roads, namely Selety-Bandial
and Bantancountouyel-Medina Elhadj-Bancountou Maounde.

           The Results Framework is simplified and provides a practical basis to better monitor and
evaluate the project activities. As noted above, a new outcome indicator pertaining to investment
aspects is proposed(See Annex 2).

           The institutionalarrangement is simplified and clarified. (i)ANRAC will be limited to
coordinating and harmonizing the reconstruction and development efforts undertaken by all partners
and donor agencies in Casamance; (ii)the Prime Minister's Office administrates the project whose
implementation is entrusted with an autonomous unit based in Ziguinchor, Casamance, under the
direct supervisionofthe project's SteeringCommittee.

            The project closing date is extended from May 31, 2008 to May 31, 2009 to
accommodate the revised implementation schedule, in particular for the DRR component.

           Funds are reallocated to support the proposed changes. Essentially, funds from the less
performing DRR component will be reallocated to the infrastructure component (see details in
Annex 4).

D.       ANALYSIS

14.      Overall, the proposed changes do not affect the project's original economic, financial, and
technical analyses. The restructuring does not involve any exceptionsto Bank policies.

15.      The proposed changes do not raise the environmental category of the project nor trigger new
safeguard policies. The rehabilitation works themselves will not pose negative impacts that cannot be
remedied by contractors during the construction period. The existing Social and Environmental
Assessment (SEA) remains valid, as does the existing Process Framework (PF) and Resettlement
Policy Framework (RPF).

E.       EXPECTEDOUTCOMES

16.      The outcome and intermediate outcome indicators have been redefined in accordance
with the restructured components (see Annex 2 and Annex 3). The revised set of activities under
the DRR is expected to restore people and investors' confidence in Casamance and in turn promote
new investments in the two main regional resources: tourism and agri-business.Intermediate outcome
indicators have been revisited to reflect the change of the DRR component and the scale up of the
infrastructure component.

F.       BENEFITS AND RISKS

17.      Benefits. As restructured, the project is expected to benefit the population of Casamance in
the following ways:

e        Strategically, a new approach to achieve the goal and objectives of the project is proposed.
This strategy will prepare the ground for a well-structured and forward-looking demobilization and
reintegration program for ex-combatants including the identification and mapping of social actors.
The new approach is social mobilization of all actors including opinion leaders, through a
comprehensive communication strategy. The communication and social mobilization will be pro-
active and not tied up to the final signing of the PeaceTreaty.

e        In terms of execution of project activities, the implementation by a small unit would improve
efficiency and effectiveness in the implementation of activities by ensuringthe speed of disbursement


                                                     4

and at the same time optimizing the coordinationof ANRAC interventions in Casamance. This will
reinforcethe credibilityof the peace processandwill certainly encouragesocio-economicinvestments
in Casamance.Taking into account the actual momentumof activities in the field, it is expectedthat
implementationof the proposedrestructuringwill turn around the project to a satisfactory rating and
ultimateachievement o fthe ProjectDevelopmentObjective.

18.     Risks. The following risksare considered:

e       Politicalrisks:Commitmentto movethe peace process forward would require high degree of
accountability and responsibility o f the different players. Experience in the implementationof the
Infrastructurecomponent shows that support of development partners could be a strong impetus for
promotingpeace and development in Casamance. Ultimately, the success of the proposed strategy
will dependon the active involvementof the authorities at the highest level.

e       Implementationrisks: All implementation risks must be considered, including lack o f staff
assigned by the Ministry o f Health and the Ministry of Education. The implementation of
infrastructure activities implies that regular budgetary and administrative resources for the
maintenanceand operation o fthe infrastructureare available. Lack of maintenanceofthe rehabilitated
infrastructure would adversely affect the quality of service delivery and the sustainability of the
infrastructureitself. To mitigate these risks, it is recommended to support the creation or revival o f
health and parents' committees for rehabilitated schools and health centers. This activity will be
carried out under the social mobilizationand sensitization strategy. As for the transport infrastructure,
it is suggested to ensure appropriation of the rehabilitated network by the national road agency
(AATR).




                                                     5


                           Annex 1: Assessment of Project Achievements

Infrastructure

 1.      At mid-term, the project almost entirely achieved its main objectives o f ensuring the
reconstruction and rehabilitation o f major public and socio-economic infrastructure, namely transport,
health and education infrastructure, which is already being used by most o f the population. In the
transport sub-sector, initial objectives o f building50 kilometers o f rural roads for an estimated cost o f
CFAF 3.5 billion were revised taking into account the population's demand and converting the 50
kms of paved roads to 251 kms of earth roads. As a result, 251 kms of rural roads for a total cost of
CFAF 3.143 billion have beenbuilt.

2.       Inthe health sub-sector, 24 health posts out of 50 (48 percent) and 25 maternity clinics out of
30 have been reconstructed or rehabilitated to meet the population's demand for basic social services.
Rehabilitation work o f the psychiatric clinic in Kenia is under way.

3.       In the education sub-sector 141 (117 percent) classrooms instead of 120 originally planned,
have beenreconstructed and rehabilitated.

Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration

4.       The objectives o fthe DRRcomponent have not been achieved since the PeaceTreaty has not
been signed or concluded. The signing o f a Negotiations Agreement between the Government and
MFDC (Mouvement des Forces Ddmocratiques en Casamance) in December 2004 did not lead to
peace in Casamance. As a result, the implementation o f DRR activities could not achieve the
demobilization and reintegration o f combatants. Nonetheless, the project coordination team has done
an excellent job in finalizing all the preparatory activities. A set o f methodological instruments
necessary for DRR was prepared and is ready for use. Information and sensitization campaigns
targeting MFDC, victims o f land mines, rural communities' leaders and NGOs were conducted
throughout Casamance, significantly improving the population's perception o f the project. The socio-
economic opportunities o f reintegration were identified under the study conducted by the Project
Coordination Unit.

5.       Currently, the socio-economic and political context in Casamance is not conducive to
achieving the DRR objectives as anticipated duringthe project design. Indeed, the formation o f ajoint
MFDC-Government Commission in charge o f identifying combatants to be disarmed and
demobilized, a prerequisiteo f the implementation o f the DRR component, would not be possible.

Transversal activities

6.       All transversal activities related to advocacy, sensitization, and communication for peace,
conflict warning and prevention, and social mobilizations are consolidated under the DRR
component. So far, none o f the studies scheduled in view o f formulating the long-term development
o f Casamance has been started. The various studies planned under the long-term development activity
were reduced to the formulation o f three fundamental studies: reference and impact studies on socio-
economic infrastructure, and prospective study on the development o f the Casamance. The monitoring
and evaluation o f the project system in place is satisfactory. The project has established a
computerized monitoring and evaluation system, which is an excellent mechanism for coordinating
activities and guiding the decision-making process in Casamance. The system includes a geographic
information system to locate all the infrastructures and a website' designed to disseminate project

' httv://www.anracvarc.net

                                                     6

activities to a wider audience and stakeholders in a pro-active manner. In addition, a database was
created to identify the profile of ex-combatants and vulnerable groups and aid in the managemento f
reinsertionandreintegration.

Environmental and Social Safeguards

7.       As per World Bank safeguard policies on environmental assessment (OP 4.01) and on
involuntary resettlement (OP 4.12), the CERSP prepared an Environmentaland Social Management
Framework (ESMF) and a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) with screening mechanisms to
ensure that potential environmentaland social issues generated by the sub-projects are adequately
addressed to minimize their impact. However, the environmental implementationperformance was
weak due to a number of factors including unclear institutionalarrangements for the implementation
o f the EnvironmentalManagementPlan (EMP), difficult terrain to operate on, lack of understanding
and involvemento f the role of the environment in the overall project implementationprogram, and
poor sensitizationofthe stakeholders.

8.       The safeguard aspects o f the project are rated moderately unsatisfactorybecause of the need
to redress the backlog of environmental and social issues. Accordingly, the restructured project
contains the following lines of actions: (i) prepare an environmental audit (by March 2008) that will
outline the environmental and social impacts of the already carried out sub-projects and
recommendationsto retroactively address those impacts if needbe; (ii) commission an environmental
sensitization programthat will target institutionssuch as hospitals, schools, roadagencies and related
infrastructure institutions and the directly affected communities to improve the management of the
social and environmental aspects of sub-projects; (iii) prepare an environmental performance and
monitoring plan with clear measurable indicators by March 2008; (iv) devise a progress reporting
mechanism that will provide the Borrower and the Bank clear performance reports on a quarterly
basis; and (v) visit of the Participatory Local Development Project's (PLDP) activities by the team's
environmental specialist in order to gain knowledge and experience on management of
environmental- and socially-relatedissuesof similar sub-projects.

Institutional Arrangements

9.       The institutional set-up for the implementation of activities has been ineffective. Key
shortfallswere: (i) the OversightCommittee created in November 2004 (its chair appointed in April
2005) never convened a single meeting to guide the overall implementationstrategy; (ii) the Steering
Committee created in 2004 never met to examine and approve the project action plans and budget;
(iii)thelackofclarityintermsoftherolesandresponsibilitiesbetweenANRACandCERSPpersists
as the DirectorGeneralo f ANRAC continues to play bothsupervisory and implementationroles at the
same time; (iv) the absence of clear leadership and team building constrained the collaborative
implementation efforts o f the team and led to dysfunctional internal units (financial/administrative
management); and (v) the creationof an autonomousproject implementationunit outside of ANRAC
by other developmentpartners hada negative impact on coordinationand harmonizationefforts.

10.      It was agreed during the March 2007 Mid-Term Review (MTR) that (i)the Steering
Committee, which includes representatives o f the Ministry o f Finance (Direction de la Cooperation
Financihre, DCEF and Direction de la Dette et de I'Investissernent, DDI), will review, validate and
approve the annual budget and work plan as well as the quarterly activity and financial report of the
project; (ii) the project implementation unit will coordinate technical activities, contracts
administration, quality control, fmancial management, procurement and monitoring and evaluation;
and (iii) a fiduciaryteam will helpclearly separatethe roles of ANRAC and the projectunit.

Financial Management

11.      Duringthe supervision missionof October 2007, the project financial management was rated
moderately satisfactory as the project succeeded in implementing a financial management system.
However, timely production of quarterly financial management reports by the project team was a
major bottleneck. In this regard, the MTR mission strongly recommended that an accountant be


                                                   7

recruited, in addition to the project's financial management specialist, to improve financial
management performance so that reports are produced in a timely manner and shared with the Bank
and other key stakeholders. ANRAC was responsible for administering the management of
counterpart funds, which meant mobilizing and transferring money to the Project Coordination Unitto
cover expenses in respect to consultants' and contractors' fees, and salaries for project support staff.
This was not successfully carried out and therefore resulted in regular delays in making payments to
contractors. Hence, the MTR mission strongly recommendedthat this matter be resolved. Indications
by the Ministry of Finance are that CFAF 200 million were budgeted for 2007 and 2008 to address
this issue. However, the financial management rating has recently improved as indicated in the
December2007 supervision mission, and the 2007 counterpart funds were effectively transferred.

Procurement

12.     The poor and inadequate procurement plans, weak monitoring system, and poor filing of
procurement reports were due to the resignation of the procurement specialist within the Project
Coordination Unit.The hiring of a short-termprocurement specialist resolvedthe issues.

Legal Covenants

13.     Legal covenants regarding the creation of the joint DRR Commission and therefore
disarmament, demobilization and reintegration activities have not been implemented since the Peace
Treaty has not been signed. The project is in compliance with all other legal covenants.




                                                 8


                        Annex 2: ResultsFrameworkof RestructuredProject

               PDO                       Outcome Indicators           Use of project Outcome Information
Contribute to strengthening the    1, Increase school gross          These results will be used to re-launch
conditions for a lasting peace     enrollment rate to the level it   the long-term development o f
and sustainable development in was before the conflict (93           Casamance with the return o f the
Casamance through the              percent) and increase the use o f population, full involvement o f donors
provisiono f essential             health facilities by 40 percent.  and private investors.
infrastructure and securing key    2. Secure one significant
investments.                       investment inthe tourism sector
                                   and two in agri-business in
                                   Casamance.


    Intermediary Outcomes               IntermediateOutcome               Use of IntermediateOutcome
                                               Indicators                          Monitoring
-Component     1:DRR               1. B y end o f 2008, the          These results will allow gauging the
   Information:Create the          negotiations' rounds between      effectiveness o f the advocacy strategy
conditions for peace and           the MFDC and the Government       inthe peace process and the subsequent
sustainable development by         o f Senegal, the so-called        effective demobilization o f rebels.
conducting a sensitization         Foundiougne rounds o f
program.                           negotiations, have resumed.
- Communication:      Reach out
to opinion leaders (political
figureheads, religious and civil
society leaders, artists, and
other influential memberso f
the community) to buy into the
peace process and ownership
o f it.
- Social  mobilization:
Mobilize local communities
for peace.
Component2: Infrastructure
- Rehabilitate                     1, Number o f communities         Gauge the effectiveness o f the strategy
                the road and       connected to the core road        to improve not only the access to better
-river infrastructure network.     network (all-weather roads).      social services, but also to promote the
   Support the restoration o f the 2. Number of schools and          peace process as a whole.
functionality o f rehabilitated    health posts reopened and
education infrastructure.          functional.
-  Support the restoration o f
rehabilitated health
infrastructure.
Component 3: Assess the            Integration o f project's M&E     Studies will help the government to
prospects for the long-term        system into regular operations    prepare the detailed long-term
development o f the                o f local government.             development plan o f the region.
Casamance.




                                                     9


                                      Annex 3: Summary of ProposedChanges

                   What has changed                                                 Comments
1. Development Objective has not changed in its           Before: (i)Facilitate speedy restoration in Casamance o f
content, but is simplified and consolidated.               a favorable economic and social environment similar to
                                                          that existing in the rest o f Senegal; (ii)lay the ground
                                                           for the region's sustainable long-term development,
                                                          while respecting its specificities.
                                                          Now:Contribute to strengtheningthe conditions for a
                                                           lasting peace and sustainable development in
                                                           Casamancethrough the provisiono f essential
                                                           infrastructure and securing kev investments.
2. One outcome indicator has been added. The other        Added outcome indicator: secure one significant
intermediate indicators related to the DRRcomponent        investment in the tourism sector and two in agri-
have been changed.                                         business inCasamance.
                                                           Intermediate indicators Before: (i)100 percent o f
                                                           identified ex-combatants reintegrated; (ii)100 percent of
                                                           persons identified as directly affected by the conflict
                                                           have received support for reintegration.
                                                          Now:(i)by end of 2008, the negotiations' rounds
                                                           between MFDC and the Government o f Senegal, the so-
                                                           called Foundiougne rounds o f negotiations, have
                                                           resumed.
3. O f the three specific objectives, only the one related Before: support the demobilization, reinsertion and
to DRR has been changed.                                   reintegration o f all identifiedex-combatants o f various
                                                           groups (i.e,, irregular forces) involved inthe Casamance
                                                           conflict)
                                                          Now:(i)create the conditions for peace and sustainable
                                                           development by conducting a sensitization program;
                                                           (ii)reachouttoopinionleaderstobuyintothepeace
                                                          process; (iii) mobilize local communities for peace.
4. Institutional arrangement has not been                  ANRAC will concentrate on coordinating donor
fundamentally modified.                                    activities in Casamance while the PIU will focus on
                                                           daily management o f project activities. The anchor o f
                                                          the project remains with the Prime Minister's office due
                                                          to the highprofile o f the project.
5. Economic, financial, technical aspects o f appraisal    The economic analysis undertaken inthe original MOP
have not changed.                                          remains relevant.
6. Safeguards (social and environmental) aspects have      The social safeguards' provisions have not changed.
not changed.
7. Fiduciary aspectshave not changed, but a               Annex 4 provides a summary o f the original versus the
reallocation is proposed.                                 proposed project costs by category.
8. Closing date was scheduled for May 3 1, 2008.          A twelve-month extension is proposed from May 31,
                                                          2008 to May 3 1,2009.




                                                          10


           Annex 4: RevisedTableofExpenditureCategories of the Project

       Category            Original   Amount of  Percentage(%) o fExpenditures
                          Amount o f  the Credit         to be Financed
                          the Credit  Allocated
                          Allocated  (Expressedin
                         (Expressedin
                            SDR)
(1) Works                 7,500,000   10,400,000  100% o f foreign expenditures
                                                 and 90% of local expenditures
(2) Goods                  280,000     500,000   100% o f foreign expenditures
                                                 and90% o f localexpenditures
(3) Consultants' services 3,800,000   1,750,000   100% of foreign expenditures




                                      11

