                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR00001432



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-39820)

                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.8 MILLION
                        (US$20.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL

                                      FOR A

     CASAMANCE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION SUPPORT PROJECT



                                   June 24, 2010




Fragile States, Conflict and Social Development (AFTCS)
Country Department AFCF1
Africa Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                    (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2009)

                        Currency Unit =     CFA Franc
                             US$1.00 =      456 CFAF
                                1 SDR =     US$ 1.57

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 - December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AART        Agence Autonome des Travaux Routiers (Autonomous Road Work Agency)

ANRAC       Agence Nationale de Relance des Activités Economiques et Sociales en
            Casamance (National Agency for the Recovery of Social and Economic
            Activities in Casamance).
AGETIP      Agence d'exécution des travaux d'intérêt public contre le sous emploi (Public
            Works Executing Agency)
CERSP       Casamance Emergency Reconstruction Support Project
CP-PRAESC   Comité de Pilotage du PRAESC (PRAESC`s Steering Committee)
CS-ANRAC    Conseil de Surveillance de l'ANRAC (Oversight Council of ANRAC)
DG-ANRAC    Directeur Général de l'ANRAC (ANRAC Director General)
DDR         Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration
DRR         Demobilization, Reinsertion, and Reintegration
ESMF        Environmental and Social Management Framework
EU          European Union
GIS         Geographic Information System
GoS         Government of Senegal
IRR         Infrastructure Reconstruction and Rehabilitation
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MFDC        Mouvement des Forces Démocratiques de la Casamance (Rebellion Movement
            in Casamance)
MTR         Mid-term Review
PIM         Project Implementation Manual
PRAESC      Programme de Relance des Activités Economiques et Sociales en Casamance
            (Recovery Program of Social and Economic Activities in Casamance)
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme

                           Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekweseli
                         Country Director: Habib M. Fetini
                          Sector Manager: Ian Bannon
                     Project Team Leader: Demba Balde
                        ICR Team Leader: Moctar Thiam
                     ICR PrimaryAuthor : Joseph W.B. Bredie
                        SENEGAL
   CASAMANCE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION SUPPORT PROJECT




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 8
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 16
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 18
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 20
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 21
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 25
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 26
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 28
  Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 29
  Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ........................................                                        .... 31
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Casamance Emergency
Country:                Senegal                 Project Name:             Reconstruction Support
                                                                          Project - CERSP
Project ID:             P069207                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-39820
ICR Date:               06/28/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:                 SENEGAL
Original Total
                        XDR 13.8M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 12.4M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 13.8M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 PARC
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/07/2001     Effectiveness:            01/12/2005         01/12/2005
Appraisal:            07/26/2004     Restructuring(s):                            02/20/2008
Approval:             09/09/2004     Mid-term Review:          03/19/2007         03/06/2007
                                     Closing:                  05/31/2008         12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory            Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                                15                  15
Other social services                                                 25                     5
Primary education                                                     10                  10
Roads and highways                                                    50                  70


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction                  33                  35
Rural non-farm income generation                                      17                  10
Rural services and infrastructure                                     33                  50
Social safety nets                                                    17                  5

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Habib M. Fetini                      Iradj A. Alikhani
Sector Manager:            Ian Bannon                           C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
Project Team Leader:       Demba Balde                          Moctar Thiam
ICR Team Leader:           Moctar Thiam
ICR Primary Author:        Joseph W. B. Bredie


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project's objectives are to support the Government of Senegal in: (i) facilitating a
speedy restoration in Casamance of a productive economics and social environment




                                                 ii
similar to that existing in the rest of Senegal; (ii) laying the groundwork for sustainable
long-term development in the region, while fully respecting its specificities

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The project objective is to contribute to strengthening the conditions for a lasting peace
and sustainable development in Casamance through the provision of essential
infrastructure and securing key investments.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                                 Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                   approval          Target         Completion or
                                                  documents)         Values          Target Years
                  1. Increase school gross enrollment rates to the levels it was before the conflict
Indicator 1 :     (93%)
                  2. Increase in the use of health facilities by 40%
Value
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                  Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                               Values (from                   Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                 approval                    Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                                documents)                    Target Years
                  1.1 By 2008, the negotiations rounds between the MFDC and GoS, the so-called
Indicator 1 :
                  Foundiougne rounds of negotiations have resumed.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  2.1 Number of communities connected to the core road network (all-weather
Indicator 2 :
                  roads)
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %



                                                  iii
achievement)
Indicator 3 : 2.2 Number of schools reopened and functional.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 : 2.3 Number of health posts reopened and functional.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                3.0 Integration of project M&E system into regular operations of local
Indicator 5 :
                government
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                             IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     12/13/2004           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     04/19/2005           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     1.18
                                                           Moderately
  3     09/19/2005     Moderately Satisfactory                                            1.34
                                                         Unsatisfactory
  4     05/01/2006     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             2.30
  5     10/31/2006     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             4.64
                            Moderately                     Moderately
  6     12/02/2006                                                                        6.03
                          Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                            Moderately                     Moderately
  7     06/14/2007                                                                       10.31
                          Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                            Moderately                     Moderately
  8     11/25/2007                                                                       11.63
                          Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
  9     05/29/2008     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            15.30
 10     12/05/2008         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   16.26
 11     05/28/2009         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   16.47



                                                 iv
 12    12/30/2009         Satisfactory       Satisfactory                16.87


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 02/20/2008               S       S          13.96




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Casamance's isolation and its consequences. Casamance, the fertile southern region of
Senegal, is geographically almost entirely separated from the rest of Senegal by The Gambia.
Besides the physical isolation, people from Casamance have generally felt isolated fiscally (lack
of decentralization), educationally (restricted access to universities1), and economically
(disadvantaged market access). In addition, grievances over exploitation of land led to tensions
among the people of Casamance. In 1982, these tensions led the Movement of Democratic Forces
for Casamance (Mouvement des Forces Démocratiques de la Casamance ­ MFDC) to issue a
declaration of independence. For almost 30 years, the ensuing conflict between MFDC and the
Senegalese army inflicted death, suffering, displacement, social disruption and destruction on the
people of Casamance.

2.      Background of the Conflict. Casamance comprises three administrative regions,
Ziguinchor, Sedhiou, and Kolda, with a combined area of approximately 28,400 square km and a
population of 1.34 million. At appraisal, the low intensity conflict fuelled by the MFDC's
estimated 1,200 to 2,000 active combatants had resulted in many thousands of lives lost, some
430 persons injured by mines, around 30,000 displaced and 13,000 refugees living in Guinea-
Bissau and The Gambia. An estimated 230 villages had been deserted, 37 schools had been
closed and some 4,000 displaced students housed in make-shift shelters. Many health centers had
been shut down or left unattended and access to health services was further constrained by
destroyed roads. One consequence of this reduction in health services was a significant increase
in maternal mortality (e.g., 1,200 deaths per 100,000 births in Kolda versus the national average
of 510). In agriculture, cereal production dropped by almost 20% between 1990 and 1996, and
revenues from local taxes fell by more than half, which led to a significant reduction in public
investment in infrastructure. Private tourism operators had closed down because of lack of
security.

3.      Peace Initiative. In April 2000, the newly elected third President of the Republic of
Senegal committed to resolving the Casamance conflict and commenced peace negotiations. In
2001 two peace agreements were signed between representatives of MFDC and the Government
of Senegal (GoS). The agreements touched on political issues such as disarmament of armed
groups, liberation of prisoners, freedom of movement, mine clearing, economic and social
recovery, and improved road access to reduce isolation. Despite interruptions in the peace
process (para. 9) and occasional flare-ups of violence, the GoS has sustained efforts to
consolidate an agreement with MFDC for cessation of hostilities and demobilization. Recently,
during the April 2010 Ziguinchor festival, GoS and MFDC both declared that they are ready for
peace talks. The bone of contention, however, remains the location of the peace talks. While GoS
argues that they have to take place anywhere in Senegal, most MFDC factions insist they must
take place outside of the country.

4.     Peace Program. In 2001, in the wake of the agreements and together with donors, GoS
developed the Recovery Program of Social and Economic Activities in Casamance (Programme

1
 There was no university in Casamance until 2006, while high school graduation rates were consistently
higher than in the rest of Senegal.



                                                   1
de Relance des Activités Economiques et Sociales en Casamance - PRAESC). PRAESC's
development was led by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the European
Union (EU) and the World Bank, and financed in part by a grant from the Japan Policy and
Human Resources Development (PHRD) Fund. PRAESC's objectives were to: (i) facilitate a
speedy restoration of a productive economic and social environment in Casamance similar to that
existing in the rest of Senegal; and (ii) lay the groundwork for sustainable long-term development
in the region, while fully respecting its specificities. Specific objectives included: mine clearing;
demobilization, reinsertion and reintegration (DRR) of ex-combatants; local development; and
Supra-Community Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Reconstruction.

5.       Implementation Arrangements for PRAESC. In July 2004, following the adoption of
the amnesty accord, the GoS established the National Agency for the Recovery of Social and
Economic Activities in Casamance (Agence Nationale de Relance des Activités Economiques et
Sociales en Casamance -ANRAC) to implement PRAESC. ANRAC was an administrative entity
under the authority of the Prime Minister with the mandate to clear mines, demobilize, reinsert
and reintegrate ex-combatants, rehabilitate infrastructure, and support local development.
ANRAC would be guided by an Oversight Council (Conseil de Surveillance de l'ANRAC)
chaired by a representative of the President and composed of representatives from ministries
involved in economic and social recovery in Casamance. The Council would guide ANRAC's
activities, approve its programs, procedures and budget, and coordinate between state, local
collectives, NGOs, local populations and development partners. A PRAESC Steering Committee
(Comité de Pilotage du PRAESC) headed by a representative of the Prime Minister would
monitor implementation and an Oversight Committee of ANRAC would examine and approve
annual work programs and budgets. These committees would convene at least twice yearly. The
secretariat functions of the Steering Committee would be carried out by the Director General of
ANRAC.

6.       The World Bank's Response. The World Bank, in the context of the preparation of the
April 2003 Senegal Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), decided that it would support the
PRAESC and finance part of the activities identified in the recovery program. Peace was
considered inevitable. Although different MFDC factions were sending contradictory signals,
violence had virtually ceased. In 2004, to respond quickly to GoS efforts to benefit from the
restoration of peace the World Bank, following special procedures for emergency projects,
negotiated the Casamance Emergency Reconstruction Support Project (CERSP). CERSP was
presented in the "Technical Annex to the Memorandum and Recommendation of the President to
the Executive Directors on a Proposed Credit of SDR 13.8 million (US$20 million equivalent) to
the Republic of Senegal for a Casamance Emergency Reconstruction Support Project" or MOP,
dated August 13, 2004. CERSP was approved by the Board on September 9, 2004 and became
effective on January 1, 2005. It was to be implemented in three years.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

7.      Original Project Development Objectives. The project's overall objectives2 were to
support the GoS in: (i) facilitating a speedy restoration in Casamance of a productive economic
and social environment similar to that existing in the rest of Senegal; and (ii) laying the
groundwork for sustainable long-term development in the region, while fully respecting its

2
 The project objectives are the same as for PRAESC although CERSP included only a (small) part of
PRAESC and financed less than 16% of PRAESC costs.



                                                  2
specificities. This would be achieved by: (1) demobilizing and reinserting 2,300 combatants and
other direct victims of the conflict as well as their families; (2) ensuring the social and economic
reintegration of ex-combatants, their families and other persons directly affected by the conflict;
(3) rebuilding or rehabilitating major social and economic public infrastructure in Casamance in
three major sectors: transport, health and education; and (4) preparing a long-term development
program aimed at bringing the level of development in Casamance up to the average level of
other regions in Senegal, while addressing the original causes of the conflict.

8.       Key Indicators. The three results indicators were: (a) 100% of identified beneficiaries
engaged in legitimate economic activity; (b) 325,000 inhabitants benefitting from improved
accessibility; and (c) restoration of access to basic social services to all villages affected by the
conflict. The results indicators for Component 1 (DRR) were: (1.1) 100% of identified ex-
combatants reintegrated; and (1.2) 100% of persons identified as directly affected by the conflict
have received support for reintegration. For Component 2 (IRR) the indicators for the transport,
education and health sectors were respectively: (2.1) 50 km of paved roads reinforced, 8 bridges
rehabilitated or rebuilt, and 6 pontoon bridges built; (2.2) 120 classrooms rehabilitated and
reopened; and (2.3) 50 health posts, 3 maternity clinics and the psychiatric clinic at Kenia
rehabilitated.

1.3 Revised PDOs (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

9.      Peace Process Interrupted. For the DRR component, preparatory activities commenced
in 2005, but actual implementation could start only upon formal receipt from MFDC of the list of
combatants identified for demobilization. Negotiations between the MFDC and the GoS to that
end continued throughout 2005 and 2006. However, in January 2007, the MFDC leader, Abbé
Diamacoune Senghor, died. Negotiations fell apart and the prospect for formal demobilization
greatly diminished. Senghor's death also weakened the rebel movement. According to some
observers, different factions had turned already to illegal exploitation of drugs and timber, while
others were being controlled by local political interests. The evolution of MFDC from a unified
separatist movement aiming to redress Casamance's grievances to a factional movement driven
more by economic and political considerations was becoming apparent and leading to a loss of
support among the conflict-weary population. For the project team, the changes suggested that it
was increasingly necessary to negotiate directly with local MFDC factions in project areas to
ensure that project activities could be undertaken under conflict free conditions.

10.      Decision to Restructure the Project. In view of the situation, the project team called
for a thorough review of implementation progress, particularly of the DRR component, and
undertook the Mid Term Review (MTR) in March 2007. GoS, management and the team decided
that it was necessary to restructure the project to account for the new situation with regard to
demobilization. The PDO and key indicators were simplified, but not fundamentally altered. The
DRR component was scaled back and strategically refocused, from demobilization based on
agreed amnesty conditions, to bringing peace to the people of Casamance through social
mobilization, prevention of conflict and peace management. Institutional arrangements were
clarified; credit proceeds were reallocated to the infrastructure component, and the credit closing
date extended by one year. The reallocation and closing date extension were reflected in the
April, 2008 amendment to the Development Credit Agreement. The restructuring was approved
by the Board on March 19, 2008.




                                                 3
11.     Revised PDO. The revised project objective was to contribute to strengthening the
conditions for a lasting peace and sustainable development in Casamance through the provision
of essential infrastructure and securing key investments.

12.      Revised Indicators. The outcome indicators of the project results framework (after
restructuring) became: (a) increase school gross enrollment rates to the levels before the conflict
(93%) and increase the use of health facilities by 40%; and (b) secure one significant investment
in the tourism sector and two in agri-business in Casamance. The intermediate outcome
indicators for Component 1 (Information; Communication; and Social Mobilization ­ DRR)
became: (1.1) by end of 2008, the negotiation between MFDC and GoS, the so-called
Foundiougne rounds, have resumed. For Component 2 (Infrastructure - Rehabilitate the Road
and River network; and Support the Restoration of the Education and Health Infrastructure) the
intermediate outcome indicators were: (2.1) number of communities connected to the core road
network (all-weather roads); and (2.2) number of schools and health posts reopened and
functional. The intermediate outcome indicator for Component 3 (Assess the Prospect for Long
Term Development) was: (3.1) integration of the project Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
system into regular operations of local government.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

13.      Original Beneficiaries. At appraisal the number of beneficiaries was estimated at 2,000
combatants, 16,000 family members, some 300 widows and an unknown number of irregular
forces, including child soldiers. Overall, an estimated 325,000 inhabitants would benefit from
improved accessibility in general, and from restored access to basic social services for all villages
affected by the conflict.

14.     Revised Beneficiaries. The number of beneficiaries was not changed at the MTR.

1.5 Original Components3

15.       Part A: Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration (DRR). Conducting a proper
physical and mental discharge of ex-combatants through: (a) the establishment of demobilization
centers for the registration of ex-combatants, and carrying out of counseling activities; (b) the
provision of technical advisory services for the carrying out of health and trauma clinics and
related activities, including HIV/AIDS prevention and counseling activities; (c) support the
relocation and reinsertion in their communities of eligible beneficiaries through: (i) the payment
of relocation expenses; and (ii) the provision of grants for carrying out subprojects in capacity
building for income generating purposes, including the acquisition of small equipment.
Supporting the return of eligible beneficiaries to civilian life and to the social environment of
their communities, including the provision of technical advisory services to the communities for
facilitating the social reinsertion of ex-combatants in their midst. The provision of technical
advisory services to advise eligible beneficiaries on existing professional and economic activities,
including inter alia, in agriculture, small agro-processing industries, trade, tourism, livestock and
fishing.


3
 From "Development Credit Agreement (Casamance Emergency Reconstruction Support Project) between
Republic of Senegal and the International Development Association" November 5, 2004. In the MOP, the
description of the original components is 15 pages long.



                                                  4
16.     Part B: Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Reconstruction (IRR). Carry out the
reconstruction and rehabilitation of social and economic infrastructure, including transport, health
and education facilities, damaged by war or neglect.

17.      Part C: Sustainability of Casamance Development Program. Ensuring the continued
achievement of Program objectives, through the carrying out of preparation and design studies in,
inter alia, hydraulics, land tenure, transport, tourism, private sector development, environment
and natural resources for the long-term development of the Casamance region and the
implementation of the second phase of the Borrower's Program for the Casamance region.
                           4
1.6 Revised Components

18.     Part A: Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration (DRR). The DRR component
would focus on information, communication, and social mobilization of all stakeholders (local
government, civic organizations and communities) and beneficiaries (ex-combatants, their
families and people affected by the conflict). The objective of the information sub-component
was to reinforce the foundations for peace and the conditions for sustainable development by
conducting workshops, sensitization programs and capacity building activities, and disseminating
the achievements of the project to all actors. The objective of the communication sub-component
was to establish a participatory mechanism to reach out to opinion leaders, political, religious and
civil society leaders, artists and other influential community members and encourage them to
support and own the peace process. Communication activities would be conducted through
media campaigns, roundtable discussions, and socio-cultural, youth and gender related activities.
The objective of the social mobilization sub-component was to reinvigorate the communal
dynamics that existed, but were negatively impacted by the conflict, by reviving the traditional
intra-communal mechanisms for conflict resolution and management. Social mobilization would
include the annual Peace Day and the identification of a Peace Champion.

19.      Part B: Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Reconstruction (IRR). Infrastructure, the
most successful component to date would be scaled up. The component would improve key
infrastructure in education, health, and transport, including the electrification of rural medical
centers. The revised component would provide additional support to increase access, usage and
durability: safety fences, sanitary blocks, wells, shutters, medical equipment and bedding. The
education sub-component would concentrate on the construction of 31 school fences, 15 sanitary
blocks with six units each, 21 wells equipped with manual pumps and the rehabilitation of 14
additional wells. The health sub-component would focus on completing the psychiatric clinic of
Kenia which would be fully equipped and connected to electricity and water. Fences for 20
medical centers would be built, 21 wells equipped, 4 additional wells equipped and rehabilitated,
and 25 centers would be linked to the electricity grid. The transport sub-component would focus
on completing two earth roads.

20.     Part C: Sustainability of Casamance Development Program.                  The long-term
development studies had not been commissioned and would be reduced to an impact study, and a
prospective study on the development of the Casamance region. The computerized M&E system,
which included a geographic information system (GIS) for locating all infrastructure sites, would

4
 The description of Part A and B are from "Proposal to Restructure Casamance Emergency Reconstruction
Support Project (Credit No. 3982-SE), Project Data Sheet", February 20, 2008, pages 3 and 4. The
description of Part C is a summary from Annex 1 of the Project Data Sheet.



                                                  5
be made available to the local government. The website http://www.anracparc.net would be used
more intensively to disseminate project activities to a wide audience. A database to identify the
profiles of ex-combatants and vulnerable groups for reinsertion and reintegration would be
available for demobilization.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

21.      Institutional and Implementation Arrangements. The institutional arrangements were
simplified and clarified. ANRAC, which had been both coordinating and implementing project
activities, albeit not effectively, from its office in Dakar, would be limited to coordinating and
harmonizing the reconstruction and development efforts undertaken by all partners and donor
agencies in Casamance. The Oversight Committee would continue to guide implementation of
the project, while the Steering Committee of the PRAESC would monitor the implementation,
entrusted solely to the autonomous unit based in Ziguinchor under ANRAC.

22.      Other Changes. The Results Framework was simplified to provide a practical basis for
better monitoring and evaluating project activities. New outcome indicators for investment
activities were proposed (Annex 2). The Project Closing Date was extended from May 31, 2008
to May 31, 2009 to accommodate the revised implementation schedule, in particular for the DRR
component. A second and final extension of closing date to December 2009 was approved by
management in May 2009. Project Funds were reallocated from the less performing DRR
component to the infrastructure component to support the proposed changes.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

23.     PRAESC was the result of the negotiations between GoS and MFDC, and the
commitment of these parties and the donors to bring about peace. While the general objective of
PRAESC was to restore the economic and social environment in Casamance (through mine
clearing, demobilizing ex-combatants and developing businesses and infrastructure), GoS and the
partners realized that these activities would not address the root causes of the conflict (MOP page
13). PRAESC thus identified critical issues that would more directly address conflict drivers by
focusing on the physical and economic isolation of the region. They included: transport link
between Casamance and Dakar; improved access to specific zones in the Casamance River delta;
and development of tourism, water and natural resources, and land tenure issues

24.      The project preparation and design team, which was led by a lead transport specialist, but
included a conflict specialist, realized that in addition to demobilization, the project had to
grapple with the grievances that fueled the conflict. Project design was a balance between
demobilization and infrastructure, as reflected in the project activities and in the credit allocations
(Annex 1). This balance was changed in favor of infrastructure activities after the MTR when the
prospects for DRR were highly uncertain and the peace benefits of a broader focus on reducing
isolation were apparent.

2.2 Implementation

25.    Implementation arrangements before restructuring were both complex and confusing.
The decision in July 2004 by the GoS to create the heavy and hierarchical ANRAC and give it the
mandate to coordinate, demobilize, reintegrate, reconstruct, and program social and economic


                                                  6
activities, delayed project implementation in several ways. First it took ANRAC's Director
General (DG) almost to the end of 2005 (from July 2004) to recruit staff to fill ANRAC's four
directorates, five units and one department. Few if any of the staff recruited (including the DG)
had experience with economic or social development. Second, what became most difficult were
the combined coordination and implementation mandates and the control over (project) funds.
ANRAC's office was in Dakar, but it used project funds to enlarge the (leased and not centrally
located) project office in Ziguinchor.5 This could happen because financial management and
oversight of ANRAC were weak until the MTR. Although GoS created the PRAESC Steering
Committee in 2005, the Committee first met only in June 2007. ANRAC's lack of focus and
oversight until that time, in addition to the conflicting coordination and implementation mandates,
caused confusion and delays. This issue was finally resolved at the MTR (para. 21).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

26.      The project implementation manual (PIM) included monitoring modalities and verifiable
indictors that were used by ANRAC's M&E unit in Ziguinchor. The unit was provided early with
a GIS, which was used to identify project sites--roads, schools, and clinics--for rehabilitation,
and for site selection by local communities, civil and military authorities and MFDC
representatives. These stakeholders were able to see potential sites on a computer screen, which
was effective in, for example, arriving at the decision by community representatives to
rehabilitate inter-community earthen roads rather than the 50 km of paved highway that were to
be rehabilitated under the project (para. 8). The GIS was part of the computerized information
technology system which was used for field data collection and allowed nearly real-time analysis
of activities. It also included a system to identify beneficiaries, including victims of mines, ex-
combatants and their families, and self demobilized ex-combatants (combatants who returned on
their own), and a project website which provided information to a wide audience.

27.      In general, the M&E system was appropriate. The monitoring reports were timely and
useful in guiding implementation. Achievement of pre- and post-MTR results indicators was
monitored systematically by the unit. The unit produced semi-annual implementation progress
reports. It developed among others the strategy for social mobilization and the project web site.
The unit's report on the achievements of the project at mid-term and the impact evaluation of
infrastructure improvements on the restoration of peace and conflict resolution helped to
formulate the new approach of social mobilization and local peace management at the MTR.
After the MTR, the unit began to systematically evaluate the impact of the project on, for
instance, the impact of the recovery of construction, agribusiness, transport, and tourism on the
well-being of the population and their desire for an end to the conflict. The evaluation studies
were the basis for the impact study and GoS's implementation completion report produced by the
unit.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

28.     The February 2006 supervision mission found that ANRAC's Environment and Social
Impact unit did not understand its terms of reference and was unclear on how to implement the
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF). The framework provided overall
guidelines for environmental and social management; environmental assessment procedures for
each of the micro-projects; environmental and social management instructions for each project

5
  ANRAC had not followed procurement guidelines nor obtained IDA's no-objection and the funds were
returned by the GoS.


                                                 7
component; as well as investment measures to address existing environmental problems. The lack
of oversight (para. 24) and the limited expertise and experience of the environmental specialist
recruited by ANRAC was a concern. Staff arranged for training of the environmental specialist
and assisted the unit with implementing the ESMF.

29.      At the MTR it was decided that AGETIP (Agence d'exécution des travaux d'intérêt
public contre le sous emploi) which was effectively managing the infrastructure works would also
manage the ESMF. The Bank's environment staff would supervise AGETIP's work. The 2009
project impact study by CONEXCI noted improper disposal of medical supplies at one clinic and
erosion at the levy on one rehabilitated road which indicated insufficient attention to the
environment and to maintenance. The Ziguinchor project unit has followed up on the
environmental issue. On maintenance, GoS has an annual maintenance program that includes
roads as well as public buildings such as schools and clinics. The project team has obtained
assurances that the infrastructure rehabilitated under the project will be included in the annual
maintenance program.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

30.      The third component of the project aimed at ensuring the sustainability of the Casamance
Development Program and implementation of the second phase of the Borrower's Program for
the Casamance Region. Although the project has contributed to strengthening the conditions for
peace and reduced the region's isolation through the provision of essential infrastructure, the
infrastructure rehabilitated under the project is just the tip of the iceberg in terms of needs.
Estimates are that some 700 km of roads require rehabilitation, including important connectors
with the rest of the country (crossing The Gambia) and connecting towns and villages, some still
located in areas not yet free of conflict. Projects for demining, restoring agriculture, forest
resources, and social infrastructure supported by donors are in various stages of completion,
relying on the procedures for working with MFDC, the army, and local governments established
under CERSP.

31.      What remains to fully restore Casamance's economic and social environment and reduce
the risk of a resumption of conflict, is to extend coverage of the conflict prevention and peace
management activities to the entire region, and further reduce its isolation. While GoS continues
peace negotiation efforts with MFDC, the World Bank, in the context of developing the
upcoming Senegal CAS may discuss possible options for local and regional development that
would turn Casamance into a future growth pole. To reduce isolation, the Bank and other donors
are partnering with GoS in talks with The Gambia on construction of a bridge across the Gambia
River at Transgambienne. This is one of the three ferry crossings between Casamance and the
rest of Senegal (ferry crossings can still take up to 24 hours to get, for instance, from Ziguinchor
to Dakar). These discussions are part of the new GoS Strategic Development Plan for Casamance
which will be based on the on-going evaluation of PRAESC by the GoS.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

32.     Restoring Casamance's economic and social environment was the agreed objective of the
peace program (PRAESC) and of the Bank project. Almost 30 years of conflict had damaged
considerably the region's once fertile and productive environment. Both the objective and the



                                                 8
design were relevant in that the project made an important contribution to improving the socio-
economic conditions of Casamance and thus helping to improve prospects for sustained peace.

33.     Implementation by the project unit in Ziguinchor, which collaborated closely with civil
and military authorities and MFDC, was also effective in that people started using rehabilitated
roads to access markets, students returned to rehabilitated schools and the sick to clinics without
fear of MFDC attacks. Much of this had been achieved before the MTR despite the fact that
demobilization had not been possible for lack of a formal peace agreement. The restoration of the
economic environment and of access to basic social services had an indirect impact on peace in
that people saw that resolving conflict locally through social mobilization was possible and need
not wait for formal peace and demobilization.

34.      After the MTR the formal change in focus from demobilization toward social
mobilization and conflict prevention was in effect a necessary response to changes in the nature
of the conflict. The long conflict and the increasingly conflict-weary population had weakened
the MFDC politically, financially and militarily. This post MTR approach took advantage of this
situation by establishing 114 social mobilization cells throughout rural and urban areas of
Casamance where communities and leaders resolve disputes and discuss ways of building peace
at the local level. The local conflict resolution and peace management meant that the local MFDC
faction ceased to operate or attack in project areas, and conflicts over land or other assets between
returning refugees and those who stayed behind are generally resolved peacefully (see in
particular Annexes 9 ­10, the report "Stratégies de mobilisation sociale pour la construction
d'une paix durable en Casamance" ANRAC, PARC, Juillet 2008).

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

35.     Strengthening Conditions for a Lasting Peace and Sustainable Development. The
revised PDO of contributing to strengthening the conditions for a lasting peace and sustainable
development (through the provision of essential infrastructure and key investments) has been
largely achieved in the project areas. Even before the MTR the impact of the improved mobility
as a result of the extensive road rehabilitation, and the improved access to basic education and
health services, had led to a reduction in conflict in the project areas. Project staff prepared the
demobilization manual in anticipation of the formal demobilization of ex-combatant that would
come once a consolidated peace agreement would be signed. It also identified (economic)
opportunities for future ex-combatants and procedures for their reintegration into their
communities. These procedures and studies were developed together with the population and
local authorities and laid the groundwork for peace conditions and development.

36.      After the MTR, the renewed emphasis on strengthening conditions for peace through
information, communication and social mobilization has paid off. The demobilization sites,
identified and prepared before the MTR, have been turned into social mobilization cells where
(young) staff works on early warning, prevention of conflict, peace management and information.
Staff provides advice and assistance to people returning to their places of origin on work
opportunities and community reinsertion. They use the manual, the study that identified and
described local opportunities, and the procedures developed as part of the integration program
prepared before the MTR. People visit the cells to discuss and seek help in resolving disputes
over ownership of dwellings or land between returning refugees or ex-combatants and those who
stayed behind. The cells have also become a space where communities can address different
development priorities, such as which road, school or clinic to rehabilitate. In addition, an




                                                 9
estimated 4,000 people participated in peace meetings and benefitted from print, radio or TV
media messages and discussions about peace and long-term development of the region.

37.      The post MTR strategic approach to peace and social mobilization was designed to
assist and create the conditions for communities to accept and reintegrate returning refugees and
combatants. The advantage of the new strategy was that it created the conditions for peace and
demobilization in the communities independent of progress with the high level peace talks
between GoS and MFDC. The community-based conflict prevention and early warning system
developed with the assistance of the staff of the social mobilization cells proved to be effective in
preventing conflict. For instance, an estimated 30 conflicts within and between communities
were resolved between April and December of 2009 alone according to the reports received from
the cells.

38.       The project contributed to sustainable development by addressing the causes of the
conflict (para. 23). These include, for example, the construction of the new bridge connecting the
Karones islands in the Casamance River delta with the mainland and allowing the island's rich
fish resources to get to markets, or the rehabilitated Kolda-Pata road which reopened access to
markets and social services for some 40,000 inhabitants. The construction of new hotels by the
private sector has contributed to the resumption and development of tourism. Implementation of
the ESMF (para. 28) contributed to ensuring that investments were environmentally and socially
sustainable, and the Bank in conjunction with other donors is working with GoS to create a
bridge-based transport link between Casamance and Dakar. In general, the achievement of
providing essential infrastructure, discussed below, contributed to both peace and sustainable
development.

39.     Provision of essential infrastructure. The infrastructure rehabilitation program was
completed before closing. The rehabilitation of 15 inter-community roads has enabled the
resumption of commerce, agriculture and tourism and restored access to basic social services in
90 towns and communities. Traffic has increased while travel costs and time have been reduced.
Commercial and passenger traffic has increased, particularly on the five major transport axes.6
For example, the rehabilitated Kolda-Pata road has restored the important commercial traffic
between Casamance and The Gambia, and a fivefold increase in passenger traffic has been
recorded on several rehabilitated roads.

40.      Education infrastructure was rehabilitated before the MTR, but improvements such as
power, water, fences and educational materials were done after the MTR. The project-supported
education infrastructure--35 schools connected to water and electricity and provided with
equipment--has improved the capacity and the quality of teaching. For instance, the
rehabilitation of classrooms in these schools resulted in an average gross enrollment rate increase
of 145% between 2005 and 2009. The gross primary enrollment rate in Casamance as a whole
was 104% in 2009 exceeding the project target indicator for education by 11%. Exam success
rates in the 35 schools improved by a remarkable 150% in the same period.

41.      One half of the health infrastructure--25 clinics--had been rehabilitated before the MTR.
The other clinics and the provision of power, water and equipment to all clinics was completed
after the MTR. The rehabilitation of the 50 clinics increased the number of patients receiving
treatment by 42%. Between 2005 and 2009, assisted births increased by 20-95%, the availability
of midwife by a factor of 1.8 and nurses by a factor of 2.4. The rehabilitation of the Kenia

6
    Kolda-Pata; Oussouye-Loudia; Ouoloff-Elinkine; Boughary-Bona; and Batancountouyel-Medina Elhadj.


                                                  10
psychiatric hospital in Ziguinchor was also completed, and equipment, including a brain scanner,
delivered. The clinic is treating more than 2,000 patients, including victims of the conflict.

42.    Key Investments. Finally, key investments in agriculture and tourism have been
achieved. A new agro-business Casa Jus opened, a new hotel was built and several others
reopened.

43.      In deciding to fundamentally retain the overall development objectives while not
proceeding with the structured DRR component, the team acted in line with established good
practice in demobilization programs, which suggests not launching a program unless certain pre-
conditions are met, especially a signed peace accord that provides a legal framework for a DRR
program.7 Without these preconditions in place there is considerable risk of re-mobilization as
well as possible perceptions that the Bank is taking sides. The team's decision as part of project
restructuring to focus on access to markets and social services, as well as community-level
conflict management and social mobilization, was also in line with evolving good practice in
DRR programs, only recently codified and referred to as "second generation disarmament,
demobilization and reintegration"8 (see Lessons Learned section for further elaboration). The
time taken to make the decision to restructure the project was justified as the team explained that
this was a result of Government insistence that they were getting closer to concluding a
comprehensive peace agreement which would have thus required a comprehensive DRR program.

3.3 Efficiency

44.      The MOP (page 47) concluded that in the absence of reliable data on the cost of the
conflict it was impossible to calculate the economic rate of return for the project. In this context
as a proxy, a discussion was made to base the analysis on cost-efficiency. The lack of reliable
data affected implementation. The first survey in 2005 of the cost of rehabilitating the main road
system in Casamance by the Autonomous Road Work Agency (Agence Autonome des Travaux
Routiers - AART) suggested that the allocation (CFAF 3.143 billion for the IRR transport
subcomponent) would allow the repair of some 25 community earth roads of an estimated total
length of 900 km.

45.      However, the Bank transport specialist and AGETIP pointed out that this estimate was
over-ambitious as the roads were in worse condition than asserted by AART. In addition, fuel
prices increased dramatically in 2005-7, the dollar CFAF exchange rate fell, and there was almost
no price competition since few companies bid due to security concerns. The average cost for
road rehabilitation was CFAF 16.2 million/km, but varied greatly by region, with CFAF 35.0
million/km in Ziguinchor region and CFAF 12.0 million/km in Kolda. The high cost in
Ziguinchor can be explained largely because laterite (stone powder applied to create the road
surface) had to be transported from quarries near Kolda. In the end, prices were 50-100% higher
than the original estimate and the allocation, even after the increase at the MTR, financed the
rehabilitation of only 15 rural roads with a total length of 241 km.

46.     Overall, in terms of attribution and coverage, and with respect to activities related to
social capital, social mobilization and communication, the entire Casamance land area and
7
  Other preconditions include: (i) trust in the peace process; (ii) willingness of the parties to engage in DRR; and (iii) a
minimum guarantee of security.
8
 UNDPKO, 2010. Second Generation Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration (DDR) Practices in Peace
Operations: A Contribution to the New Horizon Discussion on Challenges and Opportunities in UN Peacekeeping.
Office of Rule of Law and Security Institutions. New York: United Nations.


                                                             11
population have been covered. The 114 conflict prevention cells exist in all communes and rural
councils of the region, basically in every locality where a local government institution sits. In
addition, the programs conducted with the community radios, and other media have reached the
entire population. The infrastructure component was based on a targeting strategy that took into
account conflict but also intra-regional equity. While the project constructed schools, health
posts, and rural roads in areas harboring the epicenter of the conflict (Bignona, Oussouye), it also
covered areas relatively free of conflict (Kolda, Sedhiou) to avoid perceptions of bias or
generating friction among regions. It is estimated that 50% of the Casamance population
benefitted from infrastructure construction and rehabilitation.

47.      In terms of impact, in 2004, there were a number of geographic areas in Casamance
which had restricted access due to high levels of violence, including Sindian, Santhiaba Manjack,
Goudomp, Camaracounda, and the Casamance Natural Reserve Park. In 2010, a large number of
displaced populations have returned to their communities of origin and lead normal lives. As of
today, the only area that is not accessible due to insecurity is the Casamance Natural Reserve
Park. The improved security has allowed and benefited from development activities supported by
the World Bank, the African Development Bank, German Cooperation, USAID, and UNDP. The
conflict itself morphed and, as is often the case, with violence emerging as pockets of banditry
and armed robbery.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

48.     The project did improve conditions to facilitate the reintegration of the population by
improving the social and economic environment of the region (part of the original PDO, see
footnote 2). Economic and social conditions in and around the major urban areas of Ziguinchor
and Kolda, and around 90 towns and villages, has allowed integration and return of refugees and
displaced persons, the resumption of commerce and transport, and access to basic social services.
Whether additional economic and social benefits could have been realized if restructuring had
occurred earlier is difficult to answer since GoS insisted throughout 2006 that a comprehensive
peace agreement was likely and would thus require a formal demobilization program. At the
same time, plans prepared by the project unit in Ziguinchor during this time to demobilize
(voluntary) ex-combatants (the self demobilized) and help victims of mines were rejected by the
World Bank since the MFDC could interpret this as the Bank supporting deserters, and mine
victims were being assisted by UNDP.

49.      In parallel with the negotiations between GoS and MFDC, the project unit and the staff of
the social mobilization cells conducted negotiations at the community level throughout
Casamance, and obtained assurances from the different factions of MFDC that the infrastructure
works would be safeguarded. This conflict management at the local level allowed investments to
be carried out and populations to benefit from them. Although there has been no formal end to the
conflict, GoS is continuing efforts to negotiate a comprehensive peace accord with MFDC.

50.      The difference in ratings between the ICR (moderately satisfactory) and the last ISR
(satisfactory) is based on the fact that the latter focused on the last six months of implementation
and results achieved, while the ICR is based on the totality of the project, including the period
before restructuring when project implementation performance was not satisfactory. It must be
stressed that during the first two years of implementation and before the restructuring, the project
was moderately unsatisfactory.




                                                12
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
51.      The government's ICR does not provide direct evidence of poverty or gender impacts.
However, the report by CONEXI (Annex 9 ­ report number 8) has estimates of the substantial
income and service benefits from the employment of local companies and workers on the
project's infrastructure sub-projects. Local laborers and transport companies earned an estimated
CFAF 440.0 million from the rehabilitation of roads under the project. Similar estimates are not
available for other infrastructure rehabilitation nor for private investments that took place as a
result of peace and improved infrastructure (hotels, taxis and other transport). Tourism is
resuming and two hotels have been rehabilitated and one new constructed. Agricultural, the
mainstay of Casamance's economy has also recovered, generating employment and incomes for
the rural population.

52.     The extensive social mobilization activities, local meetings and media messages, have not
only helped to resolve conflicts and reintegrate refugees, but have generally improved social
cohesion in the towns, villages and the country side. The rehabilitation of 35 mostly primary
schools has impacted positively on gender in that on average the gross enrolment rate for girls in
Casamance was 101.4% in 2007. This compares well to the 88.5% for Senegal as a whole. The
high enrolment rate for girls cannot be entirely attributed to the project since even before the
project communities in Casamance have placed a high value on education and some areas
managed to maintain high enrolment rates for girls, such as Ziguinchor with 98% in 2000.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
53.      The social mobilization cells established under the project have strengthened
communities by providing the space and means for them to discuss peace and address local
conflict. Local government institutions such as education and health service providers have been
strengthened, although ANRAC could have played a larger role if it had been located in
Casamance instead of Dakar. PRAESC's Steering Committee on the other hand worked closely
with local institutions and represented the interests and concerns of the local government at the
central level. The Committee's President is on the staff of the Prime Minister and in that function
actively coordinates Casamance development issues with other government ministries.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
54.      The rapid recovery in school enrolments and gains in education quality is a positive sign
that the people of Casamance have hope for a better and peaceful future and is one of the major
achievements of the project. In addition, the social mobilization cells established throughout
Casamance have been maintained after the project and broadened their scope from resolving local
conflict to providing a way for communities to agree on development priorities.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

55.     There is not one encompassing beneficiary survey, but the project staff has conducted 40
community meetings, and engaged the media to produce a television and 21 radio programs
estimated to have reached more than 4,000 people. The impact evaluation report has anecdotal
evidence that transport costs and travel time have been lowered on the roads rehabilitated under
the project. Besides the recovery in school enrollments mentioned above, the visits to clinics
increased by 42% and the Kenia psychiatric clinic is treating more than 2,000 patients (including
about 90 conflict victims ­ mines, violence, rape, etc.). The clinic, although located in
Ziguinchor, provides psychiatric services across the sub-region through scheduled consultations


                                                13
in other cities and towns.    Beneficiaries surveyed recognize these improvements in their
environment and expressed their appreciation for the project.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

56.     The low-level conflict and the violence that has flared up occasionally during and after
project implementation poses a substantial risk to development outcome. Although the
Foundiougne rounds did not resume, the GoS has maintained talks with all factions of the MFDC.
But, MFDC forces continue to operate often across the border with Guinea- Bissau or The
Gambia and the army has limited success in containing or preventing the occasional raids and
attacks. This said, in the project areas, the communities continue conflict prevention and peace
management activities commenced under the project. An example of the sustained regional peace
efforts was the recent call for peace by Casamance religious leaders. These peace efforts and
negotiations, combined with continued efforts to improve infrastructure and lessen isolation, need
to be sustained to reduce the risk to development outcome.

57.      In summary, while there is no comprehensive peace accord and peace is by no means
assured, the project sought to address the root causes of the conflict (sense of exclusion) and
contribute to establishing the conditions for sustainable peace. At the micro level, conflict
resolution mechanisms through the community cells has been an innovative approach which has
helped to mediate conflict within and across communities and in border areas. The cells have
been maintained after the end of the project and appear to be valued by communities. It is argued
that these efforts have contributed to greater social cohesion in conflict areas. As levels of
violence have abated, there is a renewed focus on development reflected in the fact that: (i)
schools and health posts have re-opened; (ii) access to social services and markets has improved,
and (iii) security has improved in most of Casamance. At the macro level, the project drew
attention to the development needs of the region, which may be followed up in the next CAS.
Options may include supporting the GoS to prepare a territorial development strategy, including
the potential of regions, and a Casamance recovery and regional development action plan.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (QEA)
Rating: Satisfactory

58.      The Bank worked closely with GoS and other donors to prepare PRAESC in time and in
sufficient detail to allow immediate financing of activities. The MOP is very detailed and
thorough in: the analysis of the conflict and its consequences; the description of the peace
program; and, in particular, the careful procedures developed for demobilization (which carries
high risks and pitfalls). The Bank did not address the conflicting mandate of ANRAC to both
implement and coordinate the project and manage project funds which caused some initial
implementation delays. However, these inconsistencies were corrected at MTR with the
restructuring of the project. The team identified three implementation risks--renewed insecurity,
land tenure problems, and premature deterioration of road infrastructure--but the risks associated
with the peace process including a formal agreement to demobilize, which were considerable,
were not addressed. Overall QEA is considered satisfactory.



                                               14
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

59.     The eight supervision missions were well spaced (5 to 13 months intervals) and staffed
(procurement and financial management staff on every one, and environment and conflict staff on
several missions). The Task Team Leader was stationed in Dakar (where ANRAC had its office).
However, while the team worked closely with the Ministry of Economy and Finance and
AGETIP, it did not have effective relations with ANRAC. Early problems with procurement,
financial management and safeguards were noted and discussed, but not solved until the MTR.
But the team did have effective relations with the implementation unit in Ziguinchor. It assisted
the unit through regular field visits and frequent contacts. The team and management became
concerned about the delay with the DRR component, but relied on the GoS to address the issues
that caused the delay. The restructuring of the project at MTR was thorough and the new
direction of demobilization and peace through information, social mobilization and peace
management was both strategic and effective.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

60.      The Bank worked effectively with the GoS and donors since 2001 to prepare the peace
program for Casamance. The Project Information Document for CERSP was ready in early 2004
and CERSP was approved in November that year. The MOP was detailed and incorporated
lessons from other post-conflict projects, particularly regarding demobilization of ex-combatants.
At the same time, the Bank may have been overly optimistic and ambitious with regard to
demobilization and did not properly identify risks related to delays or total lack of progress with
this key activity. Although the Bank insisted on changes to ANRAC's structure to satisfy
fiduciary requirements (MOP page 20) it did not insist that ANRAC's mandate to implement the
project would also have to be changed before implementation could commence. This change was
only made at MTR. Supervision was adequate, but the team was slow in working with ANRAC
to recruit experienced staff (although this was difficult given the security situation), and urge GoS
to activate the PRAESC Steering Committee to provide the much needed guidance to ANRAC.
Implementation improved thanks to the well organized and thorough MTR. Overall, the Bank's
performance is considered moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

61.      The new Government made the important decision in 2001 to open peace talks with the
MFDC after 27 years of conflict. It showed its commitment to the peace process by allocating
funds for PRAESC and CERSP, by establishing ANRAC to implement the peace plan, and by
remaining engaged in the negotiations despite set-backs and delays. Although the creation of
ANRAC was important, locating it in Dakar and providing little or no guidance or oversight over
staff selection and its initial functioning and operations was unsatisfactory. PRAESC's Steering
Committee that was to guide ANRAC first two years after it was established. GoS has
commenced an evaluation of PRAESC in order to develop a new Strategic Development Plan for
the region, which should include efforts to reduce Casamance's isolation further by among other
steps agreeing with The Gambia to construct a bridge on the Gambia River (Transgambian road).




                                                 15
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory for ANRAC, Satisfactory for the Implementation Unit.

62.       ANRAC's office location in Dakar meant that staff had to travel to Casamance to manage
and implement project activities. Staff did so regularly, but besides the core staff in Ziguinchor,
other staff was not normally working in Casamance which limited their effectiveness. ANRAC's
staff was unfamiliar with Bank procedures and guidelines, particularly those for procurement and
financial management. This led to procurement problems and weak financial management of
project funds. Before the MTR, audits were qualified. ANRAC was also strictly hierarchical and
initially had the mandate to not only coordinate but to implement project activities (para. 21). In
practice the unit in Ziguinchor was managing and executing project activities on the ground,
which led to misunderstandings with Bank staff and was only resolved at the MTR.
Unfortunately ANRAC's Oversight Council, comprising representatives of all government
ministries met rarely and was not consulted by ANRAC. Similarly, PRAESC's Steering
Committee which was to guide ANRAC and approve its program and budget only began to
oversee ANRAC in 2007. The Committee was important since it was involved in the peace
negotiations and represented the local government in the Prime Minister's Office. Implementation
improved once the Committee began supervising ANRAC.

63.      Successful implementation of the project was mostly due to the work of the Ziguinchor
unit, which had key staff recruited locally, with experience in infrastructure rehabilitation, and in
dealing with local authorities, communities and MFDC. Unit staff installed and operated the GIS
and information technology system which greatly helped with site selection and field data
collection and analysis. It also monitored project activities and produced GoS's implementation
completion report. The unit's relations with MFDC were especially important in improving
security and establishing conditions for peace.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

64.      GoS took the initiative to seek peace with MFDC and kept the negotiations going despite
setbacks. It contributed project counterpart funds mostly on time and successfully mobilized
other donors to contribute to the reconstruction of Casamance. Transport, Education and Health
Ministries worked effectively with local governments on the rehabilitation of Casamance
infrastructure, making an important contribution to improved socio-economic conditions and
making the sustainability of peace more likely. GoS, however, was slow in clarifying
implementation arrangements with ANRAC and did not properly oversee ANRAC, which
delayed the start of the project by almost a year.

6. Lessons Learned

65.     Conflict resolution needs to adopt a comprehensive approach and respond flexibly.
The Casamance experience confirms that while a demobilization and reintegration program is
important it needs to be complemented with broader development and social mobilization efforts
that can sustain peace. Building trust, rebuilding social capital, and finding areas of common
ground between all stakeholders in parallel with formal negotiations are key to achieving
sustainable results in fragile conditions. This is not a new lesson, but the Casamance experience is
a good example of the second generation DDR approach where, in contrast to traditional DDR
approaches, attention shifts from military structures toward the community as a whole. As argued
by DPKO, in complex environments without a clear negotiated end to the conflict, there is a need


                                                 16
to consider a set of options beyond DDR in response to local conditions and involving stake-
holders. These pragmatic interventions can be developed prior to, alongside or instead of
traditional DDR (DPKO, p. 31).9

66.      Addressing the causes and drivers of conflict is critical to peace prospects. Project
implementation shows that in post-conflict situations it is essential to first identify and then
address the causes of conflict. In the first negotiations, MFDC made it clear that in addition to
issues such as freedom of movement and liberation of prisoners, economic and social recovery
and improved road access to reduce isolation were essential conditions for peace. The peace plan
and the project therefore included both demobilization and rehabilitation of economic and social
infrastructure as key goals. Even before the MTR restructuring, it became clear that the peace
benefits from infrastructure rehabilitation were significant despite the interruption in the
negotiations and further postponement of demobilization.

67.      Providing basic infrastructure is an essential condition for peace. In post-conflict
situations, the impact of providing basic infrastructure that allows refugees to return, students to
go back to school, access to health services, and trade and transport to resume is a prerequisite for
the restoration of people's livelihoods. It is also a prerequisite for the return to peace. It is clear
from the experience of the project that peace cannot be achieved through negotiations alone, but
requires a minimal functional basic socio economic infrastructure. The GoS and Bank decision to
rehabilitate the basic socio-economic infrastructure of Casamance opened the way for private
investors and businesses to invest in tourism, agriculture, transport and commerce. In addition,
the manner in which the infrastructure for rehabilitation is selected through a process of
negotiation with all stakeholders, including MFDC, was essential to ensure not only that the work
could be done in peace, but that all stakeholders and users had a stake in ensuring that
infrastructure would respond to the needs of communities rather than narrower interest groups. In
the end, these infrastructure investments not only contribute to strengthening the conditions for
peace and trust between people and communities, but also suggest that long-term development
has become a common goal in Casamance.

68.     Improving socio-economic conditions in conflict-affected areas can contribute
substantially to peace prospects, even when political negotiations become problematic.
Although conflict risks remain, there are good prospects that peace can be sustained in
Casamance provided GoS maintains its commitment to further improve socio-economic
conditions and reduce the region's isolation. An important lesson from the Casamance experience
and the peace program that the project supported is that when socio-economic conditions are at
the root of the conflict, the Government and its development partners need not wait for the full
completion of the negotiations and a comprehensively negotiated demobilization program.
Provided security conditions are appropriate, actions to improve living conditions and access for
the population can start early. However, it is essential that improvements in the socio-economic
conditions are done in a transparent and participatory manner involving all stakeholders.

69.        Mobilizing the population for conflict prevention and peace should be done in
parallel with high-level negotiations. The project unit in Ziguinchor realized that it had to
obtain agreements from all stakeholders, as well as from local MFDC representatives, on which
infrastructure to rehabilitate. To do this it had to organize community meetings and bring
community leaders together with local and central government officials and MFDC
representatives. Conflicting interests within and between communities as to which road, school
9
  DPKO points out that second generation DDR has evolved from practice, where practitioners have had to adapt in
circumstances where the preconditions for traditional DDR are not present.


                                                        17
or clinic to restore had to be resolved. These meetings mobilized the communities to discuss the
implications of their decisions, as well as the need to sustain peace in order to benefit from these
investments. This grassroots mobilization took place even when high-level negotiations were
dead-locked or interrupted, but meant that communities, and local areas gradually became
conflict-free and the population began taking responsibility for mediating and resolving local
conflicts.

70.      The social mobilization cells were an innovative conflict resolution system at the
local level. The early warning, conflict prevention and peace management system that was put in
place with the creation of the large number of social mobilization cells became an effective
conflict resolution system at the local and community level. The project team understood that
conflict drivers and grievances (social and economic isolation, land issues, and ethnic and
religious tensions) had not gone away, but rather in some cases had intensified with the long
duration of the conflict. It was highly appropriate therefore to put in place a system to address
these issues after having created the conditions for people, refugees and combatants to return as a
result of the rehabilitated infrastructure. The social mobilization thus became the primary vehicle
for the population to address local conflicts, and the cells succeeded in creating innovative ways
to communicate, influence behavior, and restore social capital at the community level. Although
the project has closed, the cell structures in rural communities are now used as a basis for
community-decision making about local development activities. It would be essential to
document the experience, functioning and role of the cells in restoring conditions for peace and
development in Casamance as a lesson for the future.

71.     The field implementation unit based in Ziguinchor was crucial in achieving project
results. The implementation unit in Ziguinchor was only able to attract staff from the region
when it was established. Staff from other parts of Senegal was not inclined to come and or bring
their families in view of the uncertain security situation prevailing at the start of the project.
However, this turned out to be an important advantage in that these Casamance staff were known
to the population and authorities and had been there during the time of conflict and suffering.
Their acceptance by communities was a strong advantage for the project. Their local knowledge
was essential and their commitment to Casamance was convincing.

7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
72.      ANRAC in their ICR mentions several delays attributed to World Bank procedures and
staff. More generally, ANRAC's DG and some staff expressed frustration over the continued
"miscommunication" with the Bank. This issue is acknowledged by the project team, but in turn
attributed to ANRAC's heavy and complex organizational structure and lack of familiarity with
Bank procedures for financial management, procurement and safeguards. This problem was
resolved at the MTR when it was agreed that implementation would become the exclusive
mandate of the Zinguinchor project unit.



(b) Cofinanciers
    N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders



                                                18
73.      Staff of the one school and of the Kenia psychiatric center, visited by the ICR mission,
expressed appreciation for what the project has achieved. The school principal and teachers were
satisfied with the quality of the classrooms, the furniture and the security wall. The Kenia
resident doctor was also satisfied with the infrastructure and equipment, including a brain
scanner. The evaluation reports have examples of expressions of satisfaction from villages that
have become connected with markets as a result of bridges and roads built under the project and
many cases of expressions of hope now that communities have their schools and their children are
back in school.




                                               19
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                        Appraisal
                                                       millions)
 DEMOBILIZATION,
REINSERTION AND
                                        3.15                1.43           45.4%
REINTEGRATION OF
COMBATANTS
 INFRASTRUCTURE
RECONSTRUCTION AND                     12.35               18.68          151.3%
REHABILITATION
 SUPPORT FOR LONG-TERM
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                     1.02                4.15          406.9%
PREPARATION
 OTHER CROSS-CUTTING
                                        1.88                0.00
ISSUES

           Total Baseline Cost          0.00                0.00
Physical Contingencies
                                        0.00                0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies
                                        0.00                0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs       19.89               24.26           121.97
Front-end fee PPF                       0.00                0.26             .00
Front-end fee IBRD                      0.00                0.00             .00
     Total Financing Required           0.00                0.00




(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                     Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                   Cofinancing       (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                    millions)    millions)
Borrower                                         1.59         0.00         .00
International Development
                                                 20.00       0.00         .00
Association (IDA)




                                          20
       Annex 2. Outputs by PDO and Component ­ Before Restructuring

PDO and Components                Results indicators                Outputs
1) Facilitate speedy              100% of identified                At the MTR, the peace process was interrupted
   restoration in                 beneficiaries engaged in          and the demobilization of ex-combatants and
   Casamance of a                 legitimate economic activity.     their identification as beneficiaries and
   favorable economic and                                           engagement in legitimate economic activities
   social environment                                               was awaiting the outcome of the resumption of
   similar to that existing in                                      the Foundiougne rounds of negotiation.
   the rest of Senegal, and
                                  325,000 inhabitants               16 earth roads of 251 km (10% of total road
                                  benefiting from improved          network) connecting about 90 towns and
                                  accessibility.                    villages, 8 bridges and 6 pontoon bridges had
                                                                    been rehabilitated. In addition, the project staff
                                                                    in Ziguinchor had obtained a promise to
2) Lay the groundwork for                                           safeguard this infrastructure. As a result, an
   the region's sustainable                                         estimated 300,0000 inhabitants benefitted from
   long-term development,                                           improved accessibility.
   while respecting its
   specificities.                 Restoration of access to basic    In addition, 141 class rooms, 25 health posts
                                  social services to all villages   and 26 maternity clinics had been rehabilitated.
                                  affected by the conflict.         This rehabilitation restored access to basic
                                                                    education and health services in an estimated
                                                                    42 villages affected by the conflict.


Component 1. Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration (DRR)

Intermediate results, by          Results indicators for
                                                                    Outputs
component                         each component
Sub-component 1.1.                Sub-component 1.1                 At the MTR, the peace process was interrupted
Demobilization, Reinsertion       100% of identified ex-            and the demobilization of ex-combatants and
and integration of ex-            combatants reintegrated.          their identification as beneficiaries and
combatants                                                          reintegration would have to await the outcome
Support the demobilization,                                         of the resumption of the Foundiougne rounds
reinsertion and reintegration                                       of negotiation.
of all identified ex-
combatants of various
groups (i.e., irregular forces)
involved in the Casamance
conflict




                                                          21
Sub-component 1.2.              Sub-component 1.2.
Support for reintegration of
groups directly affected by
the conflict
Ad hoc support for              100% of persons identified as    The lack of a formal agreement has led to a
reintegration of persons        directly affected by the         postponement of demobilization and the
identified as being directly    conflict have received support   subsequent identification of persons directly
affected by the conflict.       for reintegration.               affected by the conflict for reintegration
                                                                 support. However, victims of the conflict are
                                                                 receiving support from the rehabilitated
                                                                 education and health institutions. Their
                                                                 numbers have been estimated at 400. In
                                                                 addition, GoS and other donors are assisting
                                                                 people wounded by mines.




Component 2. Infrastructure Reconstruction and Rehabilitation (IRR)

Intermediate results, by        Results indicators for
                                                                 Outputs
component                       each component

Sub-component 2.1               Sub-component 2.1
                                                                 At the time of the 2007 MTR, 241 km of earth
Transport                       50 km of paved roads
                                                                 roads had been rehabilitated. This is instead of
Rehabilitation of road          reinforced.
                                                                 the 50 km of paved roads and at the request of
network and river transport     8 bridges rehabilitated or
                                                                 the communities. Eight bridges and six
infrastructures in Casamance    rebuilt.
                                                                 pontoon bridges have been rebuilt.
                                6 pontoon bridges built.
Sub-component 2.2.              Sub-component 2.2
Education                       120 class rooms rehabilitated
                                                                 At the time of the 2007 MTR, 141 class rooms
Restore functionality of        and re-opened.
                                                                 have been rehabilitated and reopened.
existing school
infrastructures rehabilitated
by local collectivities, by
assigning personnel to them.

Sub-component 2.3. Health       Sub-component 2.3
Restore functionality of        50 health posts, 3 maternity
                                                                 At the 2007 MTR, 24 health posts and 25
existing health                 clinics and the psychiatric      maternity clinics have been rehabilitated. The
infrastructures rehabilitated   clinic at Kénia rehabilitated.
                                                                 rehabilitation of the psychiatric clinic at Kenia
by local collectivities, by                                      is about 60% done.
assigning personnel to them.




                                                        22
Annex 2. Outputs by PDO and Component ­ After Restructuring

PDO                            Outcome indicators               Outcomes

Contribute to strengthening    1. Increase school gross         1. On average school gross enrollment rates
the conditions for a lasting   enrollment rates to the levels   have increased to 104%. The increase in the
peace and sustainable          it was before the conflict       use of health facilities has reached 70%. In
development in Casamance       (93%) and increase the use of    the psychiatric center of Kenia alone it was
through the provision of       health facilities by 40%.        zero percent before the project intervention.
essential infrastructure and
securing key investments.
                               2. Secure one significant        2. One new hotel has been built in Madina
                               investment in the tourism        Wandifa and several other hotels have re-
                               sector and two in agri-          opened (Nema-Kadior in Ziguinchor, Le
                               business in Casamance.           Palmier in Bignona, La Palmeraie in
                                                                Sedhiou). A new agro-business Casa Jus and
                                                                an enterprise for the export of banana bio
                                                                have started in the region.

Intermediary Outcomes          Intermediate Outcome             Outcomes
                               Indicators
Component 1: DDRR
1.1. Information: create the   1. By 2008, the negotiations     1. The sudden death of the rebel leader Abbe
conditions for peace and       rounds between the MFDC          Diamacoune Senghor in January 2007
sustainable development by     and the government of            interrupted the peace talks between the
conducting a sensitization     Senegal, the so-called           Government and the MFDC. However, it is
program                        Foundiougne rounds of            felt that the results of the project in terms of
                               negotiations are resumed.        infrastructure will have an impact on the
                                                                peace process by creating favorable
                                                                conditions for peace and dialogue.

1.2. Communication: reach
out to opinion leaders
(political figureheads,
religious and civil society
leaders, artists, and other
influential members of the
community) for buy into the
peace process and ownership
of it.


1.3. Social mobilization:
mobilize local communities
for peace.
Component 2:
Infrastructure
2.1. Rehabilitate the road     2.1. Number of communities       2.1 214 km of rural roads have been built;
and river infrastructure       connected to the core road       79 villages and 11 rural communities have
network                        network (all-weather roads).     been connected to the main road network and


                                               23
                                                            47 799 persons have been positively affected.
2.2. Support the restoration   2.2. Number of schools       2.2 141 classrooms have been rehabilitated
of the functionality of        reopened and functional.     or re-constructed; 31 schools have been
rehabilitated education                                     fenced-in and 35 water and 15 sanitation
infrastructure                                              systems were built in 35 schools.
                                                            2.3 25 health posts, 25 maternities and one
2.3. Support the restoration   2.3 Number of health posts   psychiatric hospital have been rebuilt and are
of rehabilitated               reopened and functional      functional with electrification, water systems
infrastructure                                              and fences. 2300 patients have already
                                                            visited the psychiatric hospital of Kenia.

Component 3: Assess the        3.0 Integration of project   The project has conceived a performing
prospects for the long term    M&E system into regular      M&E and GIS system which has been
development of the             operations of local          adopted by ANRAC.
Casamance                      government.                  The impact study has been completed.
                                                            The project team has decided not to
                                                            undertake the long term study and has
                                                            participated in the formulation of the TORs
                                                            to let the Government and the German
                                                            Cooperation to take the necessary steps and
                                                            time to prepare such a plan.




                                               24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The Project Document (page 47) concluded that in the absence of reliable data on the cost of the
conflict it was impossible to calculate the economic rate of return for the Project. But, not
assisting with demobilization, de-mining, and rehabilitating essential community infrastructure
would inhibit the development of Casamance. The lack of reliable data affected implementation.
The first survey in 2005 by the "Agence Autonome des Travaux Routiers" (AART) of the cost of
rehabilitating the main road system in Casamance suggested that the allocation (CFAF 3.143
billion for the IRR transport subcomponent) would allow the repair of some 25 community earth
roads of an average length of 35 km (as requested by the communities instead of the 50 km of
paved highway, paras. 8 and 43).




                                              25
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Moctar Thiam               Senior Transport Specialist       AFTTR   Co-TTL
Demba Balde                Social Development Specialist     AFTS4   Co-TTL
Ana Paula Fialho Lopes     Senior Operations Officer         OPCFC   Conflict
Bourama Diaite             Sr. Procurement Specialist        AFTPC   Procurement
Fily Cissokho              Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM   Fin. Management
Serigne Omar Fye           Safeguards Coordinator            AFTEN   Environment
Solange Alliali            Senior Counsel                    LEGAF   Legal
Hung N. Sundstrom          Program assistant                 AFTTR   Administration
El Hadj Adama Toure        Senior agricultural Economics     AFTS4   CDD

Supervision/ICR
Demba Balde               Sr. Social Development Spec.       AFTCS   Social
Menchita O. Caramat       Consultant                         AFTTR   CDD /Post conflict
Bourama Diaite            Sr. Procurement Specialist         AFTPC   Procurement
Saidou Diop               Financial Management Specialist    AFTFM   Fin. Management
Ibou Diouf                Sr. Transport. Spec.               AFTTR   Transport
Ana Paula Fialho Lopes    Sr. Operations Officer             OPCFC   Conflict
Serigne Omar Fye          Consultant                         AFTSP   Environment
Felly Akiiki Kaboyo       Operations Analyst                 AFTTR   Operations
Abdoulaye Keita           Procurement Specialist             MNAPR   Procurement
Alain L. Labeau           Consultant                         AFTTR   Transport
Karene Eliane Melloul     Consultant                         OPCFC   Conflict
Boury Ndiaye              Language Team Assistant            AFCF1   Administration
Mademba Ndiaye            Sr. Communications Officer         AFREX   Communications
Osval Rocha Andrade Romao Financial Management Specialist    AFTFM   Fin. Management
Cheikh A. T. Sagna        E T Consultant                     AFTCS   Social safeguards
Fatou Fall Samba          E T Consultant                     AFTFM   Fin. Management
Manievel Sene             Rural Development Specialist       AFTAR   Rural development
Seynabou Thiaw Seye       Program Assistant                  AFCF1   Administration
Fily Sissoko              Sr. Financial Management Spec.     AFTFM   Fin. Management
Cheick Traore             Sr. Procurement Specialist         AFTPC   Procurement




                                          26
(b) Staff Time and Cost


                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                       8                        32.24
  FY02                                       3                        19.32
  FY03                                                                 0.55
  FY04                                      23                       128.42
  FY05                                      44                       138.27
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00
                                                                     318.80
                          Total:            78
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                 0.00
  FY02                                                                 0.00
  FY03                                                                 0.00
  FY04                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                                                 0.00
  FY06                                    25                          69.95
  FY07                                    44                         167.14
  FY08                                    32                          86.54
  FY09                                    19                           0.00
                          Total:         120                         323.63




                                       27
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

There is not one encompassing beneficiary survey, but the project staff has conducted 40
community meetings, and engaged the media to produce 21radio and one television programs
which are estimated to have reached more than 4,000 people. The evaluation reports have
anecdotal evidence that transport cost and speed have been lowered on the roads rehabilitated
under the project. Besides the return of school enrollment mentioned above (para. 39), the visits
to clinics has increased by 30% and the Kenia psychiatric clinic is treating some 2,300 patients
(including about 90 conflict victims--mines, violence, rape, etc.). The clinic although located in
Ziguinchor provides psychiatric services throughout the region through scheduled consultations
in other cities and towns.




                                               28
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                                          ANRAC
     Agence Nationale pour la Relance des Activités Economiques et Sociales en Casamance

            Project d'Urgence d'Appui à la Reconstruction de la Casamance ­ PARC

 Rapport d'Exécution du Project d'Urgence d'Appui à la Reconstruction de la Casamance
                                  (PARC) 2005-2009

                                    Ziguinchor, février 2010.

  English summary of the Borrower's (Executing Agency) Implementation Completion Report.

1.      Introduction: A - Context and justification. The 30 year long Casamance conflict had
caused displacement of thousands of people, the mining of large areas, and death and injuries, and
halted all development. The third President elected in 2000 commenced peace negotiations. In
2001, the GoS prepared the peace plan ­ PREASC. In 2004, the armistice agreement was signed
and ANRAC was created to implement PREASC. The Bank decided to contribute to the peace
with CERSP.

2.      B ­ Description of CERSP before the MTR. CERSP' objective was to reintegrate the
population into a favorable socio-economic environment. This was to be achieved through the
Demobilization, Reinsertion, Reintegration (DRR) component, the Infrastructure Reconstruction,
and Rehabilitation (IRR) component, and Information, Monitoring and Evaluation -; Conflict
Prevention and Social Mobilization -; and, Environmental and Social Impact activities.

3.       C ­ CERSP Reorientation. Negotiation for demobilization fell apart in 2007. A
demobilization manual, integration study and information for ex-combatants and victims had
been prepared under the DRR component, but the component was restructured to focus on
Information, Communication, Social Mobilization and Capitalization. As part of the IRR
component, amenities at schools and clinics which had been rehabilitated would be added and the
last 2 of the 15 roads would be rehabilitated.

4.       Results: A 25 page description of the results achieved in education, health, social
mobilization and transport provides detailed data and evidence on the project's achievements.
Highlights are. Classrooms for schools in 42 towns and villages have been rehabilitated and in 34
towns the schools have been equipped with walls and drinking water. Twenty-five dispensaries
and 35 maternity facilities have been built in 28 health posts throughout Casamance. As a result,
in education enrollment increased from 95% in 2004 to 104% in 2008, health clinics now serve
2,600 people against 5,700 in 2005. Fifteen roads with a total length of 214 kilometers have been
built/rehabilitated. Nine of these roads have opened up areas for tourism, and the improvements
in the road system have enabled a resumption of export of agricultural products.

5.      Extensive documentation for demobilization has been developed and community
meetings on conflict prevention attended by some 2,600 people have been held throughout the
region. In addition, 114 units for early warning, conflict prevention and social mobilization have
been set-up and are actively working within and between communities. These units have already
served some 4,100 people. Print, radio and film media have been used to inform people about
peace management. Specific regulation on how to deal with conflicts over land, fishing rights,
and home ownership have been prepared and made available to communities.


                                               29
6.       Project management. Management of the project activities has been guided by the work
done by the M&E unit. The M&E unit has established an integrated information system (IIS) that
is accessible to central and local government, to ANRAC, the World Bank and other donors and
universities. The IIS comprises: details of all projects in Casamance; forms for baseline data
collection for demobilization; data base for early warning and conflict prevention; a web site; and
a Geographic Information System (GIS). The implementation unit in Ziguinchor has organized
meetings with all regional development councils, NGO's, and union of religious leaders to inform
them about PRAESC and CERSP. It has also held regular coordination meetings with project
units of: the AfDB agriculture project; the GTZ/KfW local government project; the
USAID/World Education community radio project; UNICEF; the two rural development and the
socio-economic development projects, and several other local projects. These meetings
addressed the issues that are at the root of the conflict such as reducing Casamance isolation,
natural resource development, decentralization, infrastructure maintenance, demining,
electrification, and youth integration.

7.      Financial Management. This section provides details on the IDA credit and the use of
funds by category of expenditure, and disbursement and procurement details. It also mentions the
delays with no-objections and with software acquisition, and the poor communication between
ANRAC and the Bank on procurement and financial management.

8.       Lessons Learned. The emphasis of CERSP was put on early warning, conflict prevention
and social mobilization. This work used information and peace management staff trained and
employed by the project. It turned out that information and education is crucial to advancing
peace in post-conflict situations. Local information and mobilization units often found their own
solutions to resolving conflict and became agents to deal with issues within and between
communities. The units have acted as intermediaries between local government and rebels. The
fact that the staff of these units are mostly young men rather than the traditionally elder
community members has turned out to be effective since these staff can work with information
and communication issues and equipment and are literate. The rehabilitation of schools has
resulted in an increase in enrollment, better achievement and motivation. In health, the project has
established mortality base-line information, better ambulance services and expanded coverage of
health services. In transport, the project has led to better access to production sites, transport of
agricultural products, increased mobility, the return of displaced persons, lowering of transport
costs and reduction in transport time. The use of local enterprises has unlocked local knowledge,
relations and contacts that have helped implementation.

9.       In addition, the ICR concludes that the preparatory activities for demobilization ­ early
warning, conflict prevention and social mobilization ­ must be sustained and expanded. This is
essential for maintaining peace on the ground. Negotiation with neighboring countries to deal
with arms smuggling, theft and extortion, and the conflict economy and its costs, must be
intensified. Staff for peace and conflict management must be expanded and given resources, and
the work of the M&E unit needs to be sustained. Finally, the need in basic health, education and
transport infrastructure remains large. This need needs to be met to consolidate peace and
development of Casamance. In conclusion, increasingly development partners focus on the
rehabilitation of basic infrastructure and the restoration of the economy as the best way to
consolidate peace. Local peace management units, staff and activities are essential in this efforts
towards maintaining peace.




                                                 30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.     Development Credit Agreement (Casamance Emergency Reconstruction Support Project)
between Republic of Senegal and the International Development Association" November 5, 2004.

2.     Technical Annex to the Memorandum and Recommendation of the President to the
Executive Directors on a Proposed Credit of SDR 13.8 Million (US$20 Million Equivalent) to the
Republic of Senegal for a Casamance Emergency Reconstruction Support Project".

3.     Proposal to Restructure Casamance Emergency Reconstruction Support Project (Credit
No. 3982-SE), Project Data Sheet, February 20, 2008.

4.      Républi que du Sénégal, Décret portant création et fixant les règles d'organisation et de
fonctionnement de l'Agence Nationale pour la Relance des Activités Economiques et Sociales en
Casamance (ANRAC).

5.     République du Sénégal, Arrêté portant création et organisation du comité de pilotage du
Programme de Relance des Activités Economiques et Sociales en Casamance (PREASC).

6.      Procès-verbal de la session ordinaire du comité de pilotage du parc, tenue les 29 et 30
juin 2007; Procès-verbal de la deuxième session du comité de pilotage; Procès-verbal de la
troisième session du comité de pilotage, Kolda, 10 octobre 2008; Projet de Procès-verbal de la
quatrième session du comité de pilotage, Ziguinchor, les 29 et 30 janvier 2009.

7.      Agence Nationale pour la Relance des Activités Economique et Sociales en Casamance
(ANRAC), Project d'Urgence d'Appui à la Reconstruction de la Casamance (PARC), Stratégie de
mobilisation sociale pour la construction d'une paix durable en Casamance.

8.    Etude d'Impact du Project d'Urgence d'Appui à la Reconstruction de la Casamance
(PARC), Cabinet CONEXCI, décembre 2009.

9.      ANRAC, Agence Nationale pour la Relance des Activités Economique et Sociales en
Casamance, Project d'urgence d'Appui à la Reconstruction de la Casamance ­ PARC, Rapport
d'Exécution du Project d'Urgence d'Appui à la Reconstruction de la Casamance (PARC) 2005-
2009, Ziguinchor, février 2010.

10.     Agence National pour la Relance des Activités Economiques et Sociales en Casamance
(ANRAC), Project d'Urgence d'Appui à la Reconstruction de la Casamance ­ PARC, Stratégie
de mobilisation sociale pour la construction d'une paix durable en Casamance, juillet 2008.

11.     Terms of Reference, Consultant for the Analysis of the Casamance potential as input to
the upcoming Country Partnership Strategy, March 2010.




                                               31
                 18°W                                                                                 16°W                                                                                  14°W



                                                                                                                                                                       M A U R I TA N I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SENEG AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                          Sénégal
                                                                                                              To                                      Podor
                                                                                                           Nouakchott                                                                                                                                                                            REGION CAPITALS
                                                                                                          Rosso                                                        Doue
                                                                                                                                Dagana                                                                                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
                             SENEGAL                                                                                                                Ndiayène
                                                                                                                      Richard-Toll                                   Haïré Lao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RIVERS
                                                                                                                  Lac de
                                                                                                                  Guier                SAINT-                                                                                         To                                                         MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Kaedi
                                                                                                                                       LOUIS                                                                                         Mbout
                                                                                       Saint-Louis                                                                                                                                                                                               RAILROADS
              16°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            16°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Thilogne                                                                                REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                                                       Mpal                                                          Lagbar




                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                         Léona                                                                                                                                               Matam
                                                                        Ndiaye                   Louga
                                                                                                          Koki
                                                  Tioukougne Peul                                                                                                                                                                                                                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                            Daraa                Linguère                                                                                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                         Kébémèr                                                                                                                                                                                 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                       Fâs Boye                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Va                                              én
                                                                                                                            LOUGA                                                                          llée




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ég                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                               Darou Khoudos                                                                                                                                                      du                                            al
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       F
                                                                             Mékhé                      Darou Mousti                                                                                    Mamâri




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           lllo
                                       CAP-             Kayar                                                                                                     Vèlingara
                                                                    Tivaouane                                    Mbaké                                                                                    M ATA M                                                    Bakel
                                       VERT                     Thiès            DIOURBEL                                                                                  La Ferdo
                             DAKAR                                                                                                                                                 Va
                                            Rufisque
                                                         THIÈS                                   Diourbel                                                                             l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                       Gossas                                                                                                                                                                                  Kayes
                                                                                                                                                                           Payar
                                                   Mbour                         FATICK                                                                                                                                       Toubéré Bafal                                  Nayé
                                                                                                                                                    oum
                                                                               Fatick                      Guinguinéo                            Sal




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Falém
                                                                                                                            Kaffrine     KAOLACK
                                                                                m




                                                                               lo u




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         mé
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         m
                                                                             Sa                       Kaolack
                                                          Ndangane
              14°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        14°N
                                                                                                                                         Niahène
                                                                              Sakone                                                                        Koungheul                      Koussanar
                         AT LAN TI C                                                                   Keur Madiabel              Nganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MALI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Tambacounda
                          OCEAN                                                         Karang
                                                                                                     Nioro du Rip                                                          Maka
                                                                                                                                                                                          dou
                                                                                                                                                                                             gou
                                                                                                                                                                                   S an
                                                                                  To
                                                                                                          Gambia
                                                                                 Barra
                                                                                        TH E                                                                                                                                                   TAMBACOUNDA
                                                                     To
                                                                    Banjul                   IA
                                                                                       GAM B I A                                                                                                              Meedina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Dialakoto
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Gounas
                                                                                                                                               e    KOLDA                     Vélingara       M
                                                                                                                                         anc
                                                                                                            Bounkiling




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ko
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           K
                                                                                Diouloulou                                                                                                         al
                                                                                                                                   am                                                                   ink



                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ulllo
                                                                                                                                as                                                                            e



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  unt
                                                                                                                                         Diana            Kolda
                                                                     ZIGUINCHOR                                             C



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   n ou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   n
                                                                                                                                         Malari                                                                                              Gam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   bie                           Mako
                                                                                      Bignona                                                                                            nga                                                                                                                Saraya
                                                                                                                                                                                     Kaya
                                                                                                 Casamance        Sédhiou        Tanaf
                                                                              Ziguinchor                                                                                                                                                                                 419 m
                                                                                                                                          To                                                                                                                                                  Kédougou
                                                                                  Oussouye           Goudomp                             Farim                     To                                                         To
                                                       Diembéreng                                                                                                 Bafata                                                   Koundara
                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                 Ingore
                0       25        50   75       100 Kilometers

                                                                                                                           GUINEA-BISSAU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 33475R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
AUGUST 2006




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Balake
                0            25         50               75 Miles                                                                                                                                                                                        GUINEA
              12°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12°N
                 18°W                                                                                 16°W                                                                                  14°W                                                                                              12°W
