Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2038a-IN
FILE COPY
INDIA
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
APPRAISAL OF THE
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
July 19, 1978
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture. C Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00     =      Rupee (Rs 8.60) 1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)                    =       3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)               =       0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)             3   =       2.47 acres (ac)
1 million cubic meters (Mm ) =         810 acre-feet (ac-ft)
1 thousand million cubic
feet (TMC)                  =       28.32 Mm
1 cubic foot per second                       3
(cusec)                     =      0.028 m /s
1 ton                          =       1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 ton                          =       2,205 pounds
1 quintal                      =       100 kg
1/   Until September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at a fixed
Pound Sterling rate. Since then it has been fixed against a "basket"
of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report have
been made at US$1.00 to Rs 8.60, which was the short-term average
rate prevailing at the time of Appraisal.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ARDC     -      Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
ATW      -      Augmentation Tubewell
CADA     -      Command Area Development Authority
CB       -      Commercial Bank
CCA      -      Cultivable Command Area
CGWB     -      Central Groundwater Board
DA       -      Department of Agriculture
GOI      -      Government of India
GOH      -      Government of Haryana
HAFED    -      Haryana State Cooperative Supply and Marketing Federation
HAU      -      Haryana Agricultural University
HSAMB    -      Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board
HSMITC   -      Haryana State Minor Irrigation (Tubewells) Corporation
ID       -      Irrigation Department
ICB      -      International Competitive Bidding
LCB      -      Local Competitive Bidding
MEAD     -      Monitoring, Evaluation and Applied Development
O&M      -      Operation and Maintenance
PCS      -      Primary Cooperative Credit and Service Societies
PWD      -      Public Works Department
RMC      -      Regulated Market Committee
GLOSSARY
bajra                     -     Pearl Millet
chak                      -     watercourse command area
jowar                     -     Sorghum
kharif                    -     monsoon crop season; early May - early October
nukka                     -      farm outlet from watercourse channel
panchayat                 -      local authority
rabi                      -     main irrigation season; late October to end
of April
sanctioned watercourse    -      legally sanctioned common channel in a
watercourse command
watercourse outlet        -      proportional module structure, joining a
minor canal or distributary to watercourse
channel
warabundi                 -      operational procedure in the watercourse
command where each cultivator takes the
whole stream of the watercourse in turn
(or "wara") with time proportional to CCA
of the farmers' holding.
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Haryana and Agencies    -      April 1 - March 31
ARDC and Cooperative Banks             -     July 1 - June 30
Commercial Blanks                      -     January 1 - December 31
This documenl has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
Of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World bank authorization.






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     BACKGROUND  ............................................                                 1
Agriculture  in  India  .............................                            1
Irrigation  in  India  ..............................                            2
Agriculture  and  Irrigation  in Haryana  ....                    ........       2
II.     THE  PROJECT  AREA  ......................................                               4
Introduction  .....................................                              4
Topography  and  Soils  .............................                            4
Climate  ..........................................                              5
Irrigation  Supply  and  Use  ........................                           5
Drainage  and  Flood  Protection  ....................                           7
Land  Holdings  and  Land  Tenure  ....................                          7
Agricultural  Development  .........................                             8
Jui  Lift  Irrigation  Command  Area  .................                          8
Marketing,  Processing  and  Storage  ....                     ............      9
Communications  ...................................                             10
Agricultural  Supporting  Services  .................                           10
-   Agricultural  Inputs  ...........................                           10
-   Agricultural  Credit  ...........................                           10
-   Agricultural  Research  .........................                          10
- Agricultural Extension and Training .11
Rural  Services  ...................................                           11
III.      THE  PROJECT  ...........................................                              12
Project  Formulation  ..............................                           12
Project  Objectives  ...............................                            12
-   Irrigation  Components  .........................                          12
-   Associated  Rural  Infrastructure  ....                    ...........     13
-   Project  Areas  .................................                          13
-   Project  Monitoring  ............................                          13
Project  Description  -  Summary  ....................                         13
Project  Description  - Detailed  Features    .........                        14
-   Modernization  of  Canals  . .....................                         14
-   Modernization  of Watercourses  ....                     .............     16
-   Augmentation  Tubewells  ........................                          18
-   Jui  Lift  Irrigation  Command  ...................                        18
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which
visited India in December 1977 and comprised of Messrs. J. F. Cunningham
and P. Mcmal (Bank) and Messrs. P. Borrowman, W. M. Barber and P. Kotaiah
(consultants).



4~~~~           ii -I-
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
-  Markets  .......................................                  19
-  Village Link Roads  ............................                 19
-  Village Water Supply  ..........................                 20
Project Implementation ...........................                  21
Summary of Costs  .................................                 21
Financing  ........................................                 22
Procurement  ......................................                 22
- Civil Works  ....................................                 22
- Vehicles and Equipment  .........................                 23
Disbursements  ....................................                 24
Accounts and Audits  ..............................                 24
Environmental Effects of the Project  ....              .........   24
IV.    PROJECT ORGANIZATION  ..................................                   25
General  ..........................................                 25
Project Organization and Coordination  ....              ........    25
Project Management ...............................                  25
-  The Irrigation Department .....................                  25
-  Haryana State Minor Irrigation (Tubewells)
Corporation  ...............................               25
-  Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board ....                  27
-  The Bridges  and Roads (B&R) and Public Health
(PH) Branches of PWD  ......... . ..... I   .........          28
-  Command Area Development Authority  ....              ........    28
Agricultural Credit  ..............................                 29
Operation and Maintenance  ........................                 29
Monitoring and Evaluation  ........................                 30
V.    AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND INCOMES  ...................                   31
Agricultural Impact  ..............................                 31
-  Expansion of the Irrigated Area ....               ...........   31
-  Crop Yields and Production ....................                  31
-  Marketing .....................................                  32
Financial Prices and Crop Budgets  ....               ............    32
Cost Recovery for Irrigation Works  ....              ...........   33
-  Present Level of Cost Recovery ....                ............    33
-  Farmer's Ability to Pay Water Charges  ...              ......    33
-  Public Savings  ................................                 34
-  Promoting Efficient Water Use  ....               .............  34
-  Equity Considerations  .........................                 34
Repayment  for Modernization of Watercourses  ......                35
Cost Recovery for Village Water Supply ...               ........   35
VI.    ECONOMIC ANALYSIS  .....................................                   36
General  ..........................................                 36
Beneficiaries  ....................................                 37
Basic Assumptions  ................................                 37



- iil -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
Analysis of Irrigation Components ....   ............   37
- Modernization of Canals .....     ..................   37
- Modernization of Watercourses ....    .............   37
- Augmentation Tubewells .....     ...................   38
- Jui Lift Irrigation Command ....     ...............   38
Construction of Markets .....    .....................   38
Rural  Roads   ......................................  39
Rural  Water  Supply  ...............................  39
Project Economic Rate of Return ....   ..............   40
Uncertainty and Project Risks ....    ................   40
VII.  AG3REEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....   ............   41
LIST OF TABLES AND CHARTS
2.1   Climatological Data
2.2   Seasonal Surface Irrigation Supply
2.3   Approximate Annual Groundwater Recharge and Utilization in
Haryana (April 1976)
2.4   Present Under Irrigation by Canal Commands
2.5   Present Cropping Patterns and Yields by Canal Commands
3.1   Irrigation Components - Unit Costs
3.2   Costs for Typical Market Yards
3.3   Summary of Project Costs
3.4   Financing Plan
3.5   Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
3.6   Proposed Allocation of Credit
3.7   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
5.1   Prices Used in Financial and Economic Analysis
5.2a  Kharif Season Crop Budgets (1987-88)
5.2b  Rabi Season Crop Budgets (1987-88)
5.3   Total Costs, Recoveries and Cost Recovery Rates
5.4   Direct and Indirect Cost Recovery at Full Development
5.5   Average Repayments and Farm Incomes (Jind District)
6.1   Economic Unit Capital Costs
C-i   Implementation Schedule
C-2   Organizational Chart - Government of Haryana, Relevant Departments
C-3   Proposed Organizational Chart - Haryana State Minor Irrigation
(Tubewells) Department
C-4   Organizational Chart - Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board
Annex I - Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Annex 2 - Project Lending Terms and Conditions



- iv -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
LIST OF MAPS
IBRD 13343  -  Soils; Areas Suitable for Shallow and Deep Tubewell Development
IBRD 13344  -  Total Annual Rainfall; Annual Rainfall Coefficient of Variation
IBRD 13483  -  Typical Lined Watercourse Command
IBRD 13481  -  The Project Areas:  Modernization of Watercourses, Market
Component and Jui Lift Irrigation Command
IBRD 13482  -  The Project Areas:  Modernization of Canal System, Village
Water Supply Schemes and Augmentation Tubewells
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA VOLUME
The following annexes are prepared in a Supplementary Data Volume (SDV) to
the Staff Appraisal Report which is available on request from the Projects
Division.
Annex 3     Modernization of Canals
Annex 4     Modernization of Watercourses
Annex 5     Augmentation Tubewells
Annex 6     Jui Lift Irrigation Command
Annex 7     Markets
Annex 8     Village Roads
Annex 9     Village Water Supply
Annex 10    Project Organization
Annex 11    Credit
Annex 12    Prices, Crop Budgets and Irrigation Benefits
Annex 13    Economic Indicators - Irrigation Components



INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      Haryana, located in the northwestern part of India was formed in
1966 when the State of Punjab was sub-divided. The State economy is predom-
inantly agricultural and since 1966, it has been one of the fastest growing
States in India recording an economic growth rate of about 5.7% compared to
3.6% for India as a whole. Over the same period, per capita income has risen
by about 26% compared to 11% for the country and is presently about US$180.
It has become a substantial exporter of foodgrains to other States. This
success can be traced to a development strategy, which has emphasized in-
crease in agricultural productivity through investments in irrigation and
complementary rural infrastructure.
1.02      The proposed project would assist ongoing GOH programs of irrigation
modernization, rural roads, market infrastructure, and village water supplies.
Project preparation was completed by GOH through the Project Preparation Group
in the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation, assisted by the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program. A list of relevant reports by the State agencies and
other related documentation is given in Annex 1.
Agriculture in India
1.03      India covers some 3.27 million km2 of which 49% is cultivable and
about 11% irrigated. India's population of about 620 M is growing at an
annual rate of 2.0%. National income has grown at about 3.3% per annum since
1950 and the per capita GNP reached US$150 in 1975. Although average per
capita income has increased, in general there has been little change in
living standards of the vast masses of urban and rural poor which, conser-
vatively measured, consist of some 250 M people with annual incomes below
the poverty line of US$70 per capita. Accordingly, recent development plans
of the Government of India (GOI) give enhanced priority to alleviating poverty
and creating employment, especially in rural areas.
1.04      Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Indian economy and con-
tributes about 45% of the GNP. It engages about 70% of the labor force and
provides the base for about 60% of India's exports. During the last decade,
GOI's development plans have emphasized agriculture and sought to raise
foodgrain iproduction by increasing the use of fertilizers, plant protection
chemicals, and improved seed varieties. In support of this, GOI has modern-
ized and expanded its agricultural credit institutions and accelerated the
developmenit of irrigation.



- 2 -
1.05      Despite these endeavors and the impressive results of the green
revolution in such areas as the wheat growing Northwestern States (including
tiaryana), annual overall growth rate in foodgrain production over the last 15
years has been only about 2.3% or approximately equal to population growth.
Furthermore, India's agriculture remains heavily dependent on the vagaries of
the monsoon, and foodgrain production can vary as much as 20% from one year to
another. In order to reduce this dependence, further expansion of irrigation,
improvement of existing irrigation facilities and better water management are
necessary.
Irrigation in India
1.06      Up to 1964/65, irrigated area increased at a rate of only about
2.1% per year, of which approximately two-thirds was from surface water
resources and one-third from groundwater. Since then, the rate of increase
has about doubled, mainly through an accelerated program of groundwater devel-
opment. At present, the irrigated.area is 48 M ha, about three-fifths of
which is surface irrigated and two-fifths served by groundwater. The pace of
groundwater development has fallen off recently in the northwestern states
where the limit of groundwater resources is being approached. The focus of
the groundwater development program has now shifted to the eastern region
where untapped groundwater resources are plentiful. However, progress in
this region has been constrained by the weakness of agriculture supporting
services.
1.07      The pace of surface water development remained relatively constant
at about 0.5 M ha per year until the end of the Fourth Plan (1969/70-1973/74).
During this period, the physical plan targets set by GOI for a more rapid
development of surface irrigation were never fulfilled. A major problem has
been the thin spread of limited financial resources over too many projects
resulting in long construction periods for all projects and delayed benefits.
However, in recent years, budgetary allocations have grown rapidly and Indian
authorities have increased their efforts to complete ongoing projects. As a
result, the irrigation potential created in 1976/77 was 1.1 M ha or more than
twice that achieved in any single year before the start of the fifth plan in
1974/75.
1.08      Actual utilization in many completed irrigation projects, is sig-
nificantly less than the potential. Consequently, GOI and the State Govern-
ments emphasize "command area development" (CAD), which involves public in-
vestments in associated infrastructure (drainage, roads, markets, agricultural
extension and research) and private investments to improve water use efficiency
at the farm level (watercourse lining, field channels and drains, land shaping
and levelling).
Agriculture and Irrigation in Haryana
1.09      Haryana is one of the smallest States in India covering an area of
4.4 M ha of which 3.8 M ha is arable; of this about 2.1 M ha is irrigated
annually. The State has a population of 10.8 M (1974) with about 82% in the
rural sector; 65% of the population are engaged in agriculture. In 1966



- 3 -
haryana was deficient in foodgrains but the period until 1972 b., substan-
tial increases both in cropped area and yield of principal crops. The period
1972 to 1975 was relatively unfavorable due to low rainfall but production in
1976/77 of about 5.3 M tons of foodgrain was an all-time record and more than
double the 1966/67 production of 2.0 M tons. The main foodgrains are wheat
(about 30% of the area), gram (26%), pearl millet (24%) and rice (7%). State
domestic consumption is about 2.2 M tons, annually, and thus, Haryana has
become a major exporter to other States. In 1975/76 export of wheat, rice
and gram amounted to over 1.0 M tons with an equivalent amount in storage.
However, variable rainfall makes Haryana susceptible to droughts especially in
the dry southwest region. Major variations occur in wheat production because
of the unreliability of irrigation supplies. With the exhaustion of untapped
surface and groundwater resources, better use of available irrigation water
has become the main potential source of agricultural growth.
1.10      The State can be roughly divided into two tracts by the watershed
between the Ghaggar and Yamuna river basins which broadly defines the commands
of the Bhakra and West Yamuna Canals, the two major gravity canal systems in
the State (YLap 13482). The Bhakra Main Canal, completed in the early 1960s,
diverts water from the Sutlej River in the River Indus basin, traversing the
eastern corrLer of the State of Punjab before entering Haryana; the Narwana
branch of the Bhakra Canal provides a link to the West Yamuna Canal (WYC)
system. The WYC, constructed about 1820, diverts water from the Yamuna
River, the western-most tributary of the Ganges. A second diversion from the
Yamuna River, the Agra/Gurgaon Canal system, benefits a smaller area in the
southeastern corner of the State. The remaining major gravity canal still
to be completed is the Sutlej-Yamuna Link which will increase surface water
supply into the State by about 45% to supplement the existing WYC command area
and to a lesser extent the Bhakra and Gurgaon command areas. The main benefit
will be rabi water supply to the new lift irrigation areas of about 460,000 ha
currently under development in the southwest region of the State and served
by the WYC system. These areas include the Jui, Indira Ghandi, BNC and
Jawarhar La] Nehru schemes 1/ of which the completed Jui scheme represents
30,000 ha (Map 13482).
1.11      Tthe cultivable command area (CCA) served by canal systems and the
net area uncder irrigation in 1975/76 were approximately as follows:
Cainal System                CCA (ha)          Net area irrigated (ha)
Blhakra                     1,166,000                 916,000
WYC                         1,085,000                 717,000
Agra/Gurgaon                  192,000                  44,000
1.12      Groundwater development in Haryana has rapidly accelerated in
recent years particularly in the private sector. By 1976/77, about 225,000
shallow tubewells and 2,500 public tubewells had been sunk serving about
750,000 ha. Bank group support has been available for this development
1/   The Indira Ghandi and BNC schemes have been renamed Loharu and Sewari
schemes respectively.



- 4 -
through the Haryana Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 249-IN, US$25 million)
which has been fully disbursed and also through the nationwide Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC) Projects (Cr. 540-IN and
Cr. 715-IN). Present utilization of groundwater is estimated statewide
at about 73% of average recharge, but in certain fresh groundwater areas,
resources are fully committed. However, there still remains scope for
development in marginal or saline areas providing groundwater can be diluted
with surface supplies. Groundwater quantity and quality varies considerably
throughout the State. There is no legislation related to exploitation of
groundwater but GOR recognizes that this will be essential for the control
and equitable distribution of a limited resource.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Introduction
2.01      In the north, Haryana is bounded by the Siwalik range (foothills
of the Himalayas) and to the east by the River Yamuna. The Aravalli range,
which runs south of Delhi into the Bikaner desert forms the southwest boundary,
whilst to the west, the River Ghaggar forms part of the boundary between
Punjab and Haryana. Project works would be mainly concentrated in the western
half of the State where rainfall is low, soils are lighter and returns to the
proposed investments most attractive.
Topography and Soils
2.02      The State lies between the Rivers Indus and Ganges and its soils
are almost entirely derived from alluvium. Nearly 70% of the State is a level
plain with elevations of less than 300 meters above mean sea level. About a
quarter of the State in the southwest is undulating or rolling terrain with
occasional outcropping of hills. A continuous strip of desert adjoining
Rajasthan contains extensive sand dunes and covers some 8,000 km . In the
south the plains gradually rise towards the Sohna plateau and the Aravalli
range. Landslopes within the plain are gentle with natural drainage channels
which are meandering and widely spread.
2.03      Semi-detailed surveys show wide variations in soil types which re-
flect the varied physiography of the State (Map 13343). Soils of Haryana
can be grouped into five main types:
Sands and Loamy Sands of the plain in the southwest
show high to medium dune activity and cover the greater
part of the lift irrigation areas. Soils contain lime
concretions in the sub-soil and are well drained but have
low moisture storage capacity; their nutrient status is low.
Sandy Loams and Loams of the central alluvial plan, are
moderately well drained but quite sticky and plastic when wet.
They are low in nitrogen and zinc, low to medium in phosphate
and high in potash.



- 5 -
Silty Loams cover about 500,000 ha in the northern central
plains; they tend to be salt or alkaline affected to varying
degrees which reflects lack of natural drainage and under-
irrigation. Subsoil texture is sandy loam to clay loam with
deteriorated structure. Reclamation of alkali-affected soils
is being undertaken through applications of gypsum and zinc
and by leaching.
Clayey Silts and Silty Clays occur in low-lying poorly drained
areas of Karnal and Kurukshetra districts. These soils are
very sticky and plastic when wet, and crack to a considerable
depth when dry. They are best suited to paddy cultivation.
Riverflood Plains of the Yamuna and Ghaggar Rivers have light
undifferentiated soils with sand to loamy sand texture in
which saline and alkaline patches can occur. Soils of the
Siwalik peneplain are loamy sands to sandy loams. They are
well drained but have only moderate moisture retaining
capacity and lie outside the main irrigated areas.
2.04      A soil survey shows that loamy sands and sands occur over 80% of
Jui Canal Command area (Map 13841).  These soils occur in a severely eroded
phase on dune tops and in a moderately eroded phase on dune slopes, which have
been stabilized and used for cultivation. Coarse loams occur in interdunal
depressions, and are calcareous in all parts of the profile. The moisture
retaining capacity of these dune and sand soils is low to very low making
water management difficult.
Climate
2.05      HLaryana has a sub-tropical monsoon climate characterized by wet,
hot summers and cool, dry winters (Table 2.1).  The kharif or monsoon season
extends from late June to early October with about 80% annual rainfall occur-
ing during this period, occasionally causing widespread flooding. The rabi or
winter season is cool, extending from mid-October to early April. Some
cyclonic rainfall can occur from January to March varying from about 100 mm in
the northeast to about 50 mm in the southwest and is important for winter crops
especially where irrigation supplies are scarce. The zaid or hot weather
season lasts from mid-April to mid-June and is hot and dry with dessicating
winds and occasional dust storms particularly in the southwestern regions.
Rainfall is scanty and erratic varying annually from as little as 300 mm on
the borders of Rajasthan to over 1,100 mm in the Himalayan foothills in the
northeast. The coefficient of rainfall variation is over 40% in driest areas
to less than 25% in the wettest (Map 13344).  While temperatures seldom fall
below 0 C, ground frosts can occur especially on sandy soils but cause nominal
damage to cereals; more sensitive crops like potatoes and mustard can be
affected.
Irrigation Supply and Use
2.06      T'he Bhakra Canal System is supplied from the Indus River Basin.
Diversions are based on the 1960 Indus Water Treaty between India and Pakistan



which allocated the Ravi, Beas and Sutlej tributaries of the River Indus to
India. The water resources are shared among the northwestern States and are
subject to a number of inter-State agreements, none of which are in dispute.
The supply is partly regulated by Bhakra dam 3on the River Sutlej.  Annual
allocations 1/ which averaged about 5,400 Mm during 1971-76 vary from year
to year, particularly in the rabi season (Table 2.2). The Yamuna River, the
other main water resource, is snow and rain fed from the Himalayan foothills.
It flows due south passiig close to New Delhi and has a mean annual water
supply of about 9,900 Mm . The two principal diversions from the Upper Yamuna
River are the Western and Eastern Yamuna canals serving Haryana and Uttar
Pradesh respectively; both have intakes near Tajewela where the river emerges
from the Siwalik Hills and now divert the whole river flow in rabi. Yamuna
River flows are unregulated but the Western Yamuna Command (WYC) benefits
from regulated diversions of the Sutlej and Beas Rivers by way of the Bhakra/
Nawana Link canals (1,480 Mm annually). The amounts of watpr 2/ delivered
by the WYC system during 1971 to 1976 average about 3,700 Mm (Table 2.2).
Once constructed, tVe Sutlej-Yamuna Link Canal (para 1.09) will provide an
additional 4 300 Mm annually to Haryana which is provisionally allocated
about 140 Mm3 to the Bhakra Canal system, 1,620 Mm to the WYS system,
420 Mm to the Agra Gurgaon system and the remaining 1,920 Mm to new lift
irrigation systems served through the WYC system.
2.07      Statewide groundwater recharge is estimated at about 10,230 Mm3
(Table 2.3) but with considerable annual and seasonal variation. Groundwater
quality shows wide variation (Map 13344), and certain marginal and saline
areas can only be developed by augmentation tubewells where discharge can
be diluted with surface supplies.
2.08      Table 2.2 shows that irrigated cropping intensity is presently low
even when supplemented by groundwater. Historically, main irrigation systems
were designed for cropping intensities of about 35% in kharif and 45% in rabi,
essentially to provide "drought insurance" on as wide a scale as possible.
A consequence has been for farmers to spread the surface water supply and
supplement this supply by private tubewell development wherever fresh ground-
water was available. Water, rather than land is the constraining factor to
increased agricultural production. Accordingly, the farmers practice light
irrigation by conscious decision because this, in their experience, provides
the best returns per cubic meter of water. Table 2.4 compares net irrigation
deliveries at the field with nominal crop water requirements for present
cropping patterns. Bhakra canal command receives only 60% and 83% of nominal
irrigation requirements in rabi and kharif respectively; WYC presently re-
ceives about 46% in rabi but with completion of the Sutlej-Yamuna link, the
ratio of actual delivery to nominal irrigation requirement should rise to
about 62% or similar to that of Bhakra command.
2.09      It is concluded that the Bhakra and WYC command areas are substan-
tially underirrigated. Any water saved through lining of canals and water-
courses or provided from augmentation tubewells can be used effectively to
1/ Source: The Irrigation Department, GOH.
2/ Ibid.



- 7 -
increase cropping intensity on existing farms in the command areas.  This
would allow the expansion of the irrigated crop area within the command of
existing schemes. The resulting benefits would be substantial considering
the existing investments and given the presence within the area of innovative
and enterprising farmers.
Drainage arnd Flood Protection
2.10      Hlaryana divides approximately into two halves for drainage purposes;
the northwestern portion drains into the Ghaggar River system and the south-
eastern part into the Yamuna River. There are about 2,590 km of drainage
channels in Haryana and 350 km of flood embankment. Despite these works
about 6% ol the State remains subject to flooding after heavy rainfall,
particularl]y in the River Yamuna catchment. This surface flooding does not
occur in the main impact areas of the project. Requirements for field drain-
age in Bhakra and WYC commands vary with soil types, topography and cropping
pattern. P'roject irrigation components are generally located on lighter soils
with high infiltration rates and where drainage is not a serious problem.
Areas affected by drainage problems are well defined and deficiencies are
usually due to inadequacy of the main drainage systems. GOH is preparing
a master plan for drainage and flood protection works and intends to invest
about US$22 million in such works in the fiscal year 1978/79.
Land Holdings and Land Tenure
2.11      The 1971/72 census records that Haryana had 913,000 holdings of which
404,000 where less than 2 ha and 73,000 over 10 ha; about 55% were individual
holdings and 45% operated jointly by persons not of the same household. 81%
of holdings were owned and self-operated, 12% rented and 7% partly owned and
rented. Farms average 3.77 ha statewide with holding size distributed as
follows:
Bhakra Canal Command                   WYC Command
Frequency       Cumulative       Frequency       Cumulative
Size Class      Distribution    Distribution   Distribution   Distribution
ha           % of    % of    % of    % of    % of    % of    % of    % of
Holdings  Area  Holdings  Area  Holdings  Area  Holdings  Area
Below 0.5       10.5    0.7       10.5    0.7      14.4    1.1      14.4      1.1
0.5 - 1         10.5    1.7      21.0    2.4       13.5    2.7      27.9      3.8
1  -  2         17.5    5.5      38.5    7.9       19.4    7.8      47.3    11.6
2  -  3         13.1    7.0      51.6   14.9       13.3    9.1      60.6    20.7
3  -  4          9.8    7.3      61.4   22.2        9.6    9.3      70.2    30.0
4  -  5          7.6    7.4       69.0   29.6       7.0    8.7      77.2    38.7
5  -  10        19.4   29.7      88.4   59.3       16.0   31.3      93.2    70.0
10 -  20         9.3   27.2      97.7   86.5        5.9   21.8      99.1    91.8
Over  20         2.3   13.5    100.0  100.0         0.9    8.2    100.0   100.0
Total        100.0  100.0                       100.0  100.0
Average size
of holding                 4.6 ha                             3.6 ha



- 8 -
Holdings in Bhakra command are larger than in WYC command as rainfall and
surface irrigation supplies are lower. The permissible land ceiling per
household is 7.25 ha for land (with assured irrigation) where the possibility
of double cropping exists and 10.9 ha on land capable of producing a single
crop. Land consolidation has been completed for most gravity irrigated areas
and is progressing in lift irrigated areas.
Agricultural Development
2.12      Haryana offers a wide variety of agricultural conditions due to
differences in rainfall, soil types and availability of groundwater. Present
cropping patterns and yields for Bhakra and WYC canal commands are given in
Table 2.5. Excluding the southeastern part of the State (Gurgaon and Mahen-
dragarh districts) which is outside the project area, three main agricultural
regions can be distinguished. The northern region of Ambala and northern
parts of Kurukshetra and Karnal districts have limited surface irrigation but
good groundwater conditions except in the hills bordering Himachal Pradesh.
Soils are suitable for paddy cultivation; rainfall is high and a typical crop
rotation is wheat-rice-fodder. Rice is usually tubewell irrigated. In some
places potato is grown as a cash crop interspersed between paddy and wheat.
Maize is also grown and toward the east, substantial areas are under sugarcane.
By contrast, the southwest region of Hissar, Sirsa and Bhiwani districts has
low rainfall with high annual variations. Soils are very light and groundwater
potential is poor because of salinity or low water table except along the
Ghaggar River. There is a substantial difference between rainfed and irrigated
agriculture. Under rainfed conditions and with traditional subsistence prac-
tices, the typical crop rotation is bajra-gram; crop failures are common.
Irrigation allows cultivation of wheat and cotton crops with cotton sown in
April/May and harvested in October/November; land is then commonly left fallow
until the following rabi. Oilseeds are important but tend to be speculative
because of price variations and vulnerability to frost. A third region lies
between the two regions mentioned above and includes Jind, Rohtak, Sonepat
districts and the southern parts of Karnal and Kurukshetra districts. It
has lighter soils than in the north and annual rainfall varying from 450 to
700 mm.  Wheat is commonly planted together with more traditional crops such
as bajra, gram and fodder. In Rohtak district there are sizeable areas under
sugarcane.
Jui Lift Irrigation Command Area
2.13      Jui canal which serves about 30,000 ha is an extension to the WYC
system beyond the limits of its gravity command and is typical of about
460,000 ha along the southern State border to be developed with lift irri-
gation schemes (Map 13482). Before Jui Irrigation project was commissioned
in 1973, low undependable rainfall limited agriculture largely to drought
resistant crops such as bajra, guar (cluster beans) and sarson (mustard).
In years of low rainfall, such as 1974/75, complete crop failure could occur.
Irrigated agriculture in Jui command has increased gradually from about 2,600
ha in 1971/72 to some 7,600 ha in 1975/76. However, little effort has been
made to promote suitable cropping patterns for the prevailing soil type and
farmers incorrectly follow farming practices currently used in the gravity
command areas. Irrigation efficiency is very low. Present unreliability of



supplies in WYC command is an important constraint to consistent yields
because of the low water retention capacity of soils in Jui command.
Furthermore, agricultural extension services are not adequately organized
which hinders change from traditional rainfed practices to more sophisticated
irrigated agriculture. In many cases, farmers also have to cope with serious
land development problems due to poor micro topography. An urgent need is to
develop suitable agronomic and water management techniques on the prevailing
soil types.
Marketing, Processing and Storage
2.14      Marketing of agricultural produce in Haryana has received enlight-
ened public support in line with GOH's efforts to develop a progressive,
market oriented agriculture throughout the State. It is governed by the
Punjab 1/ Agricultural Produce Markets Act (1961) which empowers State control
over purchase, sale, storage and processing of agricultural produce. Regu-
lated markets provide a meeting place for buyers and sellers with facilities
to handle large quantities of produce under a system that assures competition
among buyers and efficient handling and cleaning of produce. Control of each
market is exercised through one of the 86 Regulated Market Committees (RMC)
which include representatives of producers, licensed dealers and state offi-
cials.  RMCs enforce the Act, provide market facilities and regulate their
operations. RMCs are supervised and assisted by Haryana State Agricultural
Marketing Board (HSAMB). Recent substantial increases in marketable surplus
make further improvement to market facilities of special importance. Accord-
ingly a major market construction program is being undertaken by HSAMB which
reviews new market proposals, regulates standards, supervises market construc-
tion and provides technical support. Major markets already completed and
under construction indicate the ability of HSAMB to meet high technical stan-
dards and tight construction schedules. A marketing fee of 2% ad valorem
on all market arrivals 2/ is collected statewide and has generated about $10.5
million in 1976/77. Some 35% of the marketing fee is being used for financing
the construction program, the operation and maintenance costs of existing
markets and debt servicing. The remaining 65% goes to the State Treasury
where it is earmarked for construction of village link roads. Additional
revenue is obtained from sale of plots and rental of drying platforms in new
markets and from HSMAB storage facilities. Processing facilities are provided
by the private and cooperative sectors and are adequate for current and future
needs. Storage requirements vary greatly depending on annual foodgrain produc-
tion. However, with an accelerating surplus position, storage has become short,
particularly for foodgrains. Existing storage capacity in the State has risen
from 0.24 M tons in 1972 to 0.83 M tons in 1976 and is divided between the
Food Corporation of India (FCI), primary co-operatives and agricultural credit
societies, HSAMB and Haryana State Warehousing Corporation. All organizations
1/   Legislation was enacted by the original State of Punjab before Haryana
was formed in 1966.
2/   GOH intends to raise the marketing fee to 3% ad valorem on all market
arrivals.



- 10 -
are expanding their facilities. About 0.21 M tons of additional grain storage
will be constructed in Haryana under the Second Foodgrain Storage Project
financed by IDA (Cr. 747-IN).
Communications
2.15      Four main railway lines and four National highways, all radiating
out from Delhi, provide Haryana with good access to the rest of India and
Pakistan. National highways are fed by a network of State highways, district
roads and village roads with a total length of 15,520 km in April 1977. 8,650
km of village roads have been constructed since 1970 serving 5,306 villages
but leaving about 1,400 villages still to be connected by all weather roads.
Agricultural Supporting Services
2.16      Agricultural Inputs.  Present use of inputs is one of the highest
in India and is rapidly expanding with increased reliability of irrigation.
Procurement and distribution are organized by Haryana State Cooperative Supply
and Marketing Federation (HAFED) through 57 primary marketing societies,
regulated markets and a wide network of Primary Cooperative Credit and Service
Societies (PCS). Other outlets are private dealers who procure directly from
main commercial suppliers. Haryana Agricultural University (HAU) together
with the Agricultural Department are responsible for production of some foun-
dation seed and all certified seed. With assistance from IDA through the
National Seed Project (Cr. 610-IN), the Haryana State Seed Development Corpo-
ration was recently set up to organize production and distribution of certi-
fied seeds to farmers. Existing services providing agricultural inputs to
farmers are likely to expand to meet the needs generated by the project.
2.17      Agricultural Credit.  Agricultural credit in Haryana is provided
from a variety of sources including 12 Cooperative Banks (CCB) serving 2,171
primary outlets; 25 Land Development Banks and 27 Commercial Banks (CB) with
279 rural branches. CCBs provide only short-term and medium-term credit; LDBs
provide only long-term credit (5 to 15 years) whilst CBs provide all three
types of credit. At present, most credit comes from institutional sources
with nearly 75% provided by the cooperative movement. The banking system in
Haryana is well operated and managed. It is sufficient for project needs and
can cope with an expanding demand for seasonal credit.
2.18      Agricultural Research.  Haryana Agricultural University is respon-
sible for agricultural research throughout the State. The University is
centered at Hissar on one of the best experimental farms in India and covers
about 2,000 acres. Nine research sub-centers serve the main agricultural
regions but there is no center covering the requirements of dune soils in lift
irrigation areas (para 2.13). Trials are carried out with all main crops,
covering varieties, planting dates, plant population, fertilizer response and
weed and pest control. A special program of soil and water management has
established optimal levels of water application; it is currently investigating
methods of irrigation to increase water use efficiency including conjunctive
use of saline groundwater with canal supplies. HAU also organizes three
important services under the Directorate of Extension Education. The Farm
Advisory Service operates in all districts through centers staffed with



- 11 -
extension ard subject matter specialists; it organizes national demonstration
plots, field days, farmers' meetings and seminars, training camps, shows and
exhibitions. Each center provides intensive agricultural advice to five
villages through the Village Adoption Project (VAP). The Farm Information
and Communications Service provides farmers with publications, exhibitions,
audio-visual aids and maintains relations with the press. The Farm Training
Service conducts training in a wide range of subjects for departmental staff,
farmers and their families.
2.19      Agricultural Extension and Training.  Haryana is divided into 90
blocks each staffed by about 5 graduate Agriculture Inspectors (AI), who
are employees of the Agricultural Department (AD), but work under the Block
Development and Panchayat Officer. Although not directly responsible to the
AD, the AIS execute State agriculture programs under overall direction of the
Director of Agriculture. Present staffing provide one AI to about 2,000
operational holdings (about 7,500 ha) with each Al supported by Village Level
Workers (VLW) from the Panchayat Department who spend a part of their time on
agric-lture extension. The AD also has various specialized field services such
as soil conservation, plant protection, marketing, agricultural engineering and
five Farmers' Training Centers under a centrally-sponsored scheme. All exten-
sion activities are coordinated with and strongly supported by HAU.
2.20      Training programs for agricultural staff are held in advance of each
cropping season and packages of practices are recommended. At block level, the
AI are responsible for mass farmer contact programs usually through meetings
held in each village once every fortnight. AIs also meet with VLWs every
second week and organize demonstration plots and field days. Although stand-
ards of agricultural extension and training are good compared to other States,
staffing is inadequate and there is room for improvement in work planning and
training programs (para 2.13). To remedy these deficiencies, the AD intends
to adopt the more intensive "T and V" system of extension supported by the
National Ext:ension Project now under consideration for IDA financing.
Rural Services
2.21      One of the important reasons for GOH's economic success has been its
allocation of substantial resources to rural services in order to make agricul-
ture more productive and rural life more attractive. Electrification has now
reached all villages and almost 80% have all-weather access roads. However
provision of village water supplies has lagged behind with only 14% (or about
920 villages) having schemes; works under construction or planned will supply
an additional 966 villages by 1983 bringing statewide coverage to about 32% of
all villages. Priority is given to those villages which qualify on the basis
of difficulty in obtaining a safe and secure supply as defined under GOI guide-
lines (para 6.13). Construction, operation and maintenance of all rural water
supplies is undertaken by the Public Health Branch of Public Works Department
(PWD). Following modifications in design criteria agreed with IDA, village
water supply schemes are of acceptable standards.



- 12 -
III. THE PROJECT
Project Formulation
3.01      Review of the agriculture situation in Haryana by GOH's Project
Preparation Group, assisted by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program, confirmed
that the major constraint to increase crop production in the State is
limited irrigation supplies. Since the early 1970s, available surface water
resources have been fully developed or committed. Groundwater development has
been carried out aggressively by the private sector and, in many areas, is
reaching the maximum sustainable yield. It thus emerges that further expan-
sion of agricultural production can only be achieved by improved efficiency
and reliability of existing surface irrigation systems. Although Haryana
has made considerable strides in implementing a Statewide program of lining
canals and watercourse channels and in developing groundwater, there is a
need to accelerate these programs and increase their cost effectiveness by
improving planning and implementation standards.
3.02      During the next four years (1978-82), the proposed project would
assist Haryana to complete the modernization of about 30% of its existing
surface water irrigation system, help develop supplemental groundwater and
upgrade the development of the lift irrigation areas. It would also accel-
erate construction of associated infrastructure such as rural roads, market
places and village water supplies. It would lead to about 290,000 ha of
additional area being brought under irrigation on farms which are at present
under-irrigated. The scope and scale of operations proposed under the project
are well within GOH's financial and construction capabilities.
Project Objectives
3.03      Irrigation Components.  Canals require lining to reduce seepage
losses, simplify maintenance and assist in control of watertable in saline
groundwater areas; canal structures need to be modernized to improve operation.
The program is particularly important in western Haryana where soils are light
and in the WYC command where many control structures use outdated technology
or have reached the end of their useful life span. Watercourses are the
weakest link in the existing irrigation system. The watercourse distributes
water from the governmentally managed irrigation system through communally
owned field channels down to individually owned farm plots. From the early
1970s, the historical assumption that watercourses were best left to the care
of cultivators began to be questioned and GOH passed legislation to enforce
action considered to be in the best communal interests of watercourse share-
holders. In line with these new objectives, the project would accelerate
watercourse modernization and enhance the design, monitoring and organization
of watercourse lining schemes with a view to decrease water losses and to
minimize inequities in the distribution of water. Private development of
fresh groundwater has been one of the main factors of Haryana's agricultural
growth. However, the limits of fresh groundwater resources are being reached
and there remains substantial scope for public groundwater development in mar-
ginal or saline areas where groundwater can be diluted with surface supplies.



- 13 -
Accordingly, the project would finance augmentation tubewells in priority
areas to allow public use of groundwater storage. This would increase avail-
ability and improve reliability of the surface water supplies and also facil-
itate drainage. Haryana has an ambitious program to develop drought prone
areas by lift irrigation and to help improve planning and implementation
standards. The project would assist with completion and commissioning of the
Jui Lift Irrigation Command. In this area, the project would finance minor
irrigation and on-farm development works to facilitate efficient irrigated
agriculture.
3.04      Associated Rural Infrastructure.  All-weather access to villages
is necessary to facilitate flow of modern inputs, extension advice and crop
marketing services in the project area and, most importantly, to facilitate
the transport of produce to the markets. In anticipation of the increased
agriculture production resulting from irrigation modernization, there is
also a need for additional rural markets. Finally, safe drinking water is
not always available in the project area and some of the available supplies
to village ponds may be prejudiced by the proposed canal and watercourse
lining program. Under the project, rural infrastructure within the project
area (rural roads, rural markets and village water supply schemes) would be
financed.
3.05      Project Areas.  The irrigation components are located in areas where
the physical characteristics ensure greatest benefits to the various works;
markets are selected where present facilities constitute a serious constraint;
both the road and village water supply components continue on-going programs.
3.06      Project Monitoring.  During implementation, designs will be reviewed
on a continuous basis and improvements introduced where necessary. Uniform
design standards for components financed from institutional credit would be
employed irrespective of the source of finance.
Project Description - Summary
3.07      The project would include:
(a)  Modernization of canals:  lining of about 23.2 million
sq m of canal wetted surface (equivalent to about
2,900 km of branch canals, distributaries and minor
canals) and improvements to canal structures.
(b)  Modernization of watercourses:  lining of about 9.5
million m (31 million ft) length of watercourse channel
on about 2,100 watercourses serving some 250,000 ha.
(c)  Augmentation tubewells:  construction of about 325 deep
tubewells (about 1.75 cusecs each) together with necessary
link channels to connect the wells to the surface water
canal systems.



- 14 -
(d)  Jui Lift Irrigation Command Area:  construction and
lining of about 0.55 million m (1.8 million ft.) length
of watercourse channel on 132 watercourses serving some
20,000 ha; land levelling of about 12,000 ha.
(e)  Construction of 22 new and improvement of 4 produce
markets.
(f)  Construction of 1,322 km of village link roads and
provision of hard shoulders for about 70 km of existing
roads.
(g)  Construction of 52 water supply schemes to serve
about 175 villages.
(h)  Technical assistance to support project monitoring,
evaluation, and construction of applied research and
development works.
Project Description - Detailed Features
Modernization of Canals
3.08      Outside lift irrigation areas, the surface canal systems in Haryana
extend for about 8,910 km. The on-going program has lined about 815 km of
which 290 km were channels which had to be remodelled or enlarged. GOH now
plans to modernize branch, distributaries and minor canals throughout the
Bhakra and WYC command areas at an estimated cost of US$185 million (1977
prices). The credit would partly finance about 2,900 km or 30% of this
program. The primary objective of the canal lining program is a reduction
in seepage losses (para 6.06) estimated as follows:
Annual water saved      Area to       Annual
Soil Type  Seepage Reduction  per unit area of lining  be lined  Water Saving
cusecs/10  sq ft       cu ft/100 sq ft         10  sq ft        Mm3
Sandy Loam   from 8 to 2               15,400                 132         575
Loam          from 6 to 2              10,600                 118         354
Seepage reduction occurs both while canals are flowing and during rotational
closures when water remains standing in the canal below the level of irri-
gation outlets. Objectives to be considered in selecting priority channels
to be lined will be: (i) elimination of waterlogging adjacent to canals;
(ii) control of watertables in areas underlain by saline groundwater; (iii)
increased canal capacities when existing earth channels are lined; and (iv)
reduced maintenance needs and improved operating efficiency. Reduced main-
tenance is of special importance in the Bhakra canal command where water sup-
plies are relatively silt free and encourage heavy weed growth. Existing
earth channels cannot be completely drained during canal closures so weeds
proliferate.



- 15 -
3.09      Detailed design criteria for modernization of canals have been
adopted by GOH. The type of lining to be used will depend on the capacity of
the channel and the construction methods appropriate to the site. Most
channels will have discharges below 200 cusecs and the two main alternative
designs to be used are:
(a)  a single 2" layer of baked clay tiles over a layer of 1:3
cement-sand mortar placed on a binding layer over a com-
pacted sub-grade. The 1:3 mortar layer is the seepage
barrier with the tiles providing the mechanical protec-
tion; or
(b) a 1.5" layer of unreinforced concrete over slates
("kattals") which are embedded in a 1:4 cement mortar
layer; this is placed on a lean sand-clay mortar base
over a compacted sub-grade. The concrete is the seepage
barrier; the slates provide weight and stiffness. Con-
crete is placed in alternating 10 ft. wide panels.
Choice between alternatives (a) and (b) would depend on availability of mate-
rials. Clay tiles are generally only attractive when sufficient quantities
are needed within a reasonable haul distance to justify setting up a kiln.
For canals with a discharge over about 2,000 cusecs, side slopes would be
provided with double tile lining on an interposed 1:3 cement-sand mortar
seepage layer. The canal bed would be lined with a single tile layer bedded
on a cement mortar base.
3.10      The practice in Haryana is to line existing canals rather than
construct new lined canals parallel to the original earth channel. The
work is carried out during rotational canal closures which can be extended
for at least 16 days. The construction season runs from November to May
providing about 100 working days. Construction is labor intensive and between
rotational closures, labor is used on an adjacent canal or to prepare tiles
or slates for the next section to be lined. This method requires efficient
organization but obviates the need for expropriating land for a parallel
canal. Present performance shows that progress is about the same as con-
structing a new parallel canal and is less costly.
3.11      Some canal structures have reached the end of their useful life;
others are designed to standards which do not enable the degree of regulation
required today for the efficient distribution of water. Concurrent with the
lining programs, structures will be remodelled or replaced to improve opera-
tional control.
3.12      Project costs have been based on single cl2y tile lining  (para
3.09) and are estimated at about US$15.1 per 100 ft . Cost of canal modern-
ization, including a percentage for modernizing st uctures, engineering and
physical contingencies is about US$23.4 per 100 ft (Table 3.1). Moderniza-
tion of canals are described in detail in Annex 3 of the Supplementary Data
Volume.



- 16 -
Modernization of Watercourses
3.13      The watercourse is the link channel between the main canal system
operated by the Irrigation Department and the farm channels of individual
farmers; the watercourse serves a command area or "chak" of about 250 ha and
is farmed by about 60 cultivators. The "chak" is supplied by a single outlet
of about 1.5 to 2.0 cusecs (150 to 200 m 3/hr) designed to give a fixed
discharge; the supply is sufficient to provide full irrigation on about 30%
of the watercourse command area. A typical watercourse (Map 13483) consists
of a stem channel with several branches which distribute water to farm outlets
(or 'nukkas') of individual cultivators or occasionally to small groups of
cultivators. These channels are communal property of the chak cultivators
(shareholders) who are jointly responsible for operating and maintaining the
watercourse system. This voluntary arrangement generally does not work well
and watercourse systems are inefficient in distributing water supplies. The
project is designed to improve on this situation.
3.14      The entire flow from the irrigation outlet is supplied to each
cultivator in turn on a time rotation or "warabundi" with the time of flow
proportional to the cultivable command area (CCA) of each farmer; adjustments
are made for the time required for water to reach the shareholders' farm. The
warabundi defines by law the water right of the shareholder with respect to
quantity and time of turn in a rotational cycle. The alignment of a water-
course is also defined by law and once registered, the common channels within
a chak are designated "sanctioned" watercourses. Warabundi with unlined
channels in Northwest India has never worked adequately and does not enable
an equitable distribution of water to all farmers because discharge from the
watercourse varies as the stream is rotated between the farmers.
3.15      There are about 8,300 watercourses in the gravity canal command
areas and GOH has estimated that about 6,420 watercourses are located where
soils, topography or other physical features indicate that lining would be
economically justified. The on-going program has partly lined about 1,200
watercourses for about 55% of the channel length. The project would line an
additional 2,100 watercourses.
3.16      Lining of the watercourse reduces seepage and operational losses;
the provision of a rigid channel section also facilitates the equitable
distribution of the water supply. Therefore, the benefits of lining water-
courses are twofold. More water is available for irrigation and the supply
becomes more reliable and more equitable to all farmers in the chak. Various
observations have been made on lined watercourses in Haryana and indicate that
the overall annual effect of the lining operation is to increase the irrigated
area in the chak by about 24% (para 6.07).
3.17       Following surveys executed with IDA and FAO/IBRD CP assistance,
revised design criteria regarding the length of channel to be lined in each
watercourse command have been adopted by GOH, as follows:
(a) The incremental production from the water saved by seepage
reduction in the lined watercourse must justify the invest-
ment in the lining.



- 17 -
(b) No farmer in a watercourse command would have to convey
water for a distance in excess of 1,000 ft from the end
of a lined watercourse to his farm gate.
(c) If necessary, the lining of any watercourse channel would
be extended beyond the limit fixed by item (b) above so
that all parts of a watercourse command can be served in
a reliable manner. In particular, lining would be provided
for a watercourse channel where physical obstacles such as
depressions or sand dunes create a maintenance liability
with an unlined channel which cannot be reasonably overcome
by individual farmers.
(d) The cost of the lining would be within the repayment
capacity of the farmers.
(e) After a watercourse is lined, the warabundi would be
revised to compensate for the difference in time of
transmission of water between lined and unlined channels.
From experience gathered in ongoing watercourse lining programs, and research
studies, lining of about 75% of the length of watercourse channel for typical
chaks included in the project would meet the above criteria. However, a lower
percentage may be justified in certain cases and where site conditions neces-
sitate or if farmers so request, the whole length of the watercourse would be
lined. An assurance has been obtained from GOH that for the modernization of
watercourses component, a design manual suitable for use by field staff respon-
sible for design and implementation of the works in the watercourse command
would be prepared and submitted by December 31, 1978 to IDA for review based
on the guiding principles outlined above. GOH has also made arrangements that
a suitable training program would be carried out to ensure that field staff
understand the procedures and design principles recorded in the manual.
3.18      The design of lining depends on the availability of building mate-
rials and on the need for labor intensive construction methods. The typical
channel section would have vertical walls made of brick masonry on a concrete
slab over a sub-grade of broken slate pieces; this simple, effective design
reduces seepage losses to about 6 cusecs per million ft of wetted perimeter.
Permanent farm outlets (or "nukkas") would be provided with gates on both
lined and unlined portions of a watercourse. Permanent crossings over
the watercourses would be constructed to permit access by bullock cart or
tractor to each holding.
3.19      The cost of watercourse lining is estimated about US$1.86 per foot
lined inclusive of minor structures (Table 3.1), engineering and physical
contingencies. Field testing of various types of lining would continue
through the project period and specifications could be modified if improve-
ments can be introduced. Modernization of watercourses are described in
detail in Annex 4 of the Supplementary Data Volume.



- 18 -
Augmentation Tubewells
3.20       There are about 1,100 existing augmentation tubewells (ATWs) in
Haryana and GOH has identified five areas (Map 13482) where groundwater
quality and availability would support an additional 650 ATWs capable of
providing about 450 Mm annually. The project would construct a first phase
program of 325 ATWs over a four year period with the remaining 325 ATWs phased
over an extended period after project completion. This would enable further
investigations to be completed to establish the relative needs of private
and public tubewell development particularly in parts of the five selected
areas where groundwater can be used for direct irrigation.
3.21      ATWs will be constructed in groups to reduce the cost of the
electric power supply and to make discharge operationally significant when
used conjunctively with the surface water canal system. The wells would
J                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
average about 135 m depth with discharges of about 150-200 m /hr. ATWs would
be spaced generally in a single row at 600 to 1000 m intervals along a lined
collection channel discharging into the surface water irrigation network.
Design parameters such as screen length, choice of screen material and pump
units have been selected to give minimum cost to the water produced. Capaci-
tors and other necessary safety equipment would be provided at each ATW to avoid
damage to the units due to power outages or variations in voltage. Haryana
State Electricity Board (HSEB) will construct 11 kV lines to power each group
of ATWs under the project; separate lines would be provided which exclusively
serve.ATWs so that power interruptions can be minimized.
3.22      The cost of each ATW in the project program is about US$33,450
including engineering and physical contingencies (Table 3.1) the cost of
electrification is about US$12,400 per well including physical contingencies.
Jui Lift Irrigation Command
3.23      The component would continue development of Jui Command Lift Irriga-
tion area (Map 13481) through construction and lining of about 132 watercourses
and land levelling of about 12,000 ha. Because of the light soils, the whole
length of each watercourse would be lined to serve all farm outlets commanding
about 5 ha. A condition of disbursement for Jui Command would be that the
design of each of the first 10 watercourses would be reviewed and approved by
the Association before implementation of such watercourses. Design of lining
section would be as described in para 3.17 except for about 10 watercourses
which would be experimental; for these, design criteria and construction
methods would be tested to establish the most suitable water conveyance
systems for typical soils and topography in lift irrigation areas. GOH would
bear any extra cost for experimental watercourses incurred over and above the
unit costs of comparable works constructed with conventional brick lining
(para 3.18). Such applied research and development costs would be supported
by the project.
3.24      The cost of watercourse lining including contingencies would be
about US$1.86 per foot run. An additional physical contingency of 20% has
been included for the 10 experimental watercourses to enable small scale and
novel technologies to be tried.



- 19 -
3.25      Land shaping of some 40% of a holding is adequate for efficient
use of water allocation because of the low irrigated cropping intensity in
Jui Command. Suitable land for the area to be levelled can generally be
found in the flatter inter-dune areas thus enabling construction to be done
with light agricultural equipment. These areas are easier to manage with
irrigation and tend to have better water retention capacity. Land levelling
and associated on-farm development would be concurrent with the watercourse
construction program.
3.26      The cost of land levelling would vary widely depending on microto-
pography, soil types and area of a holding to be levelled. Work undertaken on
an individual. holding would be geared to the capacity of the farmer to repay.
For estimating purposes, unit costs are taken as about 1,100 Rs/ha and it is
assumed that land levelling would cover about 40% of the CCA of a holding.
Markets
3.27      Under the project, 22 new markets would be constructed and 4 exist-
ing markets improved (Map 13481). New markets fall into four categories:
Area of
Category   Market Yard            Estimated Cost          No. in Project
(acres)       (Rs million)  (US$ million)
A         50-100             26.4            3.06              1
B         35-50              12.5            1.45              5
C         25-35               6.8            0.80             15
D         15-25               3.5            0.40              1
3.28      The facilities and costs of typical market categories are listed in
Table 3.2. Market design is prepared by HSAMB and considers movement within
the market yard for truck and bullock transport; it also provides facilities
for expeditious transactions, reduction in transit and storage losses through
better handling, short-term storage and grading control. Producers would
benefit as they can display their produce and sell by tender. All markets
provide improved hygienic facilities including drinking water supply and sewer-
age, lighting and facilities and services for animals. Proposed market loca-
tions consider local access, land availability for future expansion and asso-
ciated development of storage and processing industries. It would be a
condition of disbursement for cost of the first five produce markets that
HSMAB would submit to IDA and ARDC for approval before implementation, the
planning, design and financial analysis of the first five market schemes to be
constructed usnder the project.
3.29      HSAMB provides support to local Market Committees (RMC) which are
directly responsible for markets; HSAMB organizes and supervises construction
partly on forced account and partly through small contractors with materials
supplied by the Board. Completed works are of high technical standard.
Village Link Roads
3.30      All-weather access to villages is essential given the monsoon cli-
mate, the expanding surplus agricultural production and need for an increase



- 20 -
in agricultural inputs. The project would connect 950 villages to the exist-
ing all weather road network throughout the State by constructing village
roads totalling 945 km. It would also improve existing roads totalling 377 km
to all-weather standards, and provide hard shoulders for 70 km of roads. The
road and track network in Haryana is laid out in a series of intersecting star
patterns centered on towns and villages which are the focal point of all rural
activities and follow existing track alignments. Completion of existing roads
for which earthworks and some structures have been completed would be given
priority. All project roads would be designed and built to India Road Congress
(IRC) standards and Haryana PWD specifications for village roads which are
satisfactory. Right of way, formation and pavement widths would be 12.19 m,
7.32 m and 3.66 m respectively; embankment height would normally be about
0.9 m with drainage as required. The rather narrow right of way is sufficient
because farmers will allow the Roads and Bridges Branch of PWD to take soil
from their fields in preference to giving up more land for borrow pits.
Pavements would be designed using a minimum thickness of 17.5 cm and would be
constructed of stone or brick soling and waterbound macadam surfacing sealed
with bituminous premix carpet. Provision is made for hard shoulders where
soft shoulders are not suitable because of soil conditions of road elevation.
3.31      The average unit cost for new village roads including physical
contingency is about US$14,530/km; road improvement works average about
US$11,050/km; cost of providing hard shoulders are estimated at US$1,975/km.
Village Water Supply
3.32      The project would include 52 water supply schemes to serve 175
villages with a present population (1977) of about 313,000. The schemes
have been selected by the State Sanitary Board (SSB) on the basis of greatest
need and are spread through seven districts (Map 13482). Surface irrigation
canals will be the source for 42 schemes and the 10 remaining schemes will be
supplied from tubewells.
3.33      Originally, GOI guidelines recommended that water requirements be
based on a consumption of 68 liters per capita per day (lcd). However, given
the large Statewide program of schemes to be undertaken, possible variations
in population trends and the limited budgetary resources available, GOH has
now decided--and the Association concurs--to retain a figure of 45 lcd for
design purposes and also to adopt a number of cost saving features. To ensure
equitable distribution of scarce resources, private water connections are not
proposed at present. Canal-fed schemes would have storage/sedimentation
basins with capacity for a 12 days supply to meet periods of canal closure,
and a feeder channel able to fill storage in 7 days. Raw water would be
treated by slow sand filtration and chlorination. Treated water would be
pumped either directly into the supply system or stored in elevated reservoirs.
Chlorination is the only treatment provided for tubewell schemes. Both canal
and tubewell based schemes would have gravity fed mains designed to supply
village populations through standpipes each serving 200/300 consumers. Pumps
would be electrically powered from the State rural distribution grid; standby
diesel pumps/generators are provided to ensure against electrical outages.



- 21 -
As a condition of disbursement for the village water supply component, the
Public Health Branch of PWD of GOH would prepare for IDA approval detailed
designs of the first five schemes to be constructed under the project.
3.34      A sample scheme in each district has been fully designed to esti-
mate costs. The unit rate per capita including contingencies based on the
projected population in year 2007 and the design standards and criteria out-
lined above would be about US$16.0 for tubewell supplied schemes and in the
range of US$19.0 to 24.0 for canal-fed schemes. Unit costs vary depending
on location, population density and number of villages served by a waterworks.
Project Implementation
3.35      The implementation schedule given in Chart C-1 aims at project
completion by August 1982. The main construction season is from September
to April although certain activities such as works on market construction and
on rural wat:er supply continue through the monsoon season. All construction
work would be labor-intensive with about 35% of project cost spent on labor.
Machines would be used to achieve standards of compaction for road pavements,
for concrete mixing and transportation. All components have established
constructioni techniques which are cost effective and relate to local condi-
tions. Most: works are suited for small labor contracts and sufficient labor
contractors are available to ensure progress and good quality work.
Summary of Costs
3.36      Based on December 1977 unit prices, the total project cost net of
taxes and duties is estimated at US$222.0 million as summarized below and
detailed in Table 3.3.



- 22 -
% of
No.     Component           Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total  Base Cost
-- (Rs million) ---    --- (US$ million)--
1. Modernization
of Canals            369.9   61.1   431.0    43.0    7.1         50.1   28.2
2. Modernization of
Watercourses         364.1   47.3   411.4    42.4    5.5         47.9   27.0
3.  Augmentation
Tubewells             83.7   24.6   108.3        9.7    2.8      12.5    7.1
4. Jui Command
(a) Construction
of Water-
courses           22.2    2.5    24.7       2.6    0.3        2.9    1.6
(b) Land
Levelling          6.4    1.6       8.0     0.7    0.2        0.9    0.5
5.  Markets                144.1   30.1   174.2    16.7    3.5        20.2   11.4
6. Village Link
Roads                120.7   25.8   146.5    14.1    3.0         17.1    9.6
7.  Village Water
Supply                58.3   12.9    71.2        6.7    1.5       8.2    4.6
8. Technical
Assistance and
Applied Research
and Development        3.0    -         3.0     0.4      -        0.4    0.2
Total 1 - 8       1,172.4  205.9 1,378.3   136.3   23.9    160.2   90.2
Engineering &
Supervision          147.9    -       147.9    17.3      -       17.3    9.8
Base Cost           1,320.3  205.9 1,526.2   153.6   23.9    177.5  100.0
Physical
Contingencies        99.5   13.8   113.3    11.6    1.6         13.2    7.4
Price Escalation      234.2   35.3   269.5    27.1    4.2         31.3   17.6
TOTAL           1,654.1  255.0 1,909.1   192.3   29.7    222.0  125.0
The foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$29.7 million or 13%
of the project cost.  Costs are based on existing unit rates from on-going
programs. Physical contingencies for the main components vary from 5% for
the modernization of canals to 15% for village water supply. Cost of con-
struction equipment is included in the unit rate for civil works. The
estimated cost of technical assistance is based on prevailing GOh rates of
about US$770 per month for local consultants including fees and subsistence
allowances.
Financing
3.37      The proposed credit of US$111.0 million would finance 50% of the
project cost net of taxes and duties. Modernization of watercourses, markets,
augmentation tubewells and Jui Command components are partly financed through
institutional credit; modernization of canals, village roads and water supply
would be financed by GOH from its development budget which includes a GOI
contribution (Table 3.4).



- 23 -
3.38      The credit would be made to GOI.  Assurances have been obtained
from GOI that: (i) the proceeds of the credit except disbursements for works
partly financed through institutional credit, would be channeled to GOH on
GOI's standard terms and arrangements for development assistance to the States,
and (ii) disbursements for institutional credit items (US$41.4 million) would
be made available to ARDC. A further assurance has been obtained from GOI
and GOH that GOH would include in its annual budgetary proposals sufficient
funds 1/ to execute the project substantially in accordance with the implemen-
tation and expenditure schedules for the four-year project period. GOH would
guarantee debt repayment for components partly financed by institutional credit
which would be on terms and conditions detailed in Annex 2. A condition of
effectiveness of the Project would be that: (i) the financial arrangements
between GOI and ARDC have been made; and (ii) the Association has received
a banking plan satisfactory to the Association giving details of refinancing
of loans by the Lending Banks through ARDC.
Procurement
3.39       Civil Works (US$156.3 M). 2/  Civil Works would be restricted
to seasonal construction and would generally be carried out through labor-
intensive methods. Works would be relatively small and scattered through
the State. Consequently it would neither be feasible nor economic to group
them into large contracts for international competitive bidding (ICB). The
present practice of GOH is to award construction works of the type included
in the project after local competitive bidding (LCB) and this practice would
be followed for the proposed credit. This procedure would be acceptable to
the Associat:ion. Haryana and the neighboring States have a well developed
constructioni industry and the procedures for LCB are satisfactory. Moderni-
zation of watercourses and some small canals have to be implemented on a
command area basis over a limited period of time to minimize interference with
crop producl:ion. Such works would be awarded under small unit price contracts.
Force account work would be limited to a maximum of 10% of all civil works.
The department or agency responsible for implementation usually procures key
materials such as cement and coal (to manufacture clay tiles and bricks)
through bulk purchases following standard procedures of GOR. Materials are
supplied to contractors on a cost plus transportation basis.
3.40      Vehicles and Equipment (US$4.1 M). 3/  Field vehicles and most
equipment such as pumps, motor and electrical items for ATWs and village water
supply schemes would depend on existing servicing and spare part facilities;
considerable benefits would be derived from procuring local models. No major
equipment items are to be procured as existing machinery is adequate with
1/   Approximately US$22.0 million in FY 1978/79.
2/   Cost of works, net of physical and price contingencies and administra-
tion and engineering cost.
3/   Cost, net of physical and price contingencies and administration and
engineering cost.



- 24 -
normal expansion and replacement. Most contracts are likely to be less than
US$100,000 as the procurement rate would be decided by the need to replace
existing equipment and to match a gradual increase in capacity of implemen-
tation agencies. Because of existing servicing and spare part supply facili-
ties, there are considerable benefits to be derived from procuring local
models through normal state procedures which are acceptable to IDA.
Disbursements
3.41      Disbursement would be made for (a) 100% of the foreign expenditures
on directly imported equipment; (b) 100% of ex-factory price on locally manu-
factured goods or 70% of cost where ex-factory price is not available; (c) 70%
of expenditure on civil works financed from the budget; (d) 55% of ARDC's
refinance for modernization of watercourses, markets, ATWs and Jui Command
components; and (e) 100% for technical assistance and applied research and
development works. Full documentation would be made available by GOH for LCB
payments above a value of Rs 100,000 for civil works and above Rs 50,000 for
equipment and vehicles. Disbursements for other civil works and land develop-
ment would be made against certificates of expenditure submitted by ARDC and
GOH respectively. The supporting documents would be retained by GOH and ARDC
and made available for inspection by IDA during review missions. The esti-
mated schedule of expenditures, the proposed allocation of the proceeds of the
credit and a schedule of disbursement is presented in Tables 3.5, 3.6 and 3.7
respectively. It is expected that disbursements would be completed by March
31, 1983, about eight months after project completion.
Accounts and Audits
3.42      Government Departments and Agencies would be subject to normal con-
trol and auditing procedures which are satisfactory. Assurances have been
obtained from GOH that it shall cause its departments and other agencies and
authorities responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof to:
(i) have their accounts and financial statements related to the Project for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case, not
later than four months after the end of each such year, the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the said accounts and financial statements and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
3.43      Auditing procedures for ARDC are satisfactory.  Assurances have
been obtained from GOI that ARDC would require participating banks to maintain
separate accounts for project lending, and that audited reports would be sub-
mitted to IDA within four months after the end of the fiscal year together
with an audited ARDC statement on project lending to such banks.
Environmental Effects of the Project
3.44      The project would have no adverse environmental effects and some
benefits would accrue from reduction of salinity and waterlogging and stabil-
ization of the advancing desert through a greenbelt formed by Jui Irrigation
Scheme.



- 25 -
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION
General
4.01      GOH's organizational set up relevant to project components is de-
tailed in Chart C-2.
Project Organization and Coordination
4.02      Implementation would be the responsibility of the following GOH
agencies: Irrigation-Department (ID) for canal modernization; Haryana State
Minor Irrigation (Tubewells) Corporation (HSMITC) for watercourse lining and
augmentation tubewells; Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB) for
market yarcls; and two branches of the Public Works Department (PWD): Bridges
and Roads (B&R) for village roads and Public Health (PH) for rural water
supplies. Project works in the Jui Lift Irrigation Command Area would be
carried out: by line departments of GOH which will be coordinated by a Command
Area Development Authority (CADA) to be established from the existing CADA
operating iin the area (para 4.15).
4.03     (GOH has set up a Planning and Monitoring Unit to deal with project
activities which acts through its member/secretary, the Deputy Secretary,
Irrigation. The unit reports to the Financial Commissioner and Secretary,
Irrigation and Power, who will act as the Project Coordinator (PC). The unit
will monitor implementation plans in physical and financial terms and project
performance. It will also provide the liaison channel between GOH, the Asso-
ciation and the various executing agencies. The unit will help to facilitate
provision of staff, equipment or other requirements necessary for satisfactory
project progress.
Project Management
4.04      The Irrigation Department (ID).  Canal modernization would be
planned, designed, scheduled and constructed by ID. Staffing would be
adequate because many of the State's major irrigation projects are nearing
completion and the ID would re-deploy experienced staff for the project
according 1:o the project implementation schedule. The ID would strengthen
the staff planning section engaged in GOH's canal modernization program by
inclusion of a Monitoring, Evaluation and Applied Development (NEAD) unit,
comprising personnel experienced in irrigation and structural engineering,
water management, agriculture, and economics, and assisted by provision of
6 man-years of specialized local consultancy services through the project.
The unit would develop methods for improved water use under an applied
research and development program covering improved conveyance systems,
in-system storage at various operational procedures including improved
maintenance and irrigation methods.
4.05      .iaryana State Minor Irrigation (Tubewells) Corporation (HSMITC) is
responsible for modernization of watercourses and for the construction and
operation of augmentation tubewells. HSMITC, a corporate body empowered to
utilize institutional finance, was established in 1970 to install and manage



- 26 -
deep tubewells and undertake other minor irrigation works which would improve
irrigation efficiencies throughout Haryana. On formation, HSMITC took over
all existing public tubewells and commenced watercourse lining programs in
1973; it also manufactures pumps for lift irrigation projects in Haryana and
other States. At present, HSMITC operates ongoing programs satisfactorily.
However, additional staffing, some improvement in management, and better
financial control would be required to handle the expanded work program.
These improvements relate particularly to the watercourse modernization pro-
gram where annual expenditures would rise from about US$7.0 million at present
to about US$21.0 under the project.
4.06      HSMITC finances its operations partly from institutional credit
with the balance provided from its own resources which include share capital,
loans from GOH and income from management charges. Although watercourses are
private property of farmers under the Haryana Canal and Drainage Act, "Divi-
sional Canal officers" have powers to require shareholders to line water-
courses for their proper functioning. The officers of HSMITC have been dele-
gated these powers by GOH to implement the above mentioned provisions of the
Act. Unlike farmers under previous CAD projects supported by the Bank Group
elsewhere in India, the farmers in Haryana are not asked to mortgage their
land against communal investment in a watercourse. Instead, HSMITC acts on
the farmers' behalf and advances the cost of the works. Participating banks
provide 80% of project cost after scheme appraisal. This portion is partly
refinanced by ARDC on terms and conditions given in Annex 2. The remaining
20% of the cost is provided by HSMITC from share capital and borrowings from
GOH. On completion of each watercourse scheme, HSMITC sends a demand list to
the Revenue Department and the cost of the improvements to the watercourses is
directly recovered from farmers after each seasonal harvest. Collections made
by the revenue authorities are transferred to HSMITC to meet its obligations
to financing banks. An assurance has been obtained from GOH that it will
guarantee debt repayments for institutional credit to be refinanced by ARDC
under the Project.
4.07      HSMITC prepares, implements, owns and manages ATW schemes for
the Irrigation Department. HSMITC's own resources finance 20% of the costs
of ATW schemes with the remaining 80% obtained through institutional credit
following the same procedure as for watercourse lining. HSMITC sells water
from ATWs to the ID at a rate that covers capital and O&M costs. At present,
rates are unsatisfactory as HSMITC borrows over a 12 year period (Annex 2)
while the rates are calculated over the 30 year life span of the ATWs. This
has resulted in liquidity problems for HSMITC. Under the assurance referred
to in para 4.06 above, no further such problems are anticipated.
4.08      The structure of HSMITC after on-going reorganization due to be
completed by June 1979 is shown on Chart C-3. The Corporation, headed by a
Managing Director, would have two operational divisions, one each for water-
course lining and tubewell development. Each division would be under the
direction of a General Manager of the rank of Additional Chief Engineer and
would maintain separate financial accounts. HSMITC would establish a Manage-
ment Information Unit headed by a Financial Adviser who would report to the



- 27 -
Managing Director. Its function would be to modernize accounting and budget-
ing procedures so that timely and reliable information is available to man-
agement and financing banks. For the purpose of improving and strengthening
the management of HSMITC, GOH has prepared a Management Plan satisfactory
to IDA which details the setting up of effective accounting, budgeting and
inventory control systems. Assurances have been obtained from GOH that
HSMITC (i) shall implement the Management Plan by March 31, 1979 and
(ii) will appoint by December 31, 1978 a financial advisor in HSMITC with
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA.
4.09      To promote progressive improvements in planning and design (in
particular for the Jui Lift Irrigation Command Area) HSMITC would build up
a Monitoring, Evaluation and Applied Development (MEAD) unit within its
organization headed by a Superintending Engineer qualified in this activity.
He would be in charge of a multi-discipline staff including an irrigation
engineer, an agronomist, and an agro-economist. The MEAD unit would be
supported by 4-man years of local consultancy in specialized subjects such
as water management, soils and geohydrology.
4.10      Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB), responsible'
for the marketing component, was established in August 1969 to supervise
Regulated Market Committees (RMC). HSAMB is responsible for improvements to
existing markets and construction of new facilities. HSAMB is a corporate
body with broad powers to regulate, trade, own properties, borrow and grant
licenses to dealers in regulated markets.
4.11      The organization of HSAMB is shown in Chart C-4.  The Marketing
Enforcement Division headed by a Chief Officer, conducts inspections of RMCs
and enforces the Marketing Act. HSAMB also maintains a technically competent
and well staffed Construction Division under a Projects Superintending Engi-
neer. Within this Division, the Construction Cell prepares designs and cost
estimates for new markets, arranges contracts for construction and supervises
works. HSAMB would strengthen its existing Project Implementation Committee
to expedite all executive decisions relating to project execution. Assurances
have been obtained from GOH that HSAMB would update the Master Plan for market
development by December 31, 1981.
4.12      HSMAB has been able to finance its on-going construction program
from own resources which include 30% (US$3.1 million equivalent in 1976/77)
of the revenue from the marketing fee and other incomes such as license fees,
interest on investments and rents. To help finance the project component,
HSMAB has sought institutional credit on terms and conditions given in Annex 2.
HSMAB would provide 20% contribution to scheme outlay from its own funds. The
remaining 80% would be made available from participating banks (Haryana State
Cooperative Bank and selected commercial banks) and after scheme approval this
credit would be partly refinanced by ARDC (Annex 2). HSMAB would repay borrow-
ings from its income. Assurances have been obtained from GOH that (i) it will
take all steps necessary to enable HSAMB to retain revenues equivalent to 1%
ad valorem of the marketing fee together with revenues from sale of plots and
rental of common drying platforms; and (ii) by March 31, 1979, HSAMB would
improve its cost accounting and financial planning.



- 28 -
4.13      The Bridges and Roads (B&R) and Public Health (PH) Branches of PWD
would be responsible respectively for the design and construction of the roads
and rural water supply components through regular operational circles. B&R
has seven circles in the field and PH has six with each circle managed by a
Superintending Engineer and comprising four or five divisions each headed by
an Executive Engineer. The Additional Chief Engineer (Roads) and the Chief
Engineer (PH) would be directly responsible for execution of project compo-
nents. Overall direction of water supply projects in Haryana is vested in a
State Sanitary Board (SSB) whose membership comprises five ministers; five
Commissioners/Secretaries and six senior technical officers all drawn from
departments associated with health and development. B&R branch is adequately
staffed to undertake project road works but PH branch would require strength-
ening for execution of the village water supply component. Two additional
circles with full supporting staff would be established, each comprising three
divisions.
4.14      To enable an effective post-project planning of the water supply
sector, assurances have been obtained from GOH that by December 31, 1981, it
would prepare a Statewide sector survey for drinking water supply which would
cover urban and rural areas. In particular, the study consider the relation-
ship between design standards and specifications, the scope of the program and
the likely financial resources available. Four man-years of local consultant
time would be allocated to PHD, particularly to assist with design economies
and to carry out the water supply sector survey.
4.15      Command Area Development Authority (CADA).  On-farm and associated
development in Jui Lift Irrigation Command has been slow and improved planning
and implementation procedures need be established which would be applicable
to similar areas elsewhere in Haryana. GOH has strengthened its development
capability within Jui Command area by setting up a Command Area Development
Authority (CADA) headed by the Administrator, Commissioner (Hissar Division).
CADA will be able to deal effectively with all aspects of development, coor-
dination and implementation and also monitor and evaluate the results.
Initially CADA would concentrate its efforts on the special problems within
Jui Command and as other lift irrigation projects are commissioned, it would
expand its operations.
4.16      A technical cell will be set up in CADA headed by a technical
officer of suitable rank and reporting directly to the Administrator (CADA).
Technical staff would be recruited or seconded from various in-line depart-
ments and agencies operating in lift irrigation areas and include an executive
engineer (ID) to deal with main irrigation systems; an agronomist, an agri-
cultural economist, a soil scientist, an agricultural extension officer and
a water management specialist to cover problems specific to soils of the area.
Technical assistance would be allocated to CADA under the project through
provision of 6 man-years of local consultant time as recruitment of some
specialist staff is likely to pose a problem. The technical cell would be
provided with necessary administrative staff and facilities to efficiently
support operations.
4.17      A Command Area Development Supervisory Committee headed by the
Administrator (CADA) would be set up to represent all agencies and departments



- 29 -
operating in the lift irrigation command areas including representatives of
ID, DA, Soil Conservation Department, HAU, Extension Services, HSMITC, and the
Drought Prone Area Program (DPAP). In particular, the Committee would deal
with interdepartmental problems and policy issues such as consistency in sub-
sidy programs and credit terms to benefitting farmers.
Agricultural Credit
4.18      The cooperative credit and land development banking systems in the
State of Haryana are generally strong and involve no unusual risks to the
project. An ongoing reorganization of primary credit societies will further
improve service at village level. The principle lending terms and conditions
are outlined in Annex 2. An IDA (Credit 249-IN) of US$25.0 million has
successfully sunported a four year lending program in minor irrigation and
farm mecharu_zation development.
Operation and Maintenance
4.19      Operation and maintenance of project components would be undertaken
by implementation agencies described above except for watercourses which are
the responsibility of the beneficiaries. Assurances have been obtained that
GOH would make adequate arrangements to enable efficient operation and pre-
ventive maintenance of all project components established under the project.
4.20      Irrigation.  The Haryana Canal and Drainage Act of 1974 (amended
in 1976) and ID procedures provide comprehensive rules and regulations for
operation of all irrigation works throughout the State. In 1976-77, the
overall receipts of the ID from water charges (US$12.9 million equivalent)
exceeded the O&M costs (US$12.4 million equivalent) and averaged about
Rs 29 (US$3.4) per irrigated cropped acre. The ID in consultation with the
Department of Agriculture allocates water supplies on a priority basis with
choice oi cropping pattern left to farmers. Operation and maintenance of
canals is the responsibility of an Additional Chief Engineer (Canals) who
supervises seven circles covering the State. Augmentation tubewells are
operated and maintained by HSMITC on behalf of the ID and present performance
indicates that the service is efficient. Watercourse operation is based on
a time rotation or "warabundi" with each shareholder in turn taking the whole
supply for a specific time based on holding size; ID only becomes involved
in cases of dispute. Maintenance of watercourses is the collective respon-
sibility of the farmers served but ID has the power to undertake maintenance
at the farmers expense should they fail to act voluntarily. Once a water-
course is lined, HSMITC undertakes to maintain the channel on a contract
basis at present charging about 2% of capital cost annually. Unlined
sections of watercourses are the responsibility of concerned farmers.
4.21      Markets are operated and maintained by RMCs (para 2.14) and
financed from about 5% of the total marketing fee revenue which is refunded
by HSAMB to RMC for these activities.
4.22      Village Water Supply Schemes are operated and maintained by the
PH branch of PWD. The estimated O&M cost (in 1977 prices) for tubewell and



- 30 -
canal fed schemes (assuming consumption at 45 liters/capita/day) would
average about US$0.7 and US$0.9 per capita respectively. There are consid-
erable variations in O&M costs for individual schemes depending on location
and topography, but present financial allocations ensure that operation and
maintenance are efficient and effective. PH branch would be responsible for
maintaining present O&M standards for project works.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.23      Monitoring, Evaluation and Applied Development (MEAD) units would
be established in agencies responsible for project implementation in order to
check project performance and recommend improvements to be tested through
applied research and development. In particular, assurances have been obtained
that GOH would set up adequately staffed MEAD units by January 31, 1979 in the
ID, HSMITC and the technical cell of CADA. An assurance has also been obtained
from GOH that the PH branch of PWD would establish by January 31, 1979 a tech-
nical review unit to ensure that more cost-effective designs are developed.
4.24      Monitoring.  It would be necessary to carry out a series of studies
to measure project impact of selected project components. These would include
baseline surveys to establish a datum from which overall project performance
can be measured. Furthermore, annual surveys would be undertaken after each
crop season to measure the effects of variations in water supplies and use,
cropping intensity, yields and production, crop inputs and farm incomes.
Special studies would be made of areas such as Jui Command and other relevant
topics. An attempt would be made to differentiate between benefits generated
by the various project components, in particular, benefits attributable to
modernization of canals, watercourses and augmentation tubewells. Responsi-
bility for ensuring that these studies are carried out would lie with the
Project Coordinator (para 4.03). A lump sum of US$35,000 equivalent (45 man
months of local consultancy time) to support the studies have been provided
under the project. The results of the studies would be forwarded to the
Association for comment.
4.25      Project Evaluation.  Technical performance and cost effectiveness
of ID, HSMITC and CADA would be evaluated by units established in each
agency. Such studies would include examination of design and construction
techniques, work study of labor intensive enterprises, quality control and
specification standards and evaluation of contracting methods. Possible
changes in technical criteria or improvements in design would be tested on
a pilot basis before general introduction. This applied research and devel-
opment would be supported by a lump sum of US$100,000 equivalent provided
under the project.
4.26      Some GOH agencies might have difficulty in recruiting all specialists
required to staff MEAD units in a timely manner. The project would provide
about 24-man years of local consultant time to be made available to the agen-
cies to assist in setting up the units and training permanent staff. The cost
of local consultancy would be about US$240,000 equivalent excluding price
contingencies. Provisionally, 10-man years are allocated to ID, 4-man years
each to HSMITC and PHD, 6 man years to CADA to cover the special problems of
the lift irrigation areas.



- 31 -
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND INCOMES
Agricultural Impact
5.01      Expansion of the Irrigated Area.  The project would help accele-
rate Haryana's agricultural development through modernization of irrigation
infrastructure to achieve a more efficient use of limited water resources. The
main increases in agricultural production would come from an increase of the
irrigated area rather than from more intensive irrigation (para 2.10). In-
creases in irrigated areas at full development for the main canal commands
at project completion are estimated as follows:
Bhakra         West Yamuna          Total
Kharif  Rabi    Kharif   Rabi    Kharif  Rabi
------------------ in '000 ha ---------------
Modernization of Canals           53       61       16        18      69      79
Augmentation Tubewells             3       39        1         5       4      44
Modernization of Watercourses   16         38        9       20       25      58
Jui Command (watercourses)                           6        8        6       8
Total                   72     138       32        51     104    189
5.02      Based on the prevailing irrigated and rainfed cropping patterns in
the canal commands (Table 2.5), the following shifts in the cropping pattern
are expected to result from the project at full development:
Reduction    Reduction in        Increase in
Season  Crop                in Fallow    Rainfed Area       Irrigated Area
----------------'000 ha --------------------
Kharif
PaLddy                                  -                  18
Bajra                                  28                  14
Pulses                                  1                   2
Maize                                   1                   4
Cotton                                  -                  31
Sugarcane                               -                   9
Fodder                                 11                  26
Fallow                 63               -                   -
Rabi
WhLeat                                  4                 103
Barley                                  4                  14
Gram                                   28                  40
Mustard                                 9                  10
Fodder & Misc.                          0                  10
Sugarcane                               0                  12
Fallow                144
Total                     207             86                 293
5.03      Crop Yields and Production.  The majority of project farmers derive
most of their present incomes from irrigated agriculture and can be expected



- 32 -
to continue their practice of light irrigation (para 2.08). To be conserva-
tive, no increases in irrigated or rainfed yields have been attributed to the
project (Table 2.5). However, an agricultural extension project is presently
under preparation for possible Bank Group financing which is likely to result
in significant yield increases.
5.04      With the above assumptions, the projected increases in agricultural
production due to the proposed project at full development for the main crops
except fodder would be:
Crop                   Incremental Production
-------- tons ------
Wheat                           235,000
Rice                             57,000
Bajra                     -   - (4,000)
Maize                             3,000
Barley                           19,000
Total Cereals                 310,000
Pulses                           26,000
Total foodgrains              337,000
5.05      Marketing.  Haryana produces a significant agricultural surplus.
However, India is expected to remain marginally deficient in foodgrains
and to continue to have a significant shortage of long staple cotton. Thus,
the market prospects for all major crops are favorable. The State has a
well developed system for marketing, storage and processing of agricultural
produce and no serious constraints are likely to develop in the future.
Financial Prices and Crop Budgets
5.06      Prices used in the crop and farm budget analysis are given in Table
5.1. Present financial prices of farm production and inputs are derived from
trends in All-India Wholesale Prices, or when more appropriate from trends
in Haryana Harvest Prices. This averages out price variations due to weather
and change in demand. Projected financial prices (1987/88) have been expressed
in constant 1977/78 terms and are based on continuation of past trends except
for cotton prices, which follow the projected trend for international prices.
5.07      Crop input requirements under irrigated and rainfed conditions
(Table 5.2) are based on present cultivation practices and derived from
surveys carried out by the Department of Agriculture and Haryana Agricul-
tural University. Based on financial crop budgets in Table 5.2, the average
returns per unit area brought under irrigation and per unit volume of water
are estimated as follows:



- 33 -
Financial Benefits   Financial Value of Water
1977/78       1987/88    1977/78       1987/88
----- Rs per ha ----  ------ Rs per m  ------
Bhakra Canal Command
Kharif                   1,450        2,080       0.26          0.37
Rabi.                    1,390        1,820       0.35          0.46
WYC Command
Kharif                   1,190        1,480       0.21          0.27
Rabi.                    1,370        1,770       0.34          0.45
The financial value of water ssumes the presSnt irrigation allocation at
watercourse outlet of 5,570 m /ha and 3,960 m /ha in kharif and rabi respec-
tively.
Cost Recovery for Irrigation Works
5.08      E'resent Level of Cost Recovery.  Haryana has one of the oldest
irrigation systems in India. The irrigation network is continuously being
modernized and extended. The modernization and extension work programs
are financed both from GOH's budget and by the benefitting farmers through
institutional credit (para 5.14).  Part of GOH's costs are recovered directly
through theb water charge which averages about Rs 60 per cropped ha with in-
cremental land revenue assessment of about Rs 7 per ha per year.-  Indirect
recovery by GOH through the marketing fees is about Rs 60 per cropped ha.
Table 5.3 gives the cost recovery rates for irrigation works financed by the
project. Direct and indirect cost recovery at full development by canal com-
mands is given in Table 5.4. For the areas with irrigation works constructed
under the project, the cost recovery position would be:
Direct: farmers' contribution financed through credit         35%
Direct: cost recovery through water charges                   11%
Indirect recovery through marketing fees                      10%
Net contribution from GOH budget                              44%
5.09      Farmers' Ability to Pay Water Charges.  The provision of irriga-
tion to rainfed land would increase net farm incomes by about Rs 1,800 per
cropped ha. The corresponding "project rent" is estimated at Rs 1,550 per
cropped ha,, The direct water charges would recover about 4% of the project
rent. However, taking into account the indirect recovery through marketing
fees and credit repayments, the average farmer benefitting from project works
would seasonally pay charges amounting to about Rs 400 per ha brought under
irrigation,, This is equivalent to about 22% of net incremental farm income
or 26% of project rent. While there appears to be a certain scope for in-
creasing water charges, the adequacy of GOH's cost recovery policy should
be evaluated in terms of: (i) the need to generate public savings to finance
future modernization and extension works in the State; (ii) usefulness of
water charges to promote efficient use of irrigation water; and (iii) equity
considerations.



- 34 -
5.10      Public Savings.  The present water charges are sufficient to cover
the cost for O&M of the irrigation infrastructure but do not generate a sig-
nificant surplus for financing modernization and extension works. However,
Haryana is making a strong resource mobilization effort in other ways. In
recent years, GOH's revenues 1/ per capita (about Rs 190 in 1976/77) have been
about twice the national average. Expressed as a percentage of State income,
GOH's revenues are the highest in India. These revenues have enabled GOH to
successfully implement an ambitious program of investments in rural infra-
structure. In addition to the State's own taxes, the farmers in Haryana also
pay a number of indirect taxes to GOI. While no data exist on the collection
of GOI's indirect taxes on agricultural inputs in Haryana, it is likely that
these taxes are similar to those of Punjab (estimated at Rs 90 per cropped ha
in 1974).
5.11      Promoting Efficient Water Use.  In general, volumetric water rates
promote a more efficient water use than acreage based water charges. However,
in Haryana, each farmer is allocated a fixed amount of water, which depends
on the size of his holding.  Because water is rationed, the farmer selects
his crops and his intensity of irrigation in such a way that he optimizes his
return to water. In the absence of major distortions in the relative price
structure of major crops, this allocation system generally leads to an econo-
mically efficient use of water as long as the water rates per ha remain low.
Volumetric charges would be preferable but the unlined watercourses, existing
at present, do not permit an accurate measurement of the water supplied to each
farmer. The modernization of watercourses would make it technically feasible
to establish volumetric water charges and agreement will be reached with GOH
to explore this possibility as part of a study of cost recovery policy (para
5.13).
5.12      Equity Considerations.  At present, two-thirds of the farmers in
Haryana have access to irrigation. The completion of lift irrigation schemes
in the southern part of the State would bring virtually the whole State under
the command of surface irrigation schemes. Thus, it is primarily a matter
of administrative convenience and political expediency whether the irrigated
farmers contribute to GOH's budget through water charges or other charges
levied directly or indirectly on the rural population. GOI's long term
objective is to improve the irrigation systems so that all farmers in the
project area are treated in an equitable manner and therefore a uniform rate
structure could be applied. If the water charges are to be increased to re-
cover the full cost of lining, they have to be applied to all farmers in the
command of the system even though short term many farmers would not benefit.
This would not be politically feasible since the farmers in the existing
system, with certain justification, would argue that "their" system is
already paid off and that they would not benefit directly from the moderni-
zation works.
1/   Net of GOH's share of central taxes and transfers from GOI.



- 35 -
5.13      G(O.iq will face the problem of equitable cost recovery in all future
irrigation modernization projects. Therefore, the system of water charges
would have to be analyzed on a Statewide basis and within the framework of
the State's agricultural taxation system. An assurance has been obtained from
GOH that it will complete and make available to the Association for its com-
ments not later than March 31, 1980, a statewide review of alternative methods
of collecting water and water-related charges in modernized irrigation proj-
ects with special emphasis on volumetric water pricing. The review shall,
inter alia, have regard to: (i) farmer's capacity to pay water charges;
(ii) farmers' incentives for adopting procedures of modern irrigated agricul-
ture; (iii) the effects of the alternative collecting methods on GOH's revenues;
and (iv) comparable systems of water-related charges in other states in
India.
Repayment for Modernization of Watercourses
5.14      Repayment terms for modernization of watercourses in gravity areas
would be at 10.5% interest per annum over a 10-year period including one year
of grace. For operational reasons, repayments are made after each harvest on
the basis of total areas held (CCA) as opposed to area under irrigation. For
a typical watercourse, equal repayments are estimated to be about 104 Rs/ha
per crop season. Substantial variations in costs would inevitably occur from
watercourse to watercourse depending on the ratio of area to length of lining.
Since repayments are levied on the total watercourse area, they are most use-
fully compared with average income per ha of CCA after project completion;
they can also be compared with the average incremental income per ha of CCA
as follows.
Average Income      Average Incremental
After Lining               Income
(Rs per ha CCA)
Year          Season
1977/78       kharif                860                     70
rabi                 930                    150
1987/88       kharif              1,100                     90
rabi               1,260                    210
Although repayments can represent a substantial proportion of incremental
income, they are nevertheless very modest when compared to average incomes.
5.15      F'or construction of lined watercourses in Jui Command area, HSMITC
would repay the participating banks at 10.5% interest per annum over a 10 year
period including one year of grace. GOH would pay the total demand on the
due date to HSMITC but recover from the farmers over an extended period to be
decided onc:e the farmers' capacity to pay has been established.
Cost Recovery for Village Water Supply
5.16      IJntil recently, the full O&M cost of all rural water supply schemes
has been borne by GOH. In April 1976, GOH authorized collection of water
rates for villages under existing powers contained in the Panchayat Act of



- 36 -
1952. As a start, the authorized rates were intended to recover only part
of O&M costs and were fixed at Rs 18, 12 and 6 per annum respectively for the
three household categories liable to pay house tax at the current rates of
Rs 7, 5 and 3 per annum. Water rates are collected by the Revenue Department
at the same time as the house tax which is payable in two installments. If
rates are held at their present level, water rate revenue collected from the
175 villages included in the project would amount to about 40% of total O&M
costs from project schemes. However, the Panchayats have not made use of
the April 1976 authorization, and no water rates are being collected at
present.
5.17      Assurances have been obtained from GOH that a water supply scheme
under the project would be implemented only after (i) the Panchayat 1/ con-
cerned has undertaken to contribute a portion of the operation and maintenance
costs as determined by GOH having regard to the financial position of the
Panchayat and the views of IDA with respect to the criteria for such deter-
mination, and (ii) the concerned Panchayat has deposited such determined
portion of the estimated operation and maintenance costs for the first year
of operation of the water supply scheme.
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
General
6.01      All project components are integral parts of GOH's agricultural
development strategy and would further the welfare of rural people through
increases in income and direct provision of services. GOH is aiming at a
balanced development of directly productive investments, production support
programs (such as village electrification) and social infrastructure with
particular emphasis given to the less developed areas of the State. This
strategy has achieved success to date with increases in agricultural produc-
tion averaging 6% per year over the past decade. During the same period total
State production has grown at 5.5% per annum or 3.5% per annum for income per
capita. Haryana, together with the neighboring State of Punjab, has the least
incidence of poverty in India.
6.02      The project would directly increase annual agricultural production
by about 340,000 tons of foodgrains (para 5.04) at full development providing
an annual incremental net income to the farmers of about Rs 520 million (US$60
million) in 1987-88. In addition, it would generate significant indirect
economic and social benefits as in the case of village water supply component.
Indirect benefits have not been quantified because of lack of data and wide
variation from scheme to scheme. The focus of this analysis is on direct
production effects due to expansion in irrigation. The overall economic rate
of return has been calculated on the basis of these benefits only but includes
all project costs.
1/   Local authority at village level.



- 37 -
Beneficiaries
6.03      Main project beneficiaries include Haryana farmers, Indian foodgrain
consumers and labor. Farm employment would increase by about 17 million man-
days per year in Bhakra canal command and 4 million man-days per year in WYC
command. I'he project would also generate about 61.5 million man-days of con-
struction employment over a four-year period. Indian consumers would benefit
from the project through sales of low priced foodgrains under GOI procurement
schemes.
Basic Assumptions
6.04      The economic analysis follows standard Bank methodology.  However,
instead of usinp   shadow exchange rate to convert foreign exchange costs
and earnings iLO local market prices, a standard conversion factor of 0.80
(equivalent: to a shadow exchange rate of US$1.00 = Rs 10.75) has been applied
to domestic market prices to translate them into border prices. Present and
projected economic prices of traded goods, such as wheat, paddy, cotton and
fertilizers, are based on the Bank's commodity price forecasts adjusted for
transport, handling and processing costs. Economic prices of non-traded
foodgrains, such as gram, are derived from financial prices using a foodgrain
conversion factor; the latter is the weighted average of economic to financial
price ratios of wheat and paddy. The economic cost of farm labor is assumed
at two-thirds of market wages based on experience from other projects in
India. Al1L price assumptions are shown in Table 6.1. Economic crop budgets
are given in Tables 5.2a and 5.2b.
Analysis oi. Irrigation Components
6.05      Miodernization of Canals.  The only benefits quantified are produc-
tion increases due to reduction in seepage losses from canal lining with full
benefits achieved with a uniform build up over four years. Additional benefits
which are Significant but cannot be readily quantified are reduction in
waterlogging, provision of increased canal capacity, reduction in weed growth
on canals in Bhakra command and improved canal operation.
6.06      Reductions in seepage losses depend upon on soil types, the wetted
perimeter of the canal section and the operating hours of a canal. The see-
page rate Eor a lined canal is taken as 2 cusecs per million sq. ft. of wetted
surface.  There are considerable variations in soil types through the project
area and two types of soils have been retained for the analysis. Sandy loams
and loams are assumed to have seepage rates of 8 cusecs and 6 cusecs per mil-
lion square feet of wetted channel surface respectively. Wetted perimeters
are based on typical cross sections for lined and unlined channels of 100
cusecs capacity. Canals are assumed to operate for 75% of the time. Capital
costs for modernization of canals are given in Table 6.1 and O&M costs are
assumed to remain unchanged. The economic rate of return (ERR) for the
modernization of canals component is estimated at 49%.
6.07      Modernization of Watercourses.  Capital costs of watercourse lining
are given in Table 6.1. Incremental maintenance costs have been assumed at
2% of capital costs per annum. Benefits include increased irrigated area due



- 38 -
to reduction in seepage losses, improved operation and a more equitable dis-
tribution of water within the watercourse command. Project analysis has been
based on performance of existing lined watercourses in Haryana. A sample of
52 watercourses shows that after lining 55% of the channel length, the average
increases in irrigated area have been 14% and 33% in kharif and rabi respec-
tively or about 24% annually. These increases are achieved in the first crop
seasons after completion of works. The crop yields on the additional irri-
gated areas are the same as the existing irrigated areas in a watercourse
command. These figures used in the analysis underestimate benefits for
project watercourses since on an average 75% of the channel length would be
lined (para. 3.15). Under these assumptions, the ERR is estimated at 35%.
6.08      Augmentation Tubewells.  Unit capital costs of ATWs are given in
Table 6.1. O&M costs have been differentiated between areas of fresh and
saline groundwater since in the latter areas more frequent replacements of
the pump unit and well casing is 5equired due to corrosion. It is assumed
that each ATW would provide 200 m per hour and run for 4,000 hours per year.
Water would be added to the existing surface irrigation systems with about 10%
supplied in kharif and 90% in rabi. Power consumption per well would be about
80,000 kwh per year supplied at an economic price of 0.30 Rs/kwh. With these
assumptions, the ERR is estimated at 43%.
6.09      Jui Lift Irrigation Command.  The component completes the develop-
ment of a self-contained project typical of lift irrigation schemes in south-
west Haryana (para 2.13) where farmers are amongst the poorest in the State.
In the past, GOH support has been necessary in terms of direct famine relief
and employment programs such as road construction. Full development of this
area would diminish the need for such programs and also assist with desert
reclamation by protecting the region from sand storms and advance of the
Rajasthan desert. Finally, the experience gained by GOH in respect of improved
technology packages, better organization and implementation procedures could
lead to substantial savings in future developments of other lift irrigation
schemes in Haryana.
6.10      Capital costs assume watercourses lined to 100% length and land
levelling for 40% of the project CCA. The unit cost of lining is as in gravity
areas (Table 6.1) and the average cost of land levelling is 833 Rs/ha in
economic terms. At full development, benefits would be about 2,000 Rs/ha in
kharif and 1,600 Rs/ha in rabi in economic terms based on data collected in
Jui Command. Full development would be attained in four years and benefits
are estimated to materialize at 40%, 60% and 80% in intermediate years. The
ERR for a typical watercourse would be 27% when only productive benefits are
considered with very low sensitivity to the cost of land levelling.
Construction of Markets
6.11      The high proportion of agricultural marketable produce in Haryana
makes provision of efficient facilities for marketing, storage and processing
of particular importance. Benefits of new markets include reduced transit
times and congestion, reduced handling and storage losses, quality grading
and improved hygiene, promotion of more competitive trading conditions and



- 39 -
avoidance of malpractices. At present, trade often takes place in the con-
gested centers of towns resulting in delays to cultivators, intermediaries
and other market users. In the new markets, handling and storage losses would
be reduced both in the marketplace and in the fields where delays in threshing
and rain damage can occur because of the glut at traditional markets. New
market facilities will foster development of market intelligence, and facil-
itate enforcement of grading norms. The average cost for handling of the
produce at a market is estimated at Rs 15-20 per ton when the capital costs
are discounted at 12%. This is less than 2% of the value of the traded
produce. At present, no reliable estimates of the storage and transit losses
are available for existing markets in Haryana but performance elsewhere in
India indicate that losses are likely to be reduced much more than 2%. It is
concluded that the ERR would exceed 12% and that each new market can be
justified on efficiency grounds alone without taking into account the sub-
stantial social benefits.
Rural Roads
6.12      The rural roads component would help move agricultural production
to markets and ease the distribution of inputs particularly in the monsoon
season. Undesr the project, 950 villages would be connected by 945 km of
village roads to existing all-weather roads (para 3.30); this would raise the
proportion oE villages connected by all-weather roads from 81% to 92%. In
addition, 377 km of existing roads would be improved. The road component
forms an inseparable part of the overall project and its justification is
reflected in the high overall project ERR of 32% (para 6.14).
Rural Water Supply
6.13      About 62% of villages in Haryana are classified as "scarcity" with
regard to domestic water supply in that they either have (a) no source of
water within 1.6 km, (b) no well water within 15 meters depth or (c) a supply
which is hazardous to health because of high salinity, excessive flouride con-
tent or waterborne disease. The project would serve a present population of
about 313,OOD at an investment cost of Rs 276 (US$32) per capita, or Rs 184
(US$21) per capita bases on the projected population in year 2007.  Assuming
a consumption of 16.4 m per capita per day, economic average costs of supply
at 12! opportunity cost of capital for canal fed and tubewell schemes are as
follows:
Running Costs    Capital
Source         0&M     Power      Costs       Total
-------(1977/78 Rs per m )--------    (US)
Canal fed      0.17    0.15       1.60        1.92      (0.22)
Tubewells      0.16    0.06       1.07        1.29      (0.15)
These costs of supply compare favorably with rural water schemes in other
countries even though the natural environment in Haryana is relatively
unfavorable. Benefits would mainly comprise of improved water quality,
considerably reduced time and effort in fetching water and improved sanitary
conditions.



- 40 -
Project Economic Rate of Return
6.14      The ERR for project components are summarized below:
Component                    Economic Rate of Return
Modernization of canals                      49%
Modernization of watercourses                35%
Augmentation tubewells                       43%
Jui Command                                  27%
Overall Project                              32%
The results reflect important sunk costs because the main irrigation systems
already exist and constitute a valuable underexploited asset.
Uncertainty and Project Risk
6.15      Agriculture in Haryana is sensitive to variations in quantity and
timeliness of rainfall, and to other natural phenomena even under irrigated
conditions. However agricultural variability has limited significance par-
ticularly as no increase in yields have been attributed to the project. The
project analyses are based on benefit figures for a normal year. For the
irrigation components and the overall project, the results of a sensitivity
analysis are as follows:
Economic Rate of Return
Variation      Variation      Modernization    Modernization             Overall
in Costs      in benefits       of Canals      of Watercourses   ATWs   Project
-              49%                35%         43%      32%
-              -20%              42%                29%         35%      26%
+10%                -              46%                32%         40%      34%
+10%             -20%              39%                26%         32%      24%
Project costs are based on actual costs of on-going programs and benefits are
estimated from monitored performance of completed works; neither are likely to
show substantial changes.
6.16      The main uncertainties arise in (i) seepage reduction through canal
lining, (ii) response to watercourse lining and (iii) the build up rate to
full benefits. The first can be assessed by establishing minimum savings
in seepage losses from unlined canals which would justify lining. At 12%
opportunity cost of capital, the minimum savings in seepage losses are 0.30
and 0.44 cusecs per million sq ft of wetted canal surface for Bhakra canal
command and WYC command respectively. This compares with minimum savings in
seepage losses of about 4.0 cusecs per million sq ft when canals are lined in
loam soil areas (para 6.06). Uncertainty for watercourse lining relates to
expected response to different lengths of lining within a typical watercourse
as opposed to wide variations from the average known to exist between indi-
vidual watercourses. For the model watercourse (para 6.07), the assumed
annual increase in irrigated area is about 24% whilst the minimum annual
increases which justify watercourse lining would be as follows:



- 41 -
Canal Command             Length of Lining
50%   75%   100%
Bhakra                      7%   11%   14%
West Yamuna                 9%   13%   17%
Project analysis is most sensitive to the build up rate of benefits.  There is
substantial data to support the assumption that full benefits to modernization
of watercourses would be achieved in the first season after completion of the
works. The impact of the additional water supplies from modernization of
canals and augmentation tubewells is more difficult to estimate. The deciding
factor is likely to be the amount of additional water in each canal command.
If the increase in water supplies is small, the farmers would be slow to expand
the irrigated area. However, if irrigated area is not expanded, the water use
per cropped ha and thus crop yields would increase. Therefore a uniform build
up in benefits over four years would conservatively reflect the impact of mod-
ernization of canals and the ATW component. Variation in the build up rate to
full benefils would change the ERR as follows:
Full Benefits    Full Benefits
Component        in 4 Years         in 2 Years
-- Economic Rate of Return ---
Modernization of Canals         49%               59%
Augmentation Tubewells          43%               54%
Overall Project                 32%               35%
6.17      It is concluded that the main uncertainties do not affect the
economic soundness of the project.  The project is economically justified
even if full benefits build up at the slower rate of production outcomes.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Assurances have been obtained from GOI and GOH that:
(a) Haryana shall provide funds sufficient to execute the
Project substantially in accordance with an implemen-
tation schedule agreed with the Association (para 3.38).
7.02      Assurances have been obtained from GOI that:
(a) the proceeds of the credit for modernization of canals,
village roads and water supply schemes would be channeled
to GOH on GOI's standard terms and arrangements for devel-
cpment assistance to the States (para 3.38).
7.03      Assurances have been obtained from GOI and ARDC that:
(a)  clisbursements for modernization of watercourses, augmen-
tation tubewells, markets and Jui Command components



- 42 -
would be made available to ARDC (para 3.38) and relent
on terms and conditions given in Annex 2; and
(b)  ARDC shall cause the Lending Banks to:  (i) maintain
separate accounts for loans made; and (ii) send to the
Association through ARDC their audited accounts (together
with an analysis of overdue and bad debts and a state-
ment certified by ARDC of their Project lending) not
later than four months after the end of each fiscal
year (para 3.43).
7.04      Assurances have been obtained from GOH that:
(a)  HSMITC shall prepare and adopt by December 31, 1978, an
appropriate design manual satisfactory to the Association
for carrying out of the modernization of watercourses com-
ponent (para 3.17);
(b)  it shall cause its departments and other agencies and
authorities responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof to: (i) have their accounts and financial state-
ments related to the Project for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consis-
tently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case, not later than four months after
the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning the
said accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request
(para 3.42);
(c)  it will guarantee debt repayments for institutional credit
to be refinanced by ARDC under the Project (para 4.06);
(d) By March 31, 1979, GOH would: (i) implement a Management
Plan for HSMITC satisfactory to IDA; and (ii) by December 31,
1978, recruit a Financial Advisor with qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA (para 4.08);
(e)  By December 31, 1981, HSAMB would update the Master Plan
for market development (para 4.11);
(f)  it will take all steps necessary to enable HSAMB to retain
revenues equivalent to 1% ad valorem of the marketing fee
together with revenues from sale of plots and rental of
common drying platforms (para 4.12).
(g) By March 31, 1979, HSAMB would improve cost accounting pro-
cedures and financial planning (para 4.12).



- 43 -
(h)  PHD would prepare a statewide sector survey for drinking
water supply covering urban and rural areas, by December 31,
1981 (para 4.14);
(i)  GOH would make adequate arrangements for efficient operation
and preventive maintenance of all project components estab-
lished under the project (para 4.19);
(j)  GOH would set up adequately staffed MEAD units by January 31,
1979 in the ID, HSMITC and the technical cell of CADA. The
PH branch of PWD would also establish by January 31, 1979 a
technical review unit to ensure that more cost effective
designs are developed (para 4.23);
(k)  it will complete and make available to the Association for
its comments not later than March 31, 1980, a statewide
review of alternative methods of collecting water and water-
related charges in modernized irrigation projects with
special emphasis on volumetric water pricing. The review
shall, inter alia, have regard to: (i) farmer's capacity
to pay water charges; (ii) farmers' incentives for adopting
procedures of modern irrigated agriculture; (iii) the effects
of the alternative collecting methods on GOH's revenues; and
(iv) comparable systems of water-related charges in other
stat:es in India (para 5.13);
(1)  a water supply scheme under the project would be implemented
only after ti) the Panchayat concerned has undertaken to
cont:ribute a portion of the operation and maintenance costs
as determined by GOH having regard to the financial position
of t:he Panchayat and the views of IDA with respect to the
cril:eria for such determination; and (ii) the concerned
Panchayat has deposited such determined portion of the esti-
mated operation and maintenance cost for the first year of
operation of the water supply scheme (para 5.17).
7.05      A condition of effectiveness of the Project would be that:
(i) the financial arrangements between GOI and ARDC have been
made; and (ii) the Association has received a banking plan
satisfactory to the Association giving details of refinancing
of loans by the Lending Banks through ARDC (para 3.38).
7.06      Conditions for disbursement for the project would be that:
(a)  expenditures for each of the first five produce markets under
the Project until the Association has first approved the
design of such a market (para 3.28);



- 44 -
(b) expenditures for each of the first five village water supply
schemes of the Project until the Association has first ap-
proved the design of such a scheme (para 3.33); and
(c) expenditures for each of the first ten watercourses of the
Project until the Association has first approved the design
of such a watercourse (para 3.23).
7.07      With the above assurances and conditions of credit effectiveness
and disbursements, the project would be suitable for an IDA credit of
US$111.0 million on standard IDA terms. The borrower would be the Govern-
ment of India.
July 19, 1978



INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Climatological Data
Average monthly rainfall (mm), temperature (oC)
and Mean Relative Humidity (%)
Locality               Naraingarth                          Karnal                             Fatehabad
District                TAmbala)                           (Karnal)                            (Hissar)
Month         Rainfall   Temp   Humidity         Rainfall   Temp   Humidity         Rainfall   Temp   Humidity
mm       oC        %              mm        oC        %              mm         oC       %
J             31.0    12.8       76              15.2    14.2       68              10.7    12.2        80
F             25.4    15.8       69               9.3    15.6       62              12.0    14.2        74
M             10.0    21.8       65               4.9    21.3       57              12.6    20.3        65
A             22.8    27.4       44               6.5    27.1       45               1.2    26.6        49
M             71.8    30.6       40              12.8    30.0       41              21.2    31.1        44
J            263.6    32.1       58              86.1    31.4       53              20.8    32.9        52
J            326.6    30.2       79             155.6    30.1       74              75.9    31.1        70
A            443.8    30.0       84            326.4    28.7        82             135.1    29.2        80
S            129.2    28.6       82              26.8    27.4       67              34.9    28.4        71
0             67.6    24.3       64              16.8    24.1       60               6.8    25.2        65
N              4.0    18.8       67              11.1    18.9       57               6.3    18.3        73
D             19.6    14.0       79              18.3    15.6       76               3.7    13.1        83
Annual         1,415.4                              689.8                              341.2
Rainfall
Period for
above records   '70-74  '70-72   '72-74            '70-74   '70-72   '72-74           '65-75   '66-75   '72-74
Sources:  Statistical Abstracts of Haryana
State Deputy Commissioners
Haryana Agricultural University



INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Seasonal Surface Irrigation Supply
---------------------Bhakra Canal Command  ------------------------                       ------------------Western Yamuna Canal Command 3/------------------
71/72       72/73        73/74       74/75        75/76           Mean                    71/72       72/73        73/74       74/75        75/76            Mean
Kharif
Irrigation supply at main canal head                  2,906.0    3,088.0    3,272.0    2,708.0          2,993.0          2,993.0                1,952.0      2,138.0     2,071.0      1,929.0      2,153.0          2,049.0
(Mm3)                                                                                                          (2.43 M ac-it)                                                                            (1.66 M ac-ft)
Area irrigated                                           375.0       413.0        422.0       390.0        423.0            405.0                  237.0       252.0        273.0       295.0        299.0             271.0
('000 ha)                                                                                                                                                                                                  '10 67 M *c)
Area Irrigated as percentage of CCA 1/                    32.1        35.4         36.1        33.4         36.2             34.7                   21.8        23.2         25.1         27.2        27.6              25,0
Gross supply per ha of crop  (m )                                                                                         7,390                                                                                      7,561
(6.0 ac-ft)                                                                              (6.14 acoft)
Rabi
Irrigation supply at main canal head                  2,691,0      1,996.0    2,716.0       1,766.0     2,960.0          2,426.0                1,689.0      1,282.0     1,837.0      1,657,0      1,882.0          1,669.0
(Mm3)                                                                                                          (1.97 M ac-ft)                                                                            '135 M ac-ft)
Area irrigated                                           501.0       485.0        496.0       415.0        409.0            481.0                  422.0       404.0        476.0       444.0        487 0            447.0
('000 ha)                                                                                                       (1.19 M ac)                                                                                '1.10 M at)
Area irrigated as percentage of CCA 2/                    42.9        41.6         42.5        35.6         43.6             41.2                   38.9        37.2         43.9         40.9        44.9              41.2
Gross supply per ha of crop  (m3)                                                                                        5,044                                                                                       3,734
(4.09 ac-ft)                                                                             (3.03 ac-ft)
Total for year
Irrigatilo3  supply                                   5,597,0      5,084.0     5,988.0      4,474.0     5,953.0          5,419.0                3,641.0      3,320.0     3,908.0      3,586.0      4,035.0          3,718.0
(Mm )                                                                                                          (4.39 M ac-ft)                                                                            (3,01 M ac-ft)
Area irrigated                                          876.0        898.0        918.0       805.0        932.0            886.0                  659.0       656.0        749.0        739.0       786.0             718.0
(000 ha)                                                                                                        (2.19 M ac)                                                                                '1.77 M at)
Area irrigated as percentage of CCA 2/                    76.0        77.0         78.6        69.0         79.8             75.9                   60.7        60.4         69.0         68.1         72.5             66.2
1/ CCA of canal commands remained nearly constant 1971/76 with Bhakra Command at 1.17 M ha (2.88 M acres) and West Yamuna Command at 1.09 M ha (2.68 M acres).
2/  Including sugarcane for both kharif and rabi.
3/  Deducting supplies to Pumped-Lift irrigation areas.
Source: The Irrigation Department, GON



47
INDIA                                              TABLE 2.3
BARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
2pproximate Annual Groundwater Recharge and Utilization in Haryana, (April 1. 1976)
(M m3)
Proposed Project
Uaaible     Total      Recharge        Percent          Augmentation
District          A         B          C          D       Recharge      Draft       BalAnce      Utilization      Tubewells (No.)
Ambala             725       449        192         -        1366         917          449            67                   -
Bhiwani            277       127         63        212          255        106          149            42                   -
Gurgaon            468       407        260         45       1,090         895          195            82                   -
Hissar             441       905        371        432       1,285         463          822            36                  175
Sirsa               -        534        183        292          425        216          209            51                  350
Jind               286       221        209        115          601        309          292            51                   75
Karnal             490     1,472        423          7        2,378      1,766          612             74                  -
Kurukshetra        306       491        404         -         1,201      1,669          (468)         139                   -
Mohindergarth      332         48       102         -           482         510         ( 28)         106
Rohtak             302       112        182        138          458         388          70            85                   -
Sonepat            237       407        123         44          723        292          431            40                   -
Total State      3,864     5,173      2,512      1,285      10,264       7,531        2,733            73                  650
Explanation:    A - Recharge from rainfall.
B - Rec'harge from seepage from canals, rivers, drains.
C - Recharge from applied irrigation water (canals or tubewells).
D - Recharge from A + B + C going to marginal saline groundwater areas.
Usable Recharge = (A + B + C) - D
Notes:          No allowance for underflow in or out of areas or evaporation from shallow water tables.
No account of potential recharge which could be induced bv appropriate groundwater
manaRement or Dhvsical changes to the balanct duie to consi modernization works
Proposed ATWa generally utilize marginal and saline groundwater (see Annex 5, SDV for details).
Source:         Haryana State Minor Irrigation (Tubewells) Corporation.



48
TABLE 2.4
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Present Under-Irrigation by Canal Commands
PART A:  Net Required Irrigation for Present Canal Irrigated Cropping Pattern  (1971/72-1975/76)
WEST YAMUNA CANAL COMMAND                 BHAKTRA CANAL COMMAND
Net irrigation       Area of the crop  Net irrigation           Area of the crop  Net irrigation
required  for       per unit ha of        required for         per unit ha of        required for
seasor[7        all irrig. crops-!    area (b)              all irrig. crops_!       area (b)
(cu. m/ha)                 (ha)          (cu. m/ha)                   (ha)           (cu. m/ha)
(a)                    (b)                (c)                      (b)               (c)
Kharif
Paddy                            8,500                       .27            2,295                       .15           1,275
Cotton                            5,300                      .06               318                      .41           2,173
Bajra                            1,000                       .14               140                      .10              100
Jowar, maize, fodder, misc.   1,600                          .21               336                      .29              464
Sugarcane-/                      8,800                       .22            1,936                       .05             440
Net irrig. required for 1 ha of the composite
cropping pattern                                           1.00             5,025 cu. m               1.00            4,452 cu. m
Rab i
Wheat and barley                  3,850                      .56            2,156                       .66           2,541
Gram                             3,520                       .23              810                       .12             422
Rape and mustard                  3,000                      .05               150                      .03               90
Fodder-  and misc.               6,000                       .11              660                       .07             420
Sugarcane-/                      5,950                       .05              298                      .12              714
Net irrig. required for 1 ha of the composite
cropping pattern                                           1.00             4,074 cu. m               1.00            4,187 cu. m
PART B:  Comparison of Water Supply and Nominal Demand for Full Irrigation  (cu. m per ha)
WEST YAUNA CANAL COMMAND           Bb AKRA CANAL COMMAND
Kharif season
(a) Gross supply to canal head per ha
of irrigated crop.                                                        7,5616/                                   7,39C/
(b) Net crop water requirements per ha
of composite crop                                                         5,025                                    4,452
(c) Gross irrigation requirement per ha for full
irrigation assuming 50% irrigation efficiency                            10,050                                    8,904
Under Irrigation           a    percent                                      752                                       83%
C
Rabi season
(a) Gross supply to canal head, per ha of
irrigated crop                                                            3,734-/                                  5,0446/
(b) Nominal crop requirements per ha of
composite crop, for full irrigation.  Net                                 4,074                                    4,187
(c) Cross irrigation requirement per ha for full
irrigation, assuming 50% irrigation efficiency                           8,148                                     8,374
Under Irrigation           a    percent                                      46%                                      601
I/
2/See Annex 3 for estimates of crop water requirements.
-,See Table 2.5 for details of present canal irrigated cropping pattern.
4/April through September.
5/Including beerseem.
,October through March.
- See Table 2.2
April 1978



49                                TABLE 2.5
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Present Cropping Patterns and Yields by Canal Commands
Bhakra Canal                 West Yamuna Canal
%         % of                 %          % of
Yields           by Crop      Cropped            by Crop      Cropped
tons/ha           Season        Area             Season         Area
IRRIGATED AREA
Kharif
Paddy (HYV)                                  3.5                 7           2.8               13           3.5
Paddy (Other)                                2.8                 8           3.3               14           3.7
Bajra (iIYV)                                 1.4               10           4.1                10           2.6
Bajra (Other)                                0.8               -              -                 4           1.1
Pulses                                       1.0                 1           0.4                2           0.5
Maize                                        1.2                 3           1.2                5           1.3
Cotton (American)                            1.2                23           9.3                2           0.5
Cotton (Other)                               0.8                18           7.4                4           1.1
Sugarcane                                   45.0                 5          2.0                22           5.8
Fodder and Misc.                            32.5 1/             25          10.3               24           6.4
Total                                                       100          40.8               100          26.5
Rabi
Wheat (Mexican)                              2.5                33          14.1               58          28.3
Wheat (Other)                                2.0                23           9.7                3           1.5
Gram                                         1.0                23           9.7               12           5.9
Mustard                                      1.0                 5           2.0               ;3           1.5
Barley                                       2.0                 7          3.0                 5           2.5
Sugarcane                                   45.0                5           2.0                12           5.9
Fodder and Misc.                            32.5 1/             4           1.7                 7           3.5
Total                                                       100          42.2               100          49.1
Irrigated Cropping Intensity 2/                                              83.0 (75.9) 3/                  75.6 (66.2) 3/
RAINFED AREA
Khari f
Bajra (HYV)                                  1.0                 2          1.2                 6           4.4
Bajra (Other)                                0.6               24          14.2                29         21.3
Pulses                                       0.6                 1          0.6                 2           1.5
Maize                                        0.9                 1          0.7                 2           1.5
Fodder                                      20.5 1/            10           5.9                15          11.0
Fallow                                                         62          36.7                46         33.8
Total                                                       100          59.2              100          73.5
Rabi
Wheat (Mexican)                              1.5               -             -                  1           0.5
Wheat (Other)                                1.0                1           0.5                 6           3.0
Gram                                         0.6               13           7.6               26          13.3
Mustard                                      0.45                5          2.9                 5           2.5
Barley                                       1.2                2           1.2                 3          1.6
Fallow                                                         79          45.6               59          30.0
Total                                                       100          57.8              100          50.9
Rainfed Cropping Inl:ensity 4/                                               34.7                            60.6
Annual Cropping Intensity                                                   117.7                          136.2
1/  Based on green Jowar (fodder sorghum).
2/ Included some area partly irrigated from private tubevells.
3/ Average irrigated cropping intensity for 1971-1976 from surface irrigation supply only (see Table 2.2).
4/ Excluding fallow.
Source: Directorate of Agriculture district production data.



TNDTIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Irrigation Components - Unit Costs
4'
Part A - Modernization of Canals 1/          Part B - Modernization of Watercourses 2/   Part C - Augmentation Tubewells (1st stage)-
(cost/100 ft2 of lining)                         (cost/ft run of lining)
Item                   Cost                  Item                   Cost                          Item               Cost/Tubewell
(Rs)                                         (Rs)                                                 (Rs)
Channel Lining                                Watercourse Lining                            Preliminarv Buildings                     6,000
Materials                      76.09           Materials                     5.42        Land Acquisition                          9,500
Labor                          43.00           Labor                         3.70
Equipment                       3.68                                                     Construction of Tubewell                59,200
Sub-total                 122.77               Sub-total                  9.12        Pumping Unit + 10% Spares               30,500
Improvement to Control                        Minor Structures 3/                           Capacitor                                 5,000
and Access Structures                       (25% of lining costs)             2.28
(30% of lining cost)            36.83                                                     Well Head Completion Civil Works         1,500
Sub-total                 159.60               Sub-total                 11.40        Collection Channels                    130,000
General Items (8.0%)              12.76       General Items (18.6%)             2.12              Sub-total                         241,700
Sub-total                 172.36               Sub-total                 13.52        Engineering                             19,340
Engineering (11%)                 18.96       Department Charges (12.5%)        1.69              Sub-total                         261,040
Sub-total                 191.32               Sub-total                 15.21        Physical Contingency (10%)              26,100
Physical Contingency (5%)          9.57       Physical Contingency (5%)         1.62        Cost per Water Point                    287,140
Total Cost                 200.89              Total Cost                15.98        Cost of Electrification
(equivalent cost US$)             23.36       (equivalent cost US$)             1.86           per Well Point                      106,450
Total Cost per Tubewell                393,590      r
(equivalent cost US$)                   45,770
1/ Costs generated from on-going programs for canal modernization with single layer of tile lining.
2/ Based on costs of completed program (1,200 watercourses).
3/ Farm outlets and mincr access structures.
4/ First stage of 325 ATWs with link channels and electrification so that additional 325 ATWs can be added in the second stage
to complete a program of 650 ATWs.



INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
COSTS FOR TYPICAL MARKET YARDS
(Rs x '000)
Ref. No.                 Item                     Units         --------------------------------------Market Yard Types------------------------- ___-_
Market 'Al                 Market 'B'                Market 'C'               Market 'D'
Quantity        Cost      Quantity        Cost       Qujantit        Cost     Qn"fi4,         Cost
1.         Levelling Land Scaping            acres             50 to 100        500       35 to 50         250       25 to 35        175       15 tD 25         75
2.          Individual Auction               sq. ft.            450,000        2,700       174,000       1,044          98,400       590        52,800         317
Platforms
3.         Street Lighting                   per acre
market area    50 to 100         1,000      35 to 50         500       25 to 30       350       15 to 25         150
4.         Metalled Roads                    sq, ft.            450,000        1,350       300,000          900        330,000       990       110,000         330
5.          Food Storage Godown              metric tons         15,000        3,000        10,000       2,000           5,000    1,000          2,500         500
6.         Boundary fall                     per sq. ft.            000           320        5,800          232          4,100       164         3,000          120
7.         Grading Unit Equipment            No.                      3            60             2          40               1       20              1          20
8.         Chek Posts & Gates                No.                      4            80             4          80              2        40              2          40
9. (a)     Common Drying Platforms           sq. ft.            700,000        4,200       266,800       1,600          68,400       410        28,800         173
(b)     Covering the Common Drying        9q  ft-            350,000        5,250       133,400       2,000          34,200       510        28,800         432
Platform
10.        Water-cooler Rooms                No.                      4          100              2          50              2        50              1          25
11.        Public Toilets                    No.                      4           100             2          50              2        50              1          25
12.        Building for Post-Office
and Bank                         sq. ft.              9,600           580         4,800         290          3,500       435         2,400          145
13.        Water Supply & Sewage             per acre
market area    50 to 100         2,300      35 to 50       1,500       25 to 35    1,050        15 to 25         450
14.        Weigh Bridge                      sq. ft.                    2        220              1         110               1      110          -             -
15         Parking                           sq. ft,           100,000           300        50,000          150         45,000       135        30,000           90
16.        Office  Rest-House &
Library Building                  sq. ft.           15,000            900         8,3Q0         500          5,000        300         3,400         200
17.        Cattle Shed, Water Tr,ught
& Vety, Dispensary                sq. ft.            9,000            270         4,500         135          1,800         54         1,800          54
18.        Co-op Canteens                    sq. ft.             2,000            120       _,500            90        _,000          60         1,000           60
sub-Total                                                                23,350                    11,521                      6,493
Land Cost I/                            acres                             3.0U0           50        1,000              35        350           25        250
Total Capital Cost                                                       26,350                    12,521                      6,843                   3.456
Cost US$ Million equivalent                                               (3.06)                   (1.45)                     (0.80)                  (0.40)



INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Summary of Costs
(Rs million)
Basic                                                                                                                                            Component
Cost        Design                                                                     Pro- ect     -Project Cost                               Cost as a       Foreign
Before         and                      Physical       Base         Price 1/                                          (01$ Million)               C of Total    Exchanre
Item                         Additions   Supervision   Subtotal   Contingency    Cost          Contingency    Total        Local    Foreign   Total   Local   Fore             Proect Cost        L/
Modernization of Canals         431.0    47.3 (11.0)       478.3    24.0  (5.0)    502.3            83.7         586.0      510.0      76.0      68.1    59.2        8.9            30.6           13
Rural Water Supply               71.2      5.0  (7.0)        76.2    11.4 (15.0)       87.6         13.0         100,6       83.6      15.0      11.7    10.0        1.7              5.3          15
Rural Roads                     146.5    14.7 (10,O)       161.2    16.1 (10.0)    177.3            31.3         208.6      177.3      31.3      24.2    20.6        3.6            10.9           15
Modernization of
Watercourses                  411.4    51.6 (12.5)       463.0    37.0  (8.0)    500.0            83.6         583.6      525.2      38.4      67.9    61.1        6.8            30.5           10
Augmentation Tubewells
Well Point & Link
Channels                     78.6      6.3  (8.0)       84.9      8.4 (10.0)      93.3         14.5          107.8       86.2     21.6      12.5    10.0         2.5             5.6          20
Electrification                29.7      3.2 (10.5)       32.9      1.6  (5.0)      34.5           5.4          39.9       27.9      12.0       4.7      3.3       1.4             2.1           30
Markets                         174.2    15.7  (9.0)        189.9    11.6  (5.0)    201.5           32.8         234.3      199.2      35.1      27.2    23.1        4.1             12.5          15
Jui Command
Construction of
Watercourses                 24.7      3.1 (12.5)       27.8      2.2  (8.0) 2/  30.0            3.2          33.2       29.9       3.3       3.9      3.5       0.4             1.8           10
Land Levelling                  8.0      1.0 (12.5)        9.0      1.0 (10.0)       10.0          1.6          11.6        9.3       2.3       1.4      1.1       0.3             0.6           20
Technical Assistance and
Applied Research and
Development                     3.0       -    -           3.0       -      -        3.0           0.5           3.5        3.5        -        0.4      0.4        -              0.1            -
TOTAL                   1,377.5   147.9 (10.6)3/ 1,525.4   113.3  (7.5)3/ 1,639.5           269.6        1,909.1   1,654.1    255.0    222.0   192.3         29.7            100.0
I/ Expected price increases have been based on the following assumed annual escalation rates (in 7):
Calendar Year    1977    1978    1979    1980/83
Civil Works       4.0      8.0     7.5         7.0
Equipment         4.0      7.0      6.5        6.0
Assuming that costs are 75% civil works and 257. equipment, that expenditure is uniform through any year.  Price contingency becomes:
1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81
3.8        11.6        19.5        27.6
2/ A physical contingency for experimental watercourses of 20% has been added to the normal physical contingency of 8%.
3/ Weighted average for project.



INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Financing Plan
(USS Million) 1/
GOH
Total      and                  Participation       Ultimate
Project Component              Cost 2/   GOI        ARDC     Commercial Banks   Borrowers
Modernization of Watercourses           67.9       37.3     19.7           10.9
Augmentation Tubewells                  12.5        6.9      3.6             2.0
Tubewells Electrification                4.7        1.9      1.5            0.8               0.5 3!
Markets                                 27.2        9.5      7.9            4.4               5.4 4/
Jui Command Area
(a) Lining of Watercourses             3.9       2.2       1.1            0.6
(b) On-farm Development                1.4       0.6       0.5            0.2               0.1 5/
Modernization of Canals                 68.1       68.1
Village Water Supply                    11.7       11.7
Village Roads                           24.2       24.2
Technical Assistance and Applied
Research and Development                 0.4        0.4
TOTAL                                222.0     162.8 6/  34.3            18.9               6.0
1/ Sums rounded to US$0.1 Million.
2/ Including physical and price contingencies.
3/ Haryana State Electricity Board.
4/ Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board.
5/ Individual farmers.
6/ Of which IDA contribution is US$111.0 million.



INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditure
(US$ Million)
------Fiscal Year---------
78/79   79/80   80/81   81/82   Total
PART A.  Schemes to be financed through GOH Budget
(a) Modernization of Canals                          11.90   13.95   16.28   16.28    58.41
(b) Rural Water Supply                                3.02    2.43    2.43    2.30    10.18
(c) Village Roads                                     3.49    4.65    5.81    6.66    20.61
Sub-total                                      18.41   21.03   24.52   25.24    89.20
PART B. Schemes to be financed through
Institutional Credit
(d) Modernization of Watercourses                    11.63   13.95   16.28   16.28    58.14
(e) Augmentation Tubewells
Tubewells and link channels                     2.77    2.74    2.67    2.67    10.85
Electrification                                 1.00    1.00    1.00    1.01      4.01
(f) Markets                                           5.56    5.49    5.64    6.74    23.43
(g) Jui Command
Construction of Watercourses                    1.42    1.03    1.03               3.48
Land leveling                                   0.29    0.29    0.29    0.29       1.16
Sub-total                                      22.67   24.50   26.91   26.99   101.07
PART C.  Technical Assistance and Applied
Research and Development                              0.09    0.09    0.08    0.08       0.34
Net Project Cost                                     41.17   45.62   51.51   52.31   190.61
Price Contingency                                     1.57    5.32   10.11   14.39    31.39
Total Project Cost                                   42.74   50.94   61.62   66.70   222.00



55                           TABLE 3.6
INDIA
EARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of the Credit
Proposed Allocation        % of Expenditure
of Credit             to be Financed
(US$ Million)
1. Civil Works
(a) Modernization of
watercourses, markets
ATWs and Jui Command                                         55% of ARDC's
components                              38.0                   refinance
(b)  Other civil works                       62.0                  70% of cost
2.  Equipment                                     5.0
(a)  Directly imported goods                                     100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)  Locally manufactured goods                                100% of ex-factory
cost or 70%
3. Technical Assistance and
Applied Research and Development              0.4                  100% of cost
4.  Unallocated                                   5.6
TOTAL                                     111.0



56                       TABLE 3.7
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year and Semester             Semester                  Cumulative
(US$ '000 equivalent)
Fiscal Year 1979
First                                 1,000                       1,000
Second                                7,000                       8,000
Fiscal Year 1980
First                                10,000                     18,000
Second                               18,000                      36,000
Fiscal Year 1981
First                                14,500                     50,500
Second                               19,000                     69,500
Fiscal Year 1982
First                               14,000                      83,500
Second                              17,000                     10005nn
Fiscal Year 1983
First                               10,500                     111,000
April 1978



57                            Table 5.1
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Prices Used in Financial and Economic Analysis
(1977/78 Rupees)
Financial Prices           Economic Prices
1977-78      1987-88       1977-78       1987-88
Output Prices (Rs/q)
Paddy                           97           107           113           155
Wheat                           122          134           111           160
Gram                           190           209           182           260
Bajra                           128          141           123           175
Barley                          128          141           123           175
Waize                           121          133           116           165
Fodder                            8            9             8             9
Rapeseed                        316          348           341           456
Sugarcane                       13            14             7            15
Cotton (American)              330           350           492           490
Cotton (Other)                 266           280           394           402
Labor (Rs/day)
Human Labor                       8.5          8.5           5.6           5.6
Bullock Labor                    16,0         16.0          12.8          12.8
Agrochemicals (Rs/ton)
Nitrogen  (N)                3,800         5,000         3,570        4,711
Phosphatea (P)               4,200         4,300         2,860        4,020
Potash (IC)                  1,300         1,700         1,330        1,555
Conversion Factors
Standard Conversion Factor                                   0.80         0.80
Foodgraiia Conversion Factor                                 0.96         1.24
Oilseeds Conversion Factor                                   1.08         1.31
Human Labor Conversion Factor                                0.66         0.66



58
Table 5.2a
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Kharff Crop Budgets
G19q7-l988)
--- Paddy- - --   Jawar  (Fodder)   -HYV Bajra--   -Other Bajra   --- Maize- ---   American  other
HYV   Other      R      I           R       I        R      I        R       I      Cotton   Cotton
Quantities per ha.
Human Labor (days)                       100     82       32      40         50      60       40     45       55      60      102        77
Bullock Labor (days)                      12     12       12      12          6       9        5      8        8       9       18        13
Seeds (kg)                               25      20       50      50          4       4       4       4       20     20        20        16
Fertilizers (kg)                         110     40       10      20         20      60        8     15       10      30       50        20
N  (kg)                              85      30       10      20         15     40        8      15       10     25        50        20
P  (kg)                              25      10       -       -           5      20      -       -        -       5        -         -
K  (kg)                              -       -        -       -          -       -               -        -      -         -         -
Yield (Main Product) (q/ha)               35     28      205     325         10      14        6      8        9      12       16         8
Financial Budgets (1977-78 Rs/ha)
Human Labor                             850    697       272     340        425    510      340    383       468    510       571       431
Bullock Labor                            192    192      192     192         96    144        80    128      128    144       230       166
Seeds                                     50     40      100    100          16      16       16     16       30     30        50        38
Fertilizers                              533    193       50    100          97    286        40     75       50    147       250       100
Insecticides                             20      -        -      -          _        -      _        -        -      -        300       100
Cultivation Costs                     1,645  1,122       614    732         634    956      476    602       676    831    1,402        836
Gross Return (Main)                   3,745  2,996   1,845  2,925         1,410  1,974       846  1,128   1,197  1,596    5,600    2,240
Gross Return (By-Product)                 60     50       -     -           250    300       150    200       53      70       50        40
Crop Return                           2,161  1,924   1,231  2,193         1,027  1,318      520    727       575    836    4,248    1,444
Economic Budgets (1977-78 Rs/ha)
Human Labor                              560    459      179    224         280    336      224    252       308    336      571        431
Bullock Labor                            154    154      154    154          77    115        64    102      102    115      230        166
Seeds                                     50     40      100    100          16      16       16     16       30      30      50         38
Fertilizers                              501    182       47      94         91    269        38     71       47    138      236         94
Insecticides                              20     -        -      -          _        -        -     _         -       -      300        100
Cultivation Costs                     1,285    834       480    572         464    736       342    441      488    619   1,387         830
Gross Return (Main)                   5,425  4,340   1,865  2,925         1,750  2,450   1,050  1,400   1,485  1,980   7,840          3,216
Gross Return (By-product)                 48     40      -        -         200    260       120    160       42      56       40        32
Crop Return                           4,188  3,546   1,365  2,353         1,486  1,954       828  1,119   1,039  1,417   6,493        2,418
R = Rainfed
I   Irrigated



59
Table 5.2b
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Rabi Crop Budgets
(1987-1988)
Mexican Wheat    Other Wheat   --Gram--    -Mustard--   --Barley---   Sugar
R      I        R       I        R      I        R       I       R       I      Cane
Quantities per ha.
Human Labor (days)                         85    100        85    100       32      40       50      60      55      76      180
Bullock Labor (days)                       20      20       20     20        8      10       10     10       16      16       32
Seeds (kg)                                100    100       100    100       50      50        4      4       90      90       70
Fertilizers (kg)                           50      80       30     50       -       20       -      30        5      20     100
N (kg)                                30      60      20      30       -      -        -       30        5      20      70
P (kg)                                20     60       20      30       -      20       -       -        -      -        30
K (kg)                                -      -        -       -        -      -        -       -        -      -        -
Yield (Main Product) (q/ha)                15      25       10     20        6      10        4.5   10       12      20      500
Financial Budgets (1977-1978 Rs/ha)
Human Labor                               476    560       476    560      179    224       280    336      308    426   1,530
Bullock Labor                             256    256       256    102      102    128       128    128      205    205       512
Seeds                                     150    150       150    150      100    100        12     12       99      99   1,001
Fertilizers                               236    386       143    236       -       86      -      150       25    100      479
Insecticides                               10      10      -       -        -       20      -       30       -       40      50
Cultivation Costs                       1,128  1,362   1,025  1,048        382    558      420    656       637    869   3,572
Gross Return (Main)                     2,010  3,350   1,340  2,680   1,254  2,090   1,566  3,480   1,692  2,820   6,950
Gross Return (By-Product)                 240    300       200    240       48      80       -      -       120    200        -
Crop Return                             1,122  2,288       515  1,872      920  1,612   1,146  2,824   1,175  2,151   3,378
Economic Budgets (1977-1978 Rs/ha)
Human Labor                               476    560       476    560      179    224       280    336      308    426   1,008
Bullock Labor                             256    256       256    102      102    128       128    128      205    205       410
Seeds                                     150    150       150    150      100    100        12     12       99      99   1,001
Fertilizers                               222    363       134    222       -       80       -     141       24      94      450
Insecticides                               10      10       -      -        -       20       -      30       -       40      50
Cultivation Costs                       1,114  1,339   1,016  1,034        382    552       420    647      635    864   2,919
Gross Return (Main)                     2,400  4,000   1,600  3,200   1,560  2,600   2,052  4,560   2,100  3,500   7,400
Gross Return (By-Product)                 192    240       160    192       38      64       -       -       96    160        -
Crop Return                             1,478  2,901       744  2,358   1,216  2,112   1,632  3,913   1,561  2,796   4,481
R = Rainfed
I = Irrigated



60
TABLE 5.3
INDIA
EARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Total Costs, Recoveries and Cost Recovery Rates
(Present Values at 12% Discount Rate; Rs. million)
Modernization    Augmentation    Modernization
of Canals         Tubewells    of Watercourses       Total
COSTS
Capital Costs                 421              144                418             983
Present Value of
Running Costs 1/                             131                 70             201
Total Costs                   421              275                488           1,184
RECOVERY
A. Present Value of
GOH Recoveries           112                73                 63             248
Recovery Rate             27%              27%                 13%             21%
B.  Credit Recovery          n/a              n/a                 415             415
Recovery Rate             -                -                  100%           100%
C.  Overall Recovery         112                73                488             673
Overall Recovery          27%              27%               100%             57%
Rate
1/   Incremental 0 & M Costs Only.



TABLE 5.4
61
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Direct and Indirect Cost Recovery at Full Development
(1977/78 Rs per ha) -/
Bhakra Canal       West Yamuna Canal
Kharif    Rabi       Kharif    Rabi
Direct Recovery
Land Revenue 2/                      3,5       3.5         3,5      3.5
Water Rate 3/                       63.0      63.0        56.0     56.0
Total                             66.5      66.5       59.5      59.5
Indirect Recovery
Paddy 4:/                           13.5                  24.5
Wheat 4/                              -       46.2          _      51.9
Sugarcane 5/                         2.6       2.6       11.4      11.4
Cotton /                            55.7        -          6.0       -
Total.                            71.8      48.8       41.9      63.3
Total Recovery                        138.3    115.3        101.4    122.8
Direct Recovery                        48%       58%         59%      48%
(as % of total)
1/ Direct recoveries are assumed constant in real terms at present levels.
2/  Incremental land revenue at 7 Rs/including cesses.
3/  Source:  Irrigation Department data averaged out for both crop seasons
based on 1975 revision of water rates (about 100% above previous
rates).
4/  Assuming 90% of incremental production is subject to a marketing fee of 3%
ad valorem on arrivals.
5/  Assuming 50% of incremental produce in the form of gur will be subject to
the market fee.
6/  Assuming all incremental produce is sold through regulated markets.



62
TABLE 5.5
INDIA
3ARYARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Average Repayments and Farmp. Incomes (Jind District)
(Current Rs. per ha)
---- FARM INCOMES ----------              ---------------------------- REPAYMENTS -----------------------------
As ' of                   As % of
Price 1/       Average              Incremental           Installments 2/        Average Farm Income   Incremental Farm Income
Year         Index         After Lining         Due to Lining        Equal    Graduated        Equal     Graduated          Equal     Graduated
1978/79        104               899                    67                3/           3/
108               998                  134              -            -
1979/80        112                991                   73             55 4/        55 4/         6            6               75          75
117            1,115                   158             55 7/        55 4/          5           5               35          35
1980/81        122             1,094                    82            104           78           10            7              127          95
127            1,243                   185            104           78             8           6               56          42
1981/82        132             1,205                    90            104           78             9           6              116          87
137            1,385                   215            104           78             8           6               48          36
1982/83        142             1,329                    98            104           78            8            6              106          80
148            1,540                   280            104           78             7           5               42          31
1983/84        P54             1,466                   109            104           98             7           7               95          90
160            1,713                   288            104           98             6           6               36          34
1984/85        167             1,613                   120            104           98             6           6               87          82
173            1,903                   330            104           98             5           5               32          30
1985/86        180             1,777                   133            104           98             6           5               78          74
187             2,111                  378            104           98             5           5               28          26
1986/87        195             1,958                   146            104          117             5           6               71          80
203            2,353                   432            104          117             4           5               24          27
1987/88        211             2,156                   162            104         117              5           5               64          72
219            2,602                   491            104          117             4           4               21          24
1988/89        228             2,371                   178            104          117            4            5               58          66
237            2,884                   557            104          117             4           4               19          21
1/   Assuming 4% inflation per season.
2/   See para 6.10 for details of equal or graduated repayment terms.
3/   Cost of works assumed to be 1,075 Rs. per ha CCA.
4/   Repayment of interest only.



63                              Table 6.1
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Unit Capital Costs
Unskilled    Otbtes. Local    Foreign
Labor 1    _ Costs 2/_    Exchange    Total
Lining of Canals (1977/78 Rs per 100 square feet)
Labor                          60.00          21.40            -         81.40
Materials                        -            88.60          21.30     109.90
Transport                        -             4.80           4.80       9.60
Financial Cost                 60.00         114.80          26.10     200.90
Economic Cost                  36.00          91.80          26.10     153.90
Augmentation Tubewells ('000 of 1977/78 Rs per tubewell)
Labor                          49.10          19.90            -        69.00
Materials                        -            65.90          22.00      87.90
Electrical Equipment             -             2.20           3.30        5.50
Other Equipment                  -            20.20          16.40      36.60
Land,Acquisition                 -             9.50            -         9.50
Electrification                 8.30          28.80          15.90      53.00
Financial Cost                 57.40         146.50          57.60     261.50
Economic Cost                  34.40         117.20          57.60     209.20
Lining of Watercourses (1977/78 Rs per foot-run)
Labor                           5.59            -              -          5.59
Materials                        -             5.90           0.12        6.02
Transport and Overheads          -             2.89           1.48       4.37
Financial Cost                  5.59           8.79           1.60      15.98
Economic Cost                   3.35           7.03           1.60      11.98
1/ Conversion Factor = 0.60
2/ Conversion Factor = 0.80



INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
r  TOTAL     CWORK            WNORK TO BE      1977         1978              1979             1980              1981             1982
ITEM                  UNIT            S~~~~TOTAL   COMPLETED        COMPLETED __
ITEM                  UNIT            ST~~~~~~~POGATE  BEFORE         THROUGH
ITE  UIT PRSOTGARTAM  DEC.1977   PROJECT V   03  Q4  Q1 Q2  Q3  04  Q1 Q2  Q3 Q4  Ql 02 103 04  01  Q2 0 Q3 104  Q1  02 03  Q4
START  QUAN-///                                                                              /K
(a) MODERNIZATION OF CANALSJ/                 Km                              -// _   _    _                                                                                            //_
li) Bhakra Canal Command                                   4401          1972/73    270   Approx. 2025                                    4 =               989                                ?02!V
(ii) WYCCommand                                             2981                                     725- -                                     4 - - -               - - -
liii) gargaon Canal                                          432                                                               /        /        7/                         /                        /
Ic) UMETTONTBEEL W1780man9371                                                         1349             960/                                    0/.               6    /_ _24   /                   2 
Ib) MODERNIZATION OF WATERCOURSES!/   No of                                                                                                              _   _  550  /7            8     7          1     /
lil Bhakra Command                       Waetercourses     3563          1971172    868            1123                                                  _                            __7// __   112 3
lii!) Agra/Gurgaon Canal                                     438                                                              //        _                         /                 /                /
Area                                      /          |   | /           l     // 777/                            7
le)  MARKETS                                  No.Aof Units       125            19       20                26                                   8        -   -  10            -   2    '  -        3
lii 'B' Type Markets                                                                                   5/                                T          _            _ _         I      ..I ;                                ,
liii) 'C' Type Markets                                                                                1 5                                                   I      IA     '    I  /1/  
liv) 'D' Type Markets                                                                                  1 ._=_ I'T  
Iv) Improving-Existing-Markets                                                       31                4                                                                                             7/
I) R    ILrGOAOnS                             Km                 15,520 Km      1 970    8650            377                                                          77 
lii) New Roads                                           |945                                                                                                                 . =/._ 542 /     / | 945|v
.                                                                          1 _ _ . _  I , _ I7 r - I ,    I k X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7  900
JExcluding the Lift Irrigation Areas                            1/                                                                                                                              World Bank -18607
2JProgress through the project period is showvn                 M// MONSOON SEASON
as cumulative totals on lst April each year
JArea cored for on-farm development
is 40% of total CCA



65
CHLART C-2
iNDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF GOVT. OF HARYANA
(RELEVANT DEPARTMENTS)
CHIEF
MINISTER
MINISTER FOR                        -                  MINISTER          MINISTER FOR
IRIGATION. POWER                     IFOR                                   FINANCE
& P. W 0.    |                                     AGRICULTURE
CHIEF
I~~~~~ _ _    _
*   *   * *' *   *   *   * *   *  s-|-|-|-| '| SECRETARY    p"~|~" W      
SECRETARRY                                                                              SECRETARY           SECRETARY
P. W. 0.                         I31AONAGRICULTURE                                                         FINANCE
CHIEF ENGINEER            HA RYANA           CHIEF ENGINEER       CHIEF ENGINEER           DIRECTOR
B & R              STATE ELECTRICIT       IRRIGATION          PUBLIC HEALTH         AGRICULTURE
HARYANA STATE                     COMMAND AREA         ROUGHT PRONE         SMALL FARMERS       AGRICULTURAL
MINOR IRRIGATION                  DEVELOPMENT          AREA PROGRAM          DEVELOPMENT          MARKETING
TUBEWEL_ CORPORATION                   AGENCIES             AGENCIES              AGENCIES             BOARD
References
Flow of E.ec.:Ne & Admnostrat,e Authority  PWD Public Works Deparrment
B&R Bridges & Roads
* I 1 I m  Adm,,istratiwe Control of Secretaries                                                               World Bank-18488



66                                                                  CHART C-3
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART: HARYANA STATE MINOR IRRIGATION (TUBEWELLS) CORPORTATION
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -
-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
... .....                                                               r -----ubewDw  r-- 1-L '   i  rrmr;:  
I"T.Wq I  Pump                                 Manufasol A.- -,ss A.o--- T  _       I   L  A,A                            M:AS
L|    AS      j Aw   .S. I_.i.



INDIA
HARYANA IPRRIGATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHAFsT -HARYANA STATE AGRICULTURAL MARKETING BOARD
CiAifMAN
MANAGtfiG DIRECTOR
SECRETARY
ENFORTMAHrOET                           r ADMNISTRATION                          tAND AC D IT ( T                                 DE SISN
ACCOUNTS IFonarcsal A fwi                SChlef O~Ntfc                              I SCteiBf Ofeficer)                                                                 chef
AMOAON OJVIEJON        ~MARKETING                                                                                                              PROJECT/SINKANA    I~O  ~ RICO  CONSULTANTS
Is EO I                                                                                 M- /I - -  I  IDESI            I E
w . ; . . . . _ lf 5s2eiisthelowl [~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~elw
ME OFFICE I                                               ME OICE V                    ME OFFICE IX                                                   DESiGN
-GUGAON                                                         ANI                      -AMEALA                                                     SECTION
ME)                                                          EOi                        tMEOI                                                         Architel
ME OEE CEll                                               ME OFFICE VI                  ME OFfiCE X                                                        SECIO
Mi - NOI-IROfAR"-                                             - HISSAR                    - _ARNAL
OiMEOI                       IMOI
ME OFICE Rl                                                ME OFFCE VU                 ME OFFICE Xl                                                MuNfTIIC   G
_ - R EH-AK                                                   - SIRSA                   KLIRULKS.I,ET.9A                                          AND RESEARCH
fMlEOI                                                     tMEOI                        IMEOi                                                        (,
MV OIFice iV U!                                           Me OFFICE Vi\/
-SONEPAT                                                     - lIND
|   MEI                                                    tMEOI                                                          POJFt                    PROJEcT                  MARKET
CO -ORDINNA7 ON j    |    IONITORINti   i            RESFARCR 
EWEo   Se.er Mlrket,rpg Enforce-nen Officer           Pon Tirr, A&rirw, & CUn e
MEO   MerinE Erf-rtenrert Officer
SE   Su.pr,en-rg Eirrc-                            Lerl) AdoNoc
See   Se-c Fecr Erenejer-                           Mwifre  Officer
XcN    Eexecutv E,,geerr                             Proecr t E.erry AJWe-oc
Arch:eOWuraW Ceetulranl
ToEw, Pkeniog C,ns,usta,t
Mrketi ng Adlaor                                                                                                             Worrld 8ak- 18606
Techeicel Ass,. (P)bilc teeIthl



68
ANNEX 1
Page  1
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Related Documents Available in the Project File
A.   Selected Working Papers
1.   Draft Report of the Haryana Irrigation and CAD Project
(2 Volumes), FAO/World Bank CP, July 1977.
2.   Working Paper on Agricultural Credit, FAO/World Bank CP,
July 1977.
3.   Notes on Watercourses and Land Shaping in Dune Sand Areas,
and Land Development for Irrigation in Pump-Lift Area, FAO/
World Bank CP, February 1977.
4.   Lining of Existing Channels of Bhakra and West Yamuna Canal
Systems, Haryana Irrigation Department, April 1977.
5.   Project Estimates for Lining of 6,423 Watercourses in Gravity
Areas, HSMITC, January 1977.
6.   Project Estimate for Installation of 750 Tubewells; HSMITC,
January 1977.
7.   Project Report for Electrification of 750 Deep Tubewells in
Haryana, Haryana State Electricity Board, January 1977.
8.   Integrated Agricultural Marketing and Rural Development Project,
HSAMB, July 1977.
9.   Master Plan Report for Rural Water Supply Scheme of Haryana
State, Public Health Department, PWD, 1976.
10.   World Bank Assistance.  Construction of Rural Roads in the State
of Haryana excluding the Area Covered by the Lift Irrigation
Scheme. Bridges and Roads Department, PWD, 1976.
B.   Laws
1.   Northern India Canal and Drainage Act, 1873.
2.   Haryana Canal and Drainage Act (1974) with Amended Rules (1976).
3.   The Punjab Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1961.



69
ANNEX 1
Page 2
C.   Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1.   Haryana Statistical Abstracts, 1975/76.
2.   Census of Agricultural Holdings in Haryana State, 1970/71;
Department of Agriculture, March 1975.
3.   An, Agricultural Geography of Haryana, Jasbir Singh, Viscal
Publications, 1976.
4.   Changing Structures of Agriculture in Haryana, GOH, 1969/70.
5.   Soil Survey of Jui Canal Command, Hissar Agricultural University,
April 1973.
6.   Hatryana's Efforts to Irrigate its High Areas, Part IV, JLN
Project, Haryana Irrigation Department, December 1976.
7.   Optimum Length Required to be Lined in a Watercourse, S.P.
Malhotra, July 1974.



70
ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Lending Terms and Conditions
The following lending terms and conditions would be used to imple-
ment the project and would not be changed without prior agreement with IDA:
1.   IDA to GOI
Normal IDA terms and conditions.
2.   GOI to GOH
GOI to finance modernization of canals, rural water supply schemes
and village roads in accordance with the GOI's established policy
for development assistance to GOH.
3.   GOI to ARDC
(a) In respect of ARDC refinancing up to 9 years:
(i) annual interest rate of 6.75% minimum; less 0.25%
for prompt repayment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 9 years; and
(iii) GOI to carry exchange risk.
(b) For ARDC refinancing for more than 9 and up to 15 years:
(i) annual interest rate of 7.25% minimum; less 0.25%
for prompt repayment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 15 years;
(iii) GOI to carry exchange risk.
4.   ARDC to Lending Banks
(i) Annual interest rate of 7.5% minimum for modernization of
watercourses, augmentation tubewells, transmission
and land levelling components;



71
ANNEX 2
Page 2
(ii)  annual interest rate of 8% minimum for market construction
lending;
(iii) installment repayments based on repayment schedule to
coincide approximately with agreed collection dates
from the ultimate borrowers; and
(iv)  refinancing by purchase of debentures or by loans up
to 80% of loans to HMITC, HSAMB and 90% of loans to
HSEB and to individual farmers, 90% of loans for minor
irrigation and 75% of loans Zor lcLd           llX,.
5.   Lending Banks to Ultimate Borrowers
(a) To Haryana State Minor Irrigation and Tubewells Corporation (HMITC)
(i) Annual interest rate of 10.5% minimum;
(ii)  loan ceiling of 80% of the cost of augmentation tube-
wells including associated civil works and pumpsets;
(iii) HMITC's contribution shall not be less than 20% of
the cost of modernization of watercourses inclusive
of overheads and establishment cost on norms satis-
factory to ARDC;
(iv)  repayment periods in respect of loans for moderniza-
tion of watercourses to be based on ultimate farmer
beneficiaries' repayment capacity but not to exceed
10 years, inclusive of a grace period of one year;
HSMITC shall pay interest in the first year;
(v) repayment periods in respect of loans for construc-
tion of augmentation tubewells to be based on the
cash flows of HSMITC and the life of tubewells to be
constructed but not to exceed 12 years inclusive of
a grace period of one year; HSMITC shall pay interest
in the first year;
(vi)  security would be in accordance with the arrangements
between lending banks and ARDC which would include GOH
guarantee to the participating banks for payment of
interest and repayment of principal;
(vii.) HSMITC shall use the design methodology set forth in
the design manual to decide the length of watercourses
to be lined; review of the design manual by IDA and
ARDC would be a condition of distribution for the
modernization of watercourses component (para 3.17).



72
ANNEX 2
Page 3
(viii)  HSMITC shall have capital and staff considered adequate
by ARDC to function effectively, to operate services
and to ensure proper financial accounting and manage-
ment;
(ix)  HSMITC shall institute monitoring, evaluation and
reporting procedures acceptable to ARDC and IDA;
(x) HSMITC shall undertake maintenance of watercourses
after lining with cost recovered from the benefi-
ciaries during the currency of the project loan;
(xi)  capacitors should be provided in tubewell installa-
tions to effectively protect motors from damage due
to voltage fluctuations;
(xii)  Hour meters should be installed on tubewells to monitor
performance and enable the efficiency of the installa-
tions to be estimated;
(xiiii)  HSMITC shall use materials satisfactory to ARDC for lining
of watercourses and changes to specifications should only
be made after prior approval by ARDC; and
(xiv)  if the statutory audited accounts of HSMITC cannot be fur-
nished within four months of close of the accounting
year, HSMITC should engage the services of Chartered
Accountants acceptable to ARDC for audit of its accounts;
pending statutory audit, the audited accounts by the
approved Chartered Accounts shall be furnished to the
participating banks and ARDC within four months of the
close of the year.
(b) To Haryana State Electricity Board
(i) Annual interest rate of 10.5% minimum;
(ii)  repayment period not to exceed 7 years; and
(iii) security would be in accordance with the arrangements
with the lending banks and ARDC which would include GOH
guarantee for payment of interest and repayment of
principal.
(c) To Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB)
(i) Annual interest rate of 11% minimum;
(ii) a loan ceiling of 80% of the total investment cost
other than land;



73
ANNEX 2
Page 4
(iii)  repayment periods should be based on the cash flows of
the HSAMB but not to exceed 12 years including a grace
I)eriod up to 2 years at the discretion of ARDC;
(iv)  security would be in accordance with the arrangements
with the lending banks and ARDC which would include
GOH guarantee for payment of interest and repayment
of principal;
(v)  HSAMB to expand staff including a Chartered Accountant
so that staffing is considered adequate by ARDC to
execute the project and operate the facilities;
(vi)  HSAMB shall use its funds as defined in para 4.12
until project loans have been repaid for the fol-
lowing purposes in the order of priority: servicing
of the project loans; that is obligations to the
lending banks under the project; operation and
establishment expenses; and expansion of marketing
facilities. Only after the above obligations are
met, funds of HSAMB may be used for any other purposes
specified under Section 26 of the Punjab Agricultural
Produce Market Act, 1961 (as applicable in Haryana).
(vii)  HSAMB to introduce commercial system of accounting and
get its accounts audited by a Chartered Accountant
acceptable to ARDC and furnish audited statements of
accounts within four months of the close of the
accounting year.
(d) To Individual Farmers for Land Levelling in Jui Command Area
Ordinary Land Development Loans
(i)  Annual interest rate of 10.5% minimum;
(ii)  a once and for all evaluation fee of 0.5% of the cost
of investment may be charged;
(iii)  farmers' contributions to include obligatory purchase
of LDB shares, own labor and other contributions in
cash or kind and for lending to small farmers, a minimum
of 5% for the cost of development; for farmers cultivat-
ing lands providing a pre-development net return to
family resources between Rs 2,001 and Rs 3,500 based
on 1972 prices, a minimum of 10% of the investment cost;
and for all other farmers, 15% of the investment.
(iv)  Item d(iii) is conditional in that no cash contribution
need be collected from the farmers if any of the on-farm
developments are executed through the Land Development



74
ANNEX 2
Page 5
Corporation or any other centralized agency, and/or no
cash is paid to the individual farmers to carry out the
work and the amount of loan is paid directly to the
agency executing the work by the lending banks on behalf
of the farmers.
(v)  repayment periods should be based on the ultimate
borrowers' repayment capacity but not to exceed
10 years for normal lending and 15 years for lend-
ing to small farmers;
(vi)  grace period not exceeding 2 years from the date of
disbursement of the loans, may be granted at the
discretion of ARDC provided that the repayment
period of such loans is not exceeded;
(vii) security would be as determined by the Lending Banks
and ARDC; and
(viii) if there are any ineligible farmers for bank loans
that require financial assistance for carrying on land
levelling operations, their requirements may be met from
the Command Area Special Loan Account (SLA) set up with
the ARDC on terms and conditions which are to be agreed
between GOI, GOH and ARDC. The terms for Special Land
Development Loans shall not be more favorable than that
for ordinary Land Development Loans.
6.   General ARDC Conditions
(i) ARDC and lending banks would maintain separate accounts
for each of the above categories of project lending;
(ii)  ARDC and lending banks would maintain separate records
for small farmers;
(iii)  HSMITC and HSAMB shall maintain accounts satisfactory to
ARDC;
(iv)  ARDC would apply the agreed criteria relating to percent-
age overdues to HLDB debentures eligibility;
(v)  ARDC would apply the overdues criteria relating to LDB
debenture eligibility, while refinancing HSCB, Central
Cooperative Banks and their branches if they participate
in the project lending;



75
ANNEX 2
Page 6
(vi) ARDC shall ensure appraisal of the proposals of HSAMB
for development of each of the market yards as regards
technical and financial aspects. The appraisal shall
cover among others, the following essential aspects:
location of the marketyard and suitability of the
site and scope for further expansion; details of pro-
posed development and justification for each of the
components; adequacy of the facilities proposed for
anticipated market arrivals over a minimum 10 years;
technical suitability of the proposed development
with respect to layout, design, services including
drainage, water and sewage system, construction
standards and costs; and schedule of implementation
and cost of each phase of the scheme.






,(i<u.5,APoirors=t Llne of Covirul
,.J S 2 <?CHINA
Iz          - S    ? >   qHUIAN   o                                                                                                                     INDIA
H wAPYAIVA's>'^ o4;-'-< ,>                                                                       HARYANA  IRRIGATION AND CAD PROJECT
1I      INDIA                     BURM
\lay ?>  B   l                                                                                              o         30        60         90        120        150
3r                         of )                                                      0-trIZcrZ  $                                                           KILOAAETERS
.ANKA   Bounduries                                                                                Areas  Suitable  for Shollow
and Deep Tubewell Development <
m :S ,"..S                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 .... ..
[1.-   - Sands aznd  Loamny Sands                                                                                         ___-___.   : Areas underlain byalluvium                                            ;jjXa
*                                                                                             >/ /// :   :   ::   :::t   feoubleowntsdepbof )'- .....................  S ^,-, :'_1-\t.X... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .l!^ -
t///Sandy Looms 9***/// ;4 o6 eesk>  /BU   x,- lll-l1 
Slopey Sls and Silty Claoys                               _                                                       1   *  Area uneli by aluir  wh.ere
District Boundaries                       '?o   r i.                                    . 5                               Area where Orluate tubawells                                                   W    , 
-       State Boundaries                                                            //     t                                      are vol feasible due lv qualiry                                             :|1.j.
9                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~problems in shallow aquifers                                    b 
____District Boundaries
rnonravn,surenrmparuasrroe wOriddsarrs siaO .cius,vnyrorthroneumrrs esr                                                                Slate Boundaries                                                                                                 a
oridsr.eaose o rveres spono h stu is arroched rn. dunurn,,r.r,u,srurvr dnre
boundaries drown orns rnsmp dOr notrpir on rhe pMrrrrIhedWorldd arkr,i 0d  An,t.lsrl0&5frC  eta  rudWtrBor   ohWsenR
orrirrn enriyuddmnoar Orlma rsimnsiSrr or air iniror. ri ndursamenr or    noore: Annnurr/Gograp/ry of HarYana; JausbirSivgh; 1976                                             Souce                                                                        GOta  rudWrr6ad,ioryWsen,ein
.   . .   . . . .   . . . . .






g(~ >,Abhro55mttOt I.,e of Costrol
[                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDIA
e / .4 ?~~~ 3HUTAN,@ 
RYAVwA _sv1-                                                      HARYANA IRRIGATION AND CAD PROJECT
. *      I ND I A   (    BURMA
0     30     60      90    120    150
., \ ,/t ayt t. - 2aJ                 f,.qg                   N5KILOMETERS                          -
1100 . .
'ci                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~1000 
____________\_______V__  900:                       Annual Rainfall
Total                   Ann0al  Rainfall F,, Coefficient of Variation
1000
300                                 .4                                                                                            /  
510 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~?       hOOt500    ( 70
S  <   r   Y    \L             ~~~~~~ 601)                   PERCENT    
This m4ph. h.e Ltwr   by tOe Wo4 Setks staff .setsstet  tot Les ssaie,                                                                                                  f LU-c
LvrFdwds hpzm pk O s ot i'Nrmptt so thSe pt otto. We LdB sk    t
.ii.t>.s5jpotsttsteisots0  5.o, _n                                                                            Source: An Agnsricurum/ Gea1othyof He.tyane; .I,esbrSinwh; 1976 
45~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C






IBRD 13483
MARCH 1978
I N D I A
HARYANA IRRIGATION AND CAD PROJECT
Typical Lined Watercourse Command
_________ Distributary or minor canal
... .Watercourse command or "Chak" boundaries
Lined watercourses
--Unlined watercourses
Extension to lining of watercourse
to satisfy project design  criteria
. Farm  outlets or nukkas
Watercourse outlet (head structure)
Roads
PRANCH   A                  D
T   =:~~T~
..~~~~~~~~~~~~BvN: R.....
.........
IRA\CB BRAN                                                    D                           L
AFGHAN<. >zlApprox-te IiI,e of  ntrol
: , -r
ISTAN   ...-- .=
,-_   r   t           ~CHINA.                                                               l         \          =         =
RAKISTANs n,i . /r' ,.
vIHaryBna                         T ..t?  JN.8_UTAN   ,
BANGLADESH,  ,
0   I   D|    X U MA                                                                             0                  250                 500
METERS
Th., mop ha- been prepered by the                                                         500         I00         1500
World Bank's staff ooolos-eey for                                                               FEET
the convenlence of the readers of
the report to mhikh it to atached
A eb  \   fFo} ofBxrThe denomiations used end the
boosdariasMb ohoto  this map
Icrn t,rvt                                  do not mply so the port of th                                                   CULTIVABLE COMMANDAREA(CCAIl  425 ACRES
Setr                                          W ,@uord Bank -nd itsalited at it   y                                           DISCHARGE                       1.00 CUSECS
judgment On the lagal otftu of
A  RI LAKs teitoy     e  do,-mn                                                                             TYPE OF LINING: CONCRETE BED & BRICK WALLS
oaptaoce of sh b-ou ies.                                                        NUMBER OF HOLDINGS:                    32






IBROI 3481
75'                                               71e                                               77*                           MARCH 1078
INDIA                                          suriei  R                                   / />  \  
HARYANA IRRIGATION AND CAD PROJECT                                                   /                                           '
Modernization  of Watercourses, Market Component,                                          \4 Kalko
and Jui Lift Irrigation Command                                          ,\
U    Princ,pol Market Yords                                                          <,
*    Sub Market Yards                                               ,         ChondcgarS
Haryana Stote Minor Irrigation(Tubemell) Corporation Dlvis,onal Boon aries
EZiiJ On-Farm Development Areo aJ
Moin Roods                                                                Roiparo  
Dlvi    I   N  GHAGGA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ri r
Norrow Gouge Roalways                                                                                          . .. .....oryOoS   v 
Cities o n d  Tow ns
Gravtr Canal ConnarCanal
-- -D,strict Boundaries                                 }/,                                \ 9     
S-tate Bo>undearies                                                                 9
NARWANA  320~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5A
JIND ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Lir rrgaror rL
i, FF-t-                                          s I 0 N                                                , 
0 ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~             
~~~~:\-?~~~~~~~~~~~n j                                  N
-29'                                                                                                         <5V                            \r                              9
Modernization of Watercourses                                                                                Q                      R       \
G-,t Conol Co-.o. nofCdAN I \D O95N  HA! Y A N A   r
HiSSAR     -      3 20                                            ov:\5 s/*Ba6od.,g.r                                             F         DELHI
HARYANA           320               @                                          hr;ol)41 Jhoiioo l?i7                                    Y
NARWANA           3 20                                                                           D   v         0      0   30    0   30    0 I S0N
DELHI             1653                                       Lohoru                     9      <C                    <~ S                       V
2 083                                          =        _ 0                             rurg1*;'7 r
L.Ft Wrci,.ti A,..t                                                                      Mh                    <                       / a ;          
s 9 W  >/r a;;mate L, e ol Conssol                     f_>~          ~~~~~~~~~~~                        ~        ~~~~~~~Nor noul~7  Nh    
oS vr t ~<w 28- j ?o t (S \/X/} gCHI-    2G                                                                                      R G V    N  ;2
{ Af E . .+ .X. 9''>\ %u r_H,Ut; r _ 6 l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F  irozpur Jh,,O'o 5X
<!     INDIA                     lluR.A                                 <\ 
m~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                     0   10  20   30   4p Er        6p   7
KILOMETERS
76                                                 77'






IBRD 13482
75'                                                  76'                          /                        77-                              MARCH 1978
HARYANA IRRIGATION AND CAD PROJECT
Modernization of Canal System, Village Water Supply Schemes,                                                          \Kalka
ond Augmentation Tubewell Schemes
*     Village Water Supply Scheme (conol source)                             /$            K  o       .' -..
*     Village Water Supply Scheme (groundwoter source)                     /        Chandigarhs                                      S
LI  Iii  Augmentoaion Tubewell Scheme Areos
=          Canal Command Areas
Mo- n Roads                                                                             |
-         Broad Gouge Roilwoys
-          Narrow Gouge Railways
o     Cities and Towns
'          Canals                                                                                                    ,
----      R,vers
District Boundaries
State Boundaries
Mandibobwal,0'
-29'
gR R } G A r f 0      >/8iwoni fs " 4:;29
~~~~~9~~ ~  F+oi  OT                                         J         j                            t
~tAINCOMMAND
jrh- t"fiR h- bwSr a/us'"h h.'  OOr^Ast"Cv         w         ;>   /            fl o         h r ^   22 ,~~~~~~~DELHI
A. ,.eONwt ,C*CA ,,.I@UC h.d                  so-                               hrhdb                       hirf"                     < /       t5
ANUn"t78$ht^y er. ,g,,.tiG of lh, -                    Nt  D I R A   GAND 9
0    10   20  -30   40   50   60   70   80
KILOMhETER!, g ZNVrlRRS/\    
75'                               H 7  . ITW
;  &}  ''   '         ~~~~~CHI.A         -28                                        i    -      j               J                   AG R A  s5UF                          28 -
INDIA                                                                                                                          \ UMA/= 1   T,J
9         Ao.,t.ee        r   o u .                                                                Proposed ATW  Schemes
_    \   0   21 f f tF sA t                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N-mb- f W.l1,                                           N-rb-f olW.Il
Z    9   2                                   ]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. RATIA BRANCH CANALS  300 H, 34 5       4. HANSI BRANCH /BUTANA BRANCH CANALS           75
\  _t                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2. RORI BRANCH CANALS  150 t. 19 0          5 SIRSA BRANCH CANALS                           50
hx  \   3 ,r\                            ~~~~~~~~~~~8.NARWANA BRANCH CANALS    75                  TOTAL NUMBER OF AUGMENTATION TUBEWELLS             650
T97  13-SwWlo< 



