f;ILE  COPY                              Document of
"ltE  }0p\,    The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2349-I
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
July 19, 1978
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of July 17, 1978)
US$1.00      =    Rs 8.10
Rs 1.00      =    US$0.1235
Rs 1,000,000       US$123,500
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been fixed against
a "basket" of currencies. As these currencies are floating,
the US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at US$1.00
to Rs 8.60, which represents the projected exchange rate over
the disbursement period.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ARDC     -   Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
GOI      -   Government of India
GOH      -   Government of Haryana
HSAMB    -   Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board
HSEB     -   Raryana State Electricity Board
HSMITC   -   Haryana State Minor Irrigation (Tubewells) Corporation
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding
CADA     -   Command Area Development Authority
LCB      -   Local Competitive Bidding
MEAD     -   Monitoring, Evaluation and Applied Development
O&M      -   Operation and Maintenance



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:           The State of Haryana for canal modernization, rural
water supply schemes and village roads; Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC) for
refinancing loans by Lending Banks to farmers, to the
Haryana State Minor Irrigation (Tubewells) Corporation
(HSMITC), to the Haryana State Electricity Board (HSEB)
and to the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board
(HSAMB).
Amount:                US$111 million.
Terms:                 Standard.
Relending Terms:       GOI (i) to GOR:  As part of Central Assistance to States
for development projects on terms and conditions appli-
cable at the time; and (ii) to ARDC: For loans to be
repaid 9 years from withdrawal at 6.75% per annum; and
for loans to be repaid 15 years from withdrawal at 7.25%
per annum, both less 0.25% for prompt payment. Exchange
risk to be borne by GOI.
ARDC to Lending Banks: Annual interest rate of not less
than 7.5% with repayments to coincide, approximately,
with expected collection from ultimate borrowers.
Lending Banks (i) to HSMITC, HSEB and HSAMB:  Annual
interest rate of not less than 10.5% with a maximum
repayment period of 12 years, including a grace period
of up to 2 years; and (ii) to farmers: Annual interest
rate of not less than 10.5%; repayment within 10 years
(15 years for small farmers), including up to 2 years
of grace.
Project Description:  The purpose of the project is to help Haryana complete
modernizing (mainly by canal lining) about 30% of its
surface irrigation systems; develop supplemental ground-
water; accelerate development of irrigated agriculture
in the Jui Lift Irrigation Command Area; construct or
improve 26 produce markets and about 1,390 km of village
link roads; provide drinking water to about 175 villages;
and provide technical assistance to help project monitor-
ing, evaluation, research and development. The project
would comprise a four year phase of development designed
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
to increase food production and the standards of living
of the farmers in Haryana. The risks under the proposed
project are those normally associated with irrigation
projects in India. The principal uncertainties relate
to accurately estimating the quantity of water saved for
surface irrigation through lining of canals and water-
courses in Haryana.
Estimated Costs:                                                 US$ million
Local Foreign Total
Modernization of canals           43.0      7.1      50.1
Modernization of water-
courses                         42.4      5.5      47.9
Augmentation Tubewells              9.7     2.8      12.5
Jui Command                        3.3      0.5       3.8
Markets                            16.7     3.5      20.2
Village Roads                     14.1      3.0      17.1
Village Water Supply               6.7      1.5       8.2
Technical Assistance and
Applied Research &
Development                      0.4       -        0.4
Engineering and Supervision       17.3       -       17.3
Base Cost                   153.6    23.9    177.5
Physical Contingencies            11.6      1.6      13.2
Price Contingencies               27.1      4.2      31.3
Total Project Costs         192.3    29.7    222.0
Financing Plan:                                                 US$ million
Local Foreign Total
IDA Credit                        81.3      29.7   111.0
Local Financing:
GOH                            51.8        -     51.8
ARDC/Banks                     53.2        -     53.2
Farmers                         6.0        -      6.0
192.3     29.7   222.0
Estimated
Disbursement:                                      US$ Million
FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83
Annual         8.0    28.0    33.5    31.0    10.5
Cumulative    8.0    36.0    69.5   100.5   111.0
Rate of Return:        32%
Appraisal Report:      No. 2038a-IN dated July 19, 1978



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR THE
RARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$111 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance modernization of canals and watercourses,
construct augmentation tubewells, build village roads, market places and
provide drinking water in rural areas over the next four years throughout
Haryana. US$69.6 million of the proceeds of the credit would be channeled
to the Government of Haryana (GOH) in accordance with GOI's standard terms and
arrangements for financing of State development projects. For watercourses,
augmentation tubewells, Tmarket places and Jui Command development, GOI woold
relend the balance of US$41.4 million to the Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation (ARDC) for 9 and 15 years at not less than 6.75%o and
7.25% per annum, respectively. ARDC would in turn onlend the funds to lending
banks participating in the project at annual interest of not less than 7.5%.
The lending banks would relend the funds to the Haryana State Minor Irrigation
(Tubewells) Corporation (HSMITC), Haryana State Electricity Board (HSEB) and
the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB) with repayment periods
not exceeding 12 years, including up to 2 years of grace, at not less than
10.5% annual interest, and to farmers at not less than 10.5% annual interest
with repayment periods of up to 10 years (or up to 15 years in the case of
small farmers), including grace periods of up to 2 years.
PART I - THE ECONOM1Y 1/
2.         An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2008-IN, dated April 17, 1978), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 18, 1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.         India is a vast, continental country with over twenty States divided
on linguistic and ethnic grounds with a population of over 620 million people,
almost as many as live in Africa and Latin America combined. It has a dual
economy. While 79% of its population lives in rural areas their productivity
is low. Agriculture's share in value added declined only gradually from about
50% to 43% over the last twenty years. The share of manufacturing has in-
creased slowly and, since the late 1960s, has remained approximately constant
at about 16%. Industry has a highly diversified structure with import substi-
tution and self-sufficiency pushed to the point where India has the capacity
to produce virtually every type of consumer and capital good required for a
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Second Bombay Water Supply and
Sewerage Project (Report No. P-2308-IN), dated July 10, 1978.



- 2 -
modern economy. As in the case of many other large economies, the foreign
sector plays a relatively minor role; both exports and imports represent about
7% of GDP; foreign saving has supplied only about 5% of gross investment in
the recent past.
4.        Even though growth has been slow in the past, the economy enjoys
many of the prerequisites for sustaining faster growth and development.
Although literacy is far from universal, India has large resources of well
trained administrative, scientific and technical manpower and a dynamic entre-
preneurial class. Per capita consumption of commercial energy is low by
international comparison and power shortages are a way of life; but India is
relatively well-placed with regard to primary fuel sources. There are very
large reserves of coal and nuclear ores, and considerable hydro-electric
potential. Recent petroleum and gas discoveries have begun to be exploited
and prospects are bright for further discoveries. The basic elements of the
infrastructure needed to serve the economy have been established; in absolute
terms the irrigation, railway, telecommunication, road and power systems are
each among the largest in the developing, and in some cases the developed,
world. However, considerable gaps remain as the situation varies greatly
from state to state.
5.        Given the size of India's population, its annual increase of 13 mil-
lion people is such as to absorb a large portion of any provision to increase
standards of living. It is not possible to discern any significant increase
in the incomes of the vast mass of the rural and urban poor, who number 200
million with a per capita income of US$70 per annum or less. Although food-
grain production may be persistently underestimated, there has been no perma-
nent increase in per capita foodgrain consumption recorded in aggregate
statistics since 1960/61. Many years after the initial target, primary educa-
tion is still not universal. The labor force has grown faster than employment
and a considerable backlog of unemployed exists. Nevertheless, there has been
progress, with per capita income increasing on trend 1%-1.5% per annum; birth
rates falling to below 37 per thousand from levels of 45-50 per thousand at
the start of the 1950s, life expectancy increasing from about 32 years in
the 1940s to 45-50 years in the 1970s, school enrollment rising from 32%
to 65% of children of primary school age and from 5% to 29% of children of
secondary school age since 1950/51.
6.        The rate of growth of GDP has been 3.5% per annum over the period
since Independence and 2.8% per annum over the period 1969/70 to 1976/77.
These low rates of growth are only partly due to low availability of inves-
tible resources, although there have been times that foreign exchange was a
severe bottleneck.  The net transfer of resources from abroad has never been
above 3% of GDP and fell to as little as 0.8% between 1969/70 and 1973/74.
India's saving effort has grown steadily since the beginning of planning in
1951, when it was 9% of GDP, to its recent level of 20% of GDP, which compares
well with other countries' saving performance at the same level of per capita
incomes. Despite a doubling in the rate of investment, from about 10% of GDP
in the early 1950s to about 20% at present, the trend rate of GDP growth has
not increased. This marks a decline in the efficiency of capital use which
transcends fluctuations due to weather, war or international terms of trade
shifts.



-3-
Recent Trends
7.        In many respects economic conditions during the last three years
have been significantly different from those prevailing in previous years.
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, the economy faced several shortages--
foodgrains, agricultural and industrial inputs and foreign exchange--which
retarded production and investment and often led to price increases. An ad-
verse shift in terms of trade, starting with the oil price hike in 1973 and
continuing with the foodgrain and fertilizer price rises in the following
year, greatly increased the cost of acquiring these essential commodities
abroad. These external shocks combined with a spate of bad weather played
havoc with the economy through 1974/75, causing slow growth in production
and investment and a record level of inflation.
8.        Since the excellent monsoon in the summer of 1975, a new situation
has arisen. The period 1975 to 1978 has been characterized by much greater
price stability, enhanced agricultural and industrial output and comfortable
foodgrain and foreign exchange reserves. The new situation was a combined
result of domestic policies and fortuitous circumstances. The increase in
foodgrain stocks was only in part due to improved policies and programs. The
more decisive factor has been the three good-to-excellent monsoons coming on
top of substantial foodgrain imports in 1975 and 1976. Industrial output
increased on average by 7% a year in 1975-1978 compared to 3% in 1970-75,
due to greater power availability, better management in the public sector,
improved labor relations, better transport and some increase in demand derived
from increased incomes due to improved harvests, greater exports and higher
levels of public investment. The most dramatic turnaround ocurred in the
balance of payments, with a sharp real reduction of the import bill helped by
good harvests and increased domestic production of iron and steel, fertilizer
and oil, which reduced demand for imports. The supply of foreign exchange was
also greatly increased by a significant step-up in the volume of exports, an
increase in foreign aid and a substantial jump in remittances from Indians
working in the Middle East, Europe and America.
9.        In 1977/78, the growth of GDP was about 5%, a recovery over the
rate of 1.6% in 1976/77 but less than the 8.5% reached two years earlier.
Prices, which had been rising during 1976/77 after a decline in 1975/76,
were stabilized; wholesale prices at the end of March 1978 stood at about the
same level as in March 1977, and the yearly average was only 5.4% above that
of the previous year. Exports in 1977/78 are estimated at US$6.4 billion and
imports at US$6.6 billion. The inflow of invisibles from abroad at US$1.4
billion and net aid disbursements of US$1.2 billion more than offset the small
trade deficit of US$200 million and IMF repurchases of US$330 million to in-
crease reserves by US$2.1 billion to US$5.8 billion by end of March 1978.
10.       The 1977/78 foodgrain crop may exceed the 1975/76 record level of
121 million tons due to very good weather and increased input use. Support
purchases could result in peak foodgrain stocks as high or even higher than
in 1977, when they were 21 million tons. In addition to ample and evenly
distributed rainfall, more intensive and widespread use of three crucial
inputs--irrigation water, fertilizer and extension advice--contributed to
the bumper harvest. Fertilizer consumption surged 30% in 1977/78, continuing



- 4 -
its recovery from the depressed level of 1974/75. Annual additions to irri-
gated area have averaged 2 million hectares since 1975/76 compared with
1.3 million hectares per annum achieved from 1969 to 1975. An improved
extension system, which has been getting heartening results, has been intro-
duced in several states and is slated for further coverage.
Development Prospects
11.       India faces the future with large stocks of foodgrains, high and
rising external reserves, excellent crop expectations, price stability and good
prospects for sustaining the improved supply of foreign exchange. The circum-
stances present a great opportunity for further promoting the development of
the Indian economy. The Draft Five Year Plan for 1978-83, discussed though
not yet approved by the National Development Council, responds to this chal-
lenge by projecting a rapid growth in real terms of both overall investment
and public Plan expenditures. Investment is to rise on average by 10.7% per
annum and the economy is expected to grow on average by 4.7% per annum during
the years 1978-83.
12.       The new Draft Plan reveals an intention to reorient the country's
development toward improving the living conditions of the poor. This is
reflected in its principal objectives: (i) the removal of unemployment and
significant underemployment; (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of
living of the poorest sections; and (iii) the provision of basic needs to
low-income groups. To achieve these objectives, the Government proposes to
emphasize agricultural development, cottage and small-scale industries, area
planning for integrated rural development and the provision of minimum needs.
As a first step toward complete removal of unemployment, the Plan envisages
the creation of a large number of new jobs through a considerable expansion
of construction activity as well as a boost in the consumption levels of the
poor--which in turn would require the production of the necessary wage goods,
largely in small-scale, labor-intensive units. Specific programs to achieve
these objectives are still in the making.
13.       In order to achieve a sizable rise in the income of the poorest
classes of society, the Draft Plan--in conformity with the Janata Party policy--
places prime emphasis on the development of rural areas. A major impulse for
agricultural development will be provided by the expansion of irrigation and
related agricultural inputs, such as fertilizers and better farming techniques.
The Draft Plan argues that efforts to increase productivity should be sup-
plemented by measures with a redistributive impact such as supporting small
farmers and small industry with institutional credit and material supplies
and assistance for marketing. The Draft Plan also intends to complement the
creation of employment and the increase in rural productivity by providing
basic services to those groups which have so far been unaffected. For this
purpose, the minimum needs program launched at the onset of the Fifth Plan
is being revitalized and accelerated.
14.       The allocation of the Draft Plan outlay for the next five years
reflects these priorities. Out of a total expected spending of US$81 billion,
US$35 billion--43%--have been earmarked for rural development programs includ-
ing agriculture, irrigation, fertilizer and social infrastructure expenditures



directly benefitting the rural areas. The share of these sectors amounted to
37% during the Fifth Plan period and to 40% in the Annual Plan for 1978/79.
It can thus be expected to rise further during the next four years. Similarly,
spending on the minimum needs program in 1978-83 will absorb 6% of the Plan
resources, as compared to less than 3% in the Fifth Plan. On the other hand,
the shares of industry and of transport and communication have been reduced.
15.       There is considerable scope for stepping up growth in agriculture.
The most promising development is the sharp increase in government outlays
and improved project implementation for irrigation. There are also indica-
tions that private investment in tubewells is picking up again after a slump
in the early 1970s. Other favorable indicators include the spread of an
improved system of extension to more states and the recovery of fertilizer
demand. With regard to more productive use of existing capacity, there is an
increased awareness in the Government that the benefits of irrigation projects
can be much increased, not only through command area development, but also
through improved design standards in major surface irrigation infrastructure.
Nevertheless, comprehensive improvement in water management remains a distant
goal, particularly in existing systems and where farms are small and frag-
mented. The bulk of the increase in private tubewell development in the last
few years has come from the Eastern Region, where more and more farmers are
sinking wells to enable them to grow a winter crop of wheat in addition to
providing better water control for the summer rice crop. Improved water man-
agement would make such investments even more productive. Increased farmer
incomes from the recent good harvests, somewhat lower fertilizer prices, and
grain prices supported at incentive levels have encouraged farmers to apply
considerably more fertilizer. Finally, the reorganized and improved extension
and research system which has been introduced recently in several states in
northern and eastern India holds out the hope that sound advice will reach
many more farmers in both irrigated and rainfed areas and will raise their
productivity significantly. The improved extension system is an excellent
example of how the growth effort can and must be structured so as to increase
the incomes of small and marginal farmers, who work 25% of the cultivated
land and account for somewhat more than 25% of production; more importantly,
these farmers make up about 70% of the rural population and constitute the
majority of those living below the poverty level in India.
16.       Industrial prospects are somewhat more difficult to discern.
Moderate growth in 1977/78 after an excellent year in 1976/77 suggests the
persistence of problems plaguing the sector since the mid-1960s--large un-
utilized capacity, stagnant capital formation in the private sector and low
productivity growth. Lower investment than expected, of course, is one of
the reasons for low capacity utilization in capital goods industries, which
make up a significant portion of the sector. Sluggish demand for industrial
products from all sources--not only from investments but also from agricul-
ture, exports and import substitution--has been a basic constraint. Further
import substitution cannot be a major source of growth for manufactured goods
in the future because most opportunities for efficient import substitution
have been exploited. Increased growth of real incomes from greater produc-
tivity in both agriculture and manufacturing, sustained increases in exports
and increased investment, particularly by the public sector, all can raise
demand for industrial production.



17.       The new industrial policy of the Janata government and the orienta-
tion of the Draft Five-Year Plan emphasize small-scale industry over heavy
industry and have accordingly promoted such measures as product reservation,
credit rationing and, within the small-scale sector, plans to initiate special
efforts for the growth of the "tiny" sector. While the priority accorded to
the small-scale sector is laudable, there are doubts about the efficacy of
the policy measures chosen. Past experience indicates that other factors
are also crucial to its development, particularly effective demand, quality
control, prices and marketing techniques. Some small-scale industry is cap-
ital intensive and not well suited to as rapid employment generation as is
hoped; nor can all goods be efficiently produced using small-scale technology.
18.       India's population growth rate of about 2% is not high in comparison
with that of most developing countries. Moreover, the rate is on the decline,
after growing steadily census to census from 1920 through 1970, both because
the birth rate continues to fall and because mortality is not falling as
steeply as in the past. Family planning acceptor rates slowed down in the
wake of the abandonment of the 1976 population policy after the 1977 general
elections and the momentum of the program has yet to be recaptured, particu-
larly in Northern India. However, the new Government has reaffirmed its com-
mitment to a voluntary family planning program and has budgeted the resources
to carry it out. Over the longer term, with a sustained family planning
effort, it should be possible to bring the birth rate down from its 1970-75
level of about 37 per thousand to about 23 per thousand by the end of the century,
implying a population growth rate somewhat under 1.1%. Our "best guess" pro-
jection of India's population in the year 2000 is 885 million. Many of the
benefits of family planning policy will only be felt beyond the turn of the
century; the decline in fertility will, however, bring about an earlier change
in the age structure of the population. The school age group will grow more
slowly or not at all after 1981, thereby reducing the pressures on the primary
and secondary education systems. However, the labor force will continue to
grow at a faster rate -- 2.5% per annum -- until well into the 1990s, result-
ing in an increasing proportion of the population in the labor force from
40.8% to 45% in 1991.
19.       The Government's goal of eliminating unemployment in 10 years implies
an expansion of the number of jobs at the rate of 9 million per annum -- 7
million new entrants to the labor force and the absorption of 2 million or
so formerly unemployed. The majority of these will have to continue to be
absorbed -- judging from the prevailing composition of the labor force -- in
agriculture and the unorganized small-scale sector. The absorptive capacity
of the modern organized sector is unfortunately low; its employment elasticity
is expected to be no more than 0.5. Given its low current share of output,
even rapid growth of this sector would not make much of a dent in the backlog
of the unemployed. Employment in the organized sector has been growing at
about 2.2% per annum in the past ten years, less than the labor force growth
rate, and all of this in the public sector. Private sector employment has not
grown at all since 1966. While the labor absorption elasticities of the small-
scale sector may be higher in some cases than that of the large-scale sector,
a major effort to expand production must succeed before an appreciable employ-
ment impact will materialize.



- 7 -
20.       In the short run India's balance of payments should not be a con-
straint on growth and development. With good medium-term prospects for
India's exports, the expected continuation of growth in invisible receipts
and the potential for an increase in net aid disbursments, the net availability
of foreign exchange to finance merchandise imports is projected to rise over
the next five years, in current prices, from US$8.7 billion in 1977/78 to
US$16.7 billion in 1982/83, an average of 14% per annum. Given the unlikely
need to increase rapidly imports of some traditionally important items -- e.g.,
petroleum, fertilizer, foodgrains, edible oil and cotton -- other imports can
increase at the rate of 20% a year over the next five years.
21.       Altogether, these currently favorable circumstances present the
opportunity to double India's trend rate of growth of per capita income from
the average annual rate of 1.5% that prevailed for the last thirty years to
3% over the next five, and thereafter. This requires a continued fall in the
rate of population growth to below 2% per annum and a rise in the growth of
GDP from the historical rate of 3.5% to 5.0% per annum. Both of these targets
are within reach. The first should be achieved barring a total abandonment
of the family planning program. The second requires improved efficiency and
increased investment by both the public and private sectors; it also means
more fully harnessing the gains from trade through international specializa-
tion, implying a strong export effort and continued easier access to imports.
In addition to enabling a faster rate of per capita income growth, the pre-
sent situation allows for increasing the coverage of the population's minimum
needs. This requires formulating and administering effective, efficient
programs of public investment and, of course, requires larger public outlays.
22.       With the enhanced resources at India's disposal, the economy is
poised for a higher rate of economic growth. The Government is moving to
take advantage of this opportunity with increased public expenditure envi-
sioned over the next five years, and the liberalized trade policies recently
announced. It is yet too early to know whether the moves made so far will
be sufficient to achieve the desired targets or whether additional steps will
be necessary. Assured international support for India's development effort
will be an important factor in moving the Government to take greater risks
in pursuing a dynamic development program directed at meeting the huge needs
of its large and impoverished population.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
23.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 54 loans and 103 development
credits to India totalling US$2,117 million and US$5,932 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$901 million had been
repaid, and US$2,236 million was still undisbursed as of May 31, 1978. Annex
II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of May 31, 1978, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
24.       Since, 1957, IFC has made 15 commitments in India totalling US$63.6
million, of which US$14.5 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and



- 8 -
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$34.6 million, US$26.9 mil-
lion represents loans and US$7.7 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of May 31, 1978, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
25.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major and medium irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairy-
ing are other agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the
Bank Group has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fer-
tilizer sector and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance
institutions, in a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-
scale industrial enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and
components for selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating
better capacity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active
in supporting infrastructure development for power, telecommunication, and
railways. Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban
investments have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
26.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
27.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium- and small-scale industry.
28.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to be,
provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be



- 9 -
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank
lending. As of May 31, 1978, outstanding loans to India totaled US$1,254
million, of which US$591 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net
amount outstanding of US$663 million.
29.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1977/78. On March 31, 1977, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$13.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was 28%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in
the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
In 1977/78, about 16% of India's total debt service payments were to the
Bank Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN INDIA
General
30.       Agriculture is the most important sector in India; it engages 70%
of the labor force, has recently contributed about 43% of value added and
accounts for a major share of exports. Investments in agriculture have been
given priority by GOI and the State Governments, especially since the mid-
1960s, and deserve continued emphasis in the future.
31.       Since independence, the overall growth rate of agricultural pro-
duction has averaged about 3% per annum. This low overall rate of growth
obscures considerable variations over shorter periods of time, between crops,
and between regions. The overall rate is very much affected by the serious
droughts in 1965 and 1966 and again in 1972 and 1974. At the same time, the
success of high yielding varieties of wheat led to annual increases in wheat
production of about 20% between 1967 and 1971, and three consecutive favorable
monsoon seasons in 1975, 1976 and 1977 resulted in bumper crops in these years.
Other foodgrain crops, notably rice, have not enjoyed anything like the same
success as wheat, mainly because of the difficulties of developing high
yielding seeds. Consequently, the effects of the green revolution, which
primarily affected wheat, have been concentrated in northwestern India.
32.       Despite the progress made in many aspects of food production,
India's agriculture remains heavily dependent upon the weather. A major
factor in reducing this dependence is the expansion of irrigation and the
extent to which more effective use can be made of existing investment in
irrigation facilities. The Government is also placing emphasis on the im-
proved supply of inputs such as seeds and fertilizer, agricultural credit,
and extension services.



- 10 -
Irrigat ion
33.       Up to 1964/65, the irrigated area in India increased at a rate of
only 2.1% per year, of which about two-thirds was from surface water resources
and one-third from groundwater. Since then, the rate of increase has about
doubled, mainly through an accelerated program of groundwater development.
At present, the total irrigated area is approximately 45 million ha, of which
about three-fifths is irrigated from surface sources and two-fifths from
groundwater.
34.       The pace of surface water development remained roughly constant
at about 0.5 million ha per year until the end of the Fourth Plan (1969/70-
1973/74). During this period, actual increases in the surface irrigated area
lagged behind GOI's physical plan targets for more rapid development. A
major problem was the continuing tendency of the States to start a large
number of projects, which, given the limited financial resources, could only
be constructed slowly so that benefits accrued with much delay. However,
in recent years, budgetary allocations have grown rapidly and the authorities
have increased their efforts to complete on-going projects. As a result, the
new area brought under command in 1976/77 was 1.1 million ha or about twice
that achieved in any single year before the start of the Fifth Plan in 1974/75.
However, while the increase in area brought under the command of new surface
irrigation projects is impressive, the increase in area actually irrigated
has been more modest than the figures imply - particularly in the case of
major and medium irrigation schemes due to inadequate distribution and drain-
age systems. In areas actually receiving water, irrigation efficiencies
remain low and water supply is unreliable.
35.       The Second Irrigation Commission of 1972 and the National Commis-
sion on Agriculture, which reported in 1976, also found that the underutili-
zation of irrigation potential was attributable to the lack of integrated
development in the irrigation areas, insufficient farmer training, and lack
of effective extension services and of administrative coordination. It has
been estimated that the majority of recently completed irrigation projects
require additional investments up to US$600 per ha to make them fully pro-
ductive. Accordingly, GOI and the State Governments have adopted various
measures to improve utilization, and a Command Area Development Department
has been set up in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture to coordinate work
on selected high priority projects. Such measures for command area develop-
ment (CAD) include public investment in irrigation-associated infrastructure -
such as drainage, roads, markets, agricultural extension and research - and
private investments, mainly at the farm level - such as land shaping and
leveling, watercourse lining, field channels and drains.
36.       In view of the emergence of high productivity farm technologies
dependent on effective water control - and given India's already substantial
investment in surface irrigation - the economic return on investment that
improves water delivery or facilitates better use of the water provided
can be very high. Consequently, rehabilitation and modernization of irriga-
tion infrastructure as well as command area development are being given high
priority by GOI, and a relatively large proportion of public sector invest-
ment in irrigation has been allocated for these purposes. Plan allocations



- 11 -
have been supplemented by the resources of agricultural and commercial banks
participating in financing command area development programs through farm
credit. In addition, major institutional changes have been introduced affect-
ing the coordination of services in command areas and the administration of
credit. Moreover, new projects are being designed, implemented and operated
on the basis of improved technologies.
37.       While emphasizing the need to improve water utilization through
command area development, the Government is at the same time pursuing the
objective of increasing the area under irrigation, in particular where only
incremental investments are required. Thus, modernization of existing irri-
gation infrastructure and development of groundwater are given equally high
priority as command area development.
Agriculture and Irrigation in Haryana
38.       The State of Haryana came into existence in 21966 and is situated
in the northwest of India. With an area of 44,000 km and a population of
about 10.8 million, it is one of the smallest States of India. About 82% of
Haryana's population lives in villages and 65% of the State's labor force is
engaged in agriculture.
39.       The State is bounded by Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh,
Rajasthan, and the city of Delhi. Except for some minor ridges in the south-
west and north, Haryana forms a part of the Indo-Gangetic Plain. Soils are
alluvial in origin and mostly sandy loams, becoming slightly lighter in the
southwestern part of the State. The climate is of sub-tropical monsoonal
character, extremely hot in summer (490C) and near freezing in winter. The
average annual rainfall is 660 mm, ranging from over 1,000 mm in the northeast
to less than 300 mm in the southwest. About 80% of this falls during the
monsoon months July to September. Light winter rains in December and January
are important for spring wheat.
40.       Haryana's agriculture is diversified, reflecting differences in rain-
fall, soil types and availability of groundwater. In the northern region,
soils are suitable for paddy cultivation. Rainfall is high, and a typical
crop rotation is wheat-rice-fodder. Rice is usually tubewell irrigated. In
some places potato is grown as a cash crop interspersed between paddy and
wheat. Maize is also grown and,toward the east, substantial areas are under
sugarcane. The southwest region of Haryana has low rainfall with high annual
variations. Soils are very light and groundwater potential is poor because of
salinity or low water table, except along the Ghaggar River. There is a sub-
stantial difference between rainfed and irrigated agriculture. Under rainfed
conditions and with traditional subsistence practices, the typical crop rota-
tion is bajra-gram; crop failures are common. Irrigation allows cultivation
of wheat and cash crops. Oilseeds are important but tend to be speculative
because of price variations and vulnerability to frost.
41.       Out of the entire State area (4.4 million ha), 3.8 million ha or
about 86%, is used agriculturally. About 1.2 million ha is sown more than
once annually. This gives a total cropped area of about 5.2 million ha,



- 12 -
which, according to the 1971/72 census, was cultivated in about 913,000
holdings. 404,000 of these holdings were less than 2 ha and 73,000 over 10
ha. Haryana produces a surplus of foodgrains. Wheat is the most important
single crop, occupying about 30% of the total cropped area. Other important
crops are gram (26%), pearl millet (24%), and rice (7%). Total foodgrain
production rose from about 2.0 million tons annually in the 1950's to 4.0
millions tons in 1967/68 and, after a drop to 2.8 million tons in 1968/69,
production rebounded to 4.5 million tons in 1969/70, and to about 5.3 million
tons in 1976/77 which was an all-time record for the State. In 1975/76
Haryana had a surplus of about 2 million tons of foodgrains, of which about
1 million was exported to other States.  The increase in agricultural produc-
tion has been due to an increase in net area irrigated from 1.3 million in
1968/69 to 2.4 million ha in 1975/76, to increased use of high yielding
varieties and fertilizer, farm mechanization, and the adoption of improved
agricultural practices.
42.       About 2.1 million ha, or 55% of the State's arable land of 3.8 mil-
lion ha, is irrigated annually. About 55% of all water is distributed
through surface irrigation systems, while the remaining 45% is supplied from
groundwater by dugwells and tubewells. The two main canal commands are the
Bhakra System, serving about 1.2 million ha and supplied from the Indus River
Basin, and the West Yamuna Canal System, serving about 1.1 million ha and
supplied by the Yamuna river. Irrigated cropping intensity is presently
low. Water, rather than land, is the constraining factor to increased agri-
cultural production. Accordingly, the farmers practice light irrigation by
conscious decision, because this, in their experience, provides the best
returns per cubic meter of water. As only about one-third of the command
area can be irrigated at any one time and any additional water can be used
to increase the cropping intensity on existing farms, GOH is giving priority
to the exploration of new groundwater resources, lining of canals and water-
courses of the Bhakra and West Yamuna Canal Systems. Development of lift
irrigation is also an important element in GOH strategy in agriculture. GOH
intends to develop about 460,000 ha by lift irrigation along the southern
State border to assist areas traditionally qualifying for drought relief.
The Jui Irrigation System commanding about 30,000 ha, which would be assisted
under the project, is an extension of the West Yamanu Canal System and is
typical of lift irrigation schemes.
43.       The Bank Group has been directly involved in agricultural develop-
ment in Haryana through the Haryana Agricultural Credit Project, for which a
US$25 million credit was approved in May 1971 (Cr. 249-IN dated June 11,
1971) and disbursed by January 31, 1977. Funds were made available to
refinance loans for minor irrigation and farm mechanization. The project
has essentially met the objectives formulated during appraisal, mainly to
provide irrigation for about 69,000 ha, increase cropping intensity and
facilitated a shift in cropping patterns by local farmers to more valuable
and labor intensive crops. A project completion report is now under prep-
aration and scheduled for distribution in late 1978.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Formulation
44.       In Haryana, the major constraint to increasing crop production is
limited irrigation water supplies. Since the early 1970s, available surface
water resources have been fully developed or committed. Groundwater develop-
ment has been carried out aggressively by the private sector and, in many
areas, is reaching the maximum sustainable yield. It thus emerges that fur-
ther expansion of agricultural production can only be achieved by improved
efficiency and reliability of existing surface irrigation systems. Haryana
has made considerable strides in implementing a Statewide program of lining
canals and watercourse channels and in developing groundwater. Nevertheless,
there is a need to accelerate these programs and increase their cost effec-
tiveness by improving planning and implementation standards. All-weather
access to villages is necessary to facilitate flow of modern inputs, exten-
sion advice and crop marketing services in the project area and, most import-
antly, facilitate the transport of produce to the markets. In anticipation
of the increased agricultural production resulting from irrigation moderniza-
tion, there is also a need for additional rural markets. Finally, safe drink-
ing water is not always available in the project area, and some of the exist-
ing supplies to village ponds may be prejudiced by the proposed canal and
watercourse lining program.
45.       In support of GOH's program, the proposed project would finance,
over the four-year period 1978-82, a statewide investment package to help
accelerate completion of the above mentioned schemes. The proposed project
was prepared by GOH with assistance from FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program in July
1977 and was appraised in December 1977. A supplementary Project Data Sheet
is attached as Annex III. A report entitled "India - Staff Appraisal Report -
Haryana Irrigation Project," Report No. 2038a-IN, dated July 19, 1978, is
being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were
held in Washington in June 1978. The Borrower, GOH and ARDC were represented
by a delegation headed by Dr. Y.V. Reddy.
The Project
46.       The proposed project would help to modernize the existing irrigation
network, thus saving water, now wasted, for bringing some 290,000 ha of addi-
tional land under irrigation. It would also improve associated rural infra-
structure in Haryana. Irrigation components would be modernization, in
particular,lining of canals and watercourses, construction of augmentation
tubewells and development of the Jui lift irrigation command area. The
associated rural infrastructure components would be the provision of village
drinking water schemes and the construction of village access roads and rural
markets.
47.       Under the proposed project, about 2,900 km of branch and minor
canals throughout the Bhakra and West Yamanu Canal commands in Haryana would
be lined and their control structures improved. Lining of the canals would



- 14 -
reduce seepage and, thus, waterlogging and salinity, increase carrying capa-
city and simplify operation and maintenance. Also, about 2,100 watercourses 1/
(33% of all watercourses in Haryana) would be lined, on average down to about
75% of their length. It would be a condition of disbursement for each of the
first ten watercourses to be modernized under the project that GOH submits to
the Association acceptable designs for these watercourses (Paragraph 4(d) of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement). To increase the quantity and
reliability of surface water supplies, about 325 augmentation tubewells would
be installed in groups, to be used conjunctively with the surface water canal
system. The Haryana State Electricity Board (HSEB) would construct 11 kV
power lines to each group of tubewells under the project. Lines would be
separate from the general electricity network and would exclusively serve the
project tubewells so that interruptions due to power failures can be minimized.
The project would further include construction and lining of about 132 water-
courses and levelling of about 12,000 ha of land in the Jiu Lift Irrigation
System. The main irrigation works for the Jui System, serving a total of
30,000 ha, were completed in 1971, and the system was commissioned in 1973.
However, very little progress has been made since then to induce farmers to
complete on-farm development in the difficult terrain and sandy soils prevail-
ing in the area. A Command Area Authority (CADA) to be strengthened under the
project (para. 52 below) would be specifically geared to remedying this situation.
The whole length of each watercourse would be lined to serve all farm outlets
commanding about 5 ha. In addition about 10 experimental watercourses would
be constructed to test alternative water conveyance systems for typical soils
and topography in lift irrigation areas.
48.       The project would further provide infrastructure associated with
irrigation and needed to realize irrigation benefits and improve the living
standard of farm families. 22 new markets would be constructed and four
existing markets would be improved. About 692 km of village link roads would
be constructed and about 750 km of existing village roads would be improved to
connect 889 villages throughout the State to the existing all weather road
network. All project roads would be designed and built to India Road Congress
(IRC) standards and Haryana Public Works Department (PWD) specifications for
village roads. About 52 village water supply schemes to serve 175 villages
with a population of about 313,000 would also be constructed under the project.
Village water supply schemes form an integral part of irrigation systems.
Irrigation canals would be the source for 42 schemes. The 10 remaining
schemes would be supplied from tubewells. All schemes would be designed for
water consumption of 45 liters per capita per day. Canal-fed schemes would
have storage/sedimentation basins for a 12 days supply to meet periods of
canal closure. Water would be pumped either directly into the supply system
or stored in elevated reservoirs. Both canal and tubewell based schemes would
have gravity fed mains designed to supply village populations through stand-
pipes each serving 200/300 consumers.
1/   A watercourse is the link channel between the main canal system operated
by the Irrigation Department and the farm channels of individual farmers.
It serves a command area of about 250 ha farmed by about 60 cultivators.
The watercourse is the communal property of the cultivators served who
operate and maintain it.



- 15 -
Project Implementation
49.       Canal modernization would be planned, designed, implemented, ope-
rated and maintained by GOH's Irrigation Department. The Department is com-
petent to execute these tasks and its staffing adequate.
50.       The Haryana State Minor Irrigation (Tubewells) Corporation (HSMITC)
would be responsible for modernization of watercourses and for the construc-
tion and operation of augmentation tubewells.  At present, HSMITC operates
ongoing programs satisfactorily, but needs some strengthening of its manage-
ment, financial control and staffing in order to carry out the expanded pro-
gram under the project. To this end, HSMITC is being reorganized for project
implementation, on the basis of a management plan acceptable to the Association.
Assurances have been obtained from GOR that it would implement by March 31,
1979 this management plan and a financial adviser reporting to the Managing
Director would be appointed by December 31, 1978 (Section 3.03 of the Project
Agreement).
51.       HSMITC finances its operations partly from institutional credit and
partly from its own resources, which include share capital, loans from GOH,
and income from management charges. For the modernization of watercourses,
Lending Banks participating in the project would finance at least 80% of their
cost at 10.5% annual interest with a maximum repayment period of 10 years
including 1 year of grace. Lending Banks would be identified in a Banking
Plan to be formulated by ARDC and to be submitted to the Association as a
condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01(d) of the Development Credit Agree-
ment). Loans provided by the Lending Banks would in part (up to 80%) be re-
financed by the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC),
partly from the proceeds of the credit, at 7.5% annual interest with repayments
to coincide with HSMITC's repayments to the Lending Banks. After a watercourse
has been modernized, the Revenue Department would recover the cost of this
investment from benefitting farmers as arrears on land taxes, and from the
collections reimburse HSMITC for its advances. Financing arrangements for
the installation and operation of augmentation tubewells are also made through
HSMITC's borrowings from participating banks and from its own resources.
Reimbursements to HSMITC would be effected by the Irrigation Department, which
would purchase water from HSMITC.
52.       Development of the Jui Irrigation Command area under the project
would be implemented by a specific Command Area Development Authority (CADA),
which would be strengthened for this purpose by the addition of a technical
cell (para 55). CADA would also be in charge of land levelling in the Jui
Command, required for some 40% of a typical holding in the area. The works
would be implemented by the farmers themselves or, on their behalf, by CADA,
the Haryana Land Development Corporation or other specialized agencies. The
works would be financed, if required, by loans from participating banks to
farmers at 10.5% annual interest with repayment within 10 years (or 15 years
in the case of small farmers) including a grace period of up to 2 years.
ARDC would refinance up to 90% of such loans from the proposed credit at
7.5% annual interest and with repayments corresponding to maturities of the
refinanced loans.



- 16 -
53.       For markets included in the project, the Construction Division of
the Haryana State Agricultural Market Board (HSAMB) would prepare designs and
cost estimates, arrange contracts for construction, finance and supervise com-
pletion. The Bridges & Roads and Public HealLh Branches of GOH's Public Works
Department would be responsible, respectively, for the design and construction
of the roads and rural water supply components with financing from the budget.
GOH gave assurances that HSAMB, HSMITC, and the Public Health Branch of
GOH's Public Works Department, respectively, would submit to IDA the designs
of each of the first five markets, each of the first five water supply schemes,
and each of the first ten watercourses to be implemented under the project.
Provision of satisfactory designs would be a condition of disbursement for
the market, water supply and watercourse modernization components (Paragraph 4
(b, c and d) of Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement). GOH also
gave assurances that the water supply schemes under the project would be im-
plemented only where the Panchayat (village council) concerned has agreed to
contribute a portion of the operation and maintenance costs, and after it has
advanced its portion for the first year of operation of the water supply
scheme. The portion to be contributed by the Panchayat would be determined by
GOH in consultation with the Association, mainly on the basis of the indivi-
dual Panchayat's financial position (Section 3.13 of the Project Agreement).
54.       To supervise overall project activities, a Planning and Monitoring
Unit has been established under the project. It reports to GOH's Commis-
sioner and Secretary, Irrigation and Power, who is also the project coordina-
tor responsible for ensuring that all components are designed and constructed
according to high standards. Day-to-day operations of the Unit would be
handled by the Deputy Secretary, Irrigation and Power.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
55.       Monitoring, Evaluation and Applied Development (MEAD) Units and a
technical cell would be established in three agencies responsible for project
implementation (Irrigation Department, Haryana State Minor Irrigation (Tube-
wells) Corporation, and the Command Area Development Authority) to check pro-
ject performance and recommend improvements tested through applied research,
as the work proceeds (Section 3.09 of the Project Agreement). Measures designed
to monitor project performance call for a multidisciplinary approach and would
include surveys to establish a baseline from which to measure overall project
impact, annual surveys after each crop season to measure the effects of varia-
tions in water supply and use, cropping intensity, yields, crop inputs, and
farm incomes. Studies for project evaluation would focus on design and con-
struction techniques, work of labor intensive enterprises, quality control,
specification standards, and contracting procedures.
Project Cost and Financing
56.       The estimated total cost of the project is US$222.0 million equiv-
alent (net of taxes and duties, which are negligible), including US$29.7
million (13%) in foreign exchange. The principal cost components, net of
physical and price contingencies, are: modernization of canals (US$50.1
million), modernization of watercourses (US$47.9 million), markets (US$20.2
million), augmentation tubewells (US$12.5 million), and village link roads



- 17 -
(US$17.1 million).  The balance is made up of:  village water supply (US$8.2
million), watercourses and land levelling in the Jui Command (US$3.8 million),
technical assistance, engineering and supervision (US$17.7 million), physical
contingencies (US$13.2 million) and price escalation (US$31.3 million). The
proposed credit of US$111 million would cover 50% of project cost, including
all foreign exchange cost and US$81.3 million of local cost. Local cost
financing is justified in India for projects such as this for the reasons
discussed in para 27 above. The Government of Haryana would finance 23% of
total project cost. The balance would be contributed by ARDC (15%), partici-
pating banks (9%) and directly by beneficiaries (3%). Of the proceeds of the
project, GOI would channel US$69.7 million to GOH on the standard terms and
arrangements on which development funds are being provided to State governments
by the Center. US$41.4 million would be passed on by GOI to ARDC, with 9 and
15 years maturity (depending on maturities of loans to be refinanced) at not
less than 6.75% and 7.25% annual interest, respectively. ARDC in turn would
onlend the funds to participating Lending Banks at not less than 7.5% annual
interest. The Lending Banks would relend the funds to farmers in the Jui
Command Area and to the agencies in charge of implementing the various
project components with repayment periods not exceeding 12 years (except 15
years for small farmers), including up to 2 years of grace, at not less than
10.5% annual interest.
57.       The proceeds of the proposed credit would be used to finance:  civil
works financed through institutional credit (US$38 million), other civil works
(US$62 million), equipment (US$5 million) and technical assistance (US$0.3
million). The remaining US$5.6 million would be left unallocated.
Procurement and Disbursement
58.       Civil works would be labor intensive, relatively small and scattered
throughout the State, and restricted to seasonal construction. In these cir-
cumstances, it would not be feasible or economic to combine them into contracts
large enough to attract international contractors. It is, therefore, proposed
that they be carried out by local contractors, in accordance with GOH's stand-
ing practice to contract most of the construction works after local competi-
tive bidding. Haryana has a well developed construction industry, and the
Government's procedures for local competitive bidding are satisfactory. Modern-
ization of watercourses and some small canals have to be implemented rapidly
and on a chak basis to limit interference with crop production. Such works
would be awarded under small unit price contracts. Force account would be
used only when required by safety or quality considerations and would be
limited to a maximum of 10% of all civil works. The department or agency
responsible for implementation usually procures key building materials through
bulk purchases following standard procedures of GOH. Materials are supplied
to contractors on a cost plus transportation basis. The estimated cost of
vehicles and equipment to be procured under the project is US$4.1 million net
of contingencies. Field vehicles, pumps, motors and electrical items for
augmentation tubewells, which essentially make up this category, depend on
existing servicing and spare part facilities, so that considerable benefits
would be derived from procuring local models. No major items of construction
equipment are to be procured, as existing machinery is adequate with normal
expansion and replacement. Most contracts are likely to be less than
US$100,000 each. For these, international competitive bidding would be quite



- 18 -
inefficient. These items would therefore be procured through normal procure-
ment procedures of GOH, which are acceptable to IDA.
59.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported equipment. For locally procured items,
disbursements would be against the ex-factory price or, where the ex-factory
price is not available, against 70% of cost. Disbursements for civil works
would also be on a percentage basis (55% of ARDC's refinance for works financed
through institutional credit, and 70% of cost for other civil works). Full
documentation would be required for all disbursements, except for payments of
up to Rs. 100,000 for civil works and Rs. 50,000 for equipment and vehicles,
and for force account work, for which disbursements would be made against
certificates of expenditure. The supporting documents for these payments
would not be submitted to IDA but would be retained by GOH and ARDC for
inspection by IDA review missions. It is expected that disbursements would
be completed by March 1983, about eight months after project completion.
Benefits and Economic Justification
60.       The proposed project would assist in expanding the area under irri-
gation by about 293,000 ha. At full development, the project would increase
foodgrain production by 337,000 tons producing an annual incremental net
income to farmers of about US$60 million equivalent by 1987/88. In addition,
it would generate significant, albeit unquantifiable, indirect economic and
social benefits, including in particular those derived from the provision of
clean drinking water. The project would increase farm employment by about 21
million man days and generate about 61.5 million man days of construction
employment during the four year implementation period.
61.       For the modernization of canals, costing US$50.1 million or 28%
of project base costs, the economic rate of return is estimated at 49%. Addi-
tional unquantifiable benefits from this component are reduction of waterlog-
ging, increased canal capacity, reduction of weed growth in certain areas,
and improved canal operation. For modernization of watercourses costing
US$47.9 or 27% of project base costs, the economic rate of return is esti-
mated to be 35%. Augmentation tubewells, costing US$12.5 or 7% of project
base costs, will have an economic rate of return of 43%. The economic rate
of return for the Jui Command development, costing US$3.8 or 2% of project
base costs, is estimated at 27%. Thus, the overall economic rate of return
for the entire project investment is calculated at 32%.
Cost Recovery
62.       The provision of irrigation to rainfed land would increase seasonal
farm incomes by about Rs. 1,800 per cropped ha. The corresponding "project
rent" (net incremental income less the necessary rewards to the farm family
for its labor, entrepreneurship and cultivation risk) is estimated at Rs. 1,550
per cropped ha. The direct water charges would recover about 4% of the project
rent. However, taking into account the indirect recovery through marketing
fees and credit repayments, the average farmer benefitting from project works
would seasonally pay charges amounting to about Rs. 400 per ha brought under
irrigation. This is equivalent to about 22% of net incremental farm income or
26% of project rent.



- 19 -
63.       While there appenrs to be some scope for increasing water charges,
the adequacy of GOH's cost recovery policy must be evaluated in terms of the
need to generate public savings to finance future modernization and extension
works in the State. Present water charges are sufficient to cover the full
cost for O&M of the irrigation infrastructure. While they do not generate
a significant surplus for financing future modernization and extension pro-
grams, Haryana is making a strong resource mobilization effort in other ways.
In recent years, GOH's revenues per capita have been about twice the national
average. In percent of State income, GOH's revenues are the highest in India.
These revenues have enabled GOH to successfully implement an ambitious program
of investments in rural infrastructure including the electrification of all
villages. Another factor to be considered is the usefulness of water charges
in promoting efficient water use. Under existing irrigation practice in
Haryana, each farmer is allocated a fixed amount of water based upon the size
of his holding. Taking into account his water ration, each farmer selects his
crops and his intensity of irrigation so as to optimize his return to water.
This allocation system generally leads to an economically efficient use of
water. A more efficient use of water could, however, be achieved through the
introduction of volumetric charges. But this would only become technically
feasible after watercourses have been modernized. In any case, all farmers
in the project area have to be treated in an equitable manner for water
charges to be politically feasible. Consequently, if water charges are to be
increased to recover the full cost of canal lining, they have to be applied
to all farmers in the command. This would not be politically feasible, since
farmers who are already served by the present system would, with certain
justification, argue that "their" system is already paid off and that they
would not benefit directly from modernization. As GOH will face this situa-
tion in all future irrigation modernization projects, the system of water
charges needs to be analyzed on a statewide basis and within the framework
of the State's agricultural taxation system, rather than in patchwork fashion.
An assurance has been obtained from GOH that it would carry out a statewide
review of alternative methods of collecting water and water-related charges in
modernized irrigation projects with special emphasis on volumetric water
pricing, having regard, inter alia, to farmers' capacity to pay, incentives
for adopting procedures of modern irrigated agriculture, the effects of the
alternative collecting methods on Haryana's revenues, and comparable systems
of water and water-related charges in other states of India. This review
would be completed and submitted to the Association for its comments by March
31, 1980 (Section 3.08 of the Project Agreement).
Project Risks and Uncertainty
64.       The overall risks associated with the project are those normally
associated with irrigation projects in India. All components to be financed
under the project would be implemented by agencies with proven experience.
Where weaknesses have been identified, the project provides for measures to
strengthen the capabilities of the participating agencies. The economic rate
of return is somewhat sensitive to variations in project costs and yields.
However, project cost estimates are based on actual costs of on-going programs,
and benefits are estimated from monitored performance of completed works.
Neither are likely to change substantially. Even if cost were to increase by
10% over the project estimate and at the same time benefits decrease by 20%,



- 20 -
the overall economic return on project investments would still be 24%. Thus,
overall investment risks under the project are acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Development Agreement between India and the Association,
the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the State of Haryana,
the draft ARDC Agreement between the Association and the Agricultural Refinance
and Development Corporation, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately.
66.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The finalizing of financial arrangements between GOI and ARDC
for relending part of credit proceeds to ARDC, and the receipt of a banking
plan satisfactory to the Association, giving details of refinancing of loans
by banks through ARDC are conditions of effectiveness of the credit (Section
5.01(c) and (d) of the Development Credit Agreement). The receipt and approval
by the Association of designs for each of the first five market places, each
of the first five village water supply schemes, and each of the first ten
watercourses are conditions of disbursement in respect of these components of
the project (Paragraph 4(b), (c) and (d) of Schedule 1 of the Development
Credit Agreement).
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
July 19, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 1
INDIA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAN)   AREA   IHOU    KM2)           -------------------------------------------------
_- ----------                                    INDIA                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOrAL     3280.5                                        MOST RECENT
4GRIC.    1797.5                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE           INDONESIA      PHILIPPINES   3RAZIL**
GNe *.R CAPITA (USS)                      60.0      1Q0.0      150.0              130.0        230.0      550.0
POPULATION ANO VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)           434.9     547.5    620.4  /a             117.6        36.9        92.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       133.0     167.0      189.0                62.0       123.0         11.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       247.0      308.0      345.0               411.0       375.0        49.0
VITAL STATIStICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          43.2      41.0       37.0                45.9        44.2        38.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           23.9       19.0       17.0               20.6         13.2         9.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       139.0/a        ..     130.0                  *        81.0        110.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        41.7      47.2       49.5                  ..        55.6        59.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2        2.9       2.8                 3.2         3.3         2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  2.0        2.3       2.1                 2.0         3.0         2.9
URBAN                                  2.5Lb      3.2        3.1                3.__a       4,0         5.D
URBAN POPULArION (% OF TOTAL)           17.9       19.8       20.6                17.5Lb      27.6        56.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        41.0      41.6       40.1                44.0        45.6        42.0
1S TO 64 YEARS                       55.9       55.3       56.7                53.5        51.6        55.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                      3.1        3.1        3.2                2.5         2.8         3.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.8        0.8       p.                  0.9         0.9          0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1:IL.     1i:t/a     11/b                  *-         t.5         1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)          71.0   14585.0   37658.0                259.3      320.0        250.0
JSERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         ..       18.7                 ..         2.0         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        175000.0  218000.0 261000.0/a                         12400.0    29400 0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE I%)          71.0       69.0      69.0                   .        55.0/a      40.4
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            4.8 /d   4.4 /b   4.4/c,d                 ,,          7.6         7.5
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D *Y-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             26.7       25 0 /c                                               35.0/a
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             51.7       53.1 7       ..                           54.0        62.507
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              4.1        4 7?        .                                         3. 01K
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             13         13.1 7                                     3 : 6       3 0. 
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..        45.0
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..         .-         ..                              *          ' 1.5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             5B40.0oP 4890.0    4220.0                26370.0          ..      1910.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         5310.     i220.0/d  3680.0oA             7630.0/C *-             3220.0/b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           2590.0/h  1610.0          ,,             1640. 0-    850.0        260.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          95.0      92.0       89.0                91.0        93.0       109.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               55.0      53.0       48.0                43.0        45.0        84.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          19.0/i    16.0       12.6                14.0        22.0        39.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             44.0         ..         ..                 ..         6.6
EDUCATION
ADOUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO                         63.0       65.0               75                        7
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      42.0        63.0       29.0               15.0         43.0        87.0
SECONDARO SCHOOL                     23.0       30.0       29.0               15.0         49-0        6S.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0       12.0       11.0                12.0        10.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                      8.0         .,         ,.                29.0         6.0 /b     17.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE I5)                 24.0      33.0       36.04.              59.0          .,        64.0
HOU)SING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 2.6        2.8         ,,                            2.1         1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                                   *-           -                           76.0        73.0 /c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..         ..         ..                  ..        23.0       48.0
RURAL OWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                      ..         ..        ..                   .         7.0         8.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           5.0      21.0       25.0               114,0       39.0         60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            0.7        1.0        1.0                2.0         8.0        25.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            46.0      114.p     143.0                20.0       235.0       491.0
NEWSPRINT (kG/YR PER CAP)                0.2        0.13      0.3                 0.3         2.0         2.7
SEE NOTES AND OEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



A-1NNX T
Page 2
NOTES
'clatothrwsanoted, data for 1960 rfer to atly year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 betwe.en 1969 and 1971, and for Most Rece.ct Estimate  bete-
l193 and 1976.
Ars-il h.. been 0elect.d as an objective country becia.e of its sic. and conpsrable problems, of r-gional inequality.
TDA     1960     /a  1951-61 average;        lb  1951-60t       /c  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and  .ver to labor fo-c  age 15 and over;
/d tEtiotated by National Sample SurveY, in tarm, of the average mashe of person/weeks of unemployment as perentage
of total pere on/w.eka to the labor force:          /.  1962;       /f  Registered, not all practiciog in the co..ntry;  ~g  I-cluding
m1dwives;    /h  l958;        /I  1960-62.
1970     I   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force age IS and over;                    /b  fEtinated by National 7oOple
Survy, In teem  of the  -vraga number of persn/w...ka  of unmoploymet a. percentage of total pereon/ ee.. k.ic the totsl
labor force;      /c  1967-68;       /d  including mid.ives.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE;        /a  1978 mid-year population and labor force aetixated at 640.4 and 261 milli.n. repectively;                       /b  Ratio of
population under 11 and 65 and over to total labor force;    Ic  1977;                 /d  Estinated by National Sanple
Survey, in terms of the average number of pereon/weeke of unemployment ae percentage of total person./weeks
in the labor force;        Ia  Including midwives;         /I  Popolation 10 peera and over.
INDOLNESIA      1970     I   1961-71-       /b  1971;    /.  Incloding nidwivea.
PHILIPPINES    1970      IAs~ percentage of employment;    /b  Not including private vocational .choolo.
BRAZIL          1970     I   E.onmeically active population;           /b  Noapital perennel;          Ic  insida only.
R113, lay 2, 1970
DUfY5ITI(R55 OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (thu I.')                                                                             Population per nursing person  P-Ppulation dIvid.d by nashr of practicig
Total  T-toc1 a-rf-c  or.. cmpriing land area end inland ,st.re.                                  ,xal  end faml. graduate nurses, 'trained  or "certified" nur..ee, ad
Agri.   Most rece.nt satimata of agriculturl area uad temporarily or p-m-                         a.-Ilia.  pereonnel with training  or experience.
nently for cropa, p.atur.e,  arktt 6, bitchas gardene or to lie fsillw.                       Population per hoesita1 bad - Population divded by ..-ber of hoepita1 beds
avalaeble in public end private general and specialised hoapita1 and
GNP per capita (US$)l - GNIP par capite ostimatee at current market pricee,                        rehabilitation centers; e...ud.e nureing homes and  etbalatsfor
celc.l.t.d by sam  convereion method as World Sank Atlas (1974-76 baeis);                       cuatodial and preveniva a.re.
1960; 1970 and 1976 data.                                                                     Per capita supply of caoresi  of reosiressents) - Computed frcm energy
equivalent of net food aupplide available ie ..-stry per capita per day;
Ponulalion and vital statistics                                                                   availeble supplies camprise domeatic production, Imports lees exports. end
Population  Wad-year  illionl - As of July firet:  if not avi,sl    vrage                         changes  in stock; met supplies exclude animal feed, eseda, quantities uasd
of ny  sod- y-a  ..tiatee; 1960, 1070 and 1976 data,                                            in food pr.oeaing and bases. in distribotion; raquirants were etimated
by FAO base.d on physiological seeda for normal activty end health consid-
Ppopultion denaity -par square las - Mid-y.sr pepuletion per square kilomter                      ering envirosnmental tmperature, body .aighta, age and see distributions of
(10-0 h.ctsres) of total area                                                                   population, snd all1ing 101 for saste at hoseehold le.el.
FPo .Claion denaity -per square las  f anric, land - Computed  a above for                      PenrcapiPtasupply of  rotein fa;.rsd Mer day) - Protein contest of per capita
ag,iculturaI land only.                                                                         nt apl  of food pedy;ne  supply of food is defined as above; require-
mets fnr all countriesa eatablished by USDA Econmic Research Services
Vital Statistica                                                                                   provide for a nininmas allmwance of 60 grama of total protein per day, and
Crude birth rare par thosuand. -vrsxe - Annual live birth. per thousand of                         20 grin  of animal and pulas protein, of which 10 grans ahould ho aniosal
.id-y..r population; tax-year aritheetic everagod, -ding in 19.60 and 1970,                     protein; these standards are laowe  than thoos of 71 grna of total proteic
and five-year average ending in 1975 for moat recent estimate,                                  and 23 grnas  of asimal protein as an averge for the world, proposed by FAO
Crude death rate par thousand, average - AnnalI deaths per thousand of mid-yea                     in rho Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-y.sr aritheetic averags.  ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                   Per capita protein suonly from  animl and pulas - Protein supply of food
year average ending is 1975 for mast recant estimate,                                            derived from  animals and pulses in groand per day.
Infant mortality ratbeif/thou) - A-.ual deatho of infants under one year of age                 Death rate f/thou) ages 1-4 - Annua  deaths per thousand ix age group 1-4
per th-,sand live bith.                                                                         years, to chiIdren in this age grop; .sugested ae an indicator of
Life expectancy at birth (yre) - Average nasher of years of life remaining at                      malnutritlion.
birth; uaually five-year vavrages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing counstrme.                                                                                Ed,ac.tiam
Groas reproduction rats - Averag  number of live danght.rs                  i oa    ll bear      Adjusted enrollment rCthin - prmar shool - Enrollmen.t of all ages as per-
In her norma  reproductive period if she experiencaa present age-specific                        centage of primary scll-g         opetion; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility raots; usually five-year averagea, ending in 1960, 1970 sod 1971                       but adjuated for different lengthe of primary edoc..ciom; for countries wIth
for deve loping coutries.                                                                        univ-r-e-l education, esrs1lnnt may exceed 10   since samepupils are bel1w
Population arouh rate 11) -total - Compound annua  growth rarta of mid-year                        or above the official school aga.
population for 1950-60, 190-70 and 197 0-75-                                                   Adiuated enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; secondory
Fpopultion growth rate  Ml - uban - Copu ted like growth rate of total                             educa tion requires at least four years of approved primary inottrci..;
population; different dafinitioma, of urban areas may affect comparability of                    provides general, voca.tional or teachebr training instructions for pupils
data among countries,                                              of 12 no 17 years o~~~~~~~~~~~~~f age; correspondnc  courses aregenerally.axclod.d.
Urban population (% of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                    Yaso.coln   rvdd(it   an  scond levels) -Total year  of
d.finitiona  of urban areas may affect comparability of data among countries,                    schooling; at secondary level, voc..tisnel ine trutios may be partially or
estuture (percet) - Children  (0-li years), working-ege (15-64yer)                         Vocaionl enroll=ntCl of secondary) - Vocational institutions  include
Asnd retired (65 years and over) so percentages of mid-year population.                           t.chnicel, industrial or other progr-  which operate independently or as
Ax. dependenc.y catio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and ovr to those                       depsrteseot  of secondary inetitutioma .
of ages 15 throughB.                                                                           Adult titeracy rate (I) - Literate adults (able to reed and write) as per-
Zc_ onic depeodency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 61 and ovr to                         centage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
the labor force in aga group of 15-6 years.
F_miy I.. cn.ng-acc.ptor  (c,dau lative. thou) - Ccoulative nuber of ..c.sptors                 H Nsing
of birth-cotrol devices under auspices of national family planning progrom                     Perdona per room, (urban) - Average number of persons per room  in occupied
sInce inception                                                                                 conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings exlude o.            emnn
Family Ilannina   uaera C  of maried women) - P-eretages of married wome  of                      structures and unoccupied parts.
child-bearing age  15-4c4 years) who use birth-control devices to all marrisd                  Occupied dwelling  wthu  pipe  wt.ri(7.) - Occpied conention.1 dwellings
vomon itnam  ag -goP.                                                                            in urban and mrura  aeswtot insde or outside piped water facilities
aspretageofl  ocpied dwellngs.
DEployment                                                                                       Access tO eletricity Cl of al wlingsta  - Convwationa1 dwellings with
Totallbr oc1thned  - Economically active persone   including  rmed                                 electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwelin.gs in orbac and
force.s.and unemployed but excluIng housewivs.,   tudeots, artc. ; definitions                   rural areas.
Inv veriua contr i". re not comparable.                                                        Rural dwellings connected to electricity Cl) - Computed as above for rural
Labor force In agriculture CZ) - AgriouItural labor force (in farming, forestry,                   dwellings only.
hu-tiog sod fishing) do percentage of total labor force.
Unemployed (% of labor force)   U-Ueployed are  usully defined as parsons who                    Consumption
are able and willOng to ta ke   job, out of a job on a given day, remsained out                Radio receivers (per thou pop) - All typea of rece.ivers for radio broadcas ts
of a job, ad  aseking work for   specified Mainiu   period not ecdigone,                         to general public par thousand of papulation; excludes onU.ensedreivs
wek; may not becomparable betwee  countries due no different deinitions                          in coutries and in years when registration of radio seats was in effect;
of u-P,oyed and source of data, e.g., emplyoymet office statistics, ausple                       data for recen.t years may not be comparable since most noutries abolished
auvy,compussory unoployment insurance,                                                      licensing.
Passen:getrca.rs (par thou pop) - Passenger care comprise motor care ...sting
Iot.- distribution - Percentage of private incmne (both in cash and kind)                           lasta   ight persons; .mclude  abulances, hearses and military
recived by richbest It. richest 201, poorest 20%, and poorset 40% of house-                      vehicle..
holds                                                                                          g lectricity (kwh/yr par cap) - Annual consomption. of isdustri.1, Cadrcial.
PubIlcan  private el1ntricity In kilowatt bh-re per cpit., generally
Distribution of land ownership - Percentages of land owned by wealthiest 107.                       basedo  production data, withat allowance for losses in grids but allo--
and poorest 10% of land owne.rs.                                                                  ing for Imports and exports of e1ectrioity.
Newprint (ka/yr Per cePl  - Per capita annual  onaumption in kilogrsm
Health and Nutrition                                                                                estimated from dom tscg  production plus net imports of news,print.
Population por physician - PoPulation divided by -,.ber of practicing
Phyicans qualified from s medical school an university level.



ANNEX I
Page 3
ECONOMIC DEVMLONPENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1976 4  USS 150
5;)1S  NXTI1NAL PRODUCT IN 1976/77 I/                                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant Prices) S/
us$ Bln.       5                                               1960/61-1964/65      1965/66-1969/70      1970/71-1979/76
GNP at Market Prices             86.04      100.0                                                    3.9                  3.8                  2.9
Cross Domestic Investment        16.62       19.3
Cross National Saving            18.18       21.1
Current Account Balance           1.56        1.8
Resource Gap                      0.95        1.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVXTY IN 1975/76
Vale  Added (at factor cost)             Labor Force                  A.Per Worksr
USUBin.          _____      _          Mil,                          0 'JS4   % of        Ave
Agriculture                      30.2                43                 179.0      69                169           63
Industry                         16.7               24                  33.9       13                494         193
Services                         23.4                33                 48.0       18                488         133
Total/average                    70.3               100                261        100                277          100
GOVERNMBENT FINANCE
General Government /                                               Central Government
(Rs. Binl     _        aCDP                                      (Rs. Bln)               of GDP
1976/77       1976/7-7   -1974/75-1976/77                         1976/77        1976/77    1974/75-1976/77
Current Receipts                   147.46         19.1            17.9                                 83.78         10.9           10.4
Current Expenditures               140.18         18.2            16.2                                 84.25         10.99.6
Current Surplus/Deficit              7.28          0.9              1.7                               - 0.47           -             0.8
Capital Expenditures j/             59.05          7.6             7.1                                40.39           5.2            5.0
External Assistance (net)           11.21          1.5             1.7                                 11.21          1.5            1-7
MONEY., CREDIT AND PRICES         1970/71     12ff         1973/74     1974i 75 i9fl/7          1976/77       September 1976      September 1977
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money              105.7        142.2       169.0       186.9        215.0        262.6           238.2              284.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector(net)  56.9         82.5         92.9       102.6        109.1        117.3           112.7              130.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector       56.7        76.o         9.1       109.5        127.5        161.0           144.0              170.0
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                             January 1977        January 1978
Money and Quasi Money as % of GIP  24.3         27.3         26.4        25.5         27.6         31.3
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 = 100)                 100.0       116.2        139.7       174.9        173.0       176.6            178.8              183.3
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                7.7        10.0         20.2        25.2         -1.1          2.1             7.5                2.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)  8.6          19.6        12.6        10.4          6.3          7.5             4.7 /             158 8/
Bank Credit to Private Sector       17.3        18.0         18.5        21.5         16.4         26.3            24.9 W              1l9 g/
_/  The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Atlas.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
/  Quick Estimates.
S/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one
observation after last year of listed period.
* /  Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
e/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
f/ Net bank credit to Government Sector.
B/ 3ank credit to Commercial Sector.



ANNEX I
Page 4
BALANCE OF PAYIMENTS                    1974/T5       I9.2276       .12Th/n         1977/7a                            IICR'ANISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974/75 - 1976/77)
(UK  Million                                                                           US Xln.
Exports of Good.                          4,174         4,665         5,760          6,400                             Engineering Goode            515            11
Imports of Goods                         -5,665        -6,084        -5,950         -6,600                              Sugar                       579             8
Trade Balance                            -1,491        -1,419        -  t90         -  200                             Tea                         296              6
NFS  (net)                                  215           310            435            500                             Jute Manufactures           294             6
Leather and Leather
Resource GaP                             -1,278        -1,109            215           300                                      Products           268              5
Clothing                   257              5
Interest Payments (net)                  -  198       -  216             1 135      -  130                              Iron Ore                   238              5
Other Faotor Pay=ents (net)                  -             -              -              -                              Cotton Textiles             223             5
Net Transfers  a/                           257           470            730          1,000                             Others                     2396            49
Total                      4866          100
Balance on Current Account               -1,217       -  855             810          1,170
Official Aid                                                                                                            EXTSBRIU  DEBT. MARCH 5 1  1977 h/
US5$ Billion
Disbursements                         1,761        2,341         1,953           1,840
Amortization                           -515         -531          -560          -  630                             Outstanding and Disbursed                 13.6
Transactions with IMP                       522           242         -356           -O330                              Undisbursed                                3.2
All Other Items                            -589          -403          -292              23                             Outetanding,including Undiabursed         16.8
Increase in Reserves (-)                     38          -794       -1,575          -2,073                              DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976/77          14.4   percent            -
Groes Rsesrsee (end year)                 1,378         2,172         3,747           5,820
Net Reserves (end year)  J9i                758         1,365         3,276           5,670                             IBRD/IDA LENDING, December  1  1977  B(USi ln-.)
Fuel and Related Materiala                                                                                                                                 IBRD         IDA
Imports                                   1,451         1,417        1,5e0         1,800                               Outstanding and Disbursed          489.0     3,560.5
of which: Petroleum                    1,451        1,417         1,580         1  800llndinbursed                                                    674.9      1,257.0
Outstanding, including
Sxporte                                      26            43            37         n.a.                                     Undiebur-ed                1,163.9     4,817.5
of which, Petroleum                       17            22           21          n.e.
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Prior to mid-Dece=ber 1971    1    US$1.00 = Re 7.5                                                                    After end June 1972    t   Floating Rate
Rs 1.00 o USSO.i33533                                                              Spot Rate January 31, 1978
Mid-Deoe=ber 1971 to            3   USS1.00 = Re 7.27927                                                                          approx. US01.00 = Re 8.063
end Juns 1972                    Re 1.00 = USIO.137376                                                                         pprox. R. 1.00 = US30 124
h/ Estimated.
i/  Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foeign loans  and
charges paid to IMP, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
i/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assietance, which is included
sithin official aid disbursements.
ki  Exoludes net use of IMP credit.
4/  Amortication and interest payments on foreign leans as a percentage of merchandise  xports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of May 31, 1978)
US$ Million!/
Loan or                                                                                              (Net of Cancellation)
Credit No.         Year       Borrower                  Purpose                             Bank         IDA       Undisbursed
40 Loans/                                                                                1,100.6
51 Credits fully disbursed                                                                             2,604.6
267-IN             1971        India        Wheat Storage                                   --             5.0           3.3
294-IN             1972        India        Bihar Agricultural Markets                      --            14.0           8.8
312-IN             1972        India        Population                                      --            21.2           5.7
342-IN             1972        India        Education                                       --            12.0           8.9
356-IN             1972        India        IDBI                                            __            25.0          10.3
377-IN             1973        India        Power Transmission III                          --            85.0           1.5
378-IN             1973        India        Mysore Agricultural Markets                     --             8.0           6.9
902-IN             1973        ICICI        Industry DFC X                                  66.5          --             4.8
390-IN             1973        India        Bombay Water Supply                             --            55.0          24.4
403-IN             1973        India        Telecommunications V                            --            80.0           3.4
427-IN             1973        India        Calcutta Urban Development                      --            35.0           9.2
440-IN             1973        India        Bihar Agricultural Credit                       --            32.0          13.7
456-IN             1974        India        HP Apple Processing 6 Marketing                 --            13.0           9.9
481-IN             1974        India        Trombay IV                                      --            50.0          10.9
1011-IN             1974         India       Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                         52.0          --            33.9
482-IN             1974        India        Karnataka Dairy                                 --            30.0          25.9
502-IN             1974        India        Rajasthan Canal CAD                             --            83.0          48.9
520-IN             1974        India        Sindri Fertilizer                               --            91.0          13.6
521-IN             1974        India        Rajasthan Dairy                                 --            27.7          25.2
522-IN             1974        India        Madhya Pradesh Dairy                            --            16.4          13.9
526-IN             1975        India        Drought Prone Areas                             --            35.0          22.8
1079-IN             1975        IFFCO        IFFCO Fertilizer                               109.0          --            61.6
1097-IN             1975        ICICI        Industry DFC XI                                100.0          --            24.0
532-IN             1975        India        Godavari Barrage Irrigation                     --            45.0          22.2
541-IN             1975        India        West Bengal Agricultural Development            --            34.0          24.8
562-IN             1975        India        Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD                    --            24.0          17.4
572-IN             1975        India        Rural Electrification                           --            57.0          45.3
582-IN             1975        India        Railways XIII                                   --           110.0          11.5
585-IN             1975        India        Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                      --            40.0          35.8
598-IN             1975        India        Fertilizer Industry                             --           105.0          87.4
604-IN             1976        India        Power Transmission IV                           --           150.0         140.3
609-IN             1976        India        Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                    --             4.0           3.6
610-IN             1976        India        Integrated Cotton Development                   --            18.0          17.7
616-IN             1976        India        Industrial Imports XI                           --           200.0           0.6
1251-IN(TW)         1976        India        Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                      145.0          --           140.3
1260-IN             1976         India       IDBI II                                         40.0          --            36.4
1273-IN             1976         India       National Seed                                   25.0          --            25.0
1313-IN             1976         India       Telecommunications VI                           80.0          __            32.3
1335-IN             1976        BMRDA        Bombay Urban Transport                          25.0          --            20.5
680-IN             1977        India        Kerala Agricultural Development                 --            30.0          30.0
682-IN             1977        India        Orissa Agricultural Development                 --            20.0          19.8
685-IN             1977        India        Singrauli Thermal Power                         --           150.0         137.0
687-IN             1977        India        Madras Urban Development                        --            24.0          23.4
695-IN             1977        India        Gujarat Fisheries                               --             4.0           4.0
1394-IN(TW)         1977         India       Gujarat Fisheries                                14.0         --            14.0
690-IN             1977        India        West Bengal Agricultural Development            --            12.0          12.0
712-IN             1977        India        Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Development   --                  10.0          10.0
715-IN             1977        India        Second ARDC Credit                              --           200.0         159.1
720-IN             1977        India        Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                       --            23.0          22.8
728-IN             1977        India        Assam Agricultural Development                  --             8.0           8.0
1473-IN             1977         India       Bombay High Offshore Development               150.0          --            95.6
736-IN             1977        India        Maharashtra Irrigation                          --            70.0          70.0
737-IN             1977        India        Rajasthan Agricultural Extension                --            13.0          13.0
740-IN             1977        India        Orissa Irrigation                               --            58.0          58.0
1475-IN             1977         ICICI       Industry DFC XII                                 80.0         --            77.9
747-IN             1978        India        Second Foodgrain Storage                         --          107.0         107.0
756-IN             1978        India        Second Calcutta Urban Development               --            87.0          87.0
761-IN             1978        India        Bihar Agricultural Extension & Research   --                    8.0          8.0
1511-IN             1978         India       IDBI Joint/Public Sector                         25.0         --            25.0
1549-IN*            1978        TEC          Third Trombay Thermal Power                     105.0         --           105.0
788-IN             1978         India       Karnataka Irrigation                            --           126.0         126.0
793-IN*            1978        India        Korba Thermal Power                             --           200.0         200.0
806-IN*            1978         India       Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture                       --           14.0          14.0
808-IN*            1978         India       Gujarat Irrigation                               --           85.0          85.0
815-IN*            1978         India       Andhra Pradesh Fisheries                         --            17.5         17.5
816-IN*            1978         India       Second National Seed                             --           16.0          16.0
Total                                                                 2,117.1       5,392.4
of which has been repaid                                              863.2          37.6
Total now outstanding                                                 1,253.9       5,354.8
Amount Sold                               133.3
of which has been repaid                111.5                          21.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                        1,232.1       5,354.8
Total undisbursed (excluding *)                                         591.3       1,645.1
*  Not yet effective.                                                                                 July 1978
1/  Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of May 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                                  Amount (US$ million)
Year                   Company                       Loan     Equity      Total
1959        Republic Forge Company Ltd.               1.5       -          1.5
1959        Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                0.9       -          0.9
1960        Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                    1.4       -          1.4
1961        K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                         0.2       -          0.2
1963-66     Precision Bearings India Ltd.             0.7       0.3        1.0
1964        Fort Gloser Industries Ltd.               0.8       0.4        1.2
1964-75     Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.            11.8       1.0       12.8
1964        Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                1.0       0.3        1.3
1967        Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                   1.0       0.1        1.1
1967        Indian Explosives Ltd.                    8.6       2.9       11.5
1969-70     Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                15.1       3.8       18.9
1976        Escorts Limited                           6.6        -        6.6
1978        Housing Development Finance
Corporation                              4.0        1.2       5.2
TOTAL                              53.6      10.0       63.6
Less:  Sold                                6.0        1.6       7.6
Repaid                             14.5        -        14.5
Cancelled                           6.2       0.7        6.9
Now Held                           26.9       7.7       34.6
Undisbursed                         6.5       1.2        7.7



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
1/
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well.  Details on the execution of individual projects are below.  Tle
level of disbursements was US$598.6 million in FY77 or 80% of Bank Group com-
mitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$2,236 million
as of May 31, 1978, corresponds roughly to commitments over the preceding
two-year period and reflects the lead time which would be expected given the
mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loans
902-IN and 1097-IN are fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of
schedule. Disbursements under Loan 1475-IN (US$2.1 million) are also ahead of
schedule.
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
This Credit was originally intended to provide three years'
support for a lending program for 50,000 tubewells and pumpsets in the Tirhut
Division of Bihar. Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower-than-
estimated Dollar/Rupee exchange rate and by low unit investment costs com-
pared with appraisal estimates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date and
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
and to extend the project area to cover the whole State of Bihar. Disburse-
ments are expected to accelerate, and the physical targets should be achieved
by the revised closing date.
Cr. No. 715    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
This project is designed to provide long- and medium-term credit
to farmers through credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily
in minor irrigation. As of May 31, 1978, disbursements amounted to about
US$41 million, of which some 87% have been for minor irrigation and 13% for
diversified lending. The proportion of disbursements to small farmers is
estimated at about 60% compared with the appraisal target of 50%. Training
programs for staff of the financing institutions are progressing satisfactor-
ily. Preparation of a third line of credit is underway and the preparation
report is expected to be submitted to the Association by September 1978.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date:  May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Credit 267-IN, which is being co-financed with Sweden, finances
(i) the construction of bag and bulk grain storage and handling facilities,
(ii) staff training, and (iii) an All-India Grain Storage Study. The
government-owned Food Corporation of India is responsible for the storage
construction. All the nine 10,000-ton-capacity bag warehouses envisaged under
the project as revised became operational in 1975. The construction of five
grain silos is progressing satisfactorily after delays due to cement shortages.
The training component is being implemented. The All-India Grain Storage Study
was completed in October 1976 and proved useful in formulating the proposal
for Credit 747-IN, which is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project includes grading and packing centers, cold storage
facilities, a juice processing plant, road improvements and cableways. It
also includes cold storage facilities and a pilot project to promote oak
mushroom production. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems; however remedial measures have been taken to overcome
these difficulties. Land has been acquired for 8 of the 10 packing and grad-
ing sites, and procurement and construction activities are well underway. The
Project Preparation Report for the juice processing plant has been completed,



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
and the equipment is being ordered. The road improvement program is progres-
sing satisfactorily, and the feasibility reports on aerial cableways at the
packing/grading sites have been completed.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunicatiorns V Project; TJS$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily. The closing date of
Credit 403-IN was extended by one year to cover the delivery and installation
of imported transmission and switching equipment. Disbursements under Loan
1313-IN reached US$47.7 million as of May 31, 1978.
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit of
May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 28, 1973; Closing
Date:  September 30, 1978
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date:  October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The drawdown of Credit 377-IN was slow initially and as a consequence
it has been necessary to postpone the Closing Date by one year. However, an
amount of US$83.5 million had been disbursed by the end of May 1978 and the
balance should be disbursed well before the revised Closing Date. Disburse-
ments under Credit 604-IN have been slow, with only US$9.7 million disbursed
at May 31, 1978. However, contracts aggregating about US$50 million had
been awarded by March 1978 and disbursements should now accelerate. This
Credit included a supplementary Credit of US$30 million to meet increased
costs of equipment scheduled under Credit 377-IN; all but US$4 million of
this amount has also been committed.
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91.0 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109.0 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1979



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Trombay IV project is now being commissioned, about 18 months
behind schedule due to longer-than-expected delivery times for critical equip-
ment. The Sindri project is also being commissioned. The IFFCO project was
delayed by about a year as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to
naphtha and delays in completion of engineering contracts. However, project
construction is now proceeding satisfactorily. Mechanical completion of the
entire plant should result in August 1979. Credit 598-IN is designed to
increase the utilization of existing fertilizer production capacity. The
project has encountered delays in sub-project preparation and investment
approvals by the Government. Further, some of the sub-projects identified
earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration by the Central and
State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects to replace the
ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the project is
likely to be delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under the
Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. The project includes training
of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) staff and evaluation
of the project's economic impact. Development plans have been completed for
53 market yards to ensure the project target of 50 markets is met. As of
March 1978, appraisals had been completed for 50, and loans approved for 47
markets. Construction had been completed for 16 and was in progress for 23
markets. Farmers and traders served by the 8 market yards now in operation
report more efficient marketing activities and improved farmers' terms of
trade. Progress under the Karnataka project is improving. As of June 1977,
when the project was last reviewed, construction was underway for 36 of the
39 project markets. Plans and land acquisition are nearing completion at
the remaining sites. Both projects are expected to be completed by their
respective closing dates.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date:  May 9, 1973; Closing Date:  June 30, 1979
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. To allow adequate time for the Population Centers to
complete their evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction
of management information and evaluation systems, the closing date has been
extended by one year.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. An initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointment of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans
have been approved, and construction has started in both Assam and Bihar.
Disbursements, which have been slow because of initial delays, should
accelerate now that construction and equipment procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date:  May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The first IDBI Project had a slow start mainly due to institutional
problems in the participating State Financial Corporations. However, the
credit is now fully committed, and disbursements had reached US$14.7 million
by the end of May 1978. In order to continue the Bank Group's involvement in
assisting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the State
Financial Corporations involved, a second operation (Loan 1260-IN) was approved
in 1976, and more than 25% of the loan amount had been committed by mid-March
1978. Loan 1511-IN is designed to encourage the pooling of private and public
capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The project will also assist IDBI in
carrying out industrial sector investment studies and in strengthening the
financial institutions dealing with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, the project is now progressing relatively well. All of the major



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
contracts for the water supply components have been awarded and it is forecast
that works will be sufficiently advanced to permit the supply of additional
water (455 mld) in the last quarter of 197$; completion of water treatment
works for the whole supply by the end of 1979 is realistically forecast.
Completion of additional sewage disposal studies (August 1977) has allowed
engineering design of the project sewerage components to proceed, so that
completion of construction of these works is now scheduled for 1980, two years
later than originally forecast. Financial performance of the project entity
is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements are being
made to appoint a full-time management adviser to closely supervise and
coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
Utilization of the Technical Development Fund picked up in 1978
and it is anticipated that the project will close on schedule at the end
of June 1978.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January_6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
For the first of these projects, following considerable increases
in project costs, GOI and IDA finalized a project redefinition in April 1976.
It is now expected to be substantially completed by March 1979. Credit 756-IN
is designed to expand and upgrade the capabilities of Calcutta's administra-
tive authorities, to strengthen the city's fiscal base, and to rehabilitate
and extend its urban service system.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
The project is designed to develop and promote low-cost solutions
to the problems of providing improved services to the urban poor in the



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and to strengthen metropolitan planning.
Project components consisting of sites and services, slum improvement, small-
scale and cottage industry, and maternal and child health are designed to
benefit dirertly some 250,000 persons in low-income areas of the city. The
water supply and sewerage, road and traffic, bus transport and technical
assistance components are designed to eliminate bottlenecks in water supply
and transport. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily, and
disbursements are slightly ahead of appraisal estimates.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits, totalling US$74.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project, which got off to a
slow start, has begun to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 600 dairy coop-
eratives with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions envisaged under the project have been established and
are functioning satisfactorily. In Madhya Pradesh good progress has been
made. About 310 new dairy cooperatives societies have been established.
Detailed design studies for plant construction are complete. The response
of small farmers to the project is excellent. GOMP has plans to cover all
districts in the State. Technical services investments are being made.
Contracts have been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan project is
also doing well. Four milk unions have been formed and excellent progress
has been made in organizing the servicing of nearly 450 dairy cooperatives
at the village level. Plant designs are ready, and procurement is making
adequate progress. Based upon the good results experienced, GOR is planning
to expand the form of dairy development to all other districts of the State.
Karnataka's decision to procure plant equipment jointly with Rajasthan and
Madhya Pradesh on the same tender should lead to a recovery of considerable
time lost earlier in the Karnataka project.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily. Disbursements stood at US$22.8 million on May 31, 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)          Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; (expected) Effective Date: August 12, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides financing over four years mainly for minor
irrigation investments but also for development of markets, agro service



i-.LAL. II
Page 11 of 15
centers, and support of related government extension services. Although dis-
bursements have been slower than anticipated, there has been a considerable
improvement in project organization and administration and disbursements are
expected to improve considerably. The physical progress of shallow tubewells,
and of deep tubewells for the Minor Irrigation Corporation, is satisfactory.
IDA, GOWB and ARDC are combining efforts in order to solve difficulties such
as organizational problems at the farm level; lack of demand for agro service
centers; and completion of designs for water distribution systems and irriga-
tion schemes. Positive results, particularly for the redesigned water distri-
bution systems have been achieved.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$13.0
million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date:  February 6, 1978;  Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
These projects, totalling US$71 million, finance the re-organization
and strengthening of agricultural extension and the development of adaptive
agricultural research services with the objective of achieving early and
sustained improvements in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains.
Arrangement for monitoring and evaluation of project progress and impact is
an essential feature of these projects. The Orissa and Assam projects also
provide funds for laying the basis for longer term improvements in ground-
water development in the States. The projects' components include provision
of additional staff, training facilities, housing, offices, laboratory
facilities, equipment and transportation.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall physical progress of the Drought Prone Areas project (DPAP)
continues to be satisfactory. The rate of disbursement is improving and



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
implementation of most components is proceeding, by and large, according to
schedule. However, progress may be affected by possible changes in thinking
at the national level. GOI is presently reviewing all national rural develop-
ment programs, including the DPAP, in order to determine ways to improve over-
all performance in the rural sector. The Government's review is being fol-
lowed closely to determine whether any recommendations would have an impact
on the ongoing project and require changes.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project would improve tree crop production in Kerala and has
particular emphasis on increasing benefits to small farmers. It comprises
rehabilitation of 30,000 ha coconut and 10,000 ha pepper and 2,240 ha cashew,
and new plantings of 5,000 ha coconut and 1,500 ha cashew. About 25% of the
coconut area would be irrigated for intensive intercropping. Funds have been
provided for development of a seed garden for tree crops and for strengthening
tree crops research. Ten crumb rubber factories would also be established to
process smallholder rubber. Project implementation started slowly due to
initial staffing and funding delays but has recently gained momentum. Proj-
ect actions for 1978/79 have been rephased and advance action planned so
as to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The Project consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which, at about Rs 5 million each, would cover about 140 schemes. There are
now thirteen States eligible for onlending (compared with six at the time
of appraisal). The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the
need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to international
competitive bidding, but the position has now improved and the full amount
of the Credit has been committed.
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The project was designed to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program for two years, from
April 1, 1975, through March 31, 1977. However, since the approval of the
project, increased production of steel products in India and further develop-
ments in IR's indigenization program slowed down the rate at which IR requires
foreign exchange. Therefore, the Closing Date was extended for one year in
order to complete implementation of the project. Disbursements as of May 31,
1978 were 90% of the total credit amount.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project finances equipment, civil works and crop production
credit to support programs for cotton research and cotton production increase
in three states. The project also provides credit for improving cotton gin-
neries, new ginneries, cotton seed oil extraction plants and vegetable oil
processing factories. Effectiveness was delayed by slow appointment of
consultants, but the cotton extension services program was started without
delay and has now been in operation for two years. Disbursements have been
small mainly due to poor demand to date for project credit. A recent super-
vision mission, working with technical consultants, has made detailed recom-
mendations for more appropriate pest control practices and more adaptive
research to identify and introduce better varieties. These measures are
under discussion with GOI, and when agreed to and implemented, should speed
up project disbursements.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan 1273-IN supports the first phase of India's national seed
program, consisting of: seed industry expansion in the public and private
sectors, improvements in seed quality control, strengthening of breeding and
seed technology research, and development of a reserve stock scheme. Insti-
tutional development and managerial arrangements, particularly at the state
level, have proceeded fairly satisfactorily. Project implementation, however,
slowed down after loan effectiveness mainly due to organizational problems.
Project progress is now being made since endorsement of the project by the
new Government in September 1977 and is expected to gain further momentum
as GOI has filled the two top posts of the National Seeds Corporation, which
were vacant for several months and adversely affected the project. A project
supporting the second phase of India's national seed program (Credit 816-IN)
was approved by the Executive Directors on May 30, 1978, but has not yet been
signed pending receipt of signing authority from one of the project states.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Contracts for bodies and chassis for 325 single deck and 175 double
deck buses have been awarded and some 144 buses have been delivered. Bids for
an additional 200 buses are being evaluated. Civil works contracts have been
awarded for 8 bus facilities, and 13 traffic engineering schemes. Delays are
expected in implementing some BMC traffic engineering schemes and the BEST
workshop schemes although steps are being taken to minimize such delays.
Consultants in organization, administration, financial management systems,
accounting and development planning are at work assisting the Borrower, the
Bombay Metropolitan Regional Development Authority. Other beneficiaries of
the loan, the Bombay Municipal Corporation and the Bombay Electric Supply and
Transport Undertaking, have selected consultants in traffic engineering and
operations and management assistance, respectively.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Progress is good. All project implementation units appear
to be competent and enthusiastic and the project is progressing as antici-
pated at appraisal.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; (expected) Effective Date: August 14, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
Ln. No. 1549   Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; (expected) Effective Date: September 19, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Credit 685-IN assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is, in turn, the first of four power stations in
the Government's program for the development of large Central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The second such station,
at Korba, is being financed through Credit 793-IN. It is proposed that the
Bank Group will have a continuing involvement in this development program.
The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been formed to construct
and operate these power stations, and the development program has gotten off
to a good start. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding satisfac-
torily, and the Singrauli project is proceeding on schedule. Civil works are
in progress and contracts have been awarded for major plant (turbogenerators,
boilers, transformers). Loan 1549-IN is supporting the construction of a 500
MW extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore have been laid and were commissioned in June 1978.
Disbursements stood at US$54.4 million on May 31, 1978.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About one year
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Government of Haryana with assistance from IBRD/FAO
Cooperative Program
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider the project
August 1977; September 1977
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 1977
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
June 1978
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
August/September 1978
Section II      Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III    Special Conditions
(a) Conditions for the effectiveness of the credit are:
(i) Finalizing financial arrangements between
GOI and ARDC for relending part of credit
proceeds to ARDC (para 56); and



ANNEX III
Page 2
(ii) Receipt of a banking plan satisfactory to the
Association giving details of refinancing of
loans by banks through ARDC (para 51).
(b) Conditions of disbursement are:
(i) For produce markets -- receipt and approval by
the Association of the first five designs for
market places (para 53);
(ii) For village water supply schemes -- receipt and
approval by the Association of each of the first
five designs for village water schemes (para 53);
and
(iii) For watercourses -- receipt and approval by the
Association of designs for the construction of
each of the first ten watercourses (para 53);
(c) GOH to: (a) implement by March 31, 1979, a management
plan satisfactory to the Association; and (b) appoint
by December 31, 1978, a financial advisor in HSMITC
with qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Association (para 50);
(d) GOH to carry out each water supply scheme under Part 9
of the Project only after (a) the Panchayat concerned
has undertaken to contribute a portion of the annual
operation and maintenance costs as determined by Haryana
having regard to the financial position of said Panchayat
and the view of the Association with respect to the
criteria for such determination; and (b) said Panchayat
to deposit such determined portion of the estimated
operation and maintenance costs for the first year of
operation of the water supply scheme (para 53);
(e) GOH to establish, by January 31, 1979, adequately
staffed monitoring, evaluation and applied development
units in its Irrigation Department and HSMITC, and a
technical cell in CADA (para 55).
(f) GOH to complete and make available to the Association
for its comments not later than March 31, 1980, a
statewide review of alternative methods of collecting
water and water-related charges in modernized irriga-
tion projects, with special emphasis on volumetric
water pricing (para 63).






IBRD 13481
75-                                                        7e                                                           7                                  MOREt 1978
INDIA                                                                                                        6 4
HARYANA IRRIGATION AND CAD PROJECT                                                                                        '->    1 /
Modernization of Watercourses, Market Component,                                                                               KpiP
and Jui Lift Irrigation Command                                                                            't        " i
0     Princ,pol Market Yords                                                                                   A/    c)
'    Sutb Market Yards                                                           /          Chondiga,lk
Haryasno Stoae Minor Irrigotion(Tubeooll) CorporHtion D-vistontrl Bo-ut,  ries                                                             8S
On-Farm Deselopment Area                                                                                                                         /y
Mao     n  Roods                                                                   1                      ;r.)<
Broad Gouge Readw.ys                                                                                          Naraprc2       6 
N.  . Nerrow Gouge R.,]..ys   \   8     Q    Noroy ngc)r. _
Cities ond Townsr
-    -c   R,vers                                                             t                       .            <         Q j
- Dv,tict Boundaries %; A) >)_
-F tt>H ,? 1~~~Stae Bo0d-ie
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
M. dl -6 b ol                                                                                                                                                                 30
iNDIA                 5~~~~~~~~~O AKO
tZ >~~~ ~ttr,                                                   R                              0     0    20    30<A 40    5-   80    7 0    IC
-29 7! -X J < / > w >2/ /\/ \ - \ \\~78'                                                                                              77
{_v \ Bclwc~~~~~n Kec.-d-CN\t  9
Modernizcticn   cf  Wclercourses r % . / 0 1 \ f - A Lk~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LL
Mdernzton       of Waeroursesd       X                               4/X                                             U      Y       A                        2
G ow 87 Ccrc CommaNd oS}C- >-- br -                                                       - v    '*\/t\x1 
HISSAR        3          20                                                   f                                                       -                 /;/ B.hr.durg DELHI
HARYANA320                            r                 kCh.,kh,d                                          .2        Jh=jjor         />           e         7t
NARWANA               3 2 0                              <      t8 1/D:VI                                                          WN      R.                        9
JIND)                  12 0                                         <XR                                              I{.                                           
PEHOWA               320s3_{                                                                                                              ' g        u g        o~ 
DELIH                 16132 f -.e=        
*r~~~~~~~~ 08 3o                                                                                                                                        h  oo of *a Fr '.........r owo'Mhnrgr Xgfz t/| 
R  vy   INDIA             <s9R M A                                                    >       >     t           <-A  -28
> ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~F-u \J h4     O,k(,
0   X              wwderessh m m th- d  fWtamrmworwyrp#=lyor mVensm mentOr                    10   20    30    40    S0   60    70    00 p    4p    lp 6p    1~    B
11           wrpam:e {ma w>ndanw                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~761'                                                                                                77'






IBRD 13482
75'                                                  76         _ 75                                                                       MARCH 1975
INDIA                                         __Y
HARYANA IRRIGATION AND CAD PROJECT                                                                                                            1 ,
Modernization of Canal System, Village Water Supply Schemes,                                                          \K.iko
and Augmentation Tubewell Schemes                                                                                                     C'
*     Village Water Supply Scheme  canal source) o.
*     Village Water Supply Scheme (groundwater sour                                Chendirt
rE    I   Augmentot,on Tubewell Scheme Areos
Canol Command Areas
Moin Roads                                                                     Raipura 6      s
Broad Gauge Railways  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h~ro nor *t.
Narrow Gauge Railways                                           /t     <             "        \ NVroyrno,t4.J 
o     Cities and  Towns
-   /  .          -     Caal                                                                                           L~
Rivers                                                         \   tX                    >       blS    (/0/
--D.st,ict Boundo,,es                                                            ,          \           r,   
i-  -State Boundories                                                                  u]r   0
2~~~~INI                                  /9-0                          M                           A7Rf \- 
30-~ ~ ~~~~~~~~%sN   L i1oba                                  F'et t30'%                                 t            8            '-
A                                                                ANdrr         ATW Schemes
Th~~~~~~~~~~~~A LOE OHGA RASIN                                                                C. INAN ALLUVIAL   C,}iQS     a       x"  rOSIN/B
torx~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~I ROL RRArrtW       < v iNC  C  RAN GAL        30 D n 34                  4 HAO RRNHRTN /RNC CAAL                         7  5  t/
Im*ie&6bnNevVywhn/yemSvm2 tOR ERAN   CAL                              SO Mo M9                  5SRA BRNC CAAL                4        Y        55 -~ t9r9/
-29-                                                       AB  N        BRANCH    CA AL          75                  T  A  N       OF   AU M NT TO   TURE ELL uja
<!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ INI  Ie 5UA  I
>  t   )                                A. LOWE~~~~~~~~~R GAGR BATIO N                            C.                                        LHADALUIL AI
2    \   I                                 1. RAT~~~~~~~~~~~IA 8RNC CAAL  St RA   G4 A NA5 DRNHB N HRC IAAS7
0    1     r 2.OR BRANC  CAAL                                                          150 6p    09 soIS  RNCAAS5
sw~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R  G uR~                                                                                                2W



