CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 843 IN
ARDC Agreement
(Haryana Irrigation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated August 16, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 843 IN
ARDC AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 16, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (hereinafter
called ARDC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred eleven million dollars
($111,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that ARDC
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS by financial arrangements to be entered into between
the Borrower and ARDC, part of the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to ARDC on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ARDC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFO E the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ARDC shall take all steps as shall be necessary
on its part to assist the Borrower and Haryana in the carrying out


﻿-2-
of Parts B, C, D and E of the Project described in Schedule 2
to the Development Credit Agreement and shall do so in accor-
dance with a banking plan satisfactory to the Association. ARDC
shall act with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering
practices.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be [inanced
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
ARDC shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) ARDC: (i) shall maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts
B, C, D and E of the Project (including its cost and the bene-
fits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower, and to disclose their use in the Project; and (ii)
shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concern-
ing Parts B, C, D and E of the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(b) Promptly after completion of Parts B, C, D and E of the
Project, but in any event not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between ARDC and the Association, ARDC shall prepare and furnish
to the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of Parts B, C, D and E of the Project, its
cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by ARDC and the Association of their respective
obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.05. (a) ARDC shall enter into financial arrange-
ments with the Borrower on terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Association.


﻿-3-
(b) ARDC shall duly perform all its obligations under
the financial arrangements referred to in paragraph (a) above.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ARDC shall
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the financial
arrangements or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) ARDC shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts B, C, D and E of the Project, the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the financial
arrangements, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) ARDC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Parts B, C, D and E of the Project, the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ARDC of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the financial
arrangements.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARDC
Section 3.01. ARDC shall at all times carry on its opera-
tions, manage its affairs, plan its future development and main-
tain its financial position in accordance with sound financial and
administrative practices, and under the supervision of experienced
and competent management.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ARDC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. ARDC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later


﻿-4-
than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other inforinattoa
concerning the accounts and financial statements of ARDC and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. ARDC shall cause the Lending Banks to (i) main-
tain separate accounts for loans made in respect of Parts B, C, D
and E of the Project, and (ii) send to the Association through
ARDC their audited accounts (together with an analysis of overdue
and bad debts and a statement certified by ARDC of their Project
lending) not later than four months after the end of their each
fiscal year.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
AFsociation and of ARDC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
ARDC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or Taktag
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For ARDC:
Managing Director
Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation
Shri Niketan (F. Block)
Dr. Annie Besant Rd., Worli, Bombay, India
Cable address:
AGREFINANS
Bombay - 18
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of ARDC may be taken or executed by its
Managing Director or such other person or persons as ARDC shall


﻿-6-
designate in writing, and ARDC shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
By Is/ N. A. Palkhivala
Authorized Representative


