Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
~/ ?  /jLp/52>-  /~k          Report No. 9142-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MALNAGEMENT PROJECT
May 2, 1991
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Country Department I
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



US$1         -      Re 22.0
Re 1         -      US$0.4545
WEIGHTS AND MULDES
EnSlih/IpUnits                        metric Units
1 inch (in)                    -      25.4 millimeters (mm)
1 foot                         -      30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 yard                         -      0.915 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)                    -      1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)                    -      0.405 hectares (ha)
1 square mile (eq m)           -      259 ha
1 pound (lb)                   _      0.454 kilograms (kg)
I long .on (ig t)              -      1.016 metric tons (t)
I cubic foot/second %cfs)      -      0.0283 cubic meters/sec (m`/sec)
I acre foot (af)               -      1,233,5 cubic meters (in)
Pakistani Units    EnglUn       s                  Mtr     nits
I maund         -   82.3 lbs (0.0367 'g ton)   -   37.32 kg (0.0373 t)
26.8 maunds     -   2,205 lbs                  -   1.0 t
27.2 maunds     -   1.0 lg ton (2240 lbs)      -   1,016 kg
FISCALS  .
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB               Asian Development Bank
ADP            -  Annual Development Program
ECNEC          -  Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
FATA              Federally Administered Tribal Areas
FANA              Federally Administered Northern Areas
FCU            -  Federal Coordination Unit
FGW            -  Fresh Groundwater
FWMC           -  Federal Water Management Cell
GOP            -  Government of Pakistan
GOProvinces        Provincial Governments
GOPunjab           Government of Punjab
IrB               International Competitive Bidding
IrAD           *  International Fund for Agricultural Development
IIS            -  Indus Irrigation System
LCB               Local Competitive Bidding
M              *  Million
MinFA              Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives
MRES           - Mona Reclamation Research Sration (WAPDA)
M&E                Monitoring and Evaluation
NESPAK         -  National Engineering Services Pakistan (PVT) Limited
NWFP              North West Frontier Province
O0H            *  Operation and Maintenance
OFWM           -  On-Farm Water Management
OFUM I         -  First IDA assisted OFWM Project (Cr. 1163-PAK)
OFUM II        -  Second IDA assisted OFwM Project (Cr. 1603-PAK)
PLL            -  Precision Land Leveling
PPM            *  Parts per Million
RAP            -  Revised Action Programme for Irrigated Agriculture
SCARP              Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
SGW            -  Saline Groundwater
SOE            *  Statement of Expenditures
TA             *  Technical Assistance
TDS            *  Total Dissolved Solids
TW                 Tuoewell
UNDP           *  United Nations Development Program
USAID          -  United States Agency for International Development
WAPDA          -  Water and Power Development Authority
WMED           -  Watercourse Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate (WAPDA)
WUA            -  Watir Users Association
W/C            *  Watercourse
GLOSSARY
barani             rainfed area with some interspersed small irrigation schemes
chak               tertiary irrigation command (about 1/5 ha)
kareze         -  traditional irrigation system with tunnel chairnel
katcha            earthen
katcha nucca  *  irrigation outlet in earthen bank
mogha          -  uncontrolled outlet from parent channel to chak
nullah         *  intermittent, non-perennial stream
pucca               permanent-
pucca nucca       masonry,'concrete outlet to farm units and fields
sailaba        -  flood plain
sarkari khal  -  communal portion of watercourse
warabundi      - weekly rotational schedule of irrigation deliveries to farmers
watercourse    -  irrigation distribution system within a chak



FOR OFFICIAL iuSE ONLY
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAOENF.EI pROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ..............................  i-ii
I.    BACKGROUND  ...................................................                         1
Introduction  .................................................                        1
Demographic and Physical Features  ............................                        1
Agriculture and Its Performance  ..............................                        1
Irrigated Agriculture and Water Management  ...................                        2
Government Policy and Bank Group Assistance Strategy  ....                    .....    5
IDA Financed OFWM Projects  ...................................                        5
Impact of OFWM Projects  ......................................                        6
Lessons Learned  ..............................................                        6
Issues  ...............            ........................................            7
Rationale for Bank Involvement ...............................                         9
II. THE PROJEC T.                                                                              9
Areas.                                                                                 9
Objectives .........  10
Description .........  11
Civil Works .........  11
Equipment .......                                                                     17
Technical Assistance ..........................................  17
Monitoring and Evaluation  ..............               ......................    17
Training ...............................................  18
Supervision and Administration  .........                ......................    18
III.   PROJECT COST.  FjINANCING AND PROCUREMENT  ......                  ................    18
Project Cost  ..............................................                          18
Financing ...............................................  19
Disbursements ..............................                                          20
Procurement  ..............................    21
Accounts and Audit  .............................  .............    23
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION...............................  24
Institutional Arrangements ...............................  24
Monitoring and Evaluation ...............................  30
Operation and Maintenance ...............................  31
Implementation Schedule  .............                  .................    31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performan,..
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Tble of Contents (cont'd)
Pate No.
V.  PRODUCTION. MARKETING AND PRICES. FM  INCONME. COST RECOVERY ..  32
Production .....................................   32
Marketing and Prices ......................................   33
Farm Income .....................................   34
Cost Recovery ...............................................35
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION . ...................................  37
Production and Employment ......................................   37
Economic Analysis ............................................   38
Sensitivity and Risks .........................................  39
Environmental Issues ..........................................   39
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .......    ..................  40
ANNEXES
1.  Cost Tables
- Table 1:  Balochistan Subproject
- Table 2:  NWFP Subproject
- Table 3:  Punjab Subproject
- Table 4:  Sindh Subproject
- Table 5:  FATA Subproject
- Table 6:  Northern Areas Subproject
- Table 7:  Coordination, Technical Assistance, M&E
- Table 8:  Project, Sum-nary Accounts by Year
- Table 9:  Project, Components by Year
2.  Financing Plan
3.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
4.   Financial and Economic Tables
- Table 1:  Cropping Patterns and Yields
- Table 2:  Summary Farm Budgets
- Table 3:  Total Project, Financial Farm Budget
- Table 4:  Prices Used in Financial and Economic Analysis
- Table 5:  Economic Benefits and Costs
5.   Irrigation Agronomy
6.  Terms of Reference for Supervisory Consultants
7.  Monitoring and Evaluation
8.   Implementation Schedule



PIATE I      Indus Plain and Peshawar Vale Water Balance
PLATE II     Procedure for Reconstructing Earthen Channels
PLATE III    Watercourse Outlet (Pucca Nucca) Drawing
PLATE IV     Organizational Chart - Balochistan
PLATE V      Organizational Chart - North West Frontier Province (NWFP)
PLATE VI     Organizational Chart - Punjab
PLATE VII    Organizational Chart - Sindh
PLATE VIII   Organizational Chart - Northern Areas
PLATE IX     Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA)
PLATE X      Federal Coordination Unit
IBRD 22652   Punjab Province
IBRD 22653   Sindh Province
IBRD 22654   Balochistan Province
IBRD 22655   NWFP and FATA
IBRD 22656   Northern Areas (Gilgit)



PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGE4ENT PQIE
LWN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMOyktY
Borrover:       Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:  About 250,000 farm families in Balochistan, North West
Frontier, Punjab and Sindh Provinces, Federally Administered
Tribal and Northern Areas.
A"mout:         US$83.6 million (loan US$36.3 million; credit SDR 33.4
million, or US$47.3 million equivalent)
Terms:          Twenty years, including a five-year grace period, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate, for the loan;
standard, with 35 years maturity, for the credit.
Relendint
Terms:          Not applicable.
Qigect          The five-year project (FY91-95) would provide for renovating
Da8cription:    about 7,700 watercourses, precision leveling of 55,000 ha, and
construction of 500 water storage tanks in the four Provinces,
FATA and Northern Areas. Project objectives are to: increase
agricultural production through effective use of water saved
by improved water management; strengthen the capability of the
implementing agencies; enhance farmer participation through
stronger Water Users Associations (WUA); and reduce government
financial obligations through improved cost recovery programs.
Estimated Cost:/                                  Local   Lorgin   Total
----  US$ m --------
Civil Works (including farmers'
cash cost (US$5.2 M])            64.4      6.5     70.9
Equipment                           2.0      2.6      4.6
Technical Assistance                2.6      2.4       5.0
Training                            0.5      0.1      0.6
Monitoring & Evaluation             1.1      0.3       1.4
Supervision & Administration       12.8      .2      15.0
Base Cost                      83.4     14.1     97.5
Price Contingencies                12.8     -.L      14.5
Total Cash Cost                96.2     15.8    112.0
Farmers' Labor Contribution        43.5       -      43.5
Total Project Cost            139.7     15.8    155.5
If   Including US$12.1 M taxes and duties.



- ii -
Financint Plan:
Local    FrjLgn  Total
- US$ M --------
Government                                22.4                22.4
Farmers (cash)                             6.0       -         6.0
Bank Group                                67.8      15.8      83.6
IDA Credit                             (38.4)   ( 8.9)   (47.3)
Bank Loan                              (29.4)   ( 6.9)   (3f.3)
Total Cash Cost                       96.2      15.8    112.0
Farmers' Labor Contribution               43.5                43.5
Total Cost                           139.7      15.8    155.5
Etimated Bsnk Groul Disbursement (USS M):
im   ma   Ma Pm F9   FY
Annual           -      19.0      18.5      20.5     21.0       4.6
Cumulative       -      19.0      37.5     58.0      79.0      83.6
Rate of Return:  26X
rNM:  IBRD 22652  -  Punjab Province
IBRD 22653  -  Sindh Province
IBRD 22654  - Balochistan Province
IBRD 22655  - NWFP and FATA
IBRD 22656  - Northern Areas (Gilgit)



PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAEMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGRGQRO
Introductln
1.01      Because of the positive impact of the first two IDA assisted On-
Farm Water Management Projects (OFWM I, Cr. 1163-PAK; and OFVM II, Cr. 1603-
PAK) and the strong demand from farmers for continued OFWM activities, the
Government of Pakistan (GOP) requested the Bank Group to finance a third OFWM
project (OFWM III). GOP has decided that, in addition to covering irrigated
lands in the four Provinces, Balochistan, North West Frontier Province (NWFP),
Punjab and Sindh (Indus Irrigation System), as under OFWM II, this new project
should give increased emphasis to barani areasl and also cover irrigated
lands in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) and Northern Areas
(FANA). This report is based on GOP's feasibility reportV (financed under
the Second Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project, Cr. 1888-PAK) and the
findings of an appraisal missiont1 which visited Pakistan during May/June
1990.
Demographic and Physical Features
1.02      Pakistan's population is over 100.0 M and growing at an annual rate
of 31, and may thus reach about 145.0 M by the year 2000. Over 70X of the
population lives in rural areas. The average annual per capita income is
about US$370 equivalent. About 301 of the population is estimated to have
annual income below the absolute poverty level (US$150).
1.03      Pakistan covers an area of about 80.0 M ha of mainly arid and semi-
arid land.  Approximately 20.0 M ha are cultivated (16.5 M ha irrigated),
3.0 M are exploitable forest and 8.0 N ha are rangelands.  Much of the central
Indus plain, the main agricultural producing region, receives less than 150 mm
of rainfall annually whereas pan evaporation is more than 1,250 mm, which
makes irrigation a necessity.
4 rlculture and Its Performance
1.04      Agriculture is the most important sector in the economy in terms of
contribution to gross domestic product, foreign exchange earnings, and
employ;ment generation. Irrigated land produces 901 of total farm output.
Major crops are wheat, cotton, rice and sugarcane, which cover 62X of the
annual sown area. During the Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY84-88), agriculture grew
I/  Rainfed area with some interspersed small irrigation schemes.
2/   On-Farm Water Management - III Project. Feasibility Study. Main Report,
National Engineering Services Pakistan (PVT) Limited, et al, May 1990.
2/  The mission comprised Messrs. Peter Streng, C.P. Cheng, Warren D.
Fairchild (Bank), M. Ashraf and K. Baum (consultants).



- 2 -
at 3.8X annually against a target rate of 4.9X. Major crops production
generally met or was close to plan targets. Value added in major crops is
estimated to have grown 3.1X in FY90 whereas minor crops achieved their
highest growth rate (42) for the last five years. Considerable variations
exist in annual and seasonal production due to climate (the poor wheat harvest
in 1986 was caused by late rain), pest incidence (cotton suffered heavy losses
in 1985) and uncertain irrigation supply. The sector is further constrained
by structural and institutional weaknesses which contribute to its uneven
performance; e.g., wheat production in FY90 was reduced because of a shortage
of fertilizer at time of sowing. Even with recent significant increases in
agricultural production, average yields for major field crops in Pakistan
remain well below those of other developing countries.
Irrigated Agriculturg and Water Management
1.05      Irrigation in Pakistan can be divided into two categories, the Indus
Irrigation System (IIS) serving about 12.0 M ha, and small systems serving
about 4.5 M ha in the barani (rainfed) areas. The IIS is the largest
contiguous irrigation system in the world and is publicly operated and
maintained. Because of low precipitation (para 1.03), very little rainfed
agriculture is possible in the command area. Irrigation systems in barani
areas are scattered and vary considerably as to size of command, source, duty
and dependability of water supply. Generally these systems are operated by
the private sector for supplemental irrigation.
1.06      Indus Irrigation Svstem.  Development of IIS started in the late
18OOs. Today it comprises the Indus river and its major tributaries, 3 major
reservoirs (about 19,000 M me of conservation storage), 19 barrages/headworks,
and 43 canal commands. The total length of canals is about 57,200 km. There
are about 107,000 chaksl, which cover on average about 175 ha and serve about
40 farms. The watercourses (W/Cs), farmer branches, and field ditches serving
the chaks run another 1.6 M km. Approximately 125,000 N m3 of surface water
is diverted annually into this canal system. In addition, about 12,500 public
tubewells (TWs) and over 225,000 private TWs pump 43,000 H me of groundwater
annually for irrigation (see Plate I for water balance).
1.07      Through the years, the increased diversion of surface water for
irrigation has significantly altered the hydrological balance in the Indus
Plain. As a result, the groundwater table has risen to a critical stage over
a large area. WAPDA's Indus Basin Salinity Survey (1981) indicated that 22X
of IIS (about 3.6 M ha) has a groundwater table within 2 meters of land
surface. This high water table increases the prevalence of salinity in the
soil profile and areas of problematic soils, which in turn reduces crop
production. Overall system irrigation delivery efficiencies are low. Various
studies by WAPDA indicate that about 25X of diverted surface supplies are lost
before reaching the chaks. Operation and maintenance (O&M) of watercourses
within chaks, which is the responsibility of farmers, has been poor
historically, resulting in excessive delivery losses. Farmers in the mid and
I/   Tertiary irrigation command.



- 3 -
tail re&'hes generally receive less water than their planned share. In short,
the increasingly serious problems of waterlogging and poor water management
are major constraints to raising agricultural production.
1.08      Irrigation in Barani Areas.  Except for some small water storage
reservoirs and a limited number of public TWs, irrigation outside IIS has been
largely developed by farmers. The water sources for these scattered systems
are groundwater, perennial streams, non-perennial flood flows (known as
"sailaba" irrigation), karezes (underground tunnels), seeps and springs, and
storage reservoirs. Water delivery varies considerably because of
dependability of source, cost of producing water and location -- in areas of
higher precipitation (500 mm and above), iArigation is supplemental and fewer
units of water are applied than in dryer areas where irrigation water is
relied on entirely. Generally, these systems are poorly designed, the
infrastructure is fragile, inefficiently operated with high water losses, and
poorly maintained. However, irrigation water from these systems is the basis
for a degree of stable agricultural production, which is extremely important
to the farmers since it provides insurance against the vagaries of rainfall.
Hence, the marginal value of such water is relatively high.
1.09      On-Farm Water Management Program.  A series of USAID financed
experiments and investigations were conducted in the 1970s at WAPDA's Mona
Reclamation Experiment Stationi (MRES) to determine: (a) irrigation delivery
efficiencies within chaks; and (b) appropriate policy, program,
infrastructural and institutional improvements for increasing these
efficiencies. It was found that water losses in the farmer maintained
communal W/Cs ("sakari khal") were between 30X and 50X with additional losses
in the farmer branches and field ditches. Technological development centered
on brick masonry lining of W/Cs, importance of good design and maintenance of
"katcha" (earthen) sections, design for "pucca nuccas" (pe- .nent turnouts),
and specifications for precision land leveling (PLL). It was also found that
farmers were extremely interested in increasing irrigation water available for
crop production through application of improved water management practices
within their chaks and that they could be organized into groups that would
provide labor for civil works construction and assurance for related O&M. The
findings of these MRES experiments/investigations, later verified in
operational projects and the UNDP financed, World Bank executed Indus Basin
Planning Study (PAK/74/044), formed the basis for subsequent implementation of
on-farm water management (OFWM) projects and programs. The initial five-year
(FY77-81) Pilot OFWM Project was supported by USAID, followed by OFWM I (Cr.
1163-PAK, cofinanced by IFAD), OFWM II (Cr. 1603-PAK), and OFWM components in
several irrigation and drainage projects (Khaipur Tile Drainage, Cr. 648-PAK;
SCARP Mardan, Cr. 877-PAK; Fourth Drainage, Cr. 1375-PAK; Command Water
Management, Cr. 1487-PAK; Left Bank Outfall Drain, Cr. 1532-PAK; and SCARP
Transition Pilot, Cr. 1693-PAK). Meanwhile, other donors such as ADB, Germany
and United Kingdom (UK) also finisnce OFWM projects in Pakistan. The status of
OFWM projects, using W/C renovation as an indicator, is shown in Table 1.1.
After considerable effort only about 16X of all W/Cs have been improved, which
emphasizes the need for massive further OFWM investment.



4
TIZLJJ,: STATUS OF WATERCOURSE RENOVATION UNDER VARIOUS PROJECTS
Proiect             Donor  Puniab    Sindh   NWFP  BlQf;hiista   Totgl
A.  Comgleted by June 30. 1990
1.  Pilot OFWM              USAID   1,083      162      80        5      1,330
2.  OFWM I                IDA/IFAD  2,440      396     269      125      3,230
3.  D.I. Khan Project        ADB         -       -     568        -        568
4.  SCARP Harda.a            IDA         -             670        -         670
5.  Fourth Drainage          IDA      400                -        -        400
6.  OFWM II A/               IDA    3,190      636     344      261      4,431
7.  Bahawalpur,
R.Y. Khan Project       GOP      249        -                -        249
8.  Thal OFWM                ADB    1,440        -       -        -      1,440
9.  Gujranwala OFiWM         ADB       253       -       -        -        253
10. Command Water Mgt.      USAID     540      303      43        -        886
11. SCARP Transition Pilot  IDA        123       -       -        -        123
12. Sheikhupura W/C
Improvement             UK        59        -                -         59
13. Khaipur TVie             IDA         -      98       -                  98
Drainage
14. South Rohri              ADB         -    680        -        -        680
15. LBOD                     h/                242       -        -        242
16. Ghotki FGW             Germany       -     218       -        -        218
17. Chasma Right Bank        ADB         -             143        -        143
18. D.G. Khan (OFVM II)      ADB      485        -       -        -        485
19. Kushab OFWK              ADB                 -     -_         -         16
Sub-total                   10,278   2,735   2,117       391     15,521
B. Planned to be Imiroved
1.  Fourth Dra!nage          IDA      600        -       -        -        600
2. OFWM II M/                IDA         -     138     136      229        503
3.  Command Water Mgt.       IDA         -    100      108       60        268
4.  SCARP Transition Pilot  IDA         22       -       -        -          22
5.  LBOD                    h_           -     678                -        678
6.  Ghotki FGW             Germany       -     123       -        -        123
Sub-total                      622   1,039      244      289      2,194
Total A + B              10.900   3.774   2,361       680     17.7L
C.  Total No. of W/Cs S/           55,000  40,000  10,000    2,000    107,000
A/  Extended to 1991.
ki  Cofinanced by IDA and Swiss Development Corporation.
g/  Figures given by provincial OFWM DirectoriiaIs.



-5-
Government Follow and Bank p go   Asgistance Strate
1.10      GOP fully recognizes that the huge investments made in irrigation
infrastructure would be wasted if they are not properly maintained, the
efficiency of water delivery and use is not improved, and drainage is not
provided to check waterlogging and soil salinity. The water subsector policies
pursued under the Fifth and Sixth Five-Year Plans and continued under the Seventh
Five-Year Plan (FY89-93) address these issues. These initiatives grew out of the
UNDP financed, World Bank executed Indus Basin Study. The study report±
recommended numerous policy and institutional improvements, many of which have
been adopted by GOP, and placed priority on drainage, rehabilitation, and water
management projects. IDA has supported a number of projects in these areas
including, besides those listed in para 1.09 above, the Salinity Control and
Reclamation Project (SCARP) VI (Cr. 754-PAK), and the Irrigation Systems
Rehabilitation Projects (Cr. 1239-PAK and Cr. 1888-PAK).
1.11      Pakistan's development plans acknowledge that investments made for
drainage and rehabilitation of facilities must be accompanied by measures to
strengthen agricultural input and supptic services and the role of the private
sector if efficient agricultural production is to be achieved. The proposed OFWN
III is intended to address one important part of this agenda, namely the
management of a key input (water) at the farm level and strengthening of
irrigation agronomy programs (para 4.05). It builds on extensive research (para
1.09) and experience gained from the USAID financed pilot project, OFWM I
(Project Completion Report, No. 7309, June 24, 1988) and OF14 II.
IDA Financed QFWM Proojects
1.12      Significant features of OFWM I and OFWM II are:
(a) Project components are civil works -- lining and/or earthen improvement
of W/Cs, PLL, water storage tanks, demonstration plots; equipment;
technical assistance; training; and staff for supervision and
administration.
(b) Farmers participate directly through (i) formation of Water Users
Associations (WUA) under Provincial ordinances before the start of
renovation work; (ii) contribution of labor; and (iii) maintenance of
installed improvements.
(c) Cost recovery, with beneficiaries sharing a portion of the cost of
civil works materials, was introduced under OFWM I in Punjab and Sindh
and extended to all four provinces under OFWM II (Punjab 25X plus
employment of masons, Sindh 30X, NWFP 101, Balochistan 251).
(d) OFWM Directorates have been established in each Provincial Department
of Agriculture with an appropriate range of technical and financial
3/   Revised ACtLon PX29X = 8 for Irrigated Agriculture, WAPDA Master Planning
and Review Division, May 1979.



- 6 -
resources for project implementation. Both engineering and agriculture
capability is posted in the headquarters and field offices with
emphasis on field teams working directly with farmers and WUAs. This
ataff has been assisted by supervisory consultants and technical
experts. OFWM Training Institutes/Centers have been established in all
Provinces. A Federal Water Management Cell under the Ministry of
Agriculture was responsible for project coordination.
Imact of OQFM Projects
1.13      Although the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) program for OFWM II (para
1.16) was until recently fraught with management and technical difficulties, the
subsequent work by WAPDA's Watercourse Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate
(WMED), as well as their earlier M&E work and reports on USAID's Pilot Project
and OFWM I provide information on the benefits of OFWM improvements. WAPDA's
field observations together with interviews of farmers and WUA officials show
benefits from OFWM programs which can be generalized as follows:
(a) W/C renovation reduces conveyance losses between 35 and 50;
(b) the impact on cropping intensities and yields varies considerably by
chaks; however, saved water is used by most farmers to irrigate more
land. Increases in intensities generally are in the 10-20X range with
yield increases up to 101;
(c) inequity of water supply between head and tail-end fields is reduced
following W/C renovation;
(d) siltation and related maintenance need is reduced somewhat because of
higher flow velocities in renovated W/Cs;
(e) illegal interference with water flow and disputes over water allocation
within a "warabundi" (weekly irrigation delivery schedule) group
diminishes.
The above benefits have generated strong farmer support for OFWM projects in
rural Pakistan. Consequently, OFWM has been a priority program in GOP's recent
Five-Year Plans and Annual Development Programs (ADP).
Lesions Learned
1.14      The project completion report on OFWM I (para 1.11) states that
implementation was on the whole smooth and without major difficulties but varied
in pace from province to province. By the end of the extended project period,
all revised targets, except trickle irrigation demonstration, had been achieved
or considerably exceeded. The objective of improving the management of land and
water in the renovated W/C commands was not fully achieved because of poor
coordination between the OFWN and Extension Directorates and shortage of
qualified staff. While the project's positive impact on production was
unequivocally acknowledged by farmers and other observers, this impact was
difficult to quantify because of insufficient data. The economic rate of return
of the project was reestimated to be 291. As important issues for the future of



the OFWM program the completion report listed the need for a more systematic
approach to W/C renovation covering entire command areas of minor or distributary
canals; the need for greater farmer involvement in the~ financing of OFWM works;
and the need for adequate W/C repair and maintenance with active involvement of
the WUAs. Recovery of farmers share in investment cost had been declining under
the project, and WUAs appeared to cease functioning effectively after completion
of construction, and to neglect maintenance.
1.15      Lessons learned from OFWM I guided the design of OFWM II, for which IDA
Credit 1603-PAK was made in September 1985. To overcome the weaknesses in non-
structural water management services and enable the Extension Service to assume
an expanded role, the project was to provide specialized staff training and
improved coordination between OFWM and Extension. The performance of the WUAs
was to be improved through addition of an agricultural officer, plus assistants,
to the OFWM field teams. Arrangements were made for better project M&E. Partial
recovery of the cost of construction materials was introduced in Balochistan and
NWFP, and rates were increased in Punjab and Sindh. Credit 1603-PAK was extended
twice by one year each (the current closing date is December 31, 1991) to allow
completion of an expanded work program and help bridge the gap between the
ongoing and proposed third project. Physical targets are expected to be
achieved. However, the issues noted in the OFWM I completion report have not yet
been fully resolved.
Issues
1.16      The several deficiencies that have emerged in OFWM I and OFWM II would
be addressed in OFWM III.
(a) Efficient translation of saved water into increased agricultural
Rroduction (maior project obiective). To date, the emphasis of the
OFWM program has been on civil works construction, and equal a.tention
has not been given to translating saved water into increased
agricultural production. Even though available M&E reports (para 1.13)
show increases in cropping intensities and yields, there is room for a
wider and fuller response. Irrigation agronomy programs in Pakistan
must be strengthened if the full benefits of OFWM expenditures are to
be captured (see para 4.05 and Annex 5 for appropriate follow-up
activities);
(b) Strengthening Water Users Associations. Farmers' participation in OFWH
activities through formal WUAs organized on individual chaks has been
an essential factor in the success of the program. Over 15,000 WUAs
have been organized. During construction of civil works, WUA members
are enthusiastic and WUAs function at their peak; subsequently,
however, WUAs fail to assume many of the post-improvement
responsibilities intended to be delegated to them, often including
maintenance of installed works. Fortunately, this does not mean that
maintenance is not done. The final evaluation report for OFWM I states
that while only a small percentage of the 40 watercourses observed have
been maintained through WUAs, the vast majority are being maintained by
the farmers on their own and the rest by the traditional khal



committee./ *W"U4s fail to function as planned because:  (i) during the
initial phase of organization, farmers are not fully informed about the
program and their role in it; and (ii) government follow-up to
encourage WUAs in carrying out their responsibilities is inadequate.
Besides efficient O&M there are other activities that WUAs could
undertake for the benefit of their members. These include:
coordination and procurement of non-water inputs and services; 06M of
tubewells in fresh groundwater (FGW) zones; formation of a federation
of WUAs for greater farmer involvement in water allocation and O&M of
minors and small tributaries. Farmers must become more involved in
these matters, and the government by encouraging such involvement will
benefit through decreased demand on the treasury and increased revenue
from additional production (see paras 4.05, 4.08 and 4.09 and Annex 5
for follow up activities).
(c) Cost Recovery. Collection of farmers' share of the cost of OFWM
materials (para 1.12 c) was initially (1984 and 1985) quite good in
Punjab (about 90X) but dropped to less than 40X of the amounts due by
1990 as the OFWM staff could no longer cope with the increasing number
of farmers involved. Collection in Sindh has been less than 10. In
Balochistan and NWFP, collections got off to a slow start in 1988 but
are now satisfactory because the program is relatively small and OFWN
staff is able to reach farmers. Recognizing the importance of cost
recovery for the sustainability of the OFWM program, GOP and
GOProvinces held a special meeting in August 1989. It was decided that
responsibility for collection in Punjab and Sindh would be transferred
to the Revenue Departments, with necessary information supplied by the
OFWM Directorates, whereas in Balochistan and NWFP collection would
remain with the OFWM field staff. At appraisal, assurances were given
that amounts due under OFWM II in Punjab and Sindh would be fully
recovered by March 1991. However, the actual level of recoveries falls
far short of this target. In agreeing on the target date for full
recovery, the provincial governments had evidently underestimated the
difficulties involved in making appropriate arrangements for data
preparation. Also, the eventuality of revenue staff having to
undertake other activities, e.g. population census and campaign work,
was not anticipated. A revised and improved cost recovery program is
envisaged under OFWM III, and targets have been agreed for 901 recovery
of amounts due (see paras 5.15, 5.16).
(d)  Monitoring and Evaluation.  GOP decided that M&E of OFWM II would be
undertaken by a local consulting firm, rather than by WAPDA's WMED,
which had the assignment in earlier projects. After several years of
weak performance, the government cancelled the contract. Encouraged by
the Bank, the government reassigned the responsibility to WAPDA.
WAPDA's staff, under the circumstances, have come up with an acceptable
draft report. It is envisaged that WAPDA will be assigned M&E
responsibility for this project (see paras 4.16 to 4.18 and Annex 7 for
proposed M&E program).
LJ Project completion report for OFWM I, para 3.34.



9 -
(e) Federal Coordination. Project coordination by the Federal Water
Management Cell (FWMC) in the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and
Cooperatives has been unsatisfactory. Problems have occurred in
procurement, appointment and management of M&E consultants and
technical assistance, and handling of the Cell's Special Account.
FWMC's role has slowed down project activities in contrast to the
progressive approach of the Provincial OFWM Directorates. FWMC's staff
is much larger than that assigned to coordinate comparable multi-
provincial Bank Group assisted projects, e.g. Command Water Management
Project (Cr. 1487-PAK) (see para 4.07 for proposed Federal Coordination
Unit).
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.17      The Bank's continued involvement in Pakistan's OFWM program is
justified for two reasons: (a) although other donors may finance portions of the
program, the Bank has the longest experience and thus is best suited to ensure
the successful implementation of this follow-on project, which attempts to
overcome weaknesses in earlier projects and includes a number of new policy,
institutional and technical initiatives; and (b) Pakistan has about 107,000
watercourses, of which up to mid-1990 only about 15,500 had been renovated and
2,200 had been scheduled for improvement under several projects (Table 1.1);
renovation of the remaining 89,300 watercourses is beyond the capability of GOP,
and external financial and technical assistance is still needed to undertake this
important work.
II.  THE PROJECT
Areas
2.01      The five-year (FY91-95) project would be implemented in all four
Provinces, FATA and FANA, covering about 1.0 K ha. Its size has been determined
by available financing and the capacity of the implementing agencies. With the
exception of FATA and FANA, the implementing agencies have 3ained experience
under OFWM I and OFWM II, as well as other OFWM projects (see Table 1.1). Given
this experience and the technical assistance to be provided, their capacity is
considered adequate to carry out the proposed project. Generally, the project
would be a continuation of OFWM II, but would give greater emphasis to barani
areas, irrigation agronomy, and strengthening formal WUAs for improved
implementation and O&M of works. The project would finance civil works,
equipment, technical assistance, training, M&E, and supervision and
administration (see Annex 1, Tables 1-9, for estimated cost).
2.02      The project would cover most of the irrigated districts served by the
Indus Irrigation System, as well as many districts in the barani areas where OFWM
practices are required for irrigations systems served by other water sources
mentioned in para 1.08 (maps IBRD 22652 to 22656). Specifically, it would be



- 10 -
implemented in all, or parts of, 17 districts in Balochistan,V 10 districts in
North West Frontier Province,Z/ 21 districts in Punjab,2I 12 districts in Sindh,V
all political agencies in FATA,I1 and Gilgit in FANA. Specifically excluded from
the project are chaks improved under OFWM I and OFWM II, and areas covered by
OFWM comp-nents under other projects, namely:
(a)  IDA supported SCARP Mardan (Cr. 877-PAK), Fourth Drainage (Cr. 1375-
PAK), Command Water Management (Cr. 1487-PAK), Left Bank Outfall Drain
(Cr. 1532-PAK), SCAR!? Transition Pilot (Cr. 1693-PAK) projects, and
subareas under the proposed Second SCARP Transition project currently
being appraised;
(b)  ADB supported projects, e.g., Leiah (Punjab) and Paharpur (NWFP) areas
plus proposed extensions, North Rohri Fresh Groundwater Tubewell
project (Sindh), Pat Feeder Extension project (Balochistan), Swabi
SCARP and Chasma Right Bank (NWFP), and the Ghotki Fresh Groundwater
Tubewell project (Sindh) assisted by Germany.
Objectives
2.03      The project has the following objectives:
(a)  increasing agricultural production through effective use of irrigation
water saved by improved OFWM practices and a strengthened irrigation
agronomy program;
(b)  improving the capability of the implementing agencies in the four
provinces, FATA, and Northern Areas to carry out an expanding OFWM
program, and facilitating their coordination with the Extension
Directorates;
(c)  providing for increased farmer participation in WUAs and strengthening
these organizations to improve water and non-water input management and
ensure efficient O&M of installed facilities; and
1/   Quetta, Kachhi, Ziarat, Loralai, Sibi, Pishin, Kalat, Nasirabad, Uthal,
Kohlu, Zhob, Nushki, Khuzdar, Kharan, Panjgur, Turbat, Gwadar.
2! Peshawar, Mardan, Swat, Dir, Kohal ,annu, Mansehra, Abbottabad,
Malakand, D.I. Khan.
2/   Sialkot, Gujrat, Mianwali, Khushab, Bhakkar, Sargodha, Jhang, Faisalabad,
Toba Tek Singh, Sheikhupura, Lahore, Kasur, Sahiwal, Okara, Pakpattan,
Khanewal, Multan, Vehari, Bahawalnagar, Bahawalpur, Rahim Yar Khan.
6/   Nawab Shah, Khairpur, Sanghar, Hyderabad, Mirpur Khas, Jacobabad, Sukkur,
Larkana, Dadu, Thatta, Badin, Shikarpur.
5/   Bajaur, Mohmand, Khyber, Kurram, North Waziristan, South Waziristan.



(d) reducing government's financial obligations through increased cost
recovery, and encouraging WUAs to assume O&M responsibilities within
smaller irrigation commands.
Description
Civil Works (base cost US$70.9 M, including US$5.2 H farmers' cash contribution).
2.04      The project would provide materials, precast structures, personnel and
equipment for construction of required civil works. Farmers would provide all
unskilled labor, as well as all materials and labor for PLL (paras 2.16-2.18).
In Punjab, farmers would also hire masons, which makes up the entire farmer cash
contribution shown above. In the other areas, the implementing agencies would
employ the masons. Assurances have been obtained from GOP that all civil works
would be designed and constructed in accordance with technical criteria
satisfactory to the Bank.  In practice, such criteria would be those established
in the 'On-Farm Water Management National Standards for Practices and Materials",
Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives, GOP, June 1980. These are the
same specifications used for OFWM I and OFWH II. An exception to these
specifications is the requirement for "first class" brf ks, which are unavailable
in most areas of Pakistan. Hence, bricks procured shall be of good quality (free
of flaws, cracks and powdery crust of salts), well fired, and meet the following
minimum standards: (a) standard size (23 cm x 11 cm x 7 cm) with square corners
and parallel sides; (b) absorb no more than 61 of their weight during one hour
soaking in water; and (c) withstand a crushing force of 250 kg/cmo. In addition,
all masonry mortar shall have a cement/sand mixture of 1:4 (one part cement to
four parts sand). Concrete for lining and structures shall have a mixture of
1:2:4 (1 part cement, 2 parts sand and 4 parts aggregate).
2.05      Generally, civil works in the IIS will be limited to watercourse
renovation, including work on farmer branches and field ditches, PLL, and
demonstration centers. The same would be undertaken in the barani areas, but in
addition water storage tanks, diversion structures and channels for flood
irrigation in sailaba areas, higher efficiency irrigation technologies
(sprinkler, trickle, etc) and hydra ram pumps would be provided. Limited
facilities would be provided for improving the OFWM Training Institutes, field
offices, staff housing and Farmer Training Centers.
2.06      Planning and design of OFWM civil works is a continuing activity.
Hence, works to be constructed early in the project period will be planned and
designed by field teams prior to the start of the project. Completion of plans
and designs to meet envisaged targets should not be a problem.
2.07      Table 2.1 lists the major civil works targets.  These targets imply a
significant increase in work load over that in OFWM II (100% for Balochistan,
NWFP and Sindh) and represent a new activity for FATA and FANA. Except for
Punjab, works would be phased in during the first three project years to enable
implementing agencies to post and train additional field teams, as well as work
with farmers and WUAs.



- 12 -
Table 2.1:  CIVIL WORKS TARGETS
Baloh, MM   Puniab           Sindh   EATA   FA&  Total
W/C renovation (no.)
- Canal command             20      675  3,075    1,550      15     15    5,350
- Barani areas             900      335    900       100     50     50    2,335
PLL (ha)                 2,500   5,000 38,000    9,000    250    250   55,000
Demo. centers (no.)        150      150    500       250      5       5    1,060
Water tanks (no.)          350      100     45        -      10      10      515
Sailaba irrig. (no.)        35           -            -      -       -        35
Hydra ram pumps (no.)       -        -      10        -      -       -        10
2.08      Watercourse Renovation (base cost US$64.5 H).  About 70Z of the W/Cs
programmed for renovation (Table 2.1) are located in the IIS and the remainder in
barani areas. Whereas IIS W/Cs generally command between 75 and 200 ha and serve
25 to 50 farms, barani W/Cs vary considerably in size but are normally much
smaller, commanding 50 ha or less.
2.09      The communal W/C ("sarkari khal") represents about 20X of the W/C
length with the remaining 801 being farmer branches and field ditches. The
communal W/C, which conveys a large portion of the irrigation water, would be
demolished, realigned and rebuilt with clean compacted soil at the same site
(Plate II). In contrast to the other Provinces, in NWFP the communal W/C is
located on private land which complicates realignment and removal of trees. Even
so, it is important that unnecessary kinks and obstructing trees be removed to
reduce water losses and construction costs. As a guide in NWFP, bends in the
communal W/C should be limited to one every 50 m and lining should not be
diverted around individual trees. Precast outlets ("pucca nuccas", Plate III)
would be installed at junctions to reduce channel deterioration and water loss,
and to improve water control. In addition, at least one "pucca nucca" would be
installed for each farm and fields difficult to command because of terrain. For
larger farms one "pucca nucca" could be supplied for each 4 ha. Because 'pucca
nucca" lids occasionally chip or break, and to facilitate their replacement, all
manufacturers would be required to use standard molds approved by the
implementing agencies. A maximum of four culverts would be installed at major
crossings in each W/C, and a limited number of check/drop structures and buffalo
baths would be installed as required. All buffalo baths would be located within
500 m of a village. Where water is sufficiently clean, laundry sites would be
provided near each village as required.
2.10      The standard "pucca" lining in OFWM I and OFWM II was a rectangular
design using a double-brick masonry wall (23 cm) and a brick masonry bed (7 cm)
plastered inside and on top of the wall. This design has proven to be durable
and easy to install, but it is relatively costly (about US$7.25/m for W/C
handling 60 1/sec). Research at WAPDA's MRES and trials by the Provincial OFWH
Directorates indicate that other technologies will perform satisfactorily under
certain conditions. For example:



- 13 -
(a) single-brick masonry wall (11 cm) rectangular and trapezoidal designs
with 7 cm masonry bed are satisfactory for W/Cs constructed on or below
grade and in areas of low traffic; savings are about 40X of material
costs;
(b) Portland cement concrete wall (1:2:4 mix--7 cm thick) trapezoidal
design is more difficult to install, but is a good alternative where
acceptable quality bricks are not available; savings are about 40X of
material costs;
(c)  three-piece precast slabs are starting to be used--they cost about the
same as double-brick masonry, are relatively easy to install and would
appear to be a good substitute, especially where good quality brick are
difficult to find.
(d) PVC pipe is cost competitive for low flows (10 1/sec or less) and
rolling terrain. It is relatively easy to install and has low water
losses.
2.11      In OFWM II, "pucca" lining was provided for about 15X of the length of
communal W/Cs in FGW zones, and 30X in saline groundwater (SGW) zones and reaches
with high losses because of highly permeable soils. The higher percentage of
pucca lining in SGW zones recognizes that deep percolated water in these areas is
irretrievably lost for crop production since it becomes part of the brackish
groundwater. Deep percolated water in FGW zones becomes part of terminal
groundwater storage and is available for timely application through pumping.
Together with improvements to the "katcha" (earthen) section of the communal W/C,
this technology results in an overall reduction in conveyance losses within
chaks by up to one-half. Appropriate renovation of the "katcha" section of the
communal watercourse is essential because, with proper O&M, about 401 of the
water savings occurs in these reaches.
2.12      This project will provide greater flexibility to (a) encourage farmers
to improve their own branches and field ditches, and (b) allow additional lining
when less costly but acceptable lining technologies are selected by the WUAs (see
Table 2.2 below). This approach makes it possible to reduce water conveyance
losses within chaks without increasing the cost of publicly supplied construction
materials. The double-brick (23 cm) and/or three-piece precast slab technology
will be standard and will be used in all elevated and high traffic reaches within
IIS. The "threshold" pucca lining, i.e., with use of standard technology and
existing condition of farmer branches and field ditches, will be up to 10 of the
communal W/C in FGW areas and 20X in SGW areas. Recognizing the higher value of
irrigation water in barani areas, the percentage of "pucca" lining will be the
same as for SGW areas within IIS. Use of PVC pipe would be encouraged in barani
areas for flows of less than 10 1/sec -- especially in conjunction with tubewells
and water storage tanks. The maximum percentage of "pucca" lining under various
options is shown in Table 2.2. Effective implementation of these options will
require strong and continuing involvement of WUA members in the decision-making
process regarding the design of renovp&ed W/Cs. For trapezoidal design, good
compaction of side slopes is essential to prevent cracking and deterioration. To
overcome this problem, the project will provide each field team with a portable
compactor.



- 14 -
Table 2.2:  MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE (X) "PUCCA" LINING OF COMMUNAL W/C
Fresh Groundwater       Saline Groundwater
Standar  Les2Cgstlvx   Standard Less Costly
IIS
Field ditches improved l/             15        20             30         40
Field ditches current condition       10        15             20         30
Barani
Field ditches improved b/             30        40             30         40
Field ditches current condition       20        30             20         30
a/  Single brick and Portland cement concrete lining.
i/ Minimum improvement covering two-thirds commanded land within chak.
2.13      Formal WUAs would be organized and registered on each chak and "katcha"
improvement to the communal WZC would be completed prior to installation of any
"Rucca" structures (para 4.09). In addition, the following criteria would be
used by field teams in setting priorities for chaks to receive OFWM improvements:
(a) farm units operated predominately by low-income farmers with small
holdings (less than 5 ha); and
(c) willingness of the WUA members to improve their farm branches and field
ditches.
Within these criteria, areas would be chosen where groups of five to ten W/Cs
could be improved at one time to increase efficiency of the field teams and
reduce transportation costs. Also, the implementing agencies should give
preference to chaks served by irrigation channels being rehabilitated by the
Provincial Irrigation Departments (PIDs) under the Second Irrigation Systems
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1888-PAK). Assurances have been obtained from GOP
and GOProvinces that criteria satisfactory to the Bank would be followed in
selecting l/Cs for improvement as well as in detgrmining the length of WIC lining
and the extent of other "Rucca" and "katcha" improvements.
2.14      The following guidelines would be used by field teams in determining
the lining percentage and selecting reaches of communal W/Cs to be lined:
(a)  FGW would be defined as groundwater with less than 1,000 ppm total
dissolved solids (TDS) and SGW with more than 1,000 ppm TDS in the
upper 40 m of the soil profile. For planning purposes, the Atlas. Soil
Salinity Survey. Irrigated Areas of Indus Basin (41 M acres), WAPDA,
1981 would be used in making a general determination of FGW and SGW
zones;
(b) sandy soils would be defined as soils with 70% grain size greater than
0.2 mm in the top 2 m of the soil profile. Test results certifying the



- 15 -
existence of such soil conditions would be maintained in the design
file for eligible W/Cs; and
(c)  normally, head reaches of W/Cs, having maximum flows and hydraulic head
would be pucca lined. However, other reaches eligible for pucca lining
would include portions having excessive water losses because of
elevation or soil conditions, having chronic sedimentation problems,
and high traffic areas around villages and along roads.
2.15      Water Storage Tanks (base cost US$1.9 M).  About 500 water storage
tanks would be constructed in barani areas to conserve watar by increasing
volumetric flows through intermittent and timely relea3es. Because the yield
from many barani water sources is small and variable, high conveyance losses are
encountered with direct application of low discharges. The tanks would be
designed to store about 8-12 hours of inflow from the water source; however,
storage shou].d not be in excess of the crop water requirements of the commanded
area (2-10 ha). The tanks would be constructed with brick masonry walls (23 cm
wide, maximum height 1.2 m) and a bed made of plastic sheets on a compacted soil
base. Assurances have been obtained from GOP and GOProvinces that a formal WUA
would be organized for the command area of each project tank. and a W/C would be
installed in the commanded area. The W/C would be constructed consistent with
the provisions in paras 2.12 to 2.14 above.
2.16      Precision Land Leveling (ULL) (no cash base cost; however, farmers'
contribution in labor, materials and equipment amounts to US$14.5 M). About
55,000 ha of irrigated land, or about 7 ha per W/C to be renovated, will be
precision leveled. Although comparison clearly shows that simpler traditional
methods of land leveling are much less effective than PLL, implementing agencies
and farmers tend to 'down play" PLL because there is no government subsidy for
this more costly method. The project will give additional attention to this
important water management practice, including its applicability on smaller
plots. After traditional leveling, many farmers apply irrigation water until the
highest point in a field is covered, which leads to over-irrigation of low-lying
areas and under-irrigation of higher areas with a tendency for salts L.,
accumulate in such areas. Over-irrigation leaches soil nutrients from the crop
root zone, makes the soil less productive and degrades groundwater quality.
Fields not properly formed result in low irrigation efficiencies and yields.
2.17      PLL is a process of appropriate land forming.  Engineering surveys must
be made and a field layout designed for each farm consistent with soil type,
farmer's tillage equipment and crops to be grown. Studies at MRES indicate that
(a) leveling can reduce the time of irrigation (and amount of water) by up to
501; (b) proper field layout, which reduces the number and length of field
borders and ditches can increase the irrigation area by about 2X and reduce W/C
length by up to 601; and (c) proper land forming can increase yields as much as
25X.
2.18      The technical specification for land leveling under this project would
remain the same as under OFWM II, i.e. i 60 mm in basins and a maximum 0.4X slope
on lands to be furrow irrigated. The implementing agencies will provide
technical assistance to farmers for surveying, plan preparation and design,
layout and inspection. An engineering plan, field and irrigation ditch layout



- 16 -
will be made for each parcel of land or farm to receive PLL. The project will
provide specialized training for field teams to increase their technical
capability in carrying out this important practice. Involvement of individual
farmers in planning, design and layout is essential in order to come up with a
land forming scheme that best meets their requirements. Laser leveling equipment
was provided under OFWWM II, which resulted in better quality leveling jobs.
Based on this experience, additional laser equipment wiii be provided under this
project. Except in Balochistan, farmers would be responsible for all PLL
construction work -- either by hiring contractors or by renting scrapers and
other equipment from the implementing agency. In Balochistan, due to the
scarcity of privately owned tractors, the OFWM Directorate would provide
tractors, as well as ancillary leveling equipment for rent. Rental rates
established by implementing agencies would cover only maintenance cost of the
equipment, which would provide an incentive to farmers to adopt this practice.
2.19      Sailaba Flood Irrigation (base cost US$0.2 M).  Flood plain irrigation
has been practiced for years by farmers in Balochistan where they construct
temporary "katcha" diversion structures and off-taking channels to divert flood
flows from "nullahs" (intermittent, non-perennial streams) to adjacent lands.
This irrigation method is vital to crop production in the extremely dry barani
areas of the Province. However, the systems lack proper design. During periods
of low runoff, the "head enders" take all of the diverted flows. During flash
floods, the "katcha" diversion structures wash out and no one receives irrigation
water. Hence, the present systems are undependable and inequitable. Simple
rehabilitation of these systems, even though not a perfect solution, will
improve their operation and the lot of the farmers in these remote areas. The
project would provide for upgrading about 35 of these schemes through
installation of appropriately designed "pucca" diversion structures (brick
masonry, stone pitching, etc.) and rehabilitation of off-taking channels.
Assurances have been obtained from GOP and GOBalochistan that. formal WUAs woul
be organized in the command area served by the sailaba flood irrLgation schemes
to be rehabilitated.
2.20      Hvdra Ram Lifting Devices and Higher Efficiency Irrieation Technoo1gies
(base cost US$0.03 M). On a pilot basis, Punjab's OFWM Directorate has installed
several hydra ram pumps in the Potwar area and Soan Valley for lifting water from
perennial streams to irrigate higher lands. GOPunjab officials are satisfied
with the technology and want to expand it into barani areas. The project would
provide funds for an expanded "pilot" program of 10 such systems, which would be
operated in conjunction with appropriate water distribution systems. Where it is
possible to operate the distribution system by gravity, the design would be the
same as for barani W/Cs. In areas where distribution by gravity i.s impossible,
other higher efficiency irrigation technology would be installed (e.g. sprinkler,
trickle, bubbler). Agsuances have been obtained from GOP and gOPunj ab that
formal WUAs wQuld be organized in the command areas served by these schemes.
2.21      Demonstration Center, (base cost US$2.5 M).  Under OFWM I and OFWM II,
demonstration plots of 0.4-1.2 ha were installed on each renovated W/C. These
plots were operated for only one year. Except for PLL, there was little
incentive for farmers to cooperate, Because of these limitations the plots had
little demonstration value. This is unfortunate since a deficiency of the OFWM
program in Pakistan ls that equal attention has not been given to translating



- 17 -
water savings into increased agricultural production (para 1.16). In line with
the emphasis on irrigation agronomy in this project, GOP and GOProvinces have
designed a new approach for Jemonstration areas. Instead of plots, one
demonstration center will be provided for every 6-8 renovated W/Cs. These
centers, up to 2 ha in size, are to be located near a village and be easily
accessible. They will operate through project completion. Cooperating farmers
will be encouraged by government to continue activities in the post-project
period. The centers will demonstrate a full range of water management practices
and irrigation agronomy techniques. The project would provide technical
assistance for the planning and design of the water management improvements,
including materials and PLL. As a further incentive, the project would provide
additional agricultural inputs as required to demonstrate the value of good water
management and irrigation agronomy practices. Field days would be held during
each crop season (see Annex 5).
2.22      Facilitiel (base cost US$1.8 M).  To assist the OFWM program, the
project would provide certain facilities. In Balochistan, offices and residences
would be provided for five field teams located in remote areas, and a hostel and
classroom at the OFWM Training Institute. In Sindh the project would strengthen
the OFWM Training Institute. Five Farmer Training Centers would be constructed
in Punjab to improve training of officers and members of WUAs.
EguipMent (base cost US$4.6 M)
2.23      The project would provide vehicles, land leveling equipment, including
laser controls, hand compactors, and survey and office equipment. Except for one
vehicle and some office equipment, all will be for the use of field teams, and
supervisory and M&E consultants. Vehicles would include 70 pickups, 52 jeeps
(small), 9 autos or jeeps (medium size), 236 motorcycles and 210 bicycles.
Considerable equipment will be available from OFWM II to supplement the new
items, which should adequately equip the work force.
Technical Assistance (base cost US$5.0 M)
2.24      Technical assistance (TA) to be provided by the project, and contracted
by the Federal Coordination Unit, includes supervisory consultants and technical
experts (see paras 4.11 to 4.13):
(a)  Supervisory Consultants.  About 77 staff-years of locally recruited
consultants would be provided to assist the implementing agencies in
reviewing plans and lesigns, supervising and monitoring progress,
quality and quantity control, and preparing reports.
(b) Technical EsDerts. About 7 staff-years of internationally recruited
technical experts would be provided with the following expertise:
water management, irrigation agronomy, sociology, M&E and training.
Monitoring and EvaluatLon (base cost US$1.4 M)
2.25      The project would fund about 125 staff-years of professional services
to carry out the monitoring and evaluation (NhE) program. The program has been
divided into: (a) a base program, with related outputs, that would provide



- 18 -
insights into the nature and extent of benefits to be expected from OFWM
operations that are components of other projects, as wall as this project; (b) a
review of evaluation findings of OFWM programs included in previous projects and
follow-up evaluation on these sites; and (c) a component focusing on the
emphasized features of this project, i.e. WUAs, irrigation agronomy and barani.
To provide information on the sustainability of project benefits for a longer
period of time, selected sites (approximately eight each year) that received OFWM
improvements under previous projects, e.g. Pilot, OFWM I and OFWM II, would be
studied. About 16 sites receiving OFWM improvements under this project will be
intensively monitored and evaluated (see paras 4.16-4.18 and Annex 7).
Ttrining (base cost US$0.6 M)
2.26      Training would be provided by the OFWM training institutes and farmer
training centers. Most trainees would come from the field teams of the
implementing agencies, Extension Services and WUAs. Generally, project funds
would be used for expenses directly related to the trainees, e.g. travel
allowances, training supplies, etc.
Sugervision and Administration (base cost US$15.0 M)
2.27      The project would provide 34 field teams in Balochistan, 26 in NWFP,
114 in Punjab, 50 in Sindh and 2 each in FATA and Northern Areas, which would be
equally divided between engineering and irrigation agronomy. This is an increase
of over 50Z for Balochistan, Sindh and NWFP and totally new for FATA and FANA.
It will take time to recruit, post and train the staff, which is the reason for
phasing in the civil works (para 2.07) and the expanded training program (para
2.26). Funding would be provided for salaries, allowances and administrative and
operating expenses of these field teams and support staff, as well as a small
Federal Coordination Unit. As was the case for OFHWM II, it is envisaged that
supervisory personnel above field team level, i.e. area and directorate
personnel, and training staff will be funded as a non-project expense under the
Non-Development Budget.
III. PROJECT COST. FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT
Project Cost
3.01      Total project cost over the five-year period (FY91-95) is estimated to
be Rs 3,422.0 M (US$155.5 M equivalent) with a foreign exchange component of
about US$15.8 M or 10. A summary is given in Table 3.1, details are in Annex 1.
Estimates are based on June 1990 prices and include about US$12.1 N in taxes and
duties. Project cash cost is estimated to be US$112.0 M and farmer contributed
labor for civil works US$43.5 H. The cost of civil works is based on the most
recent unit costs for OFWM II. The project is highly divisible, and since it is
generally a repeater project, the requirements for equipment, technical
ossistance, training, M&E, and supervision and administration are well known.
h4c.ee, no physical contingencies have been included. Price contingencies are
a.bout 151 of base costs. The estimated annual inflation rates are given in
footnote g/ to Table 3.1; the FY91 rates represent less than six months of the
year (price contingency adjustment).



- 19 -
TabIe3.1A: PROJECT COST SUHMARY
ocal F Forein  Tota.    L          orei   Ttotl  Percent
RsM ---                   ----- US$ M --
Civil Works G/            1,416.6   144.1  1,560.7    64.4    6.5   70.9        64
Equipment                    43.0    57.1    100.1       2.0    2.6    4.6       4
Supervision & Admin. k/    280.9    49.5    330.4    12.8    2.2   15.0         13
Technical Assistance         56.6    53.8    110.4       2.6    2.4    5.0       4
Training                     10.4      1.8     12.2      0.5    0.1    0.6       1
Monitoring & Evaluation      24.6   6.1        30.7    -1       0.3   -.4LA      1
Base Cost              1,832.1   312.4  2,144.5    83.4   14.1   97.5        87
Price Contingencies _/      286.5    35.5  _322.0    1ZA        1.7   14.L      1
Total Cash Cost        2,118.6   347.9  2,466.5    96.2   '5.8  112.0    100
Farmers' Labor
Contribution             956.5      -      956.5    43.5    -      43.5       9
Total Project Cost    3,074.1   347.9  3,422.0   139.7   15.8  155.5    139
g/  Includes Rs 115.4 M (US$5.2 M equivalent) farmer cash costs (masons in
Punjab).
hJ Limited to incremental salaries and related costs of field teams and Federal
Coordination Unit.
S/ Assumed inflation rates (X)
ma91    maEX    FY93    F9       FY
Foreign costs                  2.5      4.9     4.9      4.9     4.9
Local costs                    3.4      6.0     6.0      6.0     6.0
FLnancln&
3.02      The proposed Bank loan of US$36.3 H and IDA credit of SDR 33.4 H
(US$47.3 M) would finance 1001 of foreign exchange cost and about 70X of local
cash cost, or about 84X of total cash cost net of taxes and duties. Punjab
farmers would contribute about US$6.0 M, or about 61 of total cash cost net of
taxes and duties. GOP and GOProvinces would finance the remaining US$22.4 M
equivalent from their budgetary resources. Excluding duties and taxes,
government flnancing would be about 10 of project cash cost. Farmers'
contributed labor (plus some equipment use and supplies) would amount to
US$43.5 H or about 281 of total project cost. Angroval of the project's PC-
Ls by ECNEC would be a condition of loan aind credit effectiveness. The
proposed financing plan is summarized in Table 3.2; details are in Annex 2.



- 20 -
Table 3.2: PROPOSED PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ M)
Total      Domestic         Be.k/  Percent
Cost    Farmers   G2t.       IDA   Bank/J-I
Civil Works                          81.9     6.0     12.8      63.1      77
Equipment                             4.8      -        1.9      2.9      60
Supervision & Admin.                 17.3      -       6.6      10.7      62
Technical Assistance                  5.8      -       0.3       5.5      95
Training                              0.6      -       0.6        -        0
Monitoring & Evaluation               1.6      -       .2        1.4      88
Total Cash Cost                   112.0     6.0     22.4      83.6      75
Farmers' Labor Contribution        43.5     3.L5                -        -
Total Project Cost                155.5    49.5     22.4      83.6      54
3.03      To facilitate project financing, GOP would establish four Special
Accounts, one for each Provincial OFWM Directorate, in the National Bank of
Pakistan (a commercial bank) which would be operated according to standard
Bank procedures for such accounts. All eligible expenditures of the OFWN
Directorates would be financed through these Special Accounts. The initial
deposit into the Special Accounts would be US$0.5 M for Balochistan, US$0.6 N
for NWFP, US$3.0 M for Punjab, and US$1.7 M for Siiidh, which represents the
Bant's share of approximately four months expenditurcs. Subsequent
replenishments would be made on the basis of applications submitted by the
four OFWH Directorates. Disbursements for the Fedar&l Coordination Unit, FATA
and FANA would be by withdrawal applications subiit;.sd by these entities.  To
facilitate completion of overall civil works ta.gete, 10X (US$8.4 M) of the
Bank Group assistance would remain unallocated initi'.-ly, to be utilized by
implementing agencies that have progressed faster in undertaking envisaged
works.
3.04      At the time of appraisal (May/June 1990), ,;lunjab had fully
utilized all allocated funding X_ er GFWM II. GOP hea requested retroactive
financing to cover eligible expenditures from June 1, '-t90 to loan/credit
signing.  It is proposed that retroactive financing be p-ovided, which could
reach about 61 of Bank Group assistance (or about US$5.0 iM).
D      -sburag=ts
3.05      The Bank loan/IDA credit would be disbursed for:
(a)  891 of the cost of materials and skilled labor for W/C renovation,
water storage tanks and sailiba flood irrigation improvements;
(b)  1001 of foreign expenditures, 100l   of local expenditures ex-factory,
or 601 of other local expenditures for equipment;
(c)  901 of the cost of supervisory consultants and M&E;
(d)  1001 of the zost of technical experts; and



- 21 -
(e) 92X of salaries and (non-travel) allowances of OFWM field teams and
irrigation agronomy teams.
3.06      Disbursements for (a) and (e) would be made against statements of
expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documents would be retained by the
implementing agencies for review by the Bank. Within six months of the date
of each withdrawal application for civil works, GOP and GOProvinces, assisted
by the supervisory consultants, would verify that improvements for which the
materials were procured meet agreed standards, specifications and criteria,
and that the procured materials had been used for such identified
improvements. Any deviations in quantities or deficiencies in construction
would be readjusted against subsequent requests for replenishment.
Disbursements for (b), (c) and (d) would be against full documentation. EQK
Sindh. disbursements would begin when recovery of construction material costs
from farmers under OFWM II has reached 25X of amounts due.
3.07      The final disbursement is anticipated to be made by December 31,
1995, about six months after the end of project implementation. The estimated
Bank Group disbursement schedule is in Annex 3. This schedule follows the
disbursement experience of OFWM II, except that it recognizes the necessity of
a phase-in period (para 2.07) to meet significantly higher targets in
Balochistan, NWFP and Sindh, and the fact that the program is new in FATA and
the Northern Areas. It also reflects the expectation that OFWM II assistance
will still be available to Balochistan, NWFP and Sindh during the first nine
months of FY91, and that in Punjab funding recently made available under the
Fourth Drainage Project (Cr. 1375-PAK) will keep 31 of its 46 OFWM II field
teams occupied during FY91.
aocurao.nt
3.08      Civil works, equipment, technical assistance, and M&E consultants
would be procured under the project. Procurement methods are summarized in
Table 3.3.
3.09      Civl  Works.  The 7.arge number of small civil works (over 15,000
sites; average cost about US$5,000 equivalent) would be widely scattered over
the territories of the four provinces, FATA and FANA. Farmers would
contribute all unskilled labor for OFWM improvements.  Therefore, civil works
procurement would essentially be limited to materials and skilled labor.
Materials would include cement, brick, sand, gravel, precast concrete
structures ("pucca nuccas") and slabs, and limited quantities of reinforcement
steel bars, concrete and PVC pipes, and plastic sheets. Because of the nature
of the works involved and the lack of suitable storage, several hundred
modestly sized contracts would be individually placed by OFWM field staff each
year. Hence, international competitive bidding (ICB) would not be
practicable. Brick, sand, gravel, "pucca nuccas" and slabs would be procured
through local competitive bidding (LCB) in NWFP, Punjab and Sindh. Because
work sites in Balochistan, FATA and FANA are isolated and mostly located in
tribal areas, procurement of brick, sand, gravel and precast panels would be
through local shopping by comparing at least three independent sources. Since
quantities of reinforcement bars, PVC and concrete pipes, and plastic sheets



- 22 -
are extremely small, procurement would also be by local shopping, comparing at
least three independent sources.  The size of each local shopping prIcurement
would be limited to US$1,000 equivalent, with aggreg"te value not to exceed
US$100,000 equivalent. Skilled labor in Balochistan, NWFP, Sindh, FATA and
FANA would be procured by direct hire following government procedures, while
in Punjab skilled labor would be hired by participating farmers. LCB
procurements exceeding US$100,000 would be sent to the Bank for prior review.
3.10      Cement for the project would be procured following government
procedures, which have proved to be efficient under OFWM II. Under these
procedures each implementing agency is allocated an annual quota to meet civil
works targets. The OFWM field staff pick up the cement at the factories and
deliver it to the work sites (with transportation arranged through LCB). If
the government quota is insufficient, the (usually small) balance is procured
from local dealers, representing private factories, through LCB. The price
charged by the government-owned factories is comparable to that prevailing in
the private sector.iI Average annual cement requirements would be under 200
tons each for FATA and FANA, 3,600 tons for Balochistan, 4,800 tons for NWFP,
14,800 tons for Sindh, and 21,000 tons for Punjab, involving an estimated
total of 55 contracts each year.
3.11      Equiment.  Procurement of vehicles (excluding bicycles), tractors,
laser controlled land leveling equipment and hand compactors would be by ICB.
Procurement of this equipment, except vehicles for supervisory consultants and
M&E, would be coordinated by the Federal Coordination Unit. Vehicles for
supervisory consultants and M&E would be procured under the consultancy and
M&E contracts. Procurement of bicycles (not to exceed US$15,000 in the
aggregate) would be through LCB. Land leveling equipment, i.e. scrapers, lard
planes, consists of small items manufactured throughout Pakistan and would not
attract international suppliers. These items, plus hydra ram pumps and other
higher efficiency irrigation equipment, would be procured separately by each
implementing agency using LCB procedures -- involving four contracts in Punjab
and two in Sindh. The aggregate value of such LCB items under the project
would not exceed US$100,000. Office, survey and monitoring equipment
(aggregate value US$1.3 M equivalent) would be procured separately by each
implementing agency through LCB and local shopping, with local shopping
limited to contracts not costing more than US$1000 equivalent each, and an
aggregate amount not to exceed US$100,000 equivalent for the project.
Contracts for equipment costing the equivalent of US$100,000 or more would be
sent to the Bank for prior review.
3.12      Consultants.  Employment of suitably qualified supervisory
consultants and technical experts would be in accordance with tt-3 GuidelLnes
for the Uge of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agengv (August 1981), and would be reviewed accordingly by the Bank.
3.13      Nonitoring and Evaluation.  An inter-agency agreement would be
entered into by GOP and WAPDA for carrying out the M&E program. The terms of
reference and draft agreement would be reviewed by the Bank.
1/   Based on FY89 data for Punjab.



- 23 -
3.14      Assurances have been obtained from GOP and imRlementLng agencies
that ICB orocedures for procurement of vehicles (except bicycles.  tractors,
laser controlled leveling equipment and compactors. LCB Rrocedures for
procurement of civil works materials (except cement). bicycles, land levellng.
office and survey eguipment. and local shoRoing orocedures for grocurement of
office and survey eauioment would be satisfactory to the Bank. In addition.
assurances have been obtained that employment of supervisory consultants and
technical experts and the H&E agreement would be on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT METHODS (US$ M)
Expenditure Category                   ILB                  Other    Total Cost
Civil Works -/                          -       43.9       38.0 k      81.9
-      (38.1)    (25.0)       (63.1)
Equipment                              3.3       1.3        0.2 k/      4.8
(2.0)     (0.8)     (0.1)        (2.9)
Supervision & Administration            -          -       17.3 k/     17.3
-         -       '(10.7)    (10.7)
Technical Assistance                    -          -        5.8 Q/      5.8
-         -       (5.5)        (5.5)
Monitoring & Evaluation                 -          -        1.6 /       1.6
-      (1.4)       (1.4)
Training                                -          -        0..6_b/     0.6
Total Cash Cost                   3.3      45.2       63.5       112.0
(2.0)    (38.9)    (42.7)       (83.6)
Farmers' Labor Contribution             -          -       43.5        43.5
Total Project Cost                3.3      45.2      107.0       155.5
a/ Since civil works are small and widely scattered, ICB is not
practicable.
k/ GOP/Provincial procedures.
£/  Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency, World Bank (August 1981).
{/ Inter-agency agreement between Ministry of Food, Agriculture and
Cooperatives and WAPDA.
Note: Figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed by the Bank Group.
Accounts and Audit
3.15      Accounting and audit procedures followed by GOP and GOProvinces for
OFWM II are satisfactory. Assurances have been obtained from GOP and the
implementing agencies that: (a) Rroject accounts would be maintained
separately by the implementing agencies and the Federal Coordination Unit: (b)
these accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the



- 24 -
Bane &and (c) rerorts of such audits would be sent to the Bank within nipe
months of the end of each fiscal year. The audit reports would include a
separate opinion as to whether the SOEs submitted during the year, together
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. They would also include an
opinion regarding the operation of the Special Accounts.
IV.  PROJECT INULZU=NZhTlN
Institutional Arrangements
4.01      Institutional arrangements would generally replicate those for OFWM
II. The project would be implemented by the OFWM Directorates in the
Provincial Departments of Agriculture, but in addition the FATA Development
Corporation and the Ministry of Kashmir Affairs for the Northern Areas would
have implementation responsibilities within their jurisdiction. Also, to
overcome deficiencies experienced in OFWM II (para 1.16), project
implementation would be facilitated by establishing a small Federal
Coordination Unit (para 4.07) in the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and
Cooperatives (MinFA), and project design improved by adding irrigation
agronomy field teams (para 4.05, and Annex 5).
4.02      Implementing Agencies.  The bulk of the civil works (over 98X) would
be implemented by the OFWM Directorates within the Provincial Departments of
Agriculture and the remainder by the FATA Development Corporation and Ministry
of Kashmir Affairs. These agencies would be responsible for: (a) planning,
designing, laying out and inspecting all project civil works; (b) ensuring
civil works construction meets agreed criteria and specifications; (c)
verifying quantity and quality of completed civil works; (d) preparing and
submitting withdrawal applications for Bank assistance; (e) organizing,
registering, training, and assisting WUAs; (f) procuring non ICB equipment and
materials, and submitting to the Federal Coordination Unit agreed and
authorized ICB procurement requirements (by June 30, 1991); (g) preparing
annual work plans by March 1 of each year as input to the following fiscal
year's ADP and to the consolidated project annual work plan (para 4.07); and
(h) submitting quarterly and annual progress reports to the Federal
Coordination Unit within 30 days of the close of each reporting period. The
agencies would receive assistance from supervisory consultants and technical
experts in carrying out their responsibilities.
4.03      The organization of the implementing agencies is shown in Plates IV
to IX. The organization of the Provincial OFWM Directorates varies somewhat
depending on the size, nature and complexity of programs to be undertaken;
however, there are certain commonalities, e.g. each is to be headed by a
Director General, and generally has Directors/Deputy Directors of field,
training, planning and monitoring, and administration. In Balochistan and
NWFP, all field teams (engineering and irrigation agronomy) are under the
supervision of Directors Field; in Punjab and Sindh, the engineering field
teaom are under the Director Field and the irrigation agronomy field teams
under the Director Irrigation Agronomy. Because OFWM schemes in Balochistan
are widely scattered and relatively small, the OFWM and Extension Service



- 25 -
staff are to be fully integrated to improve coordination and efficiency.
Because of the relatively small initial OFWM programs, the Chairman FATA
Development Corporation and the Additional Secretary, Ministry of Kashmir
Affairs would be administratively and technically in charge of their field
teams (one engineering and one irrigation agronomy field team in both FATA and
FANA). In FANA, the Ministry of Kashmir Affairs would coordinate and keep
close liaison with the Aga Khan Rural Support Program and the villages where
irrigation channels have been constructed and/or improved. As was the
provision for OFWM II, this project would finance the field teams, and higher
level management and training staffs of the implementing agencies would be
financed from the Non-Development Budget.
4.04      Field Teams.  There would be two signiZicant changes regarding the
field teams under this project as compared to OFWM II, i.e., an increase in
number to carry out the increased work load (para 2.07), and posting of
irrigation agronomy teams to achieve increased agricultural production from
saved water and ensure sustainability of benefits (para 2.03). The envisaged
number of field teams is 34 for Balochistan, 26 for NWFP, 114 for Punjab, 50
for Sindh, and two each for FATA and FANA, which compares with 12, 6, 46, 15
and zero engineering field teams, respectively, for these entities in
OFWM II.1 The composition of the field teams is given in Table 4.1.
J,/ Most personnel (agriculture officers and field assistants) to be posted
on the irrigation agronomy field teams were assigned to the engineering
field teams in OFWM II.



- 26 -
Table 4.1: COMPOSITION AND NUMBER OF FIELD TEANS
Balgchistan  NiM   pulab  Sindh   ZATA U
Engineering Field Teams
Canal (IIS)
Number of Teams                        1       13 /   46        23       -
Team Leader A/                        lxl     lxl3    lx46    lx23       -
Water Mgt. Officer                    lxl     lx13    2x46    2x23       -
Water Mgt. Supervisor £/              2xl     3x13    4x46    4x23       -
Rodman                                4xl     5x13    6x46    6x23       -
Barani
Number of Teams                        16        -      11       2      1 each
Team Leader                           1x16       -     lxll     lx2      lxl
Water Mgt. Officer                    lx16       -     lxll     lx2        -
Water Mgt. Supervisor                 lx16       -     3xll     3x2      2xl
Rodman                                4x16       -    4xll      4x2      4xl
Irrigation Agronomy Field Teams
Number of Teams                        17      13       57      25      1 each
Agriculture Officer                   lx17    lx13    lx57    lx25      1 each
Field Assistant                       2x17    2x13    2x57    2x25       lxl
Beldar                                2x17    2x13    2x57    2x25       lxl
Total Number of Teams                  34      26      114      50        4
a/  Team leader is a Wdater Management Specialist in Punjab, FATA and FANA, and
an Assistant Director in Balochistan, NWFP and Sindh.
b/ Also cover barani areas.
,/ Water Management Supervisor is equivalent to sub-engineer.
4.05      The engineering field teams will carry out the planning, deslgn and
construction of all OFWM improvements under the project, and will generally be
limited to such activities. This would include "call back" engineering
assistance to WUAs and work on individual farms, on such practices as PLL,
installation of farmer W/C branches and field ditches, and higher efficiency
irrigation systems. The irrigation agronomy (IA) field teams would be
responsible for improving irrigation agronomy through WUAs and their members.
Whereas the engineering field teams' working relationship with WUAs would be
generally limited to the construction phase, the IA field teams would work
with WUAs from the preorganization orientation phase to the O&M phase. The
number of WUAs covered by each IA field team would thus grow throughout the
implementation period. While the teams would have to give priority to the
needs of newly organized WUAs, it is expected that they would be able to spend
sufficient time with older WUAs requiring advice and guidance. The
responsibilities of the IA field teams would include: (a) preorganization
orientation of prospective farmer groups indicating interest in OFWM
improvements; (b) organizing and registering WUAs; (c) assisting and
counseling WUAs in their operations with a view to strengthening their



- 27 .
capabilities including O&M of W/Cs; (d) assisting in the liaison between WUAs
and engineering field teams; (e) assisting in establishment and operation of
demonstration centers; (f) guiding members of WUAs to adopt efficient
irrigation techniques; and (g) liaison with the village extension staff to
encourage and facilitate greater participation of the Extension Service in
activities relating to demonstration centers, operation of WUAs and supply of
non-water inputs and services to individual farmers (see Annex 5, Irrigation
Agronomy for additional details). Assurances have been obtained from GOP that
the IA field teams would be posted and that each implementing agency would
preRare an oRerational plan for these teams. and submit such plan to the Bank
for review and comment by SeRtember 30. 1991. In preparing such plans, the
implementing agencies would use the material in Annex 5 as a guide.
4.06      Coordination with and Strengthening of the Extension Services.  It
is envisaged that both IA field teams and extension staff would work with WUAs
but would have clearly separate responsibilities. While IA teams would
concentrate on organizing WUAs and training them in water management,
extension staff would provide advice on agronomic practices. Wherever
possible the two formations would join together to provide information and
guidance to farmers, e.g. at the demonstration centers. IA teams would also
invite farmers from unimproved W/Cs to come and see W/C operation and
maintenance after improvement, and discuss with WUA members and with extension
staff improved water management and agronom'c practices. In IA teams'
meetings with WUAs dealing with various aspects of improved water management,
extension staff would be expected to participate, adding their message to that
of the IA team. Further linkages would be established or reenforced by
arranging joint training courses for IA team members and extension staff,
stressing the importance, and demonstrating the feasibility, of cooperation in
field work as well as preparation of radio or TV programs. Experienced IA
team members could function as subject matter specialists in extension staff
training. The practice initiated under OFWM II would also be continued that
calls for the Secretaries of the Provincial Departments of Agriculture -- who
are in charge of both OFWM and Extension -- to hold regular meetings with the
Directors General OFWM and Extension to ensure the desired close coordination
between the two Directorates, resolve issues, and strengthen the OFWM and
related irrigation agronomy programs.
4.07      Federal Coordination Unit (FCU).  At the federal level.
resRonsibility for project coordination would rest with FCU established in
MinFA under staffing and reporting arrangements satisfactory to the Bank. The
unit would co.sist of a coordinator (Deputy Secretary), deputy, administrative
officer and support staff reporting directly to the responsible Additional
Secretary. FCU's responsibilities would include: (a) preparing, by April 1
of each year, a consolidated annual work plan based on the inputs of the
implementing agencies; (b) preparing consolidated quarterly and annual
progress reports, as well as Part II of the project completion report (see
June 1989 Guidelines); and (c) international procurement of equipment
authorized by the implementing agencies. The unit would receive assistance
from the supervisory consultants in carrying out these responsibilities. In
addition, FCU would be responsible for appointing the supetvisory consultants
and technical experts, as well as concluding the inter-agency M&E agreement
with WAPDA. Assurances have been obtained from GOP that the consolidated



- 28 -
annual work Rlan would be prepared bv ARril 1 of each year for the following
fiscal year. and the guarterlv and annual Rrofress reports prepared and
urnished to the Bank within 60 dAys of the end of the renorting Reriod.
4.08      Water Users Assoclations (MUAs}.  All four Provinces have enacted
WUA Ordinances, which vary by Province, but in general provide for: (a)
organizational procedures; (b) membership and voting requirements; (c) general
assembly of members; (d) powers of the Association; (e) resolution of
disputes; and (f) election and powers of a board of directors. The ordinances
provide authority for assessment of members for improvements and services they
receive and for organization of federations along minors, distributaries and
canals. They also provide sanctions if individual members or the Association
fail to adequately maintain communal W/Cs. In this case the OFWM Directorates
have the authority to undertake required maintenance and assess the members in
the form of land arrears through the Provincial Departments of Revenue. FATA
and the Ministry of Kashmir Affairs indicated that similar WUA authority would
be enacted for their jurisdictions. The enactment of WUA Ordinances in FATA
and FANA would be a condition of disbursement for works in these areas.
4.09      The "cornerstone" of the successful OFWM program in Pakistan is
farmer involvement through formally organized WUAs. A concerted effort will
be made in this project to strengthen the program and operation of these WUAs.
This is to be accomplished through the irrigation agronomy field teams (para
4.05 and Annex 5) and specialized training for WUA officers and members. II&
groject would continue the OFWM I and OFWM II policy of reguiring organization
of formal WUAs on chaks prior to installation of OFWM civil works (para 2.13).
WUAs would be responsible for: (a) providing required unskilled labor; (b)
seeing that quality and quantity of materials supplied by the government and
construction match their cost recovery obligations; and (c) O&M of installed
civil works. In addition, WUAs would be encouraged to assume responsibilities
such as: (a) undertaking OFWM work on farmer branches and field ditches; (b)
participating in the process of water allocations within the chak (warabundi)
and for the chak; (c) organization into federations for the purpose of
participating in the O&M and water allocation decisions relating to minors and
distributaries; (d) O&M of TWs in FGW areas; (e) installing surface drains
within chaks; (f) facilitating distribution of water and non-water inputs; and
(g) participating in the development and utilization of findings obtained from
demonstration centers.
4.10      Study of WUAs.  GOP has agreed to carry out, a study. to be comnleted
by June 30. 1993. on the Rossible role of WUAs in the distribution of
irrigation water within watercourse and minor canal commands. Terms of
reference would be satisfactory to the Bank.
4.11      Technical Assistance.  The project would provide about 77 staff
years of supervisory consultancy services and about 7 staff years of technical
experts. These consultants would be appointed by FCU and would report to the
Federal Coordinator; however, except for limited report preparation and ICB
procurement, their entire effort would be directed to support the implementing
agencies. The respective team leaders would be responsible for scheduling
assistance to the implementing agencies, and the Fedcr.l Coordinator would
become involved only to resolve disputes. Appointments would be on terms and



* 29 -
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.12). Assurances have been
obtained from GOP that such apgointments would be comgleted by September 30.
1991.
4.12      The major assignments of the supervisory consultants (SC) relating
to the implementing agencies include: (a) reviewing plans and designs for
civil works to ensure compliance with agreed criteria and specifications; (b)
checking quality and quantity of completed civil works and reporting findings
to the implementing agency; (c) verifying quantity and quality of materials
procured and civil works completed; (d) assisting in the preparation of
reimbursement applications, progress reports and annual work plans; and (e)
counseling on matters relating to organization and operation of WUAs and
irrigation agronomy (see Annex 6 for TOR for SC). In addition, the SC would
assist FCU in preparation of consolidated work plans and progress reports, the
government's part of the project completion report, and in ICB procurement.
In order to achieve efficiency, the team leader and support staff would be
located in the headquarters of the appointed firm; however, a senior officer
would be located in Islamabad to liaise with FCU. Senior field engineers
would be stationed in all Provinces, i.e., 2 in Balochistan, 2 in NWFP, 6 in
Punjab and 3 in Sindh, with FATA and FANA being serviced out of NWFP and
Punjab, respectively. The project would provide the following SC capability:
Table 4.2: SUPERVISORY CONSULTANTS
Position/DisciRline       Number          Staff Years
Team Leader                   1                4.3
Snr. Field Engineer          13               55.3
Sociologist                   1                4.3
Irrigation Agronomist         1                4.3
Sub-Engineer        8.            5
Total                  18                76.7
4.13      The project would provide about 7.2 staff years of a team of
technical experts. The team would consist of one full-time water management
specialist who would serve as team leader, and short-time specialists, i.e.,
irrigation agronomist, sociologist, training and M&E specialist. The team
would be located in the offices of FCU, but would spend over 50X of its time
in the field assisting the implementing agencies. The sociologist and
irrigation agronomist would assist in the programs of the irrigation agronomy
field teams working with the WUAs, and coordinate their activities with SC
counterpart specialists. The M&E specialist would assist WAPDA's WMED in
carrying out its work, and the training specialist would assist the Provincial
OFWM Training Institutes in developing curriculum and operations. The
Irrigation Management Specialist, in addition to his administrative
responsibilities as team leader, would be responsible for reviewing and
clearing all plans and designs for sailaba irrigation, hydra ram and higher
efficiency irrigation technology, as well as occasional spot checking plans,
designs and construction of other civil works schemes to be financed under the
project.



- 30 -
Monitoring and EvaluatLon
4.14      The two major objectives of OFWM III are to increase agricultural
production through effective use of water saved by improved water management,
and to strengthen WUAs. To determine whether these two objectives are
achieved, a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) program will be carried out to
provide:
(a) information and analysis on a continuing basis to implementing
agencies as an aid in management decisions enabling efficient
implementation of the project; and
(b) an assessment of project benefits and distributive effects for
consideration of GOP, GOProvinces, and donors.
4.15      Internal Nonitorin& of the project's physical and financial progress
would be carried out by the implementing agencies. This would provide them
with information on issues, problems and progress, which would give early
signals on matters requiring attention and possibly changes to facilitate
efficient project management and implementation. This information would be
made available to WMED (WAPDA) for use in project evaluation (para 4.16 ff).
Each Provincial OFWM Directorate would have a Deputy Director or Director of
Monitoring and Planning who would be responsible for supervising the data
collection and analysis, and preparation of the quarterly and annual progress
reports. In the Ministry of Kashmir Affairs and FATA Development Corporation,
this responsibility would be handled by the office of the project director.
4.16      External Monitoring and Evaluation of the project would be carried
out by WMED (WAPDA) under an inter-agency agreement with MinFA (FCU). The
project would provide WMED with the services of a short-term M&E technical
specialist. External monitoring would involve: (a) hydraulic measurements of
irrigation water flows in the W/C to determine (i) delivery losses and
irrigation efficiencies within the chak, (ii) equity of delivery, and (iii)
deliveries in relation to crop water requirements and production; (b)
hydraulic assessment of the supply channel (minor or distributary) to
determine (i) variations in supplies affecting equitable deliveries to the
chak, and (ii) seasonal and other fluctuations that vary from the norm,
resulting from the main canal, which could affect agricultural production; (c)
assessment of availability of non-water inputs and services to the chak; (d)
recording of cropping patterns, cropping intensities, yields, production, farm
income and cash flow; and (e) assessment of (i) farm labor and draft power
requirements and availability, and (ii) WUA operations.
4.17      Findings and analysis of external monitoring would be presented in
the various reports to be issued by WMED (see para 4.18 and Annex 7). The
analysis would focus on: (a) W/C conveyance and field application
efficiencies before and after renovation; (b) changes in time-scaled
indicators for items mentioned in para 4.16 (c) and (d) above; and (d)
performance of WUAs.
4.18      A case study approach would be used by WMED to minimize expenditures
and maximize the usable data gathered through intensive monitoring of W/Cs



- 31 -
selected by multistage sampling. Intensive studies throughout the project
implementation period would be carried out on 16 W/Cs representative of the
various agroclimatic zones, FGW and SGW zones. Most of these W/Cs will be
located in IIS, but several will be in barani areas. A sample of about 15
farmers on each W/C will be surveyed for socio-economic and agricultural data.
In order to obtain a longer analysis period, eight additional W/Cs will be
studied each year that were covered earlier under the M&E programs of the
Pilot Project, OFWM I and OFWM II. WMED would develop a computerized system
for managing and analyzing the data collected. It would produce biannual
reports by cropping season, annual summary reports, and a summary completion
report, as well as executive summaries for each of these reportb (see Annex 7,
Monitoring and Evaluation, for details). Assurances have been obtained from
GOP that the inter-agency M&E agreement would be finalized by SeRtember 30.
1991.
Oneration and Maintenance
4.19      Civil Works.  WUAs would be responsible for O&M of renovated W/Cs,
water storage tanks, sailaba flood irrigation improvements and hydra ram
pumps. Sanctions are provided in existing WUA ordinances to ensure such
maintenance (para 4.08). Individual farmers would be responsible for the O&M
of farm branches and field ditches, and PLL (for which they paid full cost),
as well as for higher efficiency irrigation systems requiring a high level of
cost sharing (801). Implementing agencies, through their irrigation agronomy
field teams, would supply the necessary technical services to assist the WUAs
and farmers in carrying out these O&M re.ponsibilities (para 4.05).
4.20      Vehicles. Office and Survel Eguipment.  The implementing agencies
and FCU would be responsible for the repair and servicing of vehicles and
other equipment procured under the project. Private workshops and facilities
are adequate in Pakistan for doing this work.
Implementation Schedule
4.21      Project implementation is scheduled for five years (see Annex 8,
Implementation Schedule). ICB procurement of equipment (mainly vehicles,
tractors and laser controlled leveling equipment) and most LCB procurement
(office, survey and small construction equipment) would take place during the
second project year. However, hand compactors would be procured earlier
because of the urgent need for this equipment to improve compaction prior to
installation of "pucca" lining.  Approximately 70% of the field team staff
would be rehired from OFWM II at project start and the remaining 30X will be
posted during the first two project years. Civil works targets are scheduled
to (a) accommodate the "buildup" of field teams; and (b) "dovetail" OFWM III
during FY91 with the completion of OFWM II and the expansion of the OFWM
component under the Fourth Drainage Project in Punjab (para 3.07). Hence,
civil works construction would begin during the second semester of FY91 for
all implementing agencies, except for Punjab (which initiated a limited
program July 1, 1990), and will be at full operation level during the second
semester of FY92. Plans and design for FY91 civil works construction will be
completed in advance because of the continuing design program of the
implementing agencies.



- 32 -
V. PRODUCTION. MARKETING AND PRICES. FARM INCOME. COST RECOVERY
Producti2n
5.01      Additional irrigation water supply through W/C renovation and water
storage tank construction, combined with other project improvements (PLL,
demonstration centers, improved water management) would increase crop yields,
cropping intensities, and farm incomes in the project area. Farmers would
also benefit from reduced time and labor for irrigation; easier W/C
maintenance; planned water supply reaching tail-enders; and fewer disputes
over water allocation within the chak. Depending on the location of holdings
at the head, middle or tail end of a W/C, it may be in farmers' best interest
to use additional irrigation water to (i) intensify cultivation on the same
area cropped before W/C renovation, (ii) bring additional land under
cultivation that could not be farmed before renovation because the planned
share of water did not reach it, or (iii) a combination of the two. IA teams
should be able to demonstrate, to both farmers and extension staff, the
advantages and disadvantages of each choice. Extension staff should advise
whether benefits could be enhanced by changes in the existing cropping
pattern.
5.02      Eight illustrative farm models have been chosen to represent the
project.  Wheat, fodder (berseem), cotton, rice (Basmati and regular),
sugarcane and fruit are the main crops grown. Pulses and maize serve as
proxies for other crops in the various subproject areas. Present and
projected annual cropping intensities in the eight models are shown in Table
5.1. Under present (P) and future without project (W/O) conditions,
intensities range from 60X to 1451. Increases with the project (W) are
estimated to be 4-12X. It is expected that most farmers would use the
additional irrigation water received to expand cultivation of major crops,
such as wheat, cotton, or rice.
able 5.1: PROJECTED CHANGES IN CROPPING INTENSITY
CroRping Intensity (X)
Nodal                             CCA (ha)        l        K&       i
Balochistan Fruit Zone                     31,100         95       95     102
NWFP Mixed Cropping                        55,350        145      145     151
Punjab Cotton-Wheat, FGW                  239,850        124      124     130
Punjab Cotton-Wheat, SGW                  119,925         93       93     101
Punjab Rice-Wheat                         239,850        126      126     130
Sindh Cotton-Wheat                        120,250        105      105     111
Sindh Rice-Wheat                          147,000        100      100     107
Barani Areas I/                            72,840         60       60      72
1,026,165
A/ In FATA, FANA, NWFP, and Punjab.



- 33 -
5.03      Past experience shows that with improved water management moderate
yield increases can be expected as follows (at full development): wheat 5-
131, fodder 7-13X, seed cotton 81, rice (paddy) 5-101, sugarcane 5-8X, fruit
8-13X, maize 10X, and pulses 9-14X. Details on estimated crop yields and
cropping intensities by farm model are in Annex 4, lable 1.
5.04      As a result of the expected increases in cropping intensity and
yields, incremental production (at full development) in the 1,000,000 ha
project area would reach about 104,000 t of wheat, 928,000 t of fodder,
26,000 t of seed cotton, 46,000 t of paddy, 123,000 t of sugarcane, 38,000 t
of fruit, and 7,000 t of other crops. Table 5.2 shows incremental production
of main crops in the subproject areas and the project as a whole. The total
value of incremental production in constant FY91 prices would be close to Rs 1
billion (see Annex 4, Table 3), of which wheat, fodder, seed cotton and paddy
would contribute about Rs 695 H (701), and fruit about Rs 216 H (221).
Table 5.2: ESTIMATED INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION OF MAJOR CROPS
(in '000 t)
paddy    Wheat    Cotton  Sugareane  Fruit    Fodder
Balochistan              -        4.1       -          -        4.7       30.3
NWFP                     3.0       7.3      -         26.6      9.5       65.9
Punjab                  29.6     63.4      19.2      67.2      17.9      612.7
Sindh                   13.7     28.9       6.7      29.1       4.8      211.1
FATA                     -        0.2       -          -        0.3        4.0
Northern Areas           -0.2                                              4.0
Total Project           46.3    104.1      25.9      122.9     37.5      928.0
Narketinj and Prices
5.05      Both government and the private sector are engaged in procurement
and marketing of farm output. Government procurement through designated
agencies covers wheat, cotton, rice, gram, potatoes, onions, oilseeds and
sugarcane. Prices for these products are fixed taking into consideration the
cost of production, domestic demand, supply and stock position, domestic and
international prices, and pos.'ble impact on the cost of living. Support
prices through risk transfer _.e to provide incentives to farmers (at
substantial cost to government, which sometimes leads to a situation where a
support price is set but no transactions take place because no budget is
provided). However, Pakistan's target of self-sufficiency in major food
production (especially wheat) has remained elusive. Rapid population growth
(para 1.02) is a major cause for this situation.
5.06      Farmers sell surplus production to individual buyers, government or
semi-government procurement agencies and agro-processing plants, or at village
markets where transactions are carried out by brokers, traders, and commission
agents. Further up the marketing chain is a wide network of town markets
through which agricultural commodities from the village markets are channeled
by brokers, wholesale and retail dealers to the larger urban centers for sale



- 34 .
to consumers and for export. Present marketing and processing facilities are
adequate to handle the project's estimated incremental outputs.
5.07      Currently, about 609  of Pakistan's wheat production is consumed on
the farm or sold in the open market. The rest is marketed in the public
sector. Public sector procurement is carried out by the Provincial Food
Departments and the Pakistan Agricultural Storage and Services Corporation
(PASSCO) which buy from producers and private traders at the support prices
established by government.  Prices for transact,ons outside the support price
system fluctuate seasonally and regionally, but fluctuations have been narrow
because of the stabilizing influence of GOP's procurement and support price
policies.
5.08      Half of total paddy production or less is consumed on the farm,
while most of the marketable surplus is bought by the state-owned Rice Export
Corporation (RECP) and is exported. Rice mills are primarily privately
operated. Until a few years ago, all rice was exported by RECP. But this
policy was changed and now the private sector also participates in export
marketing of rice. With over 850,000 t worth US$304 M equivalent, rice was
second only to raw cotton among agricultural exports in FY89.
5.09      Cotton and sugarcane are sold, either directly or through an
intermediary, to ginneries and sugar mills. Ginned cotton is consumed
domestically as well as exported by the state-owned Cotton Export Corporation
and private firms. In FY89, exports of 840,000 t of raw cotton produced
receipts of US$930 M equivalent. In areas where there is no sugar mill,
sugarcane is usually processed into gur for local consumption.
5.10      Because incremental production would be relatively small (the
project covering only about 6X of Pakistan's total irrigated area) and demand
is expected to rise -- in view of a fast growing population and established
export markets (cotton, rice) -- the project's annual incremental output
should be readily absorbed. Fodder would essentially be used on the farm.
5.11      To encourage input use and compensate for low procurement prices,
past Government policy had been to subsidize fertilizer, pesticides,
irrigation water and other inputs. However, starting in 1980 the policy
direction changed. Measures taken since that time include: increase in
fertilizer retail prices and operating margins of fertilizer dealers and other
sellers; privatization of pesticide import and distribution; increase of
private sector participation in fertilizer marketing; and elimination of
subsidies on pesticides and nitrogenous fertilizer. It is not expected that
input supply problems would hamper the project.
5.12      Farmers are assumed to receive and pay fixed prices for commodities
subject to government regulation and market prices for all others. FY91
farmgate prices used in the financial analysis are shown in Annex 4, Table 4.
Farm Income
5.13      The size of the model farms representing the project (para 5.02) was
taken to be about five hectares in Punjab (canal command) and Sindh, and about
two hectares in Balochistan, NWFP, Punjab barani areas, FATA, and Northern



- 35 -
Areas. Budgets prepared for these farms show annual net incomes from project
activities (in constant FY91 prices) ranging from Rs 37,500 (Balochistan Fruit
Zone) to Rs 15,000 (Sindh Rice-Wheat) in the 'with project" situation, or
between Rs 3,600 (Punjab Cotton-Wheat, SGW) and Rs 1,600 (Punjab Rice-Wheat;
Barani Areas) more than in the "without project" situation. Net incomes would
be between about Rs 270 and Rs 1,370 (depending on farm size and location)
lower during the years when repayment of the farmers' share in construction
cost is made (see Cost Recovery below). Details are in Annex 4, Table 2. As
shown by farmers' current demand for OFWM improvements, these financial
benefits, together with non-quantifiable benefits (para 5.01), would provide
sufficient incentive to participate in the project.
Cost Recovery
5.14      Cost recovery for irrigation and drainage is a central issue in the
Bank's dialogue with GOP and GOProvinces. Under the Command Water Management
Project (Cr. 1487-PAK), GOProvinces reaffirmed their commitment to move
progressively toward full recovery of the O&M cost of the irrigation system by
certain dates. The Government of Sindh agreed under the Left Bank Outfall
Drain Project (Cr. 1532-PAK) on a schedule to recover the full O&M cost of
drainage in the project area. New schedules for achieving full recovery of
the O&M cost of surface irrigation and subsurface saline drainage systems in
Punjab and Sindh have been agreed under the Second Irrigation Systems
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1888-PAK) and the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Loan (Ln. 2986-PAK). In addition to paying irrigation water charges, farmers
benefiting from this project would share the cost of OFWM works.
5.15      Recovery of a portion of construction material costs -- for W/C
renovation only -- was introduced under OFWM I in Punjab and Sindh, and
extended to all four provinces under OFWM II. Following are the current cost
recovery arrangements by province under Bank/IDA financed projects:
(a) All provinces except NWFP allow a seven-year repayment period
(including two years grace) for the farmers' share, and do not
charge interest.
(b) Punjab requires repayment of 251 of the cost of watercourse
construction materials. In addition, Punjab farmers hire the
ma&ons, whereas farmers in other provinces do not.
(c) Sindh requires repayment of 301 of the cost of watercourse
construction materials.
(d) Balochistan requires repayment of 251 of the cost of watercourse
construction materials.
(e) NWFP agreed to launch a program in FY86 with a recovery rate of 101
of watercourse construction materials and repayment terms as in the
other provinces. However, by cabinet decision of August 1989 the
program was changed to require recovery of the 101 farmers' share in
the form of a lump sum advance before the start of renovation work.



- 36 -
5.16      If the large number of watercourses requiring improvement (para 1.09
and Table 1.1) is to be renovated within a reasonable time, and other system
improvements are to be made, farmer participation in the financing of OFWM
works must increase. Therefore, under this project as well as all other new
OFWM projects, GOProvinces would:
(a) require cost recovery not only for W/C renovation as at present but
also for storage tank construction and installation of hydra ram
lift pumps and other higher efficiency irrigation technology;
(b) eliminate the two-year grace period previously granted (Balochistan,
Punjab, Sindh);
(c) reduce the number of instalments from ten over five years to six
over three years (Punjab only); and
(d) raise the percentage of cost to be recovered (NWFP to 20X, Punjab to
301) or require part of the farmers' share to be paid as an advance
before works are started (Balochistan - 101 advance, 151 in
instalments; Sindh - 1OX advance, 201 in instalments); for lift
pumps and other higher efficiency irrigation technology, 80X of the
cost would be recovered as a lump sum advance.
Punjab farmers would continue to hire the masons. Together, these changes
would raise the share of farmers in the cost of OFWM works, net of their labor
contribution, to about 251 in Punjab, 221 in Sinih, 191 in Balochistan, and
181 in NWFP -- an increase of between 51 and 9X over their share under current
cost recovery arrangements. These enhancements are an important step toward
the eventual goal of making farmers fully responsible for the financing of
construction. Greater increases in farmers' share would have been desirable,
but GOProvinces do not consider this feasible at present as program acceptance
would be jeopardized. In accordance with their participation in this project,
FATA and Northern Areas would also adopt cost recovery programs, following the
example of NWFP.  Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that the
2roposed enhancements would be implemented in all foutr rovinces by July 1.
1991. and that EATA and FANA would adoDt similar programs with effect from the
game date. However, raising the share of investment costs farmers have to
repay will achieve little unless collection is also improved. It is expected
that the Revenue Departments now responsible for collection in Punjab and
Sindh (para 1.16 c) will be able to reverse the declining trend observed under
OFWM II in the two Provinces. Based on progress already made in Punjab (about
451 of amounts due recovered by end March 1991), agreed target levels for
future recoveries are: 701 by December 31, 1991; 851 by March 31, 1992; 901
by June 30, 1992. For Sindh. it has been agreed that disbursements would
begin when recoveries (currently less than 101) have reached 25X of amounts
Aue. Target levels for future recoveries are: 451 by June 30, 1992; 701 by
December 31, 1992; 851 by June 30, 1993; 901 by December 31, 1993. The
difference in the time frame for reaching agreed target levels in the two
Provinces is due to Sindh's being much behind Punjab in making the necessary
administrative arrangements for collection.  Au        shave been obtained
that these levels would be achieed LU both Provinces by the agreed dates.



- 37 -
5.17      In present value terms, total project investment and incremental 06K
cost would amount to Rs 2,560 M (Table 5.3). Farmers would contribute cash
and labor and assume full responsibility for PLL and O&M of completed works.
The cost to government net of these contributions would be about Rs 1,48C M
(58X of total). In addition, farmers would repay a share of the cost of
construction materials and installation of works. Irrigation water charges
are levied per cropped area and vary between crops. Incremental payments by
beneficiaries due to changes in cropping patterns would bring total direct
recoveries to Rs 250 M. The net cost to government less these direct
recoveries would amount to about Rs 1,230 M (481 of total). An additional
portion of costs, which has not been quantified because of the uncertainties
involved but may not be negligible, would be recovered indirectly through
taxation of the project's incremental production.
Table 5.3: PRESENT VALUES OF PROJECT COST AND RECOVERIES
(constant FY91 prices, discount rate 1OX)
R8s M
Total investment cost                                   2,169.6
Incremental watercourse O&M cost                          389.5
Total cost                                          2,559.1
Farmer contribution to investment cost                    685.2
(cash and labor, including PLL)
Farmer contribution to watercourse O&M cost               389.5
Net cost to government                              1,484.4
Cost recovery on OFWM works                               233.3
Incremental water charge payments                          16.8
Total direct recoveries                               250.1
Cost to government after recoveries                 1,234.3
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Production and Emilovment
6.01      The project would raise agricultural production and incomes through
renovation and construction of OFWM works serving a command area of about
1,000,000 ha. Over 250,000 farm families or about 2 M people would directly
benefit. Their present annual per capita incomes from project activities of
between US$80 and US$195 equivalent compare with a per capita GNP of US$370
(1989, World Bank estimate). Total farm labor requirements would reach about
77 M workdays per year at full development -- an increase of 91 over the
present situation -- providing additional employment opportunities in the
project area. The project would cover large saline groundwater areas, where
farm incomes are generally lower than in fresh groundwater areas, would
benefit farmers at the tail end of watercourses whose incomes had been
depressed because planned water supplies did not reach their plots, and would,



- 38 -
where feasible, give priority to smaller farmers in the selection of
watercourses to be renovated (para 2.13). It would thus improve living
conditions of the poorer section of the farming community. Involvement of
women would follow-the pattern traditionally associated with irrigated
agriculture in Pakistan, with women participating in farm work but not in
water management. Women's working conditions would be improved through the
installation of laundry sites and buffalo baths on renovated watercourses.
Economic Analvsis
6.02      The economic rates of return (ERR) for the six subproject areas and
the project as a whole are shown in Table 6.1. Economic benefits and costs
given in Annex 4, Table 5 have been calculated in constant FY91 prices. The
main assumptions made in the analysis are as follows:
(a)  Project  Life:  Twenty years, with full development reached in
project year 10, five years after completion of works -- the build-
up of cropping intensities would take four years, and that of yields
five years for each batch of improvements.
(b)  Prices:  Farmgate prices for internationally traded goods are based
on World Bank commodity price forecasts, while those for non-traded
goods are based on domestic financial prices (Annex 4, Table 4).
Among traded goods, export parity prices have been used for cotton,
rice and sugarcane, and import parity prices for wheat, maize and
fertilizers. The market wage for labor as well as other domestic
prices and price components have been translated into border prices
by applying a standard conversion factor of 0.9.
(c) Project Benefits: Benefits consist of the estimated incremental
crop production described in Chapter V.
(d) Project Costs: All investment costs and incremental crop production
costs have been taken into account. The cost of the Federal
Coordination Unit, technical assistance, and monitoring and
evaluation has been distributed proportionately over the six
subprojects.
Table 6.1: ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN (X)
Balochistan                 19
NWFP                        25
Punjab                     28
Sindh                      24
FATA                        14
Northern Areas              14
Total Project               26



- 39 -
Sonsitlyity and Risks
(.03      The sensitivity of the project to changes in benefits and costs has
been tested using switching valuesV as a measure. The results show that at a
discount rate of 10 (the assumed opportunity cost of capital in Pakistan)
total costs could rise over 50X or total benefits fall 341 from their
appraisal values without making the project economically unacceptable. The
acceptable variations in benefits and costs are similar for the four
provincial programs but substantially smaller for FATA and the Northern Areas.
Details are in Table 6.2. Further tests show 'at with (i) a 20X decrease in
benefits and a 201 increase in costs, (ii) a 501 increase in costs, and (iii)
a three-year lag in benefits and a 10 increase in costs, the ERR would still
be about 111. Wit:n a 201 decrease in benefits and a 101 increase in costs,
the ERR would be about 141.
TabIle 6.2: SWITCHING VALUES FOR BENEFITS AND COSTS (X)
Benefits    Costs
Balochistan                -31        44
NWFP                       -34        50
Punjab                     -36        57
Sindh                      -31        44
FATA                       -14        16
Northern Areas             -14        16
Total Project              -34        52
6.04      The project would involve no unusual risks.  Implementation
techniques are well established, as this would be a follow-on project to
OFWM II and OFWM I. Monitoring results on project benefits are still
insufficient to draw firm conclusions, but on the basis of data which are
available it seems unlikely that with the planned improvements in input
management and proper maintenance of works the relatively modest production
increases should not be achieved within the estimated time.
Environmental Issues
6.05      The proposed project has been reviewed under the provisions of
Operational Directive 4.00, Annex A, "Environmental Assessment" and placed in
environmental screening category B. The project will not require the
preparation of an environmental assessment; however, designs used for project
funded activities will be reviewed to minimize environmental impact. Typical
of most water management projects, the project would have an overall positive
impact on the environment. It builds on existing infrastructure and improves
1/   Switching value is the percentage change of the variable tested for which
the project's net present value is zero, or for which the project's rate
of return is equal to the discount rate (usually the opportunity cost of
capital).



- 40 -
systems operation. Hence, it would not experience adverse environmental
effects normally associated with new development, such as resettlement,
depletion of land and water resources, and loss of wildlife habitat. Saved
irrigation water would raise agricultural production and incomes and thus the
well-being of beneficiaries. Improved water management would reduce deep
percolation to the groundwater and offset, or delay, problems of waterlogging
and related soil salinity. Water management would also reduce the incidence
of mosquito-borne diseases by reducing the habitat of mosquitos: stagnant
water seeping from deteriorated watercourses. The only expected negative
effect, which would be marginal, is a reduction in irrigation return flows and
a small increase in total dissolved solids in the Indus river and its
tributaries.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMNDATION
7.01      Assurances have been obtained from GOP and GOProvinces as
appropriate that:
(a) design and specifications for civil works would be satisfactory to
the Bank (para 2.04);
(b) criteria satisfactory to the Bank would be followed in selecting
watercourses for improvement, and in determining the length of
lining and the extent of other improvements (para 2.13);
(c) formal water users associations would be organized (i) for each
project storage tank, and a watercourse installed in the commanded
area; (ii) in the command area of sailaba flood irrigation schemes
to be rehabilitated; and (iii) in the areas served by hydra ram
lifting devices and other higher efficiency irrigation technologies
(paras 2.15, 2.19, 2.20);
(d) ICB procedures for procurement of vehicles, tractors, laser
controlled leveling equipment and compactors, and local procedures
for procurement of civil works materials, bicycles, land leveling,
office, and survey equipment would be satisfactory to the Bank; and
employment of consultants and the inter-agency monitoring and
evaluation agreement would be on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank (para 3.14);
(e) separate project accounts would be maintained by the implementing
agencies and the Federal Coordination Unit; these accounts would be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and audit
reports would be sent to the Bank not later than nine months after
the end of each fiscal year (para 3.15);
(f) irrigation agronomy field teams would be posted, and each
implementation agency would prepare an operational plan for these
teams and submit it to the Bank for review by September 30, 1991
(para 4.05);



- 41 -
(g) federal project coordination would be through a Federal Coordination
Unit established in the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and
Cooperatives; the consolidated annual work plan would be prepared by
April 1 each year for the following fiscal year; and periodic
reports would be submitted within 60 days of the end of each
reporting period (para 4.07);
(h) prior to installation of permanent works on individual watercourse
commands, farmers would be required to form WUAs covering these
commands (para 4.09);
(i) a study, to be completed by June 30, 1993, would be carried out on
the possible role of WUAs in the distribution of irrigation water
within watercourse and minor canal commands (para 4.10);
(j) appointment of supervisory consultants and technical experts would
be completed by September 30, 1991 (para 4.11);
(k) the inter-agency M&E agreement would be finalized by September 30,
1991 (para 4.18);
(1) the proposed cost recovery enhancements would be implemented in the
four provinces effective July 1, 1991, and FATA and FANA would adopt
similar programs effective the same date (para 5.16); and
(m)  90X recovery of amounts due under OFWH II in Punjab and Sindh would
be achieved by June 30, 1992 and December 31, 1993, respectively
(para 5.16).
7.02      A condition of loan/credit effectiveness would be the approval of
the project's PC-ls by ECNEC (para 3.02).
7.03      A condition of disbursement for Sindh would be that recovery of
construction material costs from farmers under OFWH II has reached 25X of
amounts due (paras 3.06, 5.16). A condition of disbursement for FATA and FANA
would be the enactment of WUA Ordinances in these jurisdictions (para 4.08).
7.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$36.3 M and an IDA credit of SDR 33.4 M
(US$47.3 H equivalent). The borrower would be the Islamic Republic of
Pakistan.



- 42 -
Annex 1
Table 1
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT, BAI.0CHISTAN SU3PROJECT
Sunuarv Accounts bv Ye§.
Base Costs
(Rs '000)                        Foreign Exchange
90f91    91/92    9.293    93/94    94/95    Total              Asount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. ANNUAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM        6.094.0 27P901.0 30.108.1 31.830.4 29t268.7 125,202.2    10.0  12,485.2
2. FARMER CONTRIBUTION
DONATED LABOR                     1,757.6  8,292.4  9,166.7  9p962&0  99962.0  39,140.7     0.0       0.0
SJub-Total FARMER CONTRIBUTION       1,757.6  8.292,4  9P166.7  9,962.0 9,962#0  39,140.7      0.0       0.0
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                   7,851.5 36.193.4 39,274.8 419792.4 39,230.7 164,342.9     7.6  12,485.2
B. EQUIPHENT                              7'6.8 14,657,3   463.9    463.9    463.9  160775.9    57.0   9,560.3
C. SUPERVISION AND ADMINISTRATION       2,094.9  8,280.4  8.280,4  8.280.4  8,280.4  35,216.7    15.0   5268U.6
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
E. TRAINING                               103.3   310.0    310.0   310.0   310.0   1,343.5    15.0    201.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                    10.776.6 599441.2 48.329.2 50,846.8 48,285.1 217,678.9   12.6 27,515.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                       10,776.6 59,441.2 48,329.2 50,846.8 48,285.1 217.678.9    12.6  27.515.0
Price Contingencies                        350.3  3,589.6  6,088.8  9,779.8 12,678.9  32,487.4     8.6  2,804.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                        11.127.0 63,030.7 54,418.0 60,626.6 60,964.0 2509166.3   12.1  30,319.4
Taxes                                    1,165.7 10,004.3  4.704.7  5,205.1  5,153.4  26,233.2     0.0       0.0
Foreign Exchange                         1,384.1 13,040.3  5,014.7  5,460.5  5,419.8  30,319.4     0.0       0.0
---  -- -- - -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -
October 21, 1990 09:00



- 43 -                                         Annex 1
Table 2
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANA6EMENT PROJECT, NWFP SUBPROJECT
Suusarv Accounts bv Year
Base Costs
(Rs '000)                         Foreign Exchange
90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    Total         %     Amount
-====c  ==Czco CZuC :-==_s  U:c: un: zzZZZ                 zC:  :22Z::::
I. INWESThENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. ANNUAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM        7.84441 346067.4 37p636.8 37.636,8 37p636.8 154,821.9    10.0  15,438.9
2. FARMER CONTRIBUTION
DONATED LABOR                     3.350.5 14.940,9 16,115.9 16,115.9 16,115.9  66.639.1      0.0       0.0
Sub-Total FARMER CONTRIBUTION        3.350.5 14,940.9 16t115*9 16.115.9 16.115.9  664639.1      0.0        0.0
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                  11.194.6 49,008.3 53.752.7 539752,7 53,752.7 221,461.0      7.0  15438.9
B. EGUIPHENT                              515.5  4,870.8    165.0    165.0    t65,0  5,881.2    57.0   3.351.6
C. SUPERVISION AND ADMINISTRATION       2,069.2  8.276,8  8,276#8  8t276.8  8,276,8  35,176.4    15.0   5.262,5
D, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
E. TRAINING                                103.3    361.7    361.7    361.7    361.7   1,550.2    15.0     231.9
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                     13882,.6 629517.6 62,556.2 62t556.2 62p556#2 264068.7      9.2  24,284.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                        13.882.6 62.517.6 62U556.2 62,556.2 62,536.2 264,068.7     9.2 24,284.9
Price Contingencies                        456.0  3,917.2  7,907.4 12,067.1 16.473.1  40,820.7      6.9   2,825.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                         149338*6 66.434.8 70,463.6 74,623.3 799029.2 304,889.5     8*9  27,110.7
=:-__---- ------- 2__:__:_ a==CC_=  CC=:  =:= :==___s__ :=c -   .. ....
Taxes                                    1.277,9  6,719*2  5#5i3.3  5S836.6  6,178.9  25P526*0    0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                          1,435.5  7,837.9  3S662*0  5,941.2  69234,1  27,110.7     0.0        0.0
------                                                                   - -- 09-----
October 21, 1990 09'009



- 44 -                                        Annex 1
Table 3
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARN WATER hANAGEMENT PROJECT. PUNJAB SUBPROJECT
Suamari Accounts b1 Year
Base Costs
(Rs '000)                             Foreign Exchange
.............      _      ----
90/91     91/92      92/93     93/94     94/95      Total        Z      Amount
tst,a.S =ozut=     uu=mc:c uuurcauuu sm.:=::c :u:s;.Ba            =      e:_ sJ=
to INVESTMENT COSTS
At CIVIL WORKS
1* ANNuAl DEVELOPMENT PROGRAH        429699.2 176,082.2 170,562.6 167.802.8 167.857,9   725.004.6   10.0   72.297.5
2. FARMER CONTRIBUTION
CASH CONTRIBUTION                  6,460.8  27,231.0  27,231.0  27,231.0  279231.0   115.384.7    0.0            0.0
DONATED LABOR                     29,469.4 t27,495.1 127,495.1 127,495.1 127#495.1   539,450,0    0.0            0.0
Sub-Total FARMER CONTRIBUTION        35,930.2 1546726.1 1540726.1 154,726.1 154.726.1   654,834.7    0.0            0.0
Sub-Totdl CIVIL WORKS                    78.629°4 330,808.3 325,288.7 322,528.9 322,584.0 1.379,839.3    5.2   72,297.5
B. EQUIPHENT                              2,690.8  45*186.7   2.061.9   2,061.9   2.061.9    54.063,3   57.0   30,809.7
C. SUPERVISIOP AND ADMINISTRATION        10,369.9  41,160.6  41,160.6  41t160.6  41,160.6   175,012.1   15.0   26.182.5
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
E. TRAINING                                 361.7   1,S50.2   1,550.2   14550.2   1*550.2       6,562.5   15.0       981.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                      92.051.8 418.705.8 370.061.4 367,301.6 367,356.7 1,61S5477.2    8.1  130,271.5
otal BASELINE COSTS                         92.051.8 418.705.8 370,061.4 367,301.6 367p356.7 1,615477.2    8.1  1304271.5
Price Contingencies                        3.045.2  26.183.1  46,946.1  71*106.5  97,083.1   244,364U0    5.8   149127,0
otal PROJECT COSTS                          95S097,0 444.888.9 417,007.4 438,408.0 464p439.8 1,859.841.1    7.8  1449398.5
:-=:s  :S         ::     - - :::    ':  :z         ::::=:=  =:             _
Taxes                                      6,817.8  42.762.6  25,870.4  27,020.5  28,607.6   131*078.8   00            0.0
Foreign Exchange                           7t579.2  52.180.1  27,071.6  28.088,1  29.479.5   144,398.5    0.0           0.0
ctober 21. 1990 09:15



45 -                                         Annex 1
Table 4
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECTt SINDH SUBPROJECT
Sumearw Accounts bY Year
Dow Costs
(Rs '000)                            Foreign Exchange
90/91     91/92     92/93      93/94     94/95    Total         X      Amount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. ANNUAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM        19F604.0  90,280.7 100.301.6 1099032.1 106P640.1 425.858.6    10.0  42t466#7
2, FARMER CONTRIBUTION
DONATED LABOR                      7,597.7  36,407.5  40t260,2  43p762U5  45,102.8 173t130.6        0.0       0.0
Sub-Total FARMER CONTRIBUTION         7,597.7  36P407.5  40,260.2  439762.5  45,102.8 173.130.*6    0.0           0.0
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                   27,201.7 126t688.2 140.561.8 152.794.6 151,742.9 598.989.2        7.1  42946.7
B. EQUIPMENT                                881,5  t3,178.7      412.4     412,4      412.4  15t297.3    57.0   8,717.7
C. SUPERVISION AND ADMINISTRATION         49566,2  18,327.3  18,327.3  18.327*3  18,327.3  77,875.3    15.0  114650.5
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
E. TRAINING                                 103.3     516.7      516.7     516.7     516.7   2.170,3    15.0       324.7
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                      32,752.7 158.710.9 159,818.2 172,051#0 170,999.3 694,332.0       9.1  63,159.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                         32752.7 158,710.9 159,818.2 172,051.0 170#999.3 694,332.0        9.1  63,159.5
Price Contingencies                        1,078.3   9,934,1  20,203.6  33,197.7  45,051.3 109,465.0       6.8   7,457.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                          33,830.9 168.645.0 180,021.8 205,248.7 216,050.6 8039797,0        8.8  70.617.0
--=_==-=1_::__  ==-..   :===-_===-  =----   ==:s -2 .:::
Taxes                                      2,966.7     568.4  14,300.4  16,284.0  16,907.4  68,026.8       0.0        0.0
Forei;n Exchange                           3,233.6  20,297.1  14,383.6  16,099.2  16i6O3.5  70,617.0        0.0       0.0
October 21 1990 09:20



- 46 -
Annex 1
Table 5
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARN VATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT. FATA SUBPROJECT
Suuara  Accounts b9 Year
Base Costs
(Rs '000)                    Foreign Exchanse
90/91  91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   Total      X     Amount
, II :==am                           ==S--=_==_=   _    ___Q_-=m
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL KIS
1, ANNUAL DEVWELOPENT PROGRAM      501.2 1,416.1 1771,4 1,771.4 1.7714  79231*6   10.0    721.1
2. FARM  CONTRIWTION
DONATED LABOR                   170.8  688.3  789.8  789.8  789.8  3,228.4        0.0       0.0
Sub-Total FARMER CONTRIBUTION      170.8  688.3  789.8  789.8  789.8  3Y228,4    0.0           0.0
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                 672.1 2,104,4 24561.2 2,561.2 2,561.2 10,460.0    6.?    721.1
B. EQUIPNW                             15*5  666.4   15.5   15.5   15.5   728.3   57.0    415.0
Co SUPERVISION AN ADNINISTRATION      103.0  412.1  412.1  412.1   412.1  10751.4    15.0    262.0
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
E. TRAINING                            31.0   72.3   72.3   72.3   72.3   320.4   15.0           47.9
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                   821.5 3t255.2 3061.1 3,061*1 3,061.1 13,260.0   10.9  1.446,1
Total BASELINE COSTS                      821.5 3.255,2 3,061.1 3,061,1 34061*1 13,260.0   10.9   1446*1
Price Contingncies                      27.1  198.7  386.7  5".l   805.6  2,008.1    7.6    152.9
Total PROECT COSTS                        848,6 3P453.9 3447.8 34651.2 3,866.6 15P268.1    10.5   1599#.1
== =-= == ==z =: ==
Tes                                     74*5  480.7  270.4  286.3  303.0  1,414,?    0.0           0,0
'vomign Exdwe                           80.8  623.1  284.2  298*2   312.9  1".991        0.0       0.0
Nwvmbr 8 1990 17:11



- 47 -
Annex 1
Table 6
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FAN  AER IAT AEJE   PROECT. NORTHEN AS  SUBPROECT
Smr   Acounts ba Year
one Costs
(Rs '000)                 Foreign Exchange
90/91 91/92  92/93  93/94  94/95  Total      2    Amnt
I. INVESTNENT CSTS
A. CIVIL VORKS
1. ANNtIL I3EELOPIEN PIOGRA    501.2 1416.1 10771*4 1771.4 1,771.4  7t231*6   10.0   721.1
2. FANER CIORIhUTION
DOITED LADIOR                170.8  688.3  789.8  789.8  789.8 3,228.4    0.0      0.0
Sub-Total FARBER CONTRIBUTION   170.8  688.3  789.8  719*8  789.8 3P228,4    0.0      0.0
Sib-total CIVL VOS                672.1 24104.4 2561.2 2.561.2 29561.2 10,460.0    6.9   72191
3. ESIIPIENT                       15.5  666.4   15.5   15.5   15.5   728.3   57.0   415.0
C. SUERVISION AND ANIINISTRATION  103.0  412.1  412.1  412.1  412.1 1,751.4   15.0    262.0
Do TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Es TRAINN                          31.0   72.3   72.3   72.3   72.3   320.4   15.0      47.9
Toal IBIESTIENT COSTS                821.5 3,255.2 3,061.1 3&061,1 3t061.1 13,260.0   10.9  1U446.1
Total BASELIIE COMS                   821.5 3,255.2 3,061.1 ? ' o.1 3,061.1 132600,0  10.9  1446*1
Pfice ContinU@ncies                 27.1  198.7  386.7  590.1  905.6 2,008.1    7.6    152.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                   848.6 3t453#9 3t447.8 3t651.2 3.866,6 15,268*1   10.5  1,599.l
nm=,-.                 ---         m        --
Taxn                                74.5  480.7  270*4  28063  303.0 1,414.9    0.0      0.0
Frmign Exeh_ng                      80.8  623.1  2B4.2  296.2  312.9 1S,991   0.0       0.0
Nouvmer 8 1990 17M14



- 48 -                                         Annex 1
Table 7
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARN VATER NANABIEENT PROJECT, COORDINATION, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, hlE
Sumarv Acrourts bh Year
Bse Costs
(Rs '000)                        Foreign Exchwae
90/91   91m      92/93    93/9",   94/95    Total              Ammunt
=s =3 3   =3  .    =   = =3,
I. INWETHENT COSTS
A. CIVIL VORKS
B. ENUIPNENT                           144.3  6,154,8   175.3    92.9    75.3   6p642.4    57*0   3p785.4
C. SUPERUISION AND ADIINISTRATION     212.7   850*9    850.9  89509    850.9  3s616.1    15.0    541.0
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. LOCAL CONSULTMTS              3,097.8 12#396,2 12439642 12P396.2 129396.2  52,682.6    20.0  10,510.7
2. EXPATRIATE CONSULTAMTS              - 14e4418 149441.8 14441.8 14,441*8 57,767.1    74*9  43t291#1
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTMNCE       3,097.8 26,838.0 26,838*0 26?98.*0 26,938.0 110,449.7    48.7  53,801.8
Es NONITORIN9 AND EVALUATION         1,804*1  7,216.5  7,216.5  7,216.5  7,216.5  309670.1    20.0   6t119.0
To -- !NVESNENT COSTS                  5,258.9 41,060.1 35,080.6 349fl9.1 34,980.6 151,3m7.3   42.4 64,247.1
Tota  9ASELINE O OSTS m5258.9 41,060.1 35,080.6 34 M  .1 34980.6 151378.3    42.4 64247*1
Price Contingencies                     167.1  2,351.5  4,101.0  69256.4 8,537.4  21,413.3    37.2   7,966.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                     59426.0 4341o1.6 39M181.5 41,254.5 43,518.0 172,791.6    41.8  72,213.2
=  - =3=3=== =
Ton .                                  591.1  4,677.1  2,354.2 2,452.2  2,595.1  124U9.8        0.0       0.0
Fohrign Exchanoe                      1,119.0 19,287.3 16,484.1 17,242.4 18,080.4  72,213*2    0.0        0.0
Novuobr 8 1990 17518
.}~~~~ ~                                                         . I



- 49 -
Annex 1
Table 8
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARN VATER NANAGEME  PROJECT
Sumer Accotmts b. Year
Base Costs
(Rs '000)                           Foreign Exchange
90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95        Total        I    Amount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL VORKS
1. ANNUAL DEVELOPMENT PRORAM        77P243#7 3319163.4 342,152.0 349,844.9 344,946.4 1,445,350.4   10.0  144,130.5
2. FARMER CONTRIBUTION
CASH CONTRIBUTION                 6,460.8  279231*0 27t231.0  279231.0  27,231.0   115,384.7   0.0         0.0
BDIATES LAJWR                    42,516.8 188,512.6 194,617.4 198,915.1 2009255.3  824,817.2   0.0         0.0
Sub-Total FARMER CONTRIBUTION       48,977.6 2157U43.5 221,848,4 226,146.0 227,486.3  940201.9    0.0         0.0
Sub-Total CIVIL MORKS                 126t221*3 546,906*9 564,000.4 575,"1.0 572,432.7 24385,552.3   6.0  144,130.5
D. EGUIPiENT                            4,989.8  85,381.2  39309,4  3,226.9  3,209.4   100,116.6  57.0  57054.6
C. SUPERVISION AND ADNINISTRATION      19.5189  77,720*1  77720.1  77720.1  77,20.1   330,399.2  15.0  49,429.1
D TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1o, LOCAL CONSU.TANTS                3,097,8  129396.2  129396,2  12,396.2  12P396.2   52,682.6  20.0  10,510.7
2. EXPATRIATE CONSULTANTS                  - 14441.8  14,441,8  14U441.8  14,441.8    57D767.1   74.9  43,291.1
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE          3,097.8 26,838.0 26,838.0  26,838.0 26h838.0  110,449.7  48.7  53,801.8
E. TRAININS                               733.8  2.883.4  298M3.4  2,883.4  2,883.4    129267.2  15.0   1e835.2
F. MONITORING AND EVALUATION           1804.1  7,216*5  7,216,5  7,216.5  7,216*5   30,670.1   20.0   6W119.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                   1564365.7 746p946#0 681,967.6 693,875.8 690,300.0 2,969t455.2  10.5 3129370.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                      156.365,7 746,946.0 681,967.6 693,875.8 690,300.0 2,969,455.2  10.5  3129370,2
Price Cantinkmncies                      5,151.0 46,372.8  86,020.2 133,587,7 181,434,9  452,566.6   7.8  35,486.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                       161,516.7 m3318.8 767,987.9 827,463.5 871,734.9 3.422,021,8  10.2 347,854.9
-119c        -       , uuauu .-um-;u----   ----- --
Taxes                                   12,958.2 82.693,0 53,283.8 57,370.9 60,038.4  266,344.4   0.0             0.0
Foreign Exdbanie                        14,913.0 113,888.9 694184.4  73,427.7 769443.0  3479856.9    0*0          0.0
No4ember 8 1990 17:26



- 50 -
Annex 1
Table 9
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARtI VATER NANAGENENT PRIOECT
Project Components bi Year
(Rs '0)
Base Costs                             Total
90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94       94/95        Rs      (9S* '000)
Z==        M _ M =     _ ==    =               I I===
A. DLOCHISTAR                             10,776.6 59p441,2 48,329.2  50.846.8 48,2B5,1   217.678.9    9,894.5
D. NORTH WEST FRONTIER                    13M992.6 62,517.6 62556.2 62t556.2  624556.2   264,068.7  12003.1
c. PUNJmm                                 92*051.8 418,705.8 370,061*4 367r301#6 367o356#7  1,615,477.2  73M430.8
D. SINNm                                  32M752.7 158,710.9 159,818*2 172,051.0 170,999.3   694.332.0  31.560.5
E. FEDERALLY ADNINISTERED TRIBAL AREAS       821.5  3,255.2  3,061*1  3,061.1   3,061.1    13,260.0         602.7
F. NORTERN AREAS                             821.5  3t255.2  3,061*1  3,061.1   3,061.1    13,260.0         602.7
G. FEDERAL COORDINATION UNIT              5U258#9  41,060.1  35,090*6  34,998.1  34,980.6    1519378.3   6,890.8
Totdl BSElINE COSTS                        156,365.7 7469946.0 681,967.6 693,875.8 690,300.0 2.969,455.2  134,975.2
Price Contingencies                       5151.0  46t372.8 86.020.2 133,587.7 181,434.9   452,566.6  20,571.2
Totl PROIECT COSTS                         161P516*7 m73UM8,8 767,987.9 827,463.5 871,734.9 3,422,021.8  155t546.4
~~~% ,       -    r - - - -   -   ------
Taxes                                    12,958.2 824693.0 534283.8 57,370.9 60,038.4   26,344.4   12t106.6
Formign Exchange                         14,913.0 113,898.9 690184.4 73,427.7  76,443.0   347,856.9   15.811.7
NwveebWr 8O 190 17:26
.t                      ~~~-.    , 



PAKISTA
THIR  ON-FAMN MATER KNENENT PROJECT
Finamncin Plan BD Disbursownt Cateory
(US$ '000)
NLD 3NMIANID  FARIERS (CASH) FARS (LADN)   Gvenment            Total
----                       --- -- - Local (Excl. Duties I
Amout   I    Amamt   Z        Amut   I    Amot              Amomt    X   For. Exch.    Taxes)      Taxes
==~ e-s     =s e3 _=-- ~-___:: _--  -=--   -=
WIIERC(UISE EIWATIUN           61v226.5 60.5  6,060*4  6.0  26,371.4 26.1  7,567.3  7.5  101,225.6 65.1    6,682.4       86t975.9  7,567.3
VIAER STWAE TANKS               1,911.3 80.5      10.1  0.4     215.5  9.1    236.2 10.0   2,373.2  1.5        209.5      1,928.4    236.2
PRECISION LA40 LEVELINS  r            -    _              -  16,889.8 100.0        -    -  16,889.9 10.9           -     16,889.8        -
UENEUTIno CONTERS-                                                           2,987.2 100.0   2,887.2  1.9      280.2      2M289.4    317.6
FACILITIES                                                                   2,033.2 100.0   29033,2  1.3      199.0      1,610.5    223.7
911HIM  EFF. 1I36. TECH.             -    -         -    -          -    -      29.0 100.0      29.0  0.0        2.8         23.0      3.2
SibTotael CIUIL ORS               63r137.8 50.3  6,070.5  4.8  43,476.7  34.7 12,752.9  10.2 1259438.0 80.6    7,372.9    109,717.0  8,348.0
3. EDUIPINET                       2,942.9 61.0        -    -          -    -  14881.5 39.0   4,924*5  3.1    2746.4           1965  1,881.5
C. FIEL   IRRIG6. MR. TEAHS       10,659.5 62.3        -    -          -    -  6447.8 37.7  17,106.3 11.0    2,497.5        13,240.3  1,368.5
D. TEMICAL ASSISTANCE
SWUERNSVRT CUNS1LTANTS          2,477.9 90.0        -    -          -    -    275.3 10.0   29753.2  1.8        537.0       1,940.9    275.3
TEOUVICAL EXPERTS               2,990.3 100.0       -    -          -    -         -    -   2,990.3  1.9    2t223.,8        766.4        -
Stib-Totul TEOCAL ASSISTANCE       5468.2 952          -    -          -    -    275.3  4.8   5,743.5  3.7    29760.8        2707.3    275.3
E. 01119115 t EVI.UATIU            1,442.5 90,0        -    -          -    -    160.3 10.0  1602.8  1.0         312.6      1,129.9    160.3
F. TM31313                              -    -         -    -          -    -    642*1 100*0     642.1  0,4        93.7        40.5      57.8
65 FE ERAL.COOUBIAlTION MIT             -    -         -    -          -    -    189.3 100.0     189.3  0.1        27.6        146.5     15.1
Tota  Oi 5gmt                      03649.  53*8  6h070.5  3.9  43,476.7 28.0 229349.3  14,4 155,546.4 100.0   15,811.7    127,628.2 12,106.6
=2 2=3-  =              -     - -         -  -------  --    --
ombn 28, 1990 14:48



- 52 -
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER NAhNGKMERT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(million)
Per Semester          Cumulative    0     II
Credit                                Prof iSle
=,    lJS8  IJX     1J8       ,~~Percent
El and Semester
FY91 - Second             -      -                                  3 _  3.7
FY92 - First            7.8    11.0        -          11.0
- Second           5.6     8.0        -          19.0        30.4
FY93 - First            6.4     9.0        -          28.0
- Second           6.7     9.5        -          37.5        61.2
FY94 - First            6.9     9.8       0.2         47.5
- Second            -       -       10.5         58.0        85.7
FY95 - First             -       -       10.5         68.5
- Second            -       -       10.5         79.0        94.9
FY96 - First             -       -        4.6         83.6
Second            -      -          -          83.6        97.3
Total                  33.4    47.3      36.3
4 



- 53 -                               AUILA
Page 1
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FAR! WATER MAN&OEMENT PROJECT
Crorning Patterns and Yields
Balochistan        NVP hized        Punjab Cotton-    Punjab Cotton-
Fruit Zone          Cropping          Wheat, FOI        Wheat. SGV
(2 ha)             (2 ha)             (5 ha)            (5 ha)
ha  kgn    ha  kaaa   ha   k                           ha   k
Basmati Rice (paddy)
- Present, Without             -             -        -       0.30    1.400       -        -
- With                         -             -        -       0.30    1.500       -        -
Other Rice (paddy)
- Present. Without        -        -        0.16    2.000      -         -        -        -
- With                    -        -        0.20    2,150           -             -        -
Maize
- Present, WLthout        -        -        0.70    1,400      -         -        -        -
- With                    -        -        0.70    1.540      -         -        -        -
Seed Cotton
- Present. Without        -        -         -        -       1.50    1,300      0.90    1.200
- With                    -        -         -        -       1.60    1.400      1.00    1.300
abl U
Wheat
- Present. Without       0.76    1.700      1.10    1.500     2.40    1.950      2.10    1,800
- With                   0.84    1.850      1.14    1.650     2.50    2,100      2.20    1.950
Fodder (berseem)
- Present, Without       0.24   25.000      0.32   26,000     1.25   29.000      1.00   28.000
- with                   0.30   26,500     0.36   28,000      1.35   31.000      1.20   30.000
Cram
- Present,  Wlthout       -        -         -        -       0.25      600      0.20      570
- With                    -        -         -        -       0.25      660      0.20      630
Other Pulses
- Present. Without       0.60      550                         -         -        -        -
- With                   0.60      600       -        -        -         -        -        -
Pserennial
Sugarcane
- Present, Without        -        -        0.32   40,000     0.30   39.000      0.30   38,000
- With                    -        -        0.32   43.000     0.30   41,000      0.30   40.000
Orchards Ai
- Present, Wlthout       0.30   12,000      0.30   10.000     0.20   10,000      0.15    9.500
- With                   0.30   13,000      0.30   11.000     0.20   11.000      0.15   10,500
Cropplng Intoenity
(annual)
- Present, Withot'         95               '45                124                 93
- With                    102                151               130                101
I/ Wet season, mid-April to mid-October.
2/ Dry season. mid-October to aid-Aprl.
J/ Apple for lalochistan, plus for NW??. mango for Punjab.
aOwmr



- 54 -                                    AIL4
Page 2
TfIRD ON-WARN WATR  KANACEKET PROJECT
Crop2Dia Patterns and Xiold.
Punjab Rice-     8indh Cotton-       Sindh Rice-       B*rani Areas
Wheat  (5        Wheat M    ba)      Wheat 5 ha)           (2 ha)
ha      ha         M     khaa        hb     hAa        ba     ha/h
Kherif JJ
Basmati Rice (paddy)
- Present, Without      2.10    1.500
- With                  2.20    1,650       -        -
Other Rice (paddy)
- Present, Without      0.60    2.200      0.25    2,100     2.00    2,200                -
- With                  0.60    2,380      0.25    2,270     2.10    2.300       -        -
Maize
- Present, Without       -         -                 -        -         -
- With                   '         -
Seed Cotton
- Present, Without       -         -       1.40    1,300           -        -             -
- With                   -         -       1.50    1.400      -         -        -        -
Wheat
- Present, Without      2.25    1,900      2.30    1.980     1.75    2,000      0.42      800
- With                  2.35    2.000      2.40    2.100     1.90    2,150      0.52      900
Fodder (berseem)
- Present, Without      0.90   29,000      0.50   24,500     0.50   24,500      0.40   15,000
- with                  0.90   31,000      0.60   27.000     0.60   27,000      0.50   17,000
Gram
- Present,  Without     0.25       600      -        -        -         -        -        -
- With                  0.25      660       -        -        -         -        -        -
Other Pulses
- Present, Without       -         -       0.30      550     0.50       550     0.20      500
- With                   -         -       0.30      600     0.50       600     0.24      570
Perennial
Sugarcane
- Present, Without      0.20   39,500      0.30   39,000     0.25   40,000       -        -
- With                  0.20   42,000      0.30   41,000     0.25   42,000       -
Orchards I
- Present, Without       -         -       0.20    8,000      -         -       0.18   11,000
- With                   -         -       0.20    9,000      -         -       0.18   12,000
Cropping Intensity
(annual)
- Present, Without       126                105               100                 60
- With                   130                111               107                 72
I/  Vet season, mid-April to mid-October.
t/ Dry season, mid-October to mid-April.
t/ Date for Sindh, mixed fruit for barani areas in FATA. Northern Areas, NUFP and Punjab.
0OwWm



PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY FARM BUDGETS
(constant FY91 Rs)
Cropped                           Net      Net Prod. Value ner    Total      Hired
Area    Production   Input    Production   Cropped   Family       Labor     Labor
FarmMo del                 (ha)       Value     Cots       value      Hectare   Worka    (Uorkaday) (IoIUor
Balochistan Fruit Zone (2 4)
- With project                   2.04      40,882     3,374     37,508      18,386       317        118
- Incremental                    0.14       3,762       553      3,209          334      -10         13
NWFP Mixed Cronning (2 ha) I
- With project                   3.02      31,354     6,948     24,406       8,081       114        214        -
- Incremental                    0.12       3,172       643      2,529          538        3         18
Punjab Cotton-Wheat. FGW (Sha)
- With project                   6.5       51,875    16,396     35,479       5,458        99        422       62
- Incremental                    0 0.3      5,532     2,231      3,301         268         9         32       32
Punjab Cotton-Wheat. SGW (Sha)
- With project                   5.05      37,935    10,939     26,996       5,346        87        311        -
- Incremental                    0.4        5,062     1,418      3,644         324         3         34
Punjab Rice-Wheat (5 ha)
- With project                   6.5       36,004    14,431     21,573       3,319        60        411       51
- Incremental                    0.2        3,538     1,899      1,639         155         5         26       26
Sindh Cotton-Wheat (5 ha)
- With project                   5.55     42,256    13,783      28,473       5,130        79        378       18
- Incremental                    0.3        4,841     1,817      3,024         283         6         32       18
Sindh Rice-Wheat (5 ha)
- With project                   5.35      26,715    11,757     14,958       2,796       42         353
- Incremental                    0.35       3,231     1,306      1,925         189         2         33
Barani Areas (2 ha) i
- With project                   1.44      17,720     2,288     15,432      10,717      262          59        -
- Incremental                    0.24       2,215       573      1,642        -774       -20         10
1,/ Including incremental wlter charges and watercourse 0&M costs.
Z/ At full development (project year 11).
i/  In FATA, Northern Areas, NWFP, Punjab.                                                                         :1:



- 56 -                                                 Annex 4
Table 3
P6IST9
TNI    -Ffi HATR  AN II   RJECT
TAMl  19.2  Totl Proect
FIUCIML  IUET
(In Rue  '000)
Fiscal Yosr
tnereSnWl
1991     im       199      1994     199       199      1997     1m       19       2000   2001 to 2010
Nain Prodution
_sati Rice (ddw)                         -  4,249.7  13,736.7 289301.4 469967.5 64,673.4 77444.1  64904.9  97.629.3 67O29.3    97,923.3
ke Cotton                                -  5.602.2  20t620.0  44o47,6  75.221.6 105,466.9 126,047.2 137.420.5 1414015.7 141,015.7   141,015.7
Most                                     - 10,572.1 37.371.2 79676.1 134603.4 18 506.9 2259727.1 246,635.0 254.063.2 254o063.2   254,063.2
krm   (ftodr)                           6-319.1 24.926#5 55065.8 93"95.9 132,739.9 15894.6 172514.1 176,332.5 176332.5   1764332.5
9Suarc                                   -  24514.9   7066.0  13.693.1 229406.6  30.545.9 36.746.7 40.911.1  4299.6 42999.6    42U99f.6
HanNW                                    -  46453.6  12,328.4 231624.3 38.341.9 529027.0 62,20.6 6.133.3  72,554.6 72,554.6    72,554.6
Or                                       -    583.0  1,613.9  3092.7  5.019.3  6,610.6  9.54.4  9*050.2  9,491.1  94".1           9,4".1
Other Rice (Padd)                        -  1,469.9  5,170.7 11,061.7 1993.2  2,553.7  31.945.3 35,034.6  36.117.I 36.117.1    36.117.1
Puls                                     -    871.7  2,0t8.7  6,022.1  109163.0  14,170.7  17.070M 2      7 6,65719.5919  19.591.9    19591.9
Nixad Frit                               -  2,494.0  7,030.6 13409.6  22.231.6 30355.9  36.463.6 40,568.8 42611#4 42611.4    42U611.4
Da                                       -  1302.3  3,721.5   7,350.6  129219.0  16796.0  20*363.0 22.911.0 249050.0 24050.0    244050.0
fie                                      -    629,5  1,609.2  3,539.2  5,919.5  7,953.9  9,404.*6  10705.2 11,255.4 11,255.4    1125.4
Pn                                       -  2,06.5  69005.5  11,746.0  19.317.  26,402.0 31,UI,  35,534.7 37,361.3 37,361.3    37,361.3
pple                                     -  2,201.3  6243,7  124275.1 20.2955 27VtU6.4 33.685.5  37643.5  9652.5  39,52.5    39,652.5
W-otl Hbin Pdtion                         0.0 45.M.4 150572.7 313,M.9 525t442#6 731,074.2 876,37.8 961t42.0 994931.5 94,931.5   994931.5
it Value Of Production                      - 45,371.4 150,572.7 313,5279 525.442,6 731.o74.2 676,137.6 9614942.0 994,931.5 94,931.5   994,931.5
Prouttion Cost
*.eratirn
"ItPS
anai Seed                           -      9.8    59.1    141.6    243*4   345.2    406.3    431.7    431.7    431.7           431.7
Nitrom Fertiliter (N)             0.0  3,132.2  10,239.9  21o229.0 35M569.1  4478.7 59M373.8 65,00.6 67,639.4 6,639.4    67,639.4
ptio m Fertilizer (P                -  1WM65.   6,067.9 12,303.6 20,465.5 26,345.0 34,066.4 37,680.7 39,240.8 39,240.8    39,240.9
Pesticide                           -    372,9  2,264.0  5,46.2  9,548.0 13,693.4  16.200.6  17724.3  17,248.8 17,246.9    17,246.9
hiloct                              -    90.0  5,613.7  13,661.6 23,615.6 34.179.1 40.441.3 43050.4 43,o0.4 43,056.4    43,059.4
Trwtor                              -    203.8  1,253.6  3047.6  5,310.4  7,620.4  99016.8  9,600.4  9,600.4  9,600.4        9,600.4
Nater Chatr  for Rice               -     15.4     93.7    228.2    399.2    57.4    677.6    721.9    72i.9    721.9          71.9
Cotton Sed                          -     25.2    152.5    368.3    638.6    913.2  1.079.0  1,148.2  1,148.2  1,148.2       1146.2
Potassiw Fertilizer (K)             -    116.8    361.7    751.9  1250.8  IM.7  27on.6  2,293.9  2.371.6  2,371.6           2,371.6
Hater Chatr  for Cotto              -     17.7    107.4    259.4    449u.     643.3    760.1    808.9    e08.8    90898        809.8
Wmat Seed                           -    152.5    947.4  2,306.6  4,029.4  5,795.2  6,947.4  7,291.3  7,291.3  7,291.3       79291.3
Matr Otarg for iea                  -     22.2    135.0    327.4    569.9    917.6    967.3  1,029.9  1,029.9  1,029.9       1,02.9
fusee  Se                           -    141.9   984.1  2,155.4  3,761.3  5,400.4  69391.0  6,904.9  6:904.9  6.904.9    6,604.9
ater Ch*ar  for Fodder              -     13.6     92.6    201.2    351.6    506.1    599.9    6J8.9    638.9    639.9         63.9
Suiiacms CuttiMs                    -      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0
Additioal Matercoue O               -  3547.9 189791.5 34,12.6 50,835.8 67,164.6 67.164.6 67,164.6 67,164.6 67164.6    67164.6
OUte Rice Seed                      -      3.2      19.6     48.7     86.5    126.5    150.8    161.1    161.1    161.1        161.1
Pulse Sed                           -      4.0     27.9      68.6    120.0    171.7    202.7    215.6    215.6    215.6        215.6
Sub-Toal Ins    F                      - lO652.9 4109.5 97202.0 137,463.1 217t491.5  46#439.3 261,591.9 2 65476.5 26 5576.5  2!4SlV.! 4a
Hired Laer
Labor                                  3,349.5  12,746.9 281607.2  49,395.5 70,206.9 85.260.4 93,466.1 959798.9 95se78.8   956878.8
SiTotl O.euting                          - 14,002.4 59646.5 125,909.2 206,658.6 287,699.3 331.699,6 355,076.0 361,455.2 361v455.2   361,455.2
Other Ihutfims                        10,216.0 48.360.8  69,929.9 9t1018.0 107,974.5 65.949.7  49.082,6 2926W.5  9,096.9  4,592.4
llfL                                10,216.0 62,363.2 129,778.3 216,8D.2 314,933.1 353,648.0 390.782.3 384.343.5 370,552.1 366047.6   361,455.2
CMl RNEM  FiUNEIK                    -10,216.0 -174011.9 20,4.3 96,700.7 210,609.6 3779426.1  O5M355.5 5775.4 624379.4 628:34.0   633,476.3
OAtier 14, 190 13:51



- 57 -
Anneg 
Table 4
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Prices Used in Financial and Economic Analysis
(in Rupees)
Financial
Prices          Economic Prices
Unit    (const 1990-91) 1990-91 1992-96 2000-01
Outguts
Wheat                      kg           2.44         4.95    4.38    4.65
Paddy                     kg                         3.53 ]/ 3.05 j/ 3.00 /
- Ba6wati                               3.59
- Other rice                            1.65
Maize j/                   kg           4.15         2.70    2.67    2.91
Seed cotton               kg            5.44       11.22   10.68    9.86
Fodder (berseem)          kg            0.19        0.17    0.17    0.17
Gram I/                    kg           5.50        4.95    4.95    4.95
Other pulses 1/            kg           6.75         6.08    6.08    6.08
SuSarcane                 kg            0.35        0.69    0.43    0.43
Apple                      kg           8.50         7.65    7.65    7.65
Date                       kg           5.00        4.50    4.50    4.50
Mango                      kg           5.50        4.95    4.95    4.95
Plum                      kg            4.50        4.05    4.05    4.05
Mixed fruit                kg           6.50         5.85    5.85    5.85
Inputs
Seed  1
- Wheat                   kg            2.94        5.94    5.25    5.58
- Basmati                 kg            4.50        4.41    3.81    3.76
- Other rice              kg            1.99        4.23    3.66    3.61
- Maize                   kg            5.00        3.24    3.21    3.49
- Cotton                  kg            5.98       12.35   11.74   10.84
- Fodder (berseem)        kg           16.50       14.85   14.85   14.85
- Gram                    kg            8.25        7.43    7.43    7.43
- Other pulses            kg            7.40        6.66    6.66    6.66
Sugarcane cuttings        kg            0.35        0.69    0.43    0.43
Nitrogen fertilizer        kg           6.44         8.88   12.14   11.50
Phosphatic fertilizer     kg            6.72        7.76   11.09   11.39
Potassium fertilizer      kg            4.20        5.82    5.94    5.99
Pesticide               Applic.       425.00      382.50  382.50  382.50
Bullock                  Pairday       4%.00       40.50 .040.50   40.50
Tractor                  Hour          74.00        66.60   66.60   66.60
Labor                   Workday        30.00       27.00   27.00   27.00
1/ Proxy for other crops grown.
gi Demands a premium over output price.
i/ Weighted average.



- 58 -
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARN WATER IIANNT PRO.ECT                                             nnex  4
Table 5
Econmic  itits and Costs
(In Rs billion)
1992   1M     1993   1994   1M5   1996   1997   179    1M        2000 2001-2010
Balochistmn
Incental Befits                  -    2.9    9.2   19.9   31.7   44.3   53.6   59.6   62.3   62.5         62.7
Investmnt Cost$                9.1   49.0   42.5   44.7   42.5        -
Incremental Production Costs     -    0.6    2.5    5.3    9.1   12.9   14.8   15.9   16.3   16.2         16.2
Not lnceental Befits          -9.1  -46U7  -35.8  -31.1  -19.9   31.4   3898   43.6   46.0   46.3         46.4
Interal Rab of Return a 19.1S
Notth Wst Frontier Province
Incemntal Betits                 -    6.0   18.2   36.4   59.7   82.3   99.4  110.3  115.3  115.9    116.2
Investwnt Costs               11.9   54.4   55.4   55.3   55.4
Incrmental Prodction Costs     0.0    1.7    6.6   14.2   24.1   33.9   39.4   42.5   43.6   43.5         43.5
Net Incremental e9fits       -11.9  -50.1  -43.8  -33.1  -19.7   48.4   60.0   67.8   71.7   72.4    72.7
Interal Rat of Reurn * 24.62
Increental  eneits               -   39.9  129.C  266.5  439.4  605.2  721.1  788.8  914.0  814.2    814.5
invtnt Costs                  80.3  366.2  332.8  330.1  330.2        -      -       -      -      -        -
Increental Production Costs      -   11.8   49.0  104.8  176.8  247.6  286.9  306.0  314.0  313.3    313.1
Net Inrsental Beneits        -80.3 -338.2 -252.0 -168.4  -67.7  357.6  434.2  *490.8  500.1  500.9    501.4
Interal Rit of Retum a 27.6U
Sindh
Incremental Benefits             -   12.9   44.8   96.2  163.9  231.8  280O.1  308.2  318.0  310.5    319.8
Investent Costs               28.1  137.7  141.3  152.0  151.3        -              -      -
Incretntal Production Costs      -    4.3   18.6   41.5   72.4  104.1  122.1  131.7  134.3  134.1    134.0
Net Incrental Benetits       -28.1  -129.1  -115.2  -97.3  -59.   127.7  158.0  176.5  193.89  14.4    184.8
Intemal Rat of Retum a 24.0?
FATA
Increental Bnfits                -    0.2    0.5    1.1    1.9    2.7    3.2    3.6    3.7    3.7          3.7
Investmnt Costs                0.7    2.7    2.7    2.7    2.7        -      -       -
Incremetl Production Costs       -    0.1    0.2    0.5    0.9    1.2    1.4    1.5    1.5    1.5          1.5
Not Increental Beneits        -0.7   -2.6   -2.4   -2.1   -1.7    1.4    1.9    2.1    2.2    2.2          2.2
Intemal Rau of Return * 14.3S
North    Areas
Incruuntul Bnits                 -    0.2    0.5    1.1    1.9    2.7    3.2    3.6    3.7    3.7          3.7
Investent Costs                0.7    2.7    2.7    2.7    2.7           -       -          -      -        -
nceentul Prodution Coath         -    0.1    0.2    0.5    0.9    1.2    1.4    15        1.5    1.5       1.5
Net Incretal Bntits           -0.7   -2.6   -2.4   -2.1   -1.7    1.4    1.0    2.1    2.2    2.2          2.2
Intenal Rate ot Retumn a 14.32
Total ProJect
Incremental Bnfits               -   61.9  202.9  420.2  69B.5  968.9 1160.7  2274.1 1317.1  13184   1319.6
Inestent Costs               130.9  612.8  57.4  587.5  584.7         -         -      -    -      -        -
Incrmntal Production Costs     0.0   19.4   77.1  166.8  284.2  400.9  466.2  501.3  511.2  510.2    509.0
Net Incrntl Befits          -130.9 -569.3 -431.6 -334.1  -170.4  568.0  694.6  m.9  805.9  800.3    809.7
Internl Rae of Return a 25.7S
Nvelber Bf 1990 17137



- 59 -                             A~NNEX 
Page 1
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Agronogn
Background
1.        The major objective of the OFWH program is to save water and
increase agricultural production through efficient use of saved water in
association with non-water inputs and services. A second important objective
is to strengthen WUAs to enable farmers to play a more effective role in
decision-making that affects their operations and to better ensure
sustainability of project benefits. So far, OFWM projects have not been fully
successful in achieving these objectives. While their positive impact on
production is unequivocally acknowledged by farmers and other observers, this
impact is difficult to quantify because of lack of data. Available M&E
reports show that initial savings of irrigation conveyance losses are usually
significant (35-50X), but agro-economic information is spotty due to the
insufficient number of observations. Also, the earthen sections of renovated
watercourses often deteriorate soon because of inadequate O&M, and conveyance
losses increase. This situation reflects a deficiency in the current program,
which fails to fully inform farmers and their WUAs about (a) the potential for
achieving production increases from saved water, and (b) the importance of
adequate maintenance for the sustainability of benefits.
2.        The success of the Pilot, OFWM I and OFWM II projects has been
generally judged on the number of W/Cs renovated. On this basis, these
projects have been very successful (about 9,000 W/Cs, or 58X of national
total, renovated by June 30, 1990) and consequently well supported by
government officials and farmers. But efforts to achieve increased
agricultural production and WUA activity have fallen short of expectations.
In order to meet targets, OFWM field teams (which under OFWM II include an
agricultural officer, plus assistants) had to hurry from one work site to the
next leaving little follow-up time with WUAs to discuss production aspects and
O&M. It was anticipated that some of this follow-up would come from the
Extension Service. However, to date this has not materialized. OFWM I and
OFWM II required coordination between the Extension and OFWM Directorates (by
the Provincial Secretaries of Agriculture who are responsible for both) and
provided training of Extension Service personnel in "software" areas of water
management. Some training was provided to WUA officers. Demonstration plots
(about 0.4 ha) were provided on each renovated W/C, with activity generally
limited to PLL and operation to two crop seasons. Since1demonstrations
differed little from normal farmer operations, their educational effect was
small. In sum, equal effort was not devoted to all main objectives of the
projects, and consequently some of these objectives suffered.



- 60 -                            ANNU  5
Page 2
3.        It is the decision of GOP, reflected in its approved project
feasibility report, to place greater emphasis in OFWM III on meeting the
objectives of improving agricultural production and strengthening WUAs. This
annex offers guidelines for carrying out this intention, which can be further
refined with experience.
OMW III Irrigation 4gronomI Program
Objectives
4.        The objectives of this program are to:  (a) increase agricultural
production through efficient use of saved irrigation water and non-water
inputs and services; and (b) strengthen WUAs to ensure effective farmer
participation in irrigation agronomy matters directly affecting their
operations, and sustainability of project benefits.
Institutional Arrangements
5.        The major responsibility for this program will be with the OFWN III
implementing agencies, i.e., Provincial OFWM Directorates, FATA Development
Corporation, Ministry of Kashmir Affairs, and the WUAs. Irrigation agronomy
field teams (IAFTs) will be established to carry out the program. They will
be backed up by higher level technical and training staffs (see Organization
Charts -- Plates IV to IX). The "key person" in this arrangement is the
Agricultural Officer heading each IAFT. He will function much like the
"social organizer" in the Aga Khan Rural Support Program in FANA. The
arrangement is thus unlike that under OFWM I and OFWM II where the
Agricultural Officers and Field Assistants were an integral part of the
engineering field teams (EFTs). IAFTs' working relationship with farmers will
begin with the first expression of interest in OFWM improvements and continue
through the O&M phase. IAFTs' first priority will be to work with WUAs newly
organized under OFWM III; however, as time permits they would also assist
previously organized WUAs in their geographic area with a view to improving
their operation. In Punjab Province, IAFTs will report to a Director
Irrigation Agronomy. The teams will liaise with Extension Service personnel
in the field so that over time Extension staff will be in a position to assume
a stronger role in supporting WUAs and related non-structural OFWM activities.
To this end, OFWM Directorate personnel would continue to be represented on
each district's Agricultural Extension Technical Committee, as in OFWM II.
ODerations of the Irritation Agronomy Staff
6.        Assigned ResRonsibilities.  The activities ofrthe irrigation
agronomy staff will be mainly associated with the operations of WUAs. Their
responsibilities and activities would include:
J/   On-Farm Water Management III Proiect Feasibility Study. Main Renort,
Nay 1990, National Engineering Services Pakistan (PVT) Limited, et al.



- 61-                              ANNEX 
Page 3
(a) organizing and orienting WUAs -- involving preorganization
initiatives, organization and registration;
(b) assisting and counseling WUAs;
(c) providing liaison between WUAs and the OFWM engineering field teams,
technical and training staff;
(d) establishing and providing leadership and assistance in the
operation of the demonstration centers;
(e) assisting WUA members in adopting efficient irrigation technologies
and related irrigation agronomy practices; and
(f) providing liaison with local Extension Service personnel with
particular attention to coordination with field assistants and
agricultural officers.
7.        The responsibility for organizing WUAs will include all activities
beginning with the early contacts with farmers indicating interest in OFWM
improvements through the registering of the WUA. Once it has been determined
that farmers within a chak have such interest, a formalized orientation and
organization approach would be followed to ensure full knowledge of all
farmers about the program. This information and organization phase would be
predicated on full farmer participation. The organization process indicated
below envisages a minimum of three discrete organizational meetings; however,
experience may show that additional sessions are required. IAFTs, in
cooperation with a lead or interested farmer, or farmers, would call a first
chak meeting, which would be held in the command area to explain to all
farmers the general aspects of the OFWM program, possible benefits to be
derived, role and responsibility of the government (specifically that of the
implementing agency) and the farmers, and the institutional framework
including the general provisions of the WUA Ordinance. If the assembled
farmers indicate a continuing desire to participate in the program, an EFT
should be charged with planning and designing W/C renovation and other OFWM
improvements envisaged for the chak. This plan would be explained at a secon
chak meeting covering: (a) features of the plan, which would indicate location
of proposed "pucca" and "katcha" improvements, and rationale for amount of
"pucca" improvements, i.e., lining, buffalo baths, culverts, nuccas, laundry
places, etc.; (b) envisaged benefits with specific recognition of effects on
middle and tail-end farmers located on the "katcha" sections; (c) quantity and
quality of materials to be supplied by the government, along with estimated
costs as the basis for the cost recovery program; (d) "up front" cash payment,
*    if any, and contribution of labor expected of farmers; (e) need for strong and
continuing O&M program to ensure sustainability of benefits; (f) determination
of farmers' interest in improving their W/C branches and field ditches, and in
PLL; and (g) full explanation of the authority of WUAs. At this meeting,



-62 -                               A_EX 5
Page 4
farmers would be given full opportunity to ask questions and make suggestions
and recommendations on the provisions of the plan. Upon acceptance of the
plan, a third meeting would be called to finalize the WUA organization, elect
officers and the board of directors, and determine the work schedule.
Following this meeting the IAFT would see that the WUA is registered and
continue farmer orientatiQn gnd further development of the WUA's program.
8.        The target of assiktiDg and-counseldng WUAs would be to make these
local organizations, over a period of time, viable institutions capable of
carrying out their tasks with a minimum of government '.nput and assistance.
This IAFT activity would extend through the O&M phase. It would include:
(a) developing bylaws for individual WUAs and setting up WUAs' account
books and bank accounts (bylaws should call for regular meetings of
WUAs);
(b) reaching full understanding with WUA members and officers on the
initial W/C renovation work, including cash and manpower
contributions and scheduling of such contributions;
(c) accounting for materials supplied by the government, the cost of
which the WUA members will share (several members shculd be made
responsible for monitoring receipt and use of these materials, as
well as their quality). The materials should be stored in a secure
place, and bricks should be stacked so that they can be easily
counted. As in OFWM II, WUAs would be represented in EFTs during
the procurement of OFWM materials;
(d) informing members and officers of W/C lining options and additional
lining available on condition of appropriate improvement of farmer
W/C branches and field ditches;
(e)  assisting farmers in carrying out OFWM practices on thei.L _rms
including PLL, farm ditches, surface drainage, etc.;
(f) advising farmers on the best use of saved water in their particular
circumstances -- intensify cultivation on the same area cropped
before W/C renovation, bring additional land under cultivation that
could not be farmed before renovation because the planned share of
water did not reach it, or a combination of both -- and
demonstrating to theu and extension staff the advantages and
disadvantages of each choice in physical and monetary terms;
(g) facilitating WUAs' grouping into federations for the purpose of
improved O&M and water allocations, association with the operation
of minors and eistributaries, and coordination with officials in the
Provincial Irrigation Departments;
(h) encouraging the Extension Service and other governmental agencies
supplying inputs ant ;   ics.; to improve such assistance to WUAs and
their members, and, if ¢- n assistance falters, assisting in filling
the gap;



- 63 -                            ANNEX 5
Page 5
(i) encouraging WUAs to become appropriately involved in procurement of
non-water inputs (fertilizer, insecticides, herbicides), make such
inputs generally available to members, and ensure collection of
payments due from members;
(J) exploring, and arranging, if feasible, tho purchase of equipment
(tractors, implements), for rental by members, and also the purchlase
.s-or securing of public SCARP TWs, or other TWs, for supplying
groundwater to members as part of the warabundi; and
(k) seeing that O&M of installed OFWM works is carried out regularly and
adequately to ensure sustainability of benefits.
9.        During reno-vation of W/Cs, EFTs will need to work directly with
WUAs; however, liaison should be provided by IAFTs. Follow-up engineering
work, such as repair of W/Cs, PLL, and work on farmer branches and field
ditches, would be handled by EFTs; however, IAFTs would make the contact for
WUAs and members to schedule such assistance and ensure that it will be done
in a timely manner.
10.       Establishment and Overation of Demonstration Centers.  IAFTs would
be responsible for overall government involvement in the demonstration
cente'rs. On average, one center (up to 2 ha In size) would be established and
operated for every six to eight renovated W/Cs. Location of these centers
would be decided in consultation with WUA officers, or officers of a WUA
federation if one exists. The following guidelines would be used in
determining the location for each center:
(a) the site is conveniently near a village and preferably along a road;
(b) the land owner is recognized as a progressive (lead) farme-, is
enthusiastic about participation, will allow access to visiting
farmers, and agrees to use governmenv supplied inputs, follow
counsel and advice of responsible government official(s), and hold a
minimum of two field days per cropping season;
(c) the farm is owner-operated, average in size (4 to 10 ha), and power
equipment is available to the farmer;
(d) the farmer agrees to carry out appropriate OFWH improvements on his
remaining land; and
(e) water supply (surface and/or groundwater) Is at least average for
the surrounding commands.
11.       After site selection, the following work would be undertaken:
(a) field surveys, i.e., topographic mapping, soil and salinity surveys,
determination of groundwater depth and quality. An irrigation plan
would be prepared, including appropriate maps. This plan would show
field boundaries and OFWM works to be installed. Fields would be



- 64 -                            ANNEX 5
Page 6
planned to accommodate farmers' tillage equipment, the irrigation
system to be installed, and crops to be grown; and
(b) appropriate OFWM works, i.e., PLL, field ditches, surface drainage,
etc., would be installed and various technologies demonstrated, i.e,
W/C lining, border and furrow irrigation, etc.
12.       Prior to the first crop season, an annual plan for the demonstration
center would be prepared in close coordination with extension staff for two
successive crop seasons, and a similar plan would be prepared for each year's
operation during the project period. The plan would cover the following:
(a) crops to be grown with specific reference to fields;
(b) a schedule for land preparaticn, sowing, irrigation, transpl#ating,
cultivation, application of agricultural chemicals, harvesting and
other field operations; and
(c) type and quantity of incremental seeds/seedlings and agricultural
chemicals to be supplied by the government, and human and animal
labor, tractor, implements and other equipment to be supplied by the
farmer.
13.       IAFT would acquire all incremental inputs, which should be available
to the farmer ten days prior to the scheduled time of use. It would ensure
that these inputs are fully and appropriately used at the demonstration center
and establish the farmer's share based on his normal application.
14.       IAFT would counsel the farmer in the efficient use of irrigation
water. The application schedule would be established prior to crops being
sown and would take into consideration soil types and crop water requirements.
In addition, IAFT would advise the farmer on improved cultural practices and
see that such practices are carried out.
15.       The farmer, assisted by IAFT, would keep duplicate records by field
and crop of the dates the various field operations were carried out, as well
as the quantity and quality of inputs used. Or.e of the records would be for
himself and the other for the implementing agency. The implementing agency,
through IAFT, will provide a standard sized notebook and appropriate forms for
keeping these records.
16.       Much of the benefit of the demonstration centers will come from
appropriately scheduled field days, which will be held at least twice per
cropping season at each center. On these field days, the farmer on whose land
the center is located should play a major role in explaining the operation of
the OFWM works, and the benefits and problems connected with and experience
gained from such operation. The field days would be organized by IAFT in
cooperation with the farmer and the Extension Service.



- 65 -                              ANNEX 5
Page 7
17.       The project would provide all TA, including that of IAFT and EFT, as
well as surveys, installation of OFWM works, and incremental agricultural
inputs.
18.               tipejn with the Extension Service.  During the project period,
the implementing agencies, specifically IAFTs, will make every effort to
achieve full in'olvement of th6 Excehbioh Service in the irrigation agronomjy
program with a view to enabling the Service to carry out such activities after
project completion. It is anticipated, however, that the IAFTs and EFTs will
continue to deal with WUAs in the post-project period in such matters as O&M
of W/Cs, and installation, repair and replacement of OFWM civil works. One
place for "linkage" between IAFTs and extension staff are the demonstration
centers (para 12 above). Another opportunity, which at the same time would
reach a greater portion of the farming community, would be for IAFTs to invite
farmers from unimproved W/Cs to see W/C operation and maintenance after
renovation, and discuss with WUA members and with extension staff improved
water management and agronomic practices. In IAFTs' meetings with WUAs
dealing with the effect of PLL, improvement of field channels, field drainage,
feasibility (and economic benefit) of increasing cultivated area and/or yield,
extension staff would be expected to participate, adding their message to that
of IAFTs', e.g., informing farmers about possible changes in their cropping
pattern. Also, extension staff would be encouraged to include WUAs as contact
groups. Further linkages would be established or, if already existing,
reenforced by arranging joint training courses for IAFT members and extension
staff, stressing the importance, and demonstrating the feasibility, of
cooperation in field work as well as preparation of radio or TV programs,
which could have a major effect on farm productivity. Experienced IAFT
members could function as subject matter specialists in extension staff
training.



- 66 -                             ANNEX 6
Page 1
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER XANACEMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for SuDervisorv Consultants
Description of Work
1.        The main task of the supervisory consultants (SC), to be locally
engaged, would be to assist the implementation agencies, i.e., Provincial OFWM
Directorates, FATA and Ministry of Kashmir Affairs, in carrying out their
responsibilities relating to OFWM III.! In addition, they would assist the
Federal Coordination Unit (FCU) in carrying out its activities. The SC shall
be administratively responsible to FCU.
2.        All project records and construction sites shall be open to the SC.
Scope of Work
3.        The services to be performed by the SC shall include:
Assistance to Imlementing Agencies:
(a) reviewing plans and designs for civil works to assure compliance
with agreed criteria;
(b) spot checking "pucca" and "katcha" structures during installation
and checking of all completed civil works undertaken with Bank Group
financing;
(c) verifying and certifying quantities and quality of materials
procured and civil works completed;
(d) notifying implementing agencies of compliance or non-compliance of
completed civil works with agreed criteria and standards;
(e) assisting in preparation of quarterly and annual progress reports,
annual work plans, and updating of these documents;
(f) assisting in preparing and processing reimbursement applications for
civil works materials after consumption of the materials has been
verified;
1/   Terms and conditions of agreement, and experience and qualifications
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.



- 67 -                               EX 6
Page 2
(g) assuring materials have been consumed as reported in store books and
PLA books before final verification and certification of materials
and reimbursement claims;
(h) assisting in planning and design for sailaba flood irrigation, hydra
..... .. r.an pups .and other, higher irrig.tion technology s.yotems, and
reviewing and approving all such designs in coordination with the
team leader of the technical experts; and
(i) assisting to the irrigation agronomy field teams in organizing and
strengthening WUAs and improving irrigation agronomy programs.
Assistance to FCU:
(a) assisting in the preparation of consolidated annual work plans,
quarterly and annual progress reports, and the government's part of
the project completion report; and
(b) assisting in ICB procurement.
4.        Except for PLL, the SC shall spot check a minimum of 20X of all
civil works during construction and shall check 10OZ of civil works completed
to verify quantity and quality of "pucca" construction and quality of "katcha"
work. The SC shall spot check a minimum of 201 of PLL during construction and
after completion to verify quality of work. Deficiencies noted in the quality
and quantity of work shall be reported to the implementing agencies.
Cond?tions of Service
5.        The team leader and support staff shall be located in the
headquarters of the appointed firm. A senior officer shall be stationed in
Islamabad to liaise with FCU. Senior field engineers shall be posted in all
Provinces, i.e., 2 in Balochistan, 2 in NWFP, 6 in Punjab, and 3 in Sindh,
with FATA and FANA being serviced out NWFP and Punjab, respectively. The
irrigation agronomist and sociologist will spend at least 50X of their time in
the field assisting the irrigation agronomy field teams in carrying out their
responsibilities. The SC team would consist of the following full-time
members who would be appropriately backed up by support and headquarters
staff.
Position/DiscLgline         Numbr           Staff Years
Team Leader                     1                4.3
Senior Field Engineer          13               55.3
Sociologist                     1                4.3
Irrigation Agronomist           1                4.3
Sub-Engineer                  _2                 8.5
Total                     18                76.7



- 68 -                            ARM  6
Page 3
6.        The team leader and all other SC team members, except the
sociologist, shall be professional agricultural engineers/irrigation
agronomists with appropriate background and experience in OFWM work. Civil
engineers would be acceptable, if they had requisite experience in irrigation
agronomy and OFWM work. The sociologist should have a MS degree in sociology
with some educational background in institutional development and economics,
and experience in working in ruiral areas of Pakistan.
7.        The SC firm's fee would be based on the salaries and allowances of
the professional staff, whereas its overhead would be based on direct costs
for such items as transport, office and survey equipment, operation and
maintenance of equipment, rent, utilities, expendable office supplies,
printing, and the cost of appropriate support staff.



- 69 -                             age
Page 1
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJEQT
Monitoring and Evaluation
Back&round
1.        A monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system is an essential aid for
Government to efficiently manage projezt implementation and to evaluate
related benefits, which are an importa.:-.t input to future investment decisions
and planning. Such information is also valuable to donors in determining
their assistance programs. Since available manpower and financial resources
are limited, it is essential that M&E programs be designed to gather only
important data and undertake only the evaluation required to supply managers
and decision makers significant information in a timely, concise, and factual
manner.
2.        The origin of the OFWM program in Pakistan dates back about 20
years. Since that time, the program has grown from obscure research at
WAPDA's Mona Reclamation Research Station (MRES) to a highly visible public
agricultural program with strong popular support. Its success is reflected by
the demand of farmers for OFWM assistance even though they are required to
contribute in cash and kind approximately one-third of the cost of civil works
construction, take charge of all O&M, and repay an additional 111 of the cost
of materials supplied by the Government. Such farmer response appears to be a
good indicator of the benefits perceived to come from OFWM projects. However,
there is concern that M&E programs carried out recently do not give the
factual basis for verifying such benefits. There is little question that
benefits accrue from OFWM investments, but there are questions regarding the
extent of water saving and related benefits, and the modifications, if any,
that should be designed into repeater projects.  Some of the best data and
analysis have come from the USAID assisted WAPDA research at MRES in the early
1970s and the UNDP financed, Bank executed Indus Basin Planning Study
(PAK/74/044) in the late 1970s (see Chapter Is para 1.09). There is need now
for a professionally designed M&E program for OFWM III, which will supply
answers on the extent of benefits and the potential for institutional and
operational improvements for this important activity. Below is a summary of
the M&E experience of OFWM projects.
3.        Pilot Project and OFWM I.  Monitoring and evaluation for the USAID
assisted Pilot Project and OFWN I were carried out by tI« Provincial OFWN
Directorates (physical progress and financial aspects) and the Watercourse
Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate (WMED) in WAPDA's Planning Division
(production and benefits). About 100 random sample watercourses (45 for the



- 70 -                             AEX 7
Page 2
Pilot Project and 60 for OFWM I) were selected. These samples, however, were
not always representative of watercourses being renovated, or of the seven
major agro-climatic zones and the groundwater conditions specific to Pakistani
agriculture. Periodic field visits were made to gather information, but field
visits do not by themselves ensure proper data collection. For example,
several problems have been noted in earlier projects:
(a)  measurement of irrigation supplies and conveyaince losses did not
fully consider the crop season and time of measurement, or the
variation in delivery to chaks;
(b) collection of socio-economic data was based on farmer recall;
(c) production and financial data were inadequate to determine farm
income;
(d) physical improvements were made to "control" watercourses both by
farmers on their own and the OFWN program; thus, the basis for
comparative analysis was invalidated;
(e) manpower and equipment, and staff's analytical training were
inadequate to perform many M&E activities; and
(f) data collected were often of poor quality, incorrectly formatted, or
not required for evaluation analyses.
4.        OFWM II.  OFWM II began in 1985-86, again with the objective of
increasing agricultural production by enhancing irrigation supplies to farms
through improvement of watercourses and irrigation management practices. M&E
activities were initially contracted to the Ayub-Abidi Agricon Joint Venture
(AAAJV), a private firm. A case study approach using selected watercourses
was adopted at the request of the Bank after review of M&E documents prepared
on the earlier projects, so that a more intensive M&E effort could be made.
5.        After several years of poor performance, and inadequate supervision
by the Federal Water Management Cell (FWNC), the task was reassigned from
AAAJV to WMED/WAPDA in July 1989. Despite poor methodological design, non-
representative watercourse selection, and inadequate data collection by AAAJV,
WMED/WAPDA prepared an interim report summarizing and discussing available
data (November 1989). For example, only 12 chaks were studied, which is too
small a number to cover the major agro-climatic zones, especially in Sindh and
Balochistan, and an evaluation of the effectiveness of irrigation agronomy and
Water User Association (WUA) activities was not undertaken.
6.        The report prepared by WMED/WAPDA is limited in scope because the
sampled watercourses were not representative, and pre-renovation data were
never properly prepared for analysis and reporting by AAAJV. Nevertheless,
preliminary findings indicate that:



71 -                           ANNEX 7
Page 3
(a) in the case of watercourse renovation without lining, 60X of losses
were saved in the head reach; and
(b) -in-the cace of watercourse renovation with lining, most losses were
saved in the lined reach, and 531 of losses were saved in the middle
rec.                    .       , .        ...     . 4......*.... .. 
reacni.
Punjab
(a) water losses decreased 27-31X in renovated watercourses without
lining, and 401 in those with lining; and
(b) the post-renovation delivery efficiencies on control, renovated
unlined, and renovated lined W/Cs were 371, 621, and 671,
respectively.
Sindh
(a) post renovation delivery efficiencies on control, renovated unlined,
and renovated lined W/Cs were 371, 671, and 621, respectively.
7.        A continuing problem with the OFWM program is that improved earthen
sections undergo rapid deterioration due to lack of adequate uaintenaice.
Part of this problem may be related to inexperience, poor management, or
inadequate information dissemination and demonstration efforts by WUAs, OFWM
Directorates, and the Extension Service. Part of the problem may also relate
to unrealized expectations of producers who are not prepared to make more
efficient use of saved water, or to farmers' decision not to participate
further because watercourse lining did not extend to their fields. A
complicating factor is that sometimes overall water supplies are evidently
reduced by water authorities to compensate for the anticipated increase in
efficiency.
8.        In any case, evaluation of extent and quality of O&M, done either by
farmers or Water User Associations, was non-existent in OFMW II. As a result,
a number of factors affecting operational performance are undetermined.
Finally, deterioration of lining of W/Cs (the major civil works improvement)
has not been monitored, nor the relationship between deterioration and
performance. Additional information is needed to determine how long the
lining remains effective, and type and frequency of maintenance required to
keep performance at acceptable levels.
Monitoring and Evaluation for OFWK III
9.        Monitoring of physical and financial progress required for efficient
management of the project would be done by the implementing agencies (internal
monitoring); external monitoring and evaluation would be carried out by WMED,
el,gaged through an inter-agency agreement with the Federal Coordinating Unit.



- 72 - 
Page 4
Objectives
10.      Monitoring and evaluation objectives would include:
(a) monitoring physical progress and identification of management and
implementation issues, along with recommendations for their
resolution;
.   . .   . ,       .       .-   .     .-       -f   . ................................................  .  
(b) determining and evaluating delivery and field application
efficiencies before and after improvement;
(c) preparing and evaluating changes in time-scaled indicators, such as
cropping pattern, cropping intensity, yields, crop production, farm
income and cash flow, production methods, using farm budget
generator computer programs and other statistical packages to
indicate direction and level of anticipated and realized benefits
within chaks;
(d) assessing availability of non-water inputs and services, farm labor
and draft power requirements and availability, as well as
information needs and sources; and
(e) evaluating performance of Water User Associations, and their ability
to ensure sustainability of project benefits.
ImDroved Data Collection and Analysis
11.       Through mid-1989, the OFWM II M&E program encountered widespread
methodological, data collection, and analysis problems. In addition, much of
the data collected and analysis generated under the Pilot Project and OFWM I
went unused, and coverage of the selected chaks was discontinued -- thus a
great opportunity was lost to determine the historic sustainability of
benefits. Data collection and analysis programs will be strengthened in OFWM
III. These include:
(a) collection of socio-economic data relating to farm production and
household activities will be improved and systematized to determine
farm/household income, consumption, and investment with regard to
irrigation and water use;
(b) measurement of irrigation water availability along the W/C (timing
and amount) will be continued throughout the crop season to
determine variation in deliveries to chaks, both before and after
W/C renovation, extent of maintenance by farmers and WUAs, and
changes in use of TWs;
(c) chaks selected for analysis will be more representative of project
conditions than in the past, and in addition follow-up data
collection and analysis will be undertaken on chaks that were
covered by the Pilot Project and OFWM I M&E programs;



- 73 -                             AM
Page 5
(d) M&E of control chaks will be dropped because it was fou.nd that most
controls receive OFWM and other improvements, or additional water
supplies from tubewells, and therefore this activity was of little
analytical value; and
(e) appropriate manpower and equipment will be provided to meet the
- -     needs of the M&E program.          ---4
Prograi Dessig8n
12.       The OFWM III M&E is designed as an "umbrella system" that will
eventually serve the requirements not only of OFWM III, but also of OFWM
components in other projects. Hence, properly carried out, it should result
in better products and achieve considerable efficiency by reducing M&E
requirements in other projects. Also, the program should provide a longer-
term evaluation of project related activities and benefits, resulting in
greater insight regarding sustainability of benefits and better inputs to
future OFWM project preparation.
13.       Study Approach.  A case study approach will be used to minimize
expenditure; it will allow intensive study of selected chaks and produce a
maximum of usable data. Chaks will be chosen by multistage sampling based on
various agricultural characteristics. It is anticipated that coverage will be
for a period of five years; the chak would be monitored one year prior to
renovation and throughout the project period, and Government would be
encouraged to continue such M&E during the post-project period as appropriate.
14.       Chak Sample Size.  Recent literature has shown that the precision of
sample results is governed by absolute, rather than relative sample size. In
this program, two chak samples would be monitored: (a) 16 watercourses in
fresh and saline groundwater areas that will be renovated under OFWM III; and
(b) an additional 8 watercourses to be selected each year which have been
renovated under previous OFWM projects. These latter chaks would be monitored
for only one year (two crop seasons). For (a) above, two chaks each would be
studied in Balochistan and NWFP, and six each in Punjab and Sindh. The
Balochistan chaks would be in barani areas; NWFP chaks would also be
representative of FATA and FANA; the chaks in Punjab and Sindh would be
equally divided between the FGW and SGW zones.
15.       Selection of Chaks.  The sample of 16 chaks to be renovated under
OFWM III would be chosen based on information provided by the OFWM
Directorates. Multi-stage sampling would be used to select representative
distributaries/minors baseC on deviations from indices considered to be
reliable proxies of agricultural and other relevant factors. Chaks would then
be selected from representative distributaries/minors using similar multi-
stage sampling techniques in consultation with the OFWM Directorates.
16.       Farm Sample Size.  The irrigated area within a chak can vary between
80 ha and 200 ha in the Indus Irrigation System (IIS), and 10 ha and 50 ha in
barani areas. The number of farms per W/C can vary from as little as five to
over 100; however, the average in IIS is about 40. The intended sample size
for farms on each chak will be determined by a predetermined level of



- 74 -                              Page 6
acceptable error (10O), confidence level (90), and rate of variance (30X).
Using these parameters, the farm sample size would be 15 per chak, which can
be easily obtained in IIS. In barani areas, it may be necessary to determine
the farm sample size by using a stratified (head, middle, tail) probability
approach incorporating a linear systematic sampling method, with respect to
farm size. Stratification will reduce the sampling variability, and the use
of tte -linear systematic proce-dure will reduce the sampliig error with respect'
to, farm size because.many to.nitored vari4blegs may..vary with farm size.(e.g.,
crop acreages), while others may not (e.g., intensity, cropping pattern,
prices received).
17.       Farm Se-leett2n.  Several alternative farm selection methods could be
used, if a stratified probability approach turns out to be difficult in
practice due to lack of suitable data. One alternative farm selection method
would take a random sample by dividing the number of farms in the chak by 15.
A second alternative would be to measure the length of the W/C and divide
by 15.
18.       Collection of Oerational Data.  Data will be collected to determine
delivery and application efficiency on a weekly basis for head, middle, and
tail-end farms for each chak. Water use and agro-economic data for
comparative efficiency evaluations between precision leveled and existing
fields will be collected. Data relating to water discharge at outlets, water
utilization efficiency, water table depth, and meteorological data would be
collected through observation and measurement at site.
19.       Ooerational Efficiency.  Extensive measurements in the mid-1970s
showed that 30-50X of water delivered to watercourses was lost during
conveyance to fields. However, questions continued to be raised on W/C
conveyance losses and interest remains in additional documentation of these
losses. Hence, water flow, seepage, leakage, and spillage data should be
collected on W/Cs to examine changes in operational efficiency occurring as a
result of OFWM III activities. Data would be collected in the head, middle,
and tail regions of the W/Cs to determine relative and actual levels of
efficiency, and changes in the amount of water available to farmers throughout
the chak. Also, observations would be made of the relative water delivered to
the W/C being studied, and the irrigation water supplied to the parent
source(s).
20.       Collection of Agro-economic Data.  Agro-economic data to determine
changes in crop production for each crop season will be collected and analyzed
including cropped area, cropping intensity, yields, input use, production
practices, machinery and animal use, and family/hired labor inputs.
Additional whole farm agro-economic information will also be collected
including farm/farm operators characteristics, land use, production and
distribution, prices received, farm machinery and equipment, livestock, and
various financial characteristics. This information will be collected through
enumerator interviews after each crop season using questionnaires and
techniques based on the US Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Farm Costs and
Returns Survey (FCRS) or similar questionnaires prepared and used by other
institutions. This data will be analyzed seasonally to determine changes



- 75 -                            ANNEX Z
Page 7
In farm costs and returns, financial conditions, input use, management
practices, and other related impact indicators.
21.       Crogping Pattern and Water Use Data.  Several key indicators for
economic impact analysis relate to changes in cropping intensities and
cropping patterns after W/C rerncvation. Since farmers-ir. Pakistan are free to
choose cropping patterns, any realized increase in irrigat.in suppltesywquld
*   *tbe reflecte'd in-incrieased output;, achieved by providing adequate irrigation to
existing crop acreages, increasing crop acreages, selecting alternative crops
with larger water needs, or a combination thereof. Evaluation of this data
will need to reflect any changes in water supplies caused by water
authorities, or changes in the number, location, or capacity of tubewells
within the chak. Seasonal and yearly data, as well as trends over several
production periods will need to presented and explained.
22.       Information related to farmer perceptions of benefits and social
aspects of improvements, including farm drainage, PLL, and demonstration
centers would be collected from farmers in chaks with improved W/Cs at one and
three year intervals after renovation. Data on historical water supplies,
cropped area, cropping intensity, precipitation, village population, and other
factors would be collected from secondary sources.
23.       Monitorina and Evaluatina Water User Associations.  WUAs pose a
particularly difficult M&E problem. Creation of WUAs is a prerequisite for
chak selection to receive OFWM improvements. WUA effectiveness during W/C
renovation is usually satisfactory because members are actually participating
in the improvement of their W/C. Frequently, problems arise later during 0WK.
If O&M activities are not undertaken effectively, project related water
savings are eventually lost, and with them envisaged increases in agricultural
production.
24.       It appears that the operational basis for most newly organized WUAs
is the short-term objective of W/C renovation. As a consequence, WUAs do not
develop the management skills and organizational structure for longer term O&N
and other activities where a high level of motivational effort and management
is needed. In order to prevent this from occurring, OFWM Directorates and the
Extension Service need to provide WUA nfficers training to develop skills and
leadership capabilities for keeping their organizations motivated. Additional
efforts to strengthen WUAs will be made in OFWM III through training and the
irrigation agronomy program (see Annex 5). These new initiatives are to be
monitored and evaluated by WHED.
25.       Experience indicates that M&E of WUAs will be extremely complicated
because there are a large number of cause-effect relationships and variables
that need to be studied and evaluated. Therefore, it is recommended that this
project evaluate the effectiveness of WUAs through: (a) individual descriptive
analysis based on a specified outline prepared with assistance of the M&E
technical expert to be provided (para 27); (b) analysis of data relating to



- 76 -
Page 8
payment of members' share in the cost of W/C improvements, and irrigation
water charges; and (c) investigation of the effectiveness of O&N activities.
Institutional Arrangements
26.       Internal monitoring (physical and financial) would continue to be
carried out by the implementing agencies, assisted by the supervisory
consultants, documented in quarterly and annual reports to be distributed to
GOP, GOProvinces and the Bank. Data analysis would determine whether
components and activities are being implemented as planned, and within
budgetary provisions. This information would provide management with the
means to evaluate where, why, and to what extent project objectives are met
and implementation is being carried out successfully. Also, this information
would be provided to WKED as input for their external monitoring and
evaluation (para 27). Each Provincial OFWM Directorate will have a Deputy
Director. Monitoring and Planning (see organization charts, Plates IV-VII)
responsible for data collection and analyrsis, and report preparation. FATA
and FANA will accommodate this activity within their organizations.
27.       External monitoring and evaluation will be carried out by WMED under
an inter-agency agreement with the Federal Coordinating Unit. The draft
agreement would be sent to the Bank for review and comment before signing.
WMED will submit the following reports for distribution to GOP, GOProvinces
and the Bank: (a) biannual reports by cropping season; (b) annual summary
reports; (c) executive summaries for (a) and (b); and (d) an overall summary
report at project completion. WMED will also develop and implement a
computerized database system for managing the data regularly collected by
fip1, staff and headquarters staff for analytical evaluation etudies. The
project would provide a part-time technical expert to assist WMED.



- 77 -                                   ANNEX 8
Page 1
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM W4ATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
FY91     FY92      FY93      FY94      FY95
I. CIVIL WORKS (No.) a/
Balochistan
1.  W/C Renovation (canal)                2        4         4         5         5
2.  W/C Renovation (barani)              40      200       210       225       225
3.  Water Storage Tanks                  15       75        80        90        90
4.  PLL (ha)                            100      500       600       650       650
5.  Sailaba Flood Irrigation              1        6         8        10        10
6.  Demonstration Centers                 5       20        35        45        45
NUFP
1.  W/C Renovation (canal)               35      145       165       165      165
2.  W/C Renovation (barani)              15       80        80        80        80
3.  Water Storage Tanks                   5       23        24        24        24
4.  PLL (ha)                            250     1150      1200      1200     1200
5.  Demonstration Centers                 8       34        36        36        36
Punjab
1.  W/C Renovation (canal)              175      725       725       725       725
2.  W/C Renovation (barani)              40      215       215       215       215
3.  Water Storage Tanks                   5       10        10        10        10
4.  PLL (ha)                          2000      9000      9000      9000     9000
5.  Hydra Ram Pumps                       1        2         2         2         3
6.  Higher Irrigation Tech.               1        2         2         2         3
7.  Demonstration Centers                28      118       118       118       118
Sindh
1.  W/C Renovation (canal)               75      325       360       390      400
2.  W/C Renovation (barani)               5       22        23        25        25
3.  PLL 'ha)                            300     1900      2100      2300     2400
5.  Demonstration Centers                 7       33        55        75        80
FATA,
1.  W/C Renovation (canal)                1        2         4         4         4
2.  W/C Renovation (barani)               3       11        12        .2        12
3.  Water Storage Tanks                   1        3         2         2         2
4.  ?LL (ha)                             10       60        60        60        60
S.  Demonstration Centers                 1        1         1         1         1



-78-                               ANNEX 8
Page 2
FY91     FY92     FY93     FY94 
NORTHERN AREAS
1.  W/C Renovation (canal)              1        2        4        4         4
2.  W/C Renovation (barani)             3       11       12       12        12
3.  Water Storage Tanks                 1        3        2        2         2
4.  PLL (ha)                           10       60       60       60        60
5.  Demonstration Centers               1        1        1        1         1
II. PROCUREMENT
1.  Compactors (ICB)                     ---
2.  Vehicles, Tractors Laser (ICB)            ____-_
3.  Scrapers, Land Planes, Irr. (lCB)         __
4.  Office and Survey                     _- --_        -__
5.  Civil Works Materials                     __-- __-- _--______-____
III. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE (appointment)
1.  Supervisory Consultants
2.  Technical Experts                    ---
I-. Monitoring & Evaluation                  ---
V. REPORTING
1.  Annual Work Plan                     ---
2.  Quarterly Progress Report            ----I---------          --------------
3.  Annual Report                         ----
4. Audit Reports W/                            -        -         ---      ---
5.  Completion Report £/
g/ Civil works units are numbers except for PLL which is in ha.
bi Audit Report for FY95 would be due by December 31, 1995.
S/ Project Completion Report to be submitted by June 30, 1996.



- 79 -PIATE I
PAKlSTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
WATER BALANCE (PRESENT)IR
Indus Plains and Peshawar Vale
RIVER INPUT
152 million ecre
E at        Evaporion
101                Canals_
NET CRP UE                3
EFFECTIVE11       1 67
PRECIPpal1  Evavoration
>po,rznon   1_    _  40                    r~~FFETIV  13    es_A.
e: P       8tv Planning D   n   lL                             NETCROP  Ev lr33
EvWateroand  Por ie  1mn A toiy
g C.mmmdts mhtile mis (n.   ~u0 -  '        mss
X~ kidus River -a I aboui 1See6ps                               NET CRO me
World Bank-2242S



- 80 -
THIR ON-ARM PAKISTAN
THID  NuFRMWATER MANAGEMENT PRIOJECT
PrOcedure for Reconstr.ction  of Earthn Channels
iRarn0  the Old 8anks, nd Pif h   rai    et~Cv~Bn
Soil Away from the New Chann.a Site.WlC'V4t*ton COwwd Bank
2) Build a Pad of Clean, Moist Soil on the New Channel Sit ond 'pace
the Pad                               Celt  ie n  cnn
) EEXCaVa the Ditch in Stages, Competung the Bank Soil B& an each
on thei Bariks iLythe. Channs and Compcting thg Moist Sol DSPOStad
6)  Trim and Shape the yaw Compactad Banks tO tha Deign Cro Sectin
S c T h o m t   T r o u t ,   an d   W . .   K e m p gr   1 9 8 0 . ,W  I m p ro=n eIt   M n u , .  Wt e r
trC l a o S e U n l v r y   F t .   C o ili n   C o l o r la B n
WOrgd Benk-2242a



- 81 -                            PLATE III
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Outlets (Pucca Nuccas) used In Watercourse Renovation
PRECAST PANEL AND LID
COMPLETE BRICK MASONRY INSTALLATION
Snue: Thomr Trout and W.D. Kemww. 'Watrse Improusmat Menud." Wmr MenaIeYent
Ruwch Prjt Colorado Staws 'nWlertIW Ft. Collins. Colorado.
Wotrd Bank-22427



PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Balochistan OFWM Directorate
Organization Chart
SECRE1ARY         I
I       
D ODIRECTOR GENERAL      1
AGRICUlLTURAL EXTENSION
,1 (1DEPUTYDIRECTORDEPUTYDIRERDEPUTY DITOR
TRINING INSTnTUTE
AGRICULTURAL  '~FENS( M  RICU       NO.)S t (1NO.)
DIATCTOR                          DIRECTOR
ASSnAT ENGINEER  EXTESI OFWM ACRICULTURAL EXTENSIONA                    TE     E N
DEPUAYODIECTOR                                                                                AGS19(I NO.)  S19(I NO.)  DIRECTOR
M&P                                                                                          M&P
BSE18 (I NO.)              DEPUEY                                                                   S IRECTOR  DEPUTY lSIRECTOR  BS18 (I NO.)
AGRK:1U4TURAL EEXTENSIEDTM  ( GRICULTURAL EXTENSANIO
FL(XDAILAA            (      BS.18 3 NOS9       S1718 N                       1 NOS.)        fLOOD/SAILABA
RtEHAILrrATON SCHEME                                                                   _     REHABIL[rATION SCHEMEi
SFAfF   |                     ~~~~~~~~ASSISTANT DIRECTORSTFs
ASSlTANT ENGINEER 1INO.                  -BS17 + SP (20 NOS )                                ASSITANT ENGINEER A STNO. 
AGRONOMISTI 9NO.                                         .                                   AGRONOMIST, 1(NO.
ECONOMl   INO.                                                                               EC-ONOMIST =INO.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I          a__ _
AGRICLURAL EXTENSION STAFF     FIELD TEAM (E NGINEERING)  | FIELD TFEAM (I RR . AGRONC?Y 
AGFUCULTURE OF'rrER       AGRICULTURE OFFICER (W M.I  AGRIC. OFFICER (IRR. AGROOY 
8S-17 (20 NOS.)             BSS17 (17 NOS.)'              BSS17 (17 NOS.) R00Y
|  SLUB ENGINElEER    I         FIELD ASSISTANT     I 
|-S1 (33NOS.)                IS (34 NOS.)
I      ~~~RODMAN                     B  ELDAR   
|                         IBS-1 (8NOS.)    BS-1 (34NOS.)
*.............. *     WATER USERS ASSOCIATION  I . ...
*16 teho In Bama aad one tewn hi canal ama (only one sb engieer for th team).
sadWw47967a



PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
NWFP OFWM Directorate
Organization Chart
SECRETARY
ACYUCIUTURE
DIRE  ETOR GENERAL (OFWM)
0URECTOR                                                                 DIRECTOR
FE WI            _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _    _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _        TRAINING
BS-19                                                                    BS-19
DEPUTY IECTOR                 DEPUTY DIRECTOR
DEPUT1Y DIFRECTOR                            MOIOIGW M. TRAINING
AREA TEAM LEVEL                              & PLANG                         INSTiTUTE
ICS -15 (3 NSNO.I) BS-18(I NO.)
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR                            
RIELD TEAM LEVEL
BS-17+SP(13NOS.)                                    ASSISTNDBECTOR        ASSIST. RECTOR        ASSIST. DRECTOR
Vt MU! ENEER)        W. M.(!AGRC*KMU)     W M. (ECORE
WM.O.(EW  E)wM.O (AGRIC-)                                      SUB ENGINEE           REMD ASSSTANT
BS-17(1BNS.)           8- 17 (1314NO&)                         BSS -11(INO.)         BS- 6 (1NO.)
SUB8~WIEER                RE_          1. 1D
*   t OMERASSISTANT                         *RODMAN                                        BELDAR
es -J11 (39140)  j[         2  W       L)58-I(1 NO.)                                  BSJ- I(I NO.)
RIODMAN               BELDAR 
eS-1(6S5NOS.)         B S -1I(MNOS1.)   |                                                                                           '
. ... WATER tmn A.
........ ........................                                                 _a
sadSO471167d



I                                                IM
*  a  @*Xv@  
11............................  0 9
S*        ___                                     _  _ 0
S~~~~~~~~~
I         a~~~~~~~~~t
IA UI;L                       -b 



PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Slndh OFWM Directorate
Organizaton Chart
SECRETAY
AGRICLLTURE
C O.X-CTOR GENERAL(O
RIEGOf              ODIRECTOR         DEPUTY IRECTOR       D EPuY DIRECTOR     Da    DIRECTOR       DEPUY DIRECTOR
I    95~~~~~)   II ~~AGOOuvM              TPAINU4           ADISTRATION              Pam                  SOIL             W. C. IDESIGN
llS ,9 )            BS I  19 (I NO)       BS 19 (1t NO)        BS  18(I NO.)       BS - 18 t NO.)       OS - 18 (1 NO.)     e s -is(INO.)
ASSISTAT SOIL ASSISTANT AGRI.
DEPUY O        I R  1 DEPUTY DIRECTOR                              AMNOFUASSTTSILENGU4EER
* .                                                88.17(|   NO)                            GI4EAIST             w. c.CHW
BS . t8 I(4NOS)   J  3S-15(4NOW                                                                          es -17(INO.)        aS- 17 11 NO.)
4 ASSISTANT AGRIC. ENAOTERS                                                                                                               I
4-ASS18lANT  R     S                                       88IER17                                                                        OD
ASSISTANTINIECTOR 1IASSWSANT DIRECTOR 
RED TEAI  VEL        FIELD TEAM LEVL                                                       I
IS . 17+SP 25 NOSr    88- 17+SP (25 NOSr                             I
I                   I       _                            COMP UTER    1    ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
PROGRAMMER   I          VIGiLANCE
(A QC.)                           OS - 17ICA (1 NO.) J  |. T LOS-1712NOS.)|
W      1-S - t {" NOS)  | |   --17 PS N  |
* . 1               l|                                   OPERATOR
| I                                                 j .  8S-15(1 NO.)
11)11 ERASSMSTA
| s-11g &            es t  a |0 B.NOS)
1  I       'i                            1 
' I     I~4RO       I 1       BELDAR      I '_,                     _     __,_,                   _,_-,_,__                                  _
OS -        1 (146 NOS.)S1          ) OS                                 -   I                                                    I NOS.
| DY. DIRECTOR | Y DIRECTOR     DY  DIRECTOR    DY. DIORCTOR    DY. DIRECTOR    DY. DIRECTOR
(R LyL       AGRONOMY         (WA)          ECOJCREDIT         EXT          (W. C. .) a
........... ............                                           m .......... %8BS-18  |BS18   BS-1S            as818 i          18a
. WMER USER ASSOCllN     . . . -.
..................oB
* 231 hs   I elMa  (2 WMO. 4 Subnbw _  6 Rodmn pw tw) od 2 hxsr Bw wea (I1 WMSO. 3 Sub-E6kw and 4 Rods on pw ear b).                sadf47967cc



- ts -                                      PLATE VIII
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Northern Areas
Organization Chart
Mnlatry of Kashmir Attars &
Northrn Ar (MKANA)
Secretary
I     ~      ~~Aditlona Sartz
Acldl ANA) jhr
Water Management Speddilt
BS-17 Field Team Leader, 1
BS17(1 No.)
Sub-Engineer                     Fleld Assistant
BS-11 (3 Nos.)                     BS- (1 No.)
*l                                                          S
Rodman                            Bdkr
S1(4 Nos.)                        BS-1(1 No.)
.                           .
-. WATER USERS ASSOCIATION    ...   .                      .     . .
*                                  S
........ ....................... .............
swdstw479671



- 87 -
PLATE IX
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA)
Organization Chart
Exwulv. Diector
|           ~~~~FATAl
WaW  nm    t Speddat
B8-17 FM tT"mL,t
l  I1O7(1 No.)
Sb WEno                      FWid Auldint
68-11(3 No..)  l              E   (NtD.
68-1(4 Noe.)                  B8- 1(1 No.)
.           S
*,...... ,WATER USERS ASSOCIATION   ........
.I.
...........................................  _ .
seclftO79



- 88 -                                    AT   X
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Federal Coordination Unit
Organization Chart
Mninbay ot Food, Agkiultre
and CooWwvos
S.retay
AdiUonul Ssoay
MNFA
OFWM Coordnation Unit
O.uyC*otdnalcr
BS-20
88-19
ALdAN47067.



PA K I STA N
THIRD ON-FARM WATER
MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                                I A M M U &
PUNJAB PROVINCE                                                                             KAHMRI.
}   sa   x          X               ~~~~K A  S H M  I 
___ Commend Water Management Pr-eetR
On-Farm Watr Management PrjI Ae-t il A
On-Fan- Water Managemn.t PrOjell III Porr .
Fourth Drainage Projct                       A T
nn.  [77] SCARP VI                                                                                       Ap,ni-eC-l
§    ADB OFWM Project
_  Moin Roool             f~~~~M A  N W A t I  j             J HEtLUtM       ,            t
- Main Read
o  Selected Te-ens ono Villges.
* Nati-In Capital4
Canals~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-- Distrct RBounories          /    /                i        D        -    - (; U  J R    N  W  A  L A
DPoeince Boundries                               S H A    A G
ar  - - Internotienel Ro_utrienis                                                            S  ARG 1LDHA  G U      J%N WAL1AX  -  a.s
}~~~~~~~~11 H\               A                G       N     ^:71j/ ^ 5 .< F,-,
In          Y K                          . A R            A  H  0at
, { \ ~~~~~~J H A N G _o^,'AORi
S   / K Ht A  f  w    / <              M! Uf           T         ( ,_--L
I~~~~~~~~~~~~ A
/it~~~~O                                                       I_ W   C    \ A I ->  
{           2   };of~~~ HK N                                  T_ A .A A A NA
C-~~~~~~~~C,
I ,  z  |   N   !   8    .  X N  D  I A
V!     /Rap A< J
X   ;  '  z   L        A      ~~~~~~~~H  A W   A  L P U  R 
/  ''  <  S  }g " ' "A>  ,    B~~~~~ A H A W, A i P 1, R  0
C._    r  S."'.""'se'S i                              ffN
<<  ge # + M  R . +  N  ,       ,    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ C 1



PAKISTAN                                                    (.
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SINDH PROVINCE
2p       IP  Cfot.s.d WOe.r ld       noed                                                     .1
O.-Fo-en  Wower    1     Profid III Ahn
On.Femn Wcr M one Projedc III beoy 
-   Eeo Kho.qpr lit. Oroinop Proji                                             )
X   SCARP Neth RIi P                                                                                     PUNJAB
S_oth Rohni Fooh Groundew Proq-t                                         :
- loon Ro4ed
o   Selede-  To end Villeg.n
Ri -Jd D,to Bondn
III                                                                                                    . J... bd
-  Disiri Bois                                     >-- Wrf3t/
_Prnnn  doene _ 
/   IRKANA           e)                        SUKKUR 
a            , -  .                  X            ~~~~~~~~~~~~U K I*U R   -
t~~~~~ ~~~~            "'A t R __s                 n
\     S                                            2            ~~~~~~~~~~~i N  D  I A
'B A L  O C H I S T A N }+S      
:; . r _ - ................A  -, N
/  /    'S ''X'r~'s-- Tx                                                                         -
'.  ''.-      T&A: 1A            -                                        -         
t                                            .1' t         It.
0            67~~~                  .,.  .                        09 .8                                                 61



- --__________   _B_ _ 8RD   22656
72.                                                                               7,'                                                                                     STH A
THIRD ON-FARM WATER
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
} O  ,_                25_ KILOMETER5FK'&ve \ NORTHERN  AREA  (GILGIT)
}  /  >                  }t                                                                    (                                                 \          - D s. > . Bou+aor ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  o~ FoF~,eC 
}          0~~~~)                                                                                                                                                                                    -     tel,., Fe'.bd   
G            I           L          G            Ia         T
*  }     He               ~~~~~C H I T R A L               woU,o                                                                                         
!                                                                                                                                                     F,a.0  G.k.cho|ho
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A, L  Ts I/   '- T    A                                                                                                                      N9-
t   /'           ,s'    S      ~ ~~ ~~~W  A     T       '                (D                   I      A    M      A     R  cA5o     soi            
o       D   I   R                                          .c o.                                           ^g os.                                          od) 
i  f                == .g/                                        > >                            ~~~~~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OR=.u        Khopold'
.     j                           't                    .w ~~~~~~~~~~~,A N S E H R A    . .            -                                         waw;e>st
7'          {           a'1 a, OBa
CHITRAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTBR19



32' j                                  P A K I S T A N                                                                              32r-oamOr 32s
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
BALOCHISTAN PROVINCE
-'_SN '  ADS Pot Feade- E.ton.-- Praect
* Comanond Wotw M-na-men  ProIsci
On-F,rr Woter Mn-gement Proet III Are.                             Z H O B
31'                                   On-Far- Water Monagement Pro1ect 11l 8ndary  ;   Q    U   E. T B  Ao/.y
Mongods
Selected Towns and Villages               p I 5 11  I N
/                           Roerls                                    \  >   p      \  b    4     /   
,~ ~ ~~~~~~   ianat goandornns                                    .- f.1itv
3o,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /      _. _ Dn^rncgrono 90undaries              q    J   &<i                        ~~^          /<>°* W
_                                     C    f   S                                  - r P u N * A 8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'D.rjri r
\X?* - ~~~~~~CHAGAI                                                                                -\ BGTI;
/=                                    -~D 8-6.6.s                                                     'I i
,.                V ,/             K H A R A N             g '  --                                                    N,4 
M AR R I           An
Is  L   I M I C   /   INIj
O~~~~~~~~~~~~                     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L A T                    
,Sr_.                                    _                                                                              *1..    D         ,
K.~ ~ ~~K
vy  K H U Z D\A R              S I N D H           _,_,~~~~UG T 
C, H_ A        G A I     .                      
fe - M-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A C  H    dz\{{
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
KHARAN~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~
ISF    -    , L Au            O   e  r M. I                         LCAnE L A \  ,a5
R!       E P- Ua 8 L   
2       O  ,    RAN
6r~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         



is.                           il7?iZ                                                       7Z
P A K I S T A N                                      @ U S S R                      -'                                  '   *_
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT t k                                                              _                               ,_
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE AND FEDERALLY    \...                                                j * 
ADMINISTERED TRIBAL AREAS (FATA)
Co-mond WIter Management Project
On-Forn, Water Monog..ent Project III (NWFj I.
On-Far- Wot.r Management Project III (FATA)           ,.
COn-Forc Woter M.n-gement Project II Bo-ndor-y
SCARP Mord-n                                                        C H  T R A L
ADB OFWM, amd Chosmo Right Bonk Project         (.
-    Moin Roads
Selected T.-,0t and Villages
/  Riners                                                  \.        cMra I,
Conol                                                     )                                                 Io, .   )
- -Dist-it 8-ud.,ies.J                                                                 -     
- -. -  Division goondaries                                       N            f-  /'                   /   ' }~
ProninceBocundarias                                                  /7y     Q/A Z/''..                ~
-. -    Intemonot,oai RoBndaries                                   /                        O                       H         I S T A N/
fZ 8 A J A U R :v(/ i 2 gA/T
6 s k ., H ~~~~~~A Z A R A (
ssf  ---  tWo6     >_                  .  U A N 5 E~~~S  H R A r 
A F G H A N I S T A N                                        m M     0      D       
',,  A
(           J ^        K   ~~~~~~~H Y 8 E" Ps \                                   -A 8 B>/     A D . 
< / 'if.- . ~~~0 R A              IC  A  i._ wstn^^ _*    
K  R R AM                            .             A
rNORTH  W AZI RI SfTAN .J-  
33   5            S          W        /,          A  -      .g_t                                                                            \        7;r-B A  U
{   g         \                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~P U N J A B
SOUT H       WA Z I R I S T A N            I_
3z~~~~~~~~~~~.                     \ERp A   ISA W 3
'.   l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
B  A   t  O    C    H    I S  T  AN          I
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                   P A
tO  7/                              7Z                              3             _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.0'
= EF: 5~~~0~~~



