Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
; 5 3~ Z -7 - S-
(£ YPL.  '-I1    / 5            fr/I kC        Report No. P-5429-PAK
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INTEATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$36.3 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 33.4 MILLION (US$47.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
May 2, 1991
Thi document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



OMURRN    EOUIYAIENS
US$1          -          Rs 22.0
Rs 1                   US$0.4545
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Rnglish/USS Units                        Metric Units
1 inch (in)                       -      25.4 millimeters (am)
1 foot (ft)                       _      30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 yard (yd)                       -      0.915 meters (m)
1 mile (mL)                       -      1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)                       -      0.405 hectares (ha)
1 square mile (sq mi)             -      259 ha
1 pound (lb)                             0.454 kilograms (kg)
1 long ton (lg t)                 -      1.016 metric tons (t)
1 cubic foot/second (cfs)         -      0.0283 cubic meters/sec (im)
1 acre foot (af)                  -      1,233.5 cubic meters (im)
PkLstani Units      Enaligh Units                 Metrg Units
i maund         -   82.3 lbs (0.0367 lg ton)  -  37.32 kg (0.0373 t)
26.8 maundAs        2,205 lbs                  -  1.0 t
27.2 maunds     -   1.0 Ig ton (2240 lbs)      -  1,016 kg
ABB5RVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FATA      -    Federally Administered Tribal Areas
FANA      -    Federally Administered Northern Areas
NWFP      -   North West Frontier Province
OFWM      -   On-Farm Water Management
UNDP      -   United Nations Development Program
USAID     -   United States Agency for International Development
WAPDA     -   Water end Power Development Authority
FJynL     e
July I - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THIRD ON-FARK WATER UANEENT PRJ=ECT
LOAN/CREIT AnD PR-OJECT SUMMARY
Borrower                :  Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries           :  About 250,000 farm families in Balochistan, North
West Frontier Province (NWFP), Punjab, Sindh,
Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) and
Northern Areas (FANA)
Amount                  :  Loan, US$36.3 million
Credit, SDR 33.4 million (US$47.3 million
equivalent)
Terms                   :  Twenty years, including a five-year grace period,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, for
the loan; and standard, with 35 years maturity,
for the credit
On-Lending Terms        :  Not applicable
Financing Plan          :  Government    US$ 22.4 million
Farmers
- Cash        US$  6.0 million
- Labor       US$ 43.5 million
Bank Group
- Loan        US$ 36.3 million
- Credit      US$ 47.3 million equiv.
Total         US$155.5 million
Economic Rate of Return :  26X
Staff Appraisal Report  :  Report No. 9142-PAK
maps                    :  IBRD 22652 - Punjab Province
IBRD 22653 - Sindh Province
IBRD 22654 - Balochistan Provinee
IBRD 22655 - NWFP and FATA
IBRD 22656 - Northern Areas (Gilgit)
lThis document has a restticted distribution and may be used by tecipien*t onb in th petfornw c 
of their ofiicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dicloseI withou  WorM Bank authorztion, 



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE ISLAIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
EOR A TNIRD ON-FARM WATERM NMAGEMENT PROJECT
1.        The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed loan of
US$36.3 million and development credit of SDR 33.4 million (US$47.3 million
equivalent) to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan is submitted for approval.
Part I of the document discusses Pakistan's development problems, progress
under the Government's economic reform program at the macroeconomic and sector
levels, and the Bank Group's assistance strategy. Part II of the document
describes the proposed loan and credit.
I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
Introduction
2.        Pakistan's overall growth performance has been strong, with GDP
growing by about 6.5X per annum in real terms for most of the 1980s, and
averaging over 52 per annum during the period 1950-1985. This performance
reflects expanding agriculture production which averaged over 32 in the 1970s
and over 42 in the 19809. It also reflects the rapid development of the
country's industrial sector, with manufacturing value-added growing on average
at 6.7X since the late 1970s. Nevertheless, despite these relatively high
levels of growth, the benefits of this growth have not been widely shared.
Poverty is widespread, with per capita income remaining low at US$370 in
1989/90. Moreover, Pakistan's high rate of population growth, at over 3X per
annum, has meant that much of this growth has been used simply to maintain a
low level of living for the bulk of the population.
3.        Pakistan's economy continues to be characterized by many of th4
problems confronting low income countries. Its production and export base has
undergone only limited diversification, with agriculture contributing about
252 of GDP, employing half the labor force and providing 602 of exports,
mainly rice and cotton. Industry remains concentrated in cotton processing,
textiles, petroleum refining and food processing. Moreover, despite recent
policy reforms, industry still suffers from poor product quality, outdated
technology, and an untrained labor force. The narrow industrial base and
inefficiencies in production reflect continued distortions in the industrial
incentive system as well as high levels of protection, compounded by a
financial sector that is still overregulated and inefficient.
4.        To ensure a sound basis for sustained growth in the future, while
also sharply improving the country's very low social indicators, Pakistan must
overcome immense economic and social challenges. Critical tasks for the 1990s
include the need to: (i) intensify efforts to alleviate poverty; (ii) sharply
expand the provision of basic services and address the country's serious human
resource constraints; (iii) diversify and expand the productive base,



2-
including improving poor crop yields and productivity in agriculture and
continuing to make the industrial sector more competitive internationally;
(iv) improve the management and use of the country's natural resources,
particularly water, and the country's largely untapped domestic energy
resources, with increased attention to environmental concerns; and (v)
overcome increasingly severe physical infrastructure bottlenecks, as reflected
in increasing energy shortages and a deteriorating transport infrastructure.
5.       In addition to these underlying structural and social issues,
Pakistan must also address longstanding public finance issues. Public
resource constraints and periodic balance of payments crises have continued to
plague Pakistan's economic development effort.  Financial problems once more
became acute in FY88, at which time the country's budget deficit reached 8.51
of GDP, the current account deficit doubled to 4.31 of GNP, reserves fell to
three weeks of imports, and inflation reached 10. As discussed below, this
recent crisis helped spark a renewed adjustment effort which is still ongoing.
Thie Structural Reform ?rouvnm
6.       Objectives.  Prompted in part by the serious financial problems
sumarized above, the Government embarked upon a medium-term adjustment and
structural reform program beginning in FY88. The principal objectives of this
prograt were to restore resource balances to sustainable levels and improve
the efficiency of the economy. Key elements included reforms in public
finance, tariff and export incentive reforms, actions to strengthen the
financial system, and policy adjustments in agriculture and industry. In
terms of macroeconomic targets, the program aimed at reducing the budget and
current account deficits to below 51 and to 2.5X of GDP respectively, while
raising reserves to the equivalent of seven weeks of imports, keeping GDP
growth at over 51 per annum and reducing inflation to 61. External support
for the reform program was provided by the IMF in the form of a SAF and
standby arrangement, and by the World Bank through sector adjustment loans in
energy, finance and agriculture, with additional support provided by the Asian
Development Bank and several bilateral donors.
7.       To achieve its macroeconomic targets and structural reform goals,
the adjustment program was intended to:
(a) significantly increase resource mobilization through a substantial
reform of the tax system, aimed at broadening the domestic tax base
and making the tax system more equitable over the medium term; the
removal of most exemptions from standard customs duties; and price
increases for public utilities and other services;
(b) contain overall growth in expenditures, but target development
spending to grow higher than the growth of GDP;
(c) reduce inflationary pressures by limiting the rate of domestic
credit expansion and pursuing cautious domestic debt policies;
(d) implement major financial sector reforms aimed at improving domestic
debt management, monetary and credit management, supervision and



-3-
regulation of the financial institutions, and the efficiency and
profitability of the banking system;
(e) promote exports through policies aimed at reforming the tariff
regime, ensuring flexible management of the exchange rate, improving
export incentive arrangements, and fostering industrial
deregulation;
(f) increase agriculture productivity through improvements in
agriculture pricing policies and incentives, shifting public
investments towards projects with higher returns, and improving the
efficiency of the irrigation system; and
(g) accelerate growth and development of domestic energy resources
through changes in the institutional framework and improved resource
mobilization for the sector, while also improving the management of
energy demand through appropriate pricing policies.
8.        Nacroeconomic Devetonnents.  Macroeconomic performance during the
first two years of the adjustment program was slow and uneven. Although GDP
growth was about 5X per annum, inflation proved difficult to control,
accelerating in FY89, falling to 62 in FY90 and once again rising in FY91.
Efforts to strengthen the budget were also disappointing. Although the budget
deficit fell to 6.8X of GDP in FY90 (compared with a high of 8.62 in FY88), it
still exceeded the target. Moreover, a large part of this reduction was
achieved (contrary to program objectives) by reducing already lox development
expenditures, while defense expenditure remained high at about 7X of GDP and
revenues remained more or less stagnant at about 182 of GDP. In the external
sector, the current account deficit deteriorated in FY89, but improved to 4X
of GNP in FY90, virtually on target. Exports, particularly cotton
manufactures, performed well, while imports were restrained.
9.        During the first half of FY91, export performance has continued
strong, but budget and balance of payments performance has deteriorated. This
reflects in part the negative impact of the Gulf Crisis on the balance of
payments. This impact was exacerbated by delays in passing through the
international oil price increase to domestic consumers, as well as delays in
raising other utility prices to reflect higher oil prices. Nevertheless, a
substantial average increase of 41.7X in the prices of petroleum products was
approved in November 1990 (partly rolled back by an average of 111 in March
1991), and price increases for natural gas (ranging from 21 to about 181
depending on the class of customer), power (12X) and railways (121 for
passengers and 152 for freight) were put into effect on April 1, 1991.   Given
these delays, and the fact that the original FY91 budget already assumed a
higher deficit than originally targeted, it is likely that the fiscal deficit
in FY91 will be above the 5.52 program target for the period.
10.       The slower than expected implementation of some structural reforms,
especially in the energy and financial sectors, as well as difficulties in
meeting key performance targets established under the IMF program, resulted in
(i) a decision by the IMF to allow the standby arrangement to lapse; (ii)
delays in agreeing-on the third-year SAF program; and (iii) delays in second



- 4 -
tranche releases under the Bank's sector adjustment loans in energy and
finance. Performance under the adjustment program was further affected by
increasing political constraints which surfaced during 1990, and which led to
the caretaker government in August 1990 and new elections in October 1990.
The new government, which took office in early November 1990, therefore faced
the need to reactivate the adjustment effort and deal with increasingly
serious fiscal and balance of payments constraints, a task made more difficult
by the impact of Gulf Crisis. The status of the sectoral adjustment programs
and actions taken by the government to renew and accelerate the adjustment
program are summarized below.
Pakistan_- Selected oegnomic Indicators
Growth Rates
(1 per Annum, Fiscal Year)
1973-8Q  1280-88  198    1989   1990
GDP (At Market Prices)            5.4       6.5     7.6    5.0    5.3
Gross Domestic Investment         5.8       6.4    -1.3    7.5    1.3
Exports of GNFS                   4.2      8.7    -3.8   12.8    2.9
Imports of GNFS                   9.1      2.2    -1.7    3.9   -2.6
Inflation (Consumer Prices) LA  11.5       6.0      8.8    7.9    9.0
Population                        3.1       3.1     3.1    3.1    3.1
Private Consumption               3.6       1.2     7.2   -3.0    3.9
(per Capita)
LS Source: IFS, Calendar Year basis.
ii.       Status of the Sectoral Adjustment Prorms. Although implementation
of the Government's sectoral reforms has been uneven, progress is being made
towards achieving key objectives. In agriculture, the Government has reduced
its control over the distribution of inputs and decreased input subsidies, in
particular for fertilizer and credit. Pricing policy, however, is still being
used to subsidize consumers (wheat) and to tax producers (cotton). Cost
recovery for irrigation and funding for maintenance have also fallen short of
the program objectives. Little progress has been made as well in areas that
could help increase low agricultural productivity in the long run: extension
services remain weak, longstanding land tenure problems are unresolved, and a
comprehensive water management effort still needs to be organized, despite
recent progress in reaching agreement on water allocation between provinces
(see para 14).
12.       With respect to reforms in JndotrvttrAft, the Govertment has made a
good start in reducing non-tariff barriers and the maximum tariff.
Nevertheless, Pakistan's trade regime remains heavily protective and
distorting and thus much more needs to be done. Increases in import
surcharges have offset the tariff reductions and kept the overall import tax
rate at a high 101 on average until very recently (the maximum tariff rate



was reduced from 1252 to 952 in February 1991).   The Government has also
recently moved to eliminate most controls over foreign and domestic investment
and foreign exchange and has initiated an accelerated process to privatize
public enterprises.   hehse are important steps.  However, their impact will be
less than desired without further policy changes to foster increased
competition, further reduce distortions, and provide the sound macroeconomic
policy environment needed to more effectively encourage increased domestic and
foreign private sector investment.
13.       Implementation of the finai.a.l sector reforms formulated in FY89
(to reduce the segmentation of financial markets, phase out directed credit,
*        strengthen financial institutions and improve competition in the system) has
proceded more slowly than initlally expected, owing in part to changes in
government, institutional difficulties and inadequate preparation. Important
elements of the program, such as the introduction of market mechaniswi to
manage the Government's debt and the recapitalization of the nationalized
commercial banks, have therefore been delayed. However, the Government has
recently taken a number of steps to accelerate implementation of the reform
program.   Actions to begin privatization of one of the NCBs were initiated in
December 1990, the Government has allowed new private commercial banks to
enter the financial system, and the first auction of government securities
took place in February 1991.
14.       Progress is also being made in the energy sector in revamping the
sector's institutional and operational framework, although pricing adjustments
have lagged. New investment in the sector has also moved more slowly than
expected, reflecting difficulties in rapidly expanding private sector
involvement, as well as difficulties in increasing public financing for the
sector and delays in resolving water rights issues. Despite Pakistan's good
endowment with energy resources, its dependence on energy imports has
increased, owing mainly to inadequate investment and the resulting
underutilization of domestic resources.
15.       Recent Government Initiatives.  Since taking office in November
1990, the new Government has moved to reactivate the adjustment effort, with a
particular emphasis on accelerating industrial deregulation and privatization.
Investment and import licensing has been virtually eliminated; the financial
sector reform program has been put back on track; and an accelerated process
has been initiated to privatize the bulk of public enterprises, while granting
increased autonomy to major enterprises in energy, telecommunications and
highways. Important progress has also been made in resolving two longstanding
issues. Provincial disputes over allocation of the Indus waters have been
resolved with the recent agreement of the four riparian provinces to a water
apportionment scheme. In addition, the National Finance Commission has
recently announced new revenue sharing arrangements between the Federal
Government and the provinces. The Government has also confirmed its intention
to address the country's fiscal constraints within the framework of the
upcoming FY92 budget.
16.       As a result of the Government's initiatives, including the recent
price adjustments, discussions with the DMF and Bank on a new three-year PFP
are currently underway. Agreement on a revised macroeconomic framework and



-6-
updated PFP, Including satisfactory progress in addressing key fiscal and
resource mobilization constraints in the context of the next budget, would
open the way for the release of the SAP third tranche. This would also open
the way for the Bank to release the second tranches under the Energy and
Financial Sector Adjustment operations, assuming all other remaining tranche
conditions have been mot, and to proceed with the proposed Emergency
Adjustment Operation as part of the Gulf Crisis assistance program.
Medium and loaner Term Develo2ment Agenda
17.       The adjustment effort which Pakistan initiated almost four years ago
constitutes an important first step in addressing the country' s wide-ranging
development agenda. Additional policy and structural reforms are clearly
needed to deepen the reform process. This will require not only continued
strong political commitment to reform, but also a commitment to move well
beyond restoration of macroeconomic balances towards fundamental changes in
the structure of the economy and the distribution of the benefits of economic
development and growth. Pakistan's medium- and long-term development agenda
focuses on the need to: sharply expand efforts to tackle human resource
development constraints and social sector issues; further strengthen the
private sector's role in the economy; and mobilize additional public sector
resources, while ensuring the efficient use and effective allocation of these
resources. Progress in all three of these areas is essential if Pakistan is
to raise overall living standards and alleviate widespread poverty. In
addition, the Government will need to pay attention to a variety of
environmental concerns which have emerged in the agricultural, industrial and
urban sectors.
18.       Raan uResources DeyelgqmUn. While Pakistan has made progress in
expanding access to basic health and education in recent years, the coverage
and quality of service delivery remain far from adequate. In addition,
progress has been too slow to effect fertility, and Pakistan's population
growth rate, at over 3X, itself creates conditions that make future progress
harder. The country's high population growth rate and the neglect of human
resources development has resulted in some of the poorest social development
indicators in the world: an infant mortality rate of about 107 per thousand,
an illiteracy rate of about 74X and a malnutrition rate of some 461 among
children.
19.       To overcome these serious constraints, the country's education,
health and family planning, and water and saiitation delivery systems will
have to expand much faster than in the past and their quality will have to be
improved considerably. This is urgent not only to improve the well-being of
the population and make progress in achieving poverty alleviation objectives,
but also to achieve sustainable growth. Improving performance in the social
sectors will require a much greater commitment from the Government than In the
past and increased support from donors. It will also require much greater
community participation.
20.       Pivate Sector Role and ContribuiLon.  Critical to the success of
Pakistan's development and adjustment effort, is the goal of enhancing the
contribution of the private sector to economic growth and development. This



.7
tIplies continued efforts to reduce or eliminate policiog which unduly
restrict private sector activity, while also ensuring an appropriate incentlve
framework for private sector investment. Full implementation of the
Government's deregulation reforms as wll as further substantial reform of the
trade regime, Including a further sharp reduction in tariff barriers, are an
important part of this effort. Equally critical is the noed to pursue the
rapid development and modernization of Pakistan's financial system.
21.       A further important element In Pakistan's development agenda over
the nedium to long torm, is the need to reassess and restructure the role and
contribution of the privato sector to the country's development effort via a
vis the publlc sector. Th. principal aim would be to shift to the private
sector those functions and operations which can be more efficiently and more
cost effectively carried out by that sector. A significant part of this
effort is the ongoing process of privatization of public enterprises which the
Government has initiated. In addition, however, there is a need to encourage
increased private sector involvement in the provision of inputs for
agriculture as wall as in the provision of basic services, such as in health
and education.
22.       bnic Sfector Finances and Ifanaement.  The need to resolve
longstanding public finance and public sector management issues is an equally
important element in Pakistan's medium term development agenda. Inadequate
resource mobilization efforts and high levels of non-development expenditure
have resulted in high fiscal deficits which in turn have led to excessive and
unsustainable borrowing from both domestic and foreign sources.  At the same
time, the public sector has been unable to provide adequate funding for the
development budget or meet rapidly growing needs for basic services.
Although Pakistan's ongoing adjustment program calls for major improvements in
resource mobilization, including tax reform, progress to date has been
limited. A much greater and sustained comitment over the medium term to not
only revise and revamp the tax regime, but also to sharply improve tax
collection, is therefore essential.
23.       Although an increased revenue effort is urgently required, such an
effort must also be accompanied by improvements in the allocation and use of
resources. Current allocations for the development budget (at 6-7X of GDP)
are far too low given the large backlog of investment in basic infrastructure
and the social sectors.  At the same time, spending on defense has remained at
a high level and indeed exceeded development spending in recent years. There
is also a need to rationalize the public sector investment program with a view
to improving its focus on priority needs and ensuring adequate funding for the
timely execution of high priority projects.
24.       Pakistan's development effort also confronts serious project
implementation delays, as marked in part by slow disbursement of Bank and
other donor funds. These difficulties in project implementation reflect a
number of problems, including weak project management, a slow decision making
process, and a small and relatively under developed contracting industry as
well as local funding constraints. Resolving resource constraints, therefore,
will not by themselves accelerate public investment and improve services,



- 8 -
without increaad attention to public sector management issues, Includlng
improveonts in the public service.
25.       Pakistan's Federal and Provincial government structure adds a
further dimens ion to public sector fLnance and management issues. Provincial
goernments are constltutionally chargod with the responsibility for carrying
out specified development activlties, however, they have had limited revenue
raLsing powors and bave been dependent on the Federal government for virtually
all of their development budget and over half of recurrent expenditures.
ContLnued resource constraints at the federal level, as well as problem in
the timely transfer of funds to the Provinces, have contributed to problems of
slow project implementation and inadequate funding of operations and
maintenance activities. Efforts to address these issues have long been
delayed by political difficulties which blocked reconvening of the National
Finance Commission, the body charged with addressing issues related to the
distribution of resources between the Federal Government and the Provinces.
Recognizing the increasing urgency of these matters, the new Government
reconmened the Commission in early 1991, with the aim of having new revenue
sharing arrangements in place prior to the next budget. The new arrangements,
which have recently been announced, open the way to strengthening the
Provincial revenue position. However, they also need to be combined with
expanded resource mobilization efforts by the Provinces, as also recommended
by the National Finance Commission.
bank Groun Onerations
26.       The Bank Group has made 74 loans and 114 development credits to
Pakistan since 1952, totalling US$ 4,149.1 million and US$3,145.53 million
(both net of cancellations), respectively. Of these amounts, US$857.24
milllon has been repaid and US$2,899.85 million was still undisbursed as of
March 31, 1991. The relatively high level of undisbursed funds reflects
project implementation constraints (as noted in para. 23) as well as the rapid
build up of new commitments in recent years. Since 1958, IFC has made 28
commitments in Pakistan totalling US$360 million, of which US$255 million has
been repaid, sold, terminated or cancelled. Of the balance of US$104.7
million, US$93.5 million represents loans and US$11.2 million equity.
27.       World Bank and IDA assistance to Pakistan has involved both project
loans or credits to support specific investments and related policy and
institutional reforms, as well as quick disbursing adjustment loans and
credits in support of policy adjustments. Assistance to Pakistan has steadily
increased over the last decade, with average annual commitments growing from
US$160 million in the early 1980s to US$640 million during FY85-87. During
the past three fiscal years (FY88-90) the annual average commitment level
increased further to over US$800 million, owing largely to the substantial
sector adjustment lending in support of the Government's adjustment program.
About 31X of total Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan have been for the energy
sector; 29.51 for agriculture; 181 for industry; 141 for infrastructure; and
7.5S for education and family planning. A summary of operations currently
under execution is given in Table 1 below.



. 9 -
Pakistan - Onp in8 Prolects b   Secto
Aout    X of Totial      No. of
Projects
Agriculture         1364.2        28            20
Energy              1411.0        29            11
Industry             876.0        18             9
Infrastructure       798.7        17             8
of which Basic      (486.0)      (61)           (4)
*                     Social La        (312.7)      (39)          (4)
PHR                  350.2         7             4
Technical Asst.        7.0       0.1             1
Total          4,807.1 b                    53
jg Includes Urban and Rural Water Supply Projects.
iE  Includes Rural Water and Micro-enterprises projects
approved by the Executive Directors ta April 1991.
28.       In energy Bank lending has focused on expanding the domestic energy
supply, including support for the expansion of private sector investment in
the sector,-while also promotitig more efficient energy use through appropriate
pricing, conservation, and other methods of managing demand. Bank Group
lending for g    r     nd=4 communimga lions has provided financing mainly for
telecommunications and highway development, including support for
inst:.tutional strengthening and improving the efficiency of existing assets.
In &&Xicul=, B'nk assistance has concentrated on improving the efficiency
of the irrigation system and supporting agricultural services.  Lending in the
industrial and financial sectors, has provided financing for industry to help
revitalize the private sector and to ensure the availability of credit for
small scale industry.  Support for the social sectors has focused on the
expansion of rural primary education, with more limited assistance for
vocational education and family planning. In the urzn sector, Bank Group
assistance has involved financing for water and sanitation investments and
improvements in urban infrastructure in Karachi and in the Punjab province.
29.       The Bank has also provided fast disbursing balance of payments
support as part of a program of external support for the Government's
adjustment program, especially in energy, the financial sector, and
agriculture. These operations include: the FY88 agriculture sector adjustment
loan which supported measures for phasing out fertilizer subsidies,
privatizing public tubewells, improving irrigation cost recovery and
rationalizing the investment program in the sector; the ongoing Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan (approved in FY89) which is supporting the creation of
a more efflcient banking system and market-based credit allocation process;



1o -
and the ongoing Second Energy Sector Loan (approved in FY89) which provides
support for priority energy sector investments as well as policy and
structural reforms aimed at strengthening sector Institutions, operations and
sector financing.
30.       Implementation of projects in Pakistan has generally been
satisfactory. However, project execution has encountered delays, in some
cases substantial, owing mainly to local funding constraints, weak project
management capacity, a complex public sector decilsion making process and
cumbersome procurement procedures. Other implementation difficulties stem
from the nature of Pakistan's federal and provincial structure and from the
fact that the country's contracting industry is still developing and remains
relatively small. Given these overall constraints and growing concern with
the slower than expected disbursement performance, the Bank is now carrying
out high level Country Implementation Reviews with the Government on an annual
basis. These reviews focus on both specific actions to address key generic
problems affecting the portfolio, as well as actions needed to resolve major
implementation issues with specific projects.
31.       IFC is active in financing new ventures and expansions in the
private sector in Pakistan. Recent investments have focused on the general
manufacturing and textile sectors where Pakistan enjoys a comparative
advantage, and in capital markets which are growing more sophisticated.
Investment prospects are currently being considered in fertilizers, textiles,
cement, oil and gas, private power generation, tourism and health care. Other
initiatives include seeking to broaden local stock ownership and to assist the
Government's privatization program. The opening of IFC's regional office in
Islamabad is allowing IFC to expand its relationships with private sector
groups and should enable IFC to play an increased role in private sector
development.
32.       MIGA is in the process of developing a more active program with
Pakistan, including both investment guarantees and investment promotion.  As
agreed with the Government, MIGA is making arrangements to carry out an
analysis of the investment climate and to organize an Investment Promotion
Seminar.
Bank and IDA Assistnce Stratejv
33.       Bank and IDA assistance strategy for Pakistan aims at assisting
Pakistan to address its medium and long term development agenda, with emphasis
on strengthening the role and contribution of the private sector, continuing
to address public sector management and resource mobilization and utilization
issues, and encouraging a much expanded effort to tackle fundamental human
resource and poverty alleviation challenges. Within this overall framework,
Bank and IDA assistance would concentrate on providing: i) continued support
for the Government's structural adjustment program; ii) increased assistance
for meeting urgent social sector and poverty alleviation needs; iiI) further
support for rehabilitating and expanding basic infrastructure; iv) additional
assistance for improving productivity in agriculture and industry; and v)
enhanced support for efforts to address environmental issues.



34.       Continued Bank support for the Government's structural adjustment
and policy reform efforts would build on already completed or ongoing sectoral
adjustment operations initiated over the past few years. Future lending for
adjustment would concentrate on supporting fiscal reform, strengthening and
rationalizing the development budget, further actions to improve the
efficiency of the financial sector, and continued support for liberalization
of the trade regime, deregulation and privatization. Sector adjustme"
operations are planned in trade/industry and in the financial sector. In
addition, a special adjustment operation is planned to support fiscal reforms
and assist the 0overnment in coping with the financial costs stemming from the
Gulf Crisis.
35.       Bank and IDA assistance strategy in the social sectors aims
primarily at: providing increased support for efforts to expand the coverage
and improve the quality of basic health and education services; more actively
addressing the problem of rapid population growth; expanding rural and urban
infrastructure, especially water and sanitation, which is critical for
improving basic health indicators; and supporting efforts to address w'men-
in-development issues. As part of this effort, our ESW work in the social
sectors has been expanded in recent years, including studies on population,
employment and poverty, education, and women-in-development. We have also
increasingly made use of the Bank's role as chairman of the Pakistan
Consortium to focus attention on social issues. Recent meetings of the
Consortium have included a review of population and women-in-development
issues. The upcoming Consortium plans to discuss preparation of a Social
Action Plan, vhich the Government would prepare, with the support of the Bank
and other donors, to provide an more specific and action oriented approach to
addressing human resource issues.
36.       With respect to upcoming lending operations in the social sectors, a
Family Health project is to be considered by the Board in the near future.
This project, which constitutes the Bank's first major involvement in the
health sector, will assist in improving the use of existing health
infrastructure in two provinces (Sindh and North-West Frontier), while also
helping implement key primary health and family planning policies of the
Government. Work has also been initiated on a basic education project in the
Punjab aimed at improving both primary and lower secondary education.
Preparatory work is also underway on a follow up family health project
covering other provinces, as well as on a possible project to support
improvement of secondary and higher education. With respect to women-in-
development issues, no free-standing project is planned.   However, we would
continue to address the problems of women within the context of Bank/IDA
projects in agriculture credit, micro-enterprise, rural water supply, shelter
and education.
37.       Bank and IDA efforts to address  vrMtMxy alleviation objectives
include both project financing in the social sectors and basic services, as
well as support for projects in agriculture and industry which aim at
expanding income generating opportunities for small farmers and for small to
micro-size enterprises. Poverty alleviation goals are also addressed as part
of the Bank's macroeconomic and sector policy dialogue, including underlying
growth and economic performance issues which affect the ability of the economy



- 12 -
to grow and create an efficient demand for labor; resource mobilization and
expenditure allocation issues which affect the capacity of the government to
meet its infrastructure and human resource development goals; policy actions
which aim at improving coverage and efficiency of programs in health and
education; and other actions to ensure improved access of the poor to basic
services.
38.       Bank and IDA assistance strategy in infrastr"UM  would help meet
priority infrastructure needs in energy, basic urban and rural services, and
transport, with emphasis on rationalizing sector investment programs,
addressing pricing and management issues in key subsectors, and strengthening
currently inadequate maintenance and rehabilitation efforts. The main
elements of the Bank and IDA program in each of the three subsectors is
summarized below:
(a) In energy the Bank assistance strategy aims at: rationalizing
investments in the sector and accelerating the development of
domestic energy resources including large and small hydro sites, oil
and gas, and coal; adjusting the level and structure of energy
prices to restrain the growth of demand for energy and mobilize
resources for the sector; reducing losses in the production and
transport of energy through the rehabilitation and retrofitting of
power plants, refineries and energy intensive industries as vell as
through the expansion and reinforcement of the transmission and
distribution networks; and strengthening the operations and
management of institutions in the sector. Given the sector's
substantial investment requirements, the Bank expects to continue to
place a major emphasis on increasing private sector investment,
while facilitating and coordinating the mobilization of additional
resources from external donors. Planned future Bank lending would
include a Domestic Energy Resource Development to promote oil and
gas development; financing of a time slice of the FY93-95 power
sector investment program of UAPDA (Water and Power Development
Authority) to support further expansion of the system; and lending
in support of a major hydroelectric project, possibly Kalabagh or
Ghazi Gariala.
(b) With respect to basic urbian and rural services, the assistance
program aims at helping alleviate the backlog of demand for basic
services, while also helping establish these services on a
sustainable basis. As part of this approach, a Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation project was recently approved by the Board. It
supports the rehabilitation and development of community managed
rural water supply and sanitation schemes, while ensuring that
beneficiary comaunities would assuwe responsibility for system
management, operations and maintenance; primary beneficiaries would
be women and children. Other projects are planned to support the
improvement of basic services in urban areas. These include
preparation of the Sindh Urban Development project, which is
expected to finance selected urban investments in secondary cities
in Sindh, while strengthening municipal finances and management.
Preparatory studies on shelter issues have also been initiated and



- 13 -
when completed are expected to serve as the basis for a future low-
incom, shelter operation,
(c)  In tXaueg=, future Bank assistance includes the Karachi Port
Modernization Project which would improve port operations and cargo
handling capacity. Processing of this project is well advanced and
is eapected to submitted to the Board for consideration in the near
future. In addition to this operation, Bank assistance in the next
few years will concentrate on implementation of the Transport
Investment Loan (approved in FY90) which is now getting underway.
This operation supports major structural changes and policy reforms
in the sector, including the progressive transformation of the
railway into a more autonomous and commercially oriented entity;
adoption of proper pricing policy for key public enterprises in the
transport sector; improvement in the quality of transport planning;
introduction of improved maintenance practices for roads and
railways; and the adoption of appropriate modern technology.
39.       Bank and IDA assistance strategy in agriculture is directed
priumrily at improving productivity in the sector, with a particular emphasis
on supporting development and improved management of Pakistan's Indus river
irrigation system, including efforts to control increasingly serious
waterlogging and salinity. This emphasis on water resources management is
complemented by continued efforts to upgrade agriculture support services and
strengthen sector institutions. Our approach to the sector has also involved
a close partnership with the Government in developing sector strategy. Most
recently, as executing agency for the UiNDP financed Water Sector Investment
Planning Study, the Bank has promoted an active review of water management
Issues. This analysis, combined with the recent inter-provincial agreement on
allocation of the Indus waters, opens the way for more effective steps to
strengthen the management and operation of the irrigation system and ensure a
more efficient utilization of the country's valuable water resources.
40.       In addition to the Third On-Farm Water Management Project, the
planned Bank and IDA program for agriculture includes: i) a second SCARP
(salinity control and reclamation project) transition project aimed at
gradually privatizing the operation and maintenance of Government installed
SCARP tubewells in fresh groundwater areas; ii) a further irrigation/drainage
project in the Punjab to support continued efforts to control waterlogging and
salinity; and iii) a project to further support development of an integrated
hill farming management system to conserve and improve productivity of upland
soils.
41.       Bank assistance strategy for industy, rade, and finces is based
on the assumption that in the years to come manufacturing, commerce and
related services will lead the economy in growth, investment and employment.
The main objective of Bank assistance in this area is twofold: first to
support of development of a policy and institutional environment which
promotes growth, the introduction of new technology, and enhances the
international competitiveness of industry; second, to support the development
of small scale and micro entrepreneurs as an important component in the Bank
and IDA's poverty alleviation effort. In addition to the recently approved



- 14 -
Micro-enterprise operation, planned operations include the Industry and Trade
Sector Adjustment loan and a second Financial Sector operation noted earlier
(see para. 33),
42.       Bank and IDA assistance strategy also aims at supporting Government
actions to deal with increasingly serious rnviKrnmehtasl roiles. These
problems include both degradation of land and water resources as well as urban
pollution and contamination issues. The Bank has recently completed
preparation of paper on environmental issues as an input for the discussion of
environmental concerns scheduled for this year's Pakistan Consortium meeting.
The paper would also provide further inputs lnto the preparation of a National
Conservation Strategy, which the Government is currently in the process of
completing. In addition to agriculture sector projects aimed at improving
water management and combating waterlogging and salinity, two freestanding
projects are under preparation. These include an agricultural environment
project aimed at strengthening agencies involved with the onvironment as a
first step towards improving the Government's capacity to address
environmental issues. The project would also finance physical works intended
to arrest environmental degradation. In addition, preparation has been
initiated on an urban environment project in Punjab focusing on the disposal
of household and industrial wastes.
*conome  and Secr _Wok
43.       Economic and sector work in recent years has focused on policy
issues associated with the Government's adjustment program. In addition,
substantial effort has been devoted to an analysis of social sector and
poverty issues in order to provide a stronger analytical and policy framework
for increased Bank and IDA assistance in this area. As part of this effort, a
number of major studies have been prepared, including recent reports on
population, employment, poverty, a series of studies on education, and women
in development. During the next few years, the Economic and Sector Work
Program for Pakistan will focus mainly on: i) macroeconomic analysis in
support of the adjustment program, including public expenditure issues; ii)
analysis aimed at increasing output and efficiency in the main productive
sectors; and iiI) studies and analysis focusing on the development of human
resources and poverty alleviation. A major undertaking, initiated this year,
is support for the preparation of a Social Action Program which would define
realistic targets for social sector development, prepare program and policy
actions needed to achieve these targets, and develop detailed programming and
budgeting to carry out che Social Action Program. The Bank is also acting as
executing agency for a UNDP financed Integrated Household Survey which will
provide important baseline data for further work on social and poverty related
issues.
The Lendinm Program: Level and Composition
44.       For the three year period FY91-93, planned IBRD/IDA assistance is
estimated to total about US$2 billion, including about one-third in IDA
funding, with about 7 operations annually. Continued assistance at this
level, however, would depend to a great extent on the Government's ability to
strengthen its macroeconomic and structural adjustment reform program, improve



* 1S
aid utilization, and more offoctively address social sector issues.   Without
sufficient progress in these areas, Bank and IDA assistance levels would be
substantially lower.
45.       Mor. specifically, the ability of the Bank and IDA to provide
contimud high levels of funding will depend largely on: i) the success of
Govermsent efforts to implemont its acroeconomic and sectoral reform program,
since this is essential not only to strengthen creditworthiness but also to
address key structural and policy issues undermining the country's ability to
tackle basic development constraints and utilize external assistance
effectively; li) the ability of the Government to accelerate project
implementation and improve utilization of the substantial amount of Bank and
IDA resources which have been committed but not yet disbursed; and iii) the
Government's success in improving its poverty alleviation and social sector
performance both in terms of program formulation and increasing the level of
expenditures.
46.       Future lending aims at providing increased support to the social
ectors (including health, nutrition, family planning, education and urban and
rural services), while continuing to provide further support for the
Government's adjustment effort, as well as additional lending for development
of the productive sectors and infrastructure, especially energy. For the next
several years, including the current FY, close to one-third of planned
projects would support investment in the social sectors, including basic
services. Another third would focus on basic infrastructure needs, including
energy, with the remaining third helping to finance investments in the
productive sectors and continuing to provide support for the country's
adjustment program.
47.       Pakistan has been the recipient of substantial external assistance,
receiving over US$24 billion in disbursed aid between 1961-88, with total
commitments during this period reaching close to US$32 billion. In addition
to the Bank Group, major donors have included the Asian Development Bank,
Japan and the United States, with important contributions from other bilateral
and multilateral sources. As head of the Pakistan Consortium, the Bank has
played a major role in coordinating aid to Pakistan and in setting the
macroeconomic and sectoral framework for donor assistance.  The Bank plans to
continue its leadership role in the future, with increased emphasis on working
with the Government and other donors in improving the utilization of aid and
in addressing Pakistan's urgent social sector issues.
^ft.ations with the I1F
48.       Since the inception of the reform program in FY87/88, the DMF has
maintained an active policy dialogue with Pakistan. As of end-February 1991,
Pakistan's outstanding use of IMF resources amounted to SDR 579 million. The
Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF), agreed in 1988, provided assistance in
three tranches totaling SDR 382.4 million, of which only the first two
tranches totalling SDR 273 million have been utilized. The IMF also provided
Pakistan with a standby arrangement in 1988 in an amount of SDR 273 million,



- 16 -
of which SDR 194 million has been utilized. No withdrawals under the standby
have been requested by the Government since December 1989 and the agreement
was allowed to lapsc in November 1990. The Bank continues to collaborate
closely with the IKF and the Government in the elaboration of Policy Framework
Papers spelling out the Government's macroeconomic and sectoral policies and
programs.
49.       Pakistan is still facing balance of payments difficulties for FY91
and FY92 whieb are not yet solved. The country's original financing plan for
FY91 assumed no further deterioration in the external environment, full
implementation of the economic reform program and the continued disbursement
of balance of payments assistance from various external sources, including the
World Bank and the INF, in support of the reform program. None of these
assumptions have turned out to hold so far. Since implementation of the
reform program has lagged, disbursements of balance of payments assistance has
also been delayed. This in itself created gaps in the financing plan. The
Gulf crisis enlarged these gaps. The balance of payments gap is currently
estimated to be about US$0.5 billion in FY91 and US$0.4 billion in FY 92,
assuming a level of reserves at end-FY91 equal to the level recorded at end-
FY90 (US$615 million). Assuming the rapid introduction of additional domestic
resource mobilization and other adjustment measures, which in turn would
unlock disbursements under existing balance of payments loans, these gaps
could be reduced by as much as one-half. Even so, the Government would still
require additional quick disbursing assistance to fill the remaining gaps and
ensure a sufficient build up of reserves.
50.       Pakistan's overall external financing requirements over the next
several years, are projected to average about US$3 billion per annum, assuming
a gradual accumulation of reserves to 7.3 weeks of imports by FY95. The non-
interest external current account deficit, interest payments, and amortization
will account for 201, 351 and 331 of these requirements, respectively.
Projected increases in (gross) official reserves would amount to about 9X of
the annual external capital requirement, with repurchases from the INF and
other changes in foreign exchange reserves accounting for the rest. Funds
from official sources are expected to meet about 801 of the financing
requirement, with 171 coming in the form of grants and another 341 on
concessional terms. Borrowing from private sources is expected to meet over
11X of external capital needs, while (net) direct foreign investment is
projected to account for about 71.
51.       Pakistan confronts difficult economic and social challenges in the
years ahead. First, it must reduce both internal and external imbalances to
restore and sustain macroeconomic stability. As part of this effort, a
critical task is to take the resource mobilization and other measures needed
to sharply reduce the country's high fiscal deficit and avoid a recurrence of
Pakistan's longstanding fiscal problems. Second, Pakistan must continue to
press forward with its medium-term adjustment program. This will require a
vigorous effort to expedite the policy and institutional reforms needed to



17 -
address public sector management issues, move ahead rapidly with privatization
initiatives, and provide the incentive and policy framework needed to promote
a stronger private sector role in the economy. Third, the Government will
need to do much more to meet the large backlog of public sector expenditure
needs, both to catch up with large investment requirements in infrastructure
and the social sectors, while also ensuring adequate funding for recurrent
expenditures on operations and maintenance. To do so, Pakistan's federal and
provincial governments must find ways to tap new sources of revenue, while
ensuring more efficient resource utilization and reallocating resources to
meet the highest priority needs. A fourth critical challenge lies in the area
of human resources development. If Pakistan is to maintain sustained growth
while addressing serious poverty issues, its education, health and water and
sanitation delivery systems will have to expand faster than in the past and
their quality will have to be improved considerably. Finally, without a major
effort to address the issue of rapid population growth, prospects for
improving the living standards and income of the majority of Pakistanis will
become increasingly remote.
II. THE PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
52.       The proposed loan would be for 20 years, including a five-year grace
period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, and the credit on
standard terms, with 35 years maturity, and would help finance improvement and
installation of water management works within tertiary irrigation commands.
53.       Ba kgrou4.  Pakistan covers an area of about 80 million hectares,
of which only about 401 Is used agriculturally: 20 million hectares are
cultivated, 3 million hectares are exploitable forests, and 8 million hectares
rangeland. Because of low rainfall and high evapotranspiration in the mainly
arid and semi-arid cultivated areas, irrigation is practiced on about 85X of
this land (16.5 million hectares), producing about 90X of total agricultural
output. Agriculture still is the most important sector in the economy in
terms of contribution to GDP, foreign exchange earnings, and employment
generation. Over 701 of Pakistan's population (110 million) live in rural
areas.
54.       Irrigated agriculture in Pakistan is characterized by poor water
management and relatively low crop yields. Research at the Water and Power
Development Authority's (WAPDA) Mona Reclamation Experiment Station has shown
that conveyance efficiency of watercourses within tertiary commands is low,
and another sizeable quantity of irrigation water is lost in farmer branches
and field ditches. These studies led to a USAID assisted Pilot On-Farm Water
Management (OFWM) Project in the late 1970s, followed by two IDA assisted OFWM
projects (Cr. 1163-PAK and Cr. 1603-PAK), several projects financed by the
Asian Development Bank, and OFWM components under other irrigation and
drainage projects. Experience shows that these projects can save up to 501 of
the irrigation water traditionally lost.
55.       A key element in Pakistan's OFWN program is the involvement of
farmers through formal Water Users Associations established under Provincial



18 -
Ordinances.  Farmers contribute cash and labor to investment and assume
responsibility for operation and maintenance of completed civil works.
56.       Lesogns Learned from IDa Assisted OMN Projects.  The project
completion report (Report No. 7309, June 24, 1988) on the first On-Farm Water
Management Project (Cr. 1163-PAK) states that implementation was on the whole
smooth and without major difficulties but varied in pace from province to
province. By the end of the extended project period, all revised targets,
except trickle irrigation demonstration, had been achieved or considerably
exceeded. The objective of improving the management of land and water in the
renovated watercourse commands was not fully achieved because of poor
coordination between the OFWM and Extension Directorates and shortage of
qualified staff. While the project's positive impact on production was
unequivocally acknowledged by farmers and other observers, this impact was
difficult to quantify because of insufficient data. The reestimated economic
rate of return of the project is 29X. As important issues for the future of
the OFWK program the completion report listed the need for a more systematic
approach to watercourse renovation covering entire command areas of minor or
distributary canals; the need for greater farmer involvement in the financing
of OFWN works; arid the need for adequate watercourse repair and maintenance
with active involvement of the Water Users Associations. Recovery of farmers'
share in investment cost had been declining under the project, and Water Users
Associations appeared to cease functioning effectively after completion of
construction, and to neglect maintenance.
57.       Lessons learned from the first On-Farm Water Management Project
guided the design of the second, for which IDA Credit 1603-PAK was made in
September 1985. To overcome the weaknesses in non-structural water management
services and enable the Extension Service to assume an expanded role, the
project was to provide specialized staff training and improved coordination
between OPWM and Extension. The performance of the Water Users Associations
was to be improved through addition of an agricultural officer to the OFWM
field teams. Arrangements were made for better project monitoring and
evaluation. Partial recovery of the cost of construction materials was
introduced in Balochistan and NWFP, and rates were increased in Punjab and
Sindh. Credit 1603-PAK was extended twice by one year each (current closing
date is December 31, 1991) to allow completion of an expanded work program and
help bridge the gap between the ongoing and proposed third project. Physical
targets are expected to be achieved. However, the issues noted in the
completion report on the first project have not yet been fully resolved.
Recognizing the importance of cost recovery for the sustainability of the OFWN
program, the government decided in 1989 to transfer responsibility for
collection in Punjab and Sindh to the Revenue Departments. Amounts due in the
two provinces under the Second OFWM Project were to be recovered by March
1991, but actual recoveries fall far short of this target. The main reasons
are that the difficulties involved in making appropriate administrative
arrangements for collection were underestimated, and the eventuality of
revenue staff having to do census and election work was not anticipated.
There are insufficient data at this time to assess the project's impact on
production or the extent of involvement of Water Users Associations in repair
and maintenance of civil works. Actions to improve project design are
described in para 62 below.



- 19 -
58.       1&tioMale for fgnk Group Involyemet.  The proposed project is an
essential part of the Government of Pakistan's and the Bank Group's
development strategy in irrigated agriculture, which is based on the findings
and recommendations of the Indus Basin StudyJ that was financed by UNDP and
executed by the World Bank. The study's recommendation that priority should
be given to water management, rehabilitation and drainage projects has been
followed in the last two five-year plans and the current plan (FY89-93).
Pakistan has about 107,000 watercourses, of which only about 15,500 have been
renovated and about 2,200 are scheduled for renovation under ongoing projects.
Government requires substantial assistance to complete renovation of the
remaining watercourses (about 89,000). The Bank has the capability and
experience to ensure successful implementation of this priority follow-on
project, which comprises a number of new policy, institutional and technical
initiatives.
59.       Prolet, OhjOetives.  Project objectives are to:  (a) increase
agricultural production through effective use of water saved by improved water
management practices; (b) provide for increased farmer participation in Water
Users Associations and related project activities; and (c) reduce government's
financial obligations through increased cost recovery from beneficiaries and
greater farmer involvement in the operation and maintenance of smaller minors
and distributaries serving their irrigation command.
60.       Project Descrintion.  the five-year project (FmYl-95) would be
Tmplemented in most of the irrigated areas of the four Provinces (Balochistan,
NWFP, Punjab, Sindh), FATA, and FANA (see Naps IBRD 22652 to 22656).
Generally, it would replicate the features of the Second OFWN Project (Cr.
1603-PAK), but would give greater emphasis to improving irrigation systems in
rainfed (barani) areas, irrigation agronomy, and strengthening formal Water
Users Associations. The project would provide civil works, equipment,
technical assistance, training, and supervision and administration. Civil
works would include: renovating 7,700 watercourses, precision leveling 55,000
ha, constructing 500 water storage tanks, and establishing 1,000 demonstration
centers. Implementation would be through the OFWN Directorates within the
four provincial Departments of Agriculture, the FATA Development Corporation,
and the Ministry of Kashmir Affairs.
61.       Eligible expenditures incurred between June 1, 1990 and loan and
credit signing would be covered by retroactive financing which could reach
about US$5.0 million.  Total project cost is estimated to be US$155.5 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of 10X. A cost summary and the
financing plan are in Schedule A. Schedule B shows amounts and methods of
procurement and estimated annual disbursements. A timetable of key project
processing events and the status of Bank Group operations in Pakistan are in
Schedules C and D.
62.       AMreed Actions. Agreement has been reached to Improve several
aspects identified under the Second OFWN Project as requiring attention: cost
1/ Revised Action Programme for Irrigated Agriculture, WAPDA, May 1979.



- 20 -
recovery, irrigation agronomy, operation of Water Users Associations,
monitoring and evaluation, and project coordination. (1) Because of the
desirability of increasing farmers' sense of ownership of installed works, and
the need to reduce government expenditure, recoverv from beneficiaries of the
cost of civil works materials would be increased. Together, the various
changes would raiae the shar6 of farmers in the cost of ONWM works, net of
their labor contribution, to between 182 (NWFP) and 25X (Punjab) -- a 5-91
increase over current arrangements. Effective July 1, 1991, FATA and FANA
would also adopt cost recovery programs, following the example of NWFP. In
present value terms, farmers' share in total project investment and
incremental operation and maintenance costs, taking into account payments of
incremental water charges, would amount to 52%. It is expected that the
transfer of responsibility for collection in Punjab and Sindh to the Revenue
Departments will reverse the declining collections trend observed in these
provinces since the mid-1980s. Agreed targets for recovery of amounts due are
as follows: 701 by December 31, 1991, 85X by March 31, 1992, and 901 by June
30, 1992 in Punjab; and 451 by June 30, 1992, 70X by December 31, 1992, 851 by
June 30, 1993, and 901 by December 31, 1993 in Sindh. For Sindh, project
disbursements will begin when recoveries have reached 251 of amounts due. (2)
Separate field teams will be posted by all six implementilg agencies, and a
work plan satisfactory to the Bank developed for them to improve the
irrig"iol agxrnov program and strengthen the operation of Water luers
A1sgsotstIo. The work plan would be designed with a view to increasing crop
yields and production, and helping Water Users Associations to improve
operation and maintenance of installed works and assume greater responsibility
in matters like: planning and construction of OFWM works, operation and
maintenance of tubewells in fresh groundwater areas, supply of non-water
Inputs and services, and operation and maintenance of small irrigation canals
(minors and distributaries). A condition of disbursement for FATA and FANA
components in the project would be enactment of Water Users Association
Ordinances in these jurisdictions, and organization of farmers in such
Associations before installation of civil works begins, as is the practice in
the four provinces. In order to improve water management at the farm level,
the Government of Pakistan has agreed to carry out a study, to be completed by
June 30, 1993, on the possible role of Water Users Associations in the
distribution of irrigation water within watercourse and minor canal commands.
(3) Project monltorina and evaluation experienced institutional and management
problems under the Second OFWM Project. Late in the project period, this
responsibility was reassigned to UAPDA's Watercourse Monitoring and Evaluation
Directorate. As the Directorate is well qualified, it would be responsible
for external monitoring and evaluation of the proposed project. (4) Federal
9SggxLMzssL2n under the Second OFWM Project was inefficient and hindered smooth
and timely project implementation. Coordination in the proposed project would
be through a small unit established in the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and
Cooperatives with staffing and reporting arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank. The unit's responsibilities would include appointment of consultants.
conclusion of an inter-agency agreement for monitoring and evaluation, and
international procurement of equipment.
63.       IBnfits.  The project would cover an area of about 1,000,000 ha and
benefit about 250,000 farm families whose estimated present per capita income
from project activities is substantially below the average per capita income



- 21 -
in Pakistan (para 2). Expected benefits come from increases in cropring
Intensity (about 61) and yields (between 5S and 13X) resulting mainly from
Irrigation water saved by Improved OFW works. Sustainability of these
benefits would be enhanced through the strengthened irrigation agronomy
program and improved operation of the Water Users Associations. The estimated
economic rato of return is 261.
64.       hgairo  na2a& Iula. The proposed project has been reviewed under
the provisions of Operational Directive 4.00, Annex A *Environmental
Assessment" and placed in onviromental screening category B. The project
will not require the preparation of an environmental assessment; however,
designs used for project funded activities will be reviewed to minimize
environmental impact. The project would benefit environmental conditions by
promoting the more efficient use of water, limit the possible nogative impact
on water quality from irrigation, and reduce the area of habitat for the
breeding of mosquitos and related vectors.
65.      Riks. The project would involve no unusual risks.  Implementation
techniques are well known, as this project would follow the two IDA assisted
OFWN projects. Because the project is highly divisible, adjustments in
proposed targets could be easily accomodated through changes in scope or
phasing, in case financial constraints should occur. Such changes would
affect costs and benefits in similar proportion, resulting in no unacceptable
reduction in the rate of return. Farmers' enthusiasm for the OFWN program
guided by the irrigation agronomy field teams should ensure achievement of
production targets and continued activity of the Water Users Associations,
including adequate operation and maintenance of facilities.
66.         go.  I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit
would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association
and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the loan and credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
Kay 2, 1991



- 22 .
Estimated Cgot and Financng Plan
(US$ Million)
&wdl     :na         1"
emsimaed prject Coats A/
Civil Works h/                        64.4         6.5        70.9
Equipment                              2.0         2.6         4.6
Supervision and Administration £/     12.8         2.2        15.0
Technical Assistance                   2.6         2.4         5.0
Training                               0.5         0.1         0.6
Monitoring and Evaluation             -Li          0-3        .L
Total Base Cost                  83.4        14.1        97.5
"rice Contingencies                               44 _1i      14.5
Total Cash Cost                  96.2        15.8       112.0
Farmers' Labor Contribution           43.5          -         J3,a
Total Project Cost              139.7        15.8       155.5
AL  Including US$12.1 million taxes and duties (about 112 of total cash
costs).
h/ Includes about US$5.2 million farmer cash costs.
S/ Limited to incremental salaries and related costs of field teams and
Federal Coordinating Unit.
F&Ln        Plan
Government                       22.4          -         22.4
Farmers
Cash                           6.0          -          6.0
Labor                         43.5          -         43.5
Bank Group                       67.8        15.8        83.6
IDA Credit                   (38.4)      ( 8.9)      (47.3)
Bank Ioan                    (29.4)      ( 6.9)      (36.3)
Total                        139.7        15.8       155.5



- 23 -
Page 1 of 2
THIRD ON.PARN WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(US$ million)
Procurem  t UI4tho         Total
Jg    LSWA       Other       Cost
Civil Works /                                  43.9      38.0 k/      81.9
(38.1)    (25.0)       (63.1)
Equipeant                            3.3        1.3       0.2 k        4.8
(2.0)     (0.8)     (0.1)        (2.9)
Supervision & Administration           -         -       17.3 k/      17.3
(-)  (-)    ~(10.7)        (10.7)
Technical Assistance                   -         -        5.8 £1       5.8
(-)       (')      (5.5)        (5.5)
Monitoring & Evaluation                -         -        1.6 A/       1.6
(-)  (-)     ~(1.4)        (1.4)
Training                               -         -        0.6 b/       0.6
Total Cash Cost                 3.3      45.2       63.5        112.0
(2.0)    (38.9)    (42.7)       (83.6)
Far.rs' Labor Contribution          _ -               -      43.5     43.5
Total Project Cost              3.3       45.2     107.0        155.5
(2.0)    (38.9)    (42.7)       (83.6)
/ Since civil works are small and widely scattered, international
competitive bidding is not practicable.
hg GOP/Provincial procedures.
S/  uidelnes fr th   se of Consultants bX Wogld  Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank ag  MxecutinL  Agency, World Bank (August 1981).
4/ Inter-agency agreement between the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and
Cooperatives and WAPDA.
Note: Figures In parentheses are amounts to be financed by the Bank Group.



-24-
Page 2 of 2
Difbsemet
QM92=                      bxuu re       of haLn e  to be FSnled
civil Works                  89 of materials and skilled labor.
Equipment                  100 of foreign expenditures,
100 of local expenditures ex-factory, or
60 of other local expenditures.
Technical Assistance         90 of supervisory consultants and
monitoring and evaluation,
100 of technical experts.
supervision & Admin.        92 of salaries and related expenses of
OFW( field teams and irrigation
agronomy teams.
EstOIt  Bank         Disb       nts
EC:            22       X       24      95      96
--.---- ------ (US$ million) -.............
Annual                    -      19.0   18.5    20.5    21.0       4.6
Cumulative                -      19.0    37.5    58.0    79.0    83.6



- 25 -
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project PoEMSasing Events
(a) Time taken to-prepare               :  12 months
(b) Prepared by                         :  National Engineering Services,
Pakistan (NESPAK) et a1, for the
Government.
(c) First Bank Group mission           :  April 1989
(d) Appraisal mission departure        :  May 15, 1990
(e) Negotiations                           M March 25-29, 1991
(f) Planned date of effectiveness      :  September 26, 1991
(g) List of relevant PCRs and PPARs    :  Project Completion Report,
June 24, 1988 (Report No. 7309)
for OFWM Project, Cr. 1163-PAK.



-26 -                                        SCHEDULE D
Page I of 3
THE STATUS Of lUNK Ot WP OPtRAtIONS IN PAKISTA
A. STATEMENT OA MK LOANS AND IDA tCt011S
(As of Oeceer 31, '199)
'  Am'otAit (Mi llIion)
LoE           tfiscal                                                                       tl  canllatiOs
NO            vow    sorrtwo                  Purpose                                            tO     unoiswedi
forty-eigwt taw ad siaty ffiv Credits futly disbtursd
of tihich SCALS. SAUS  d program toa  a,                                       1 137.51      1.405.90
LA. 2155-PA     1982 Rswtie of Pakistan   Structurat AdustMnt                    60.00
Cr. 1255-PA     1982 Reptic of Pakistan   Structural Adjustt                                  qoQ
sUb total                                                                    60.00        30.00
Cr. 07S4-PA     197  Rtepubc of Pakistan   Salinity Controt ea  Rqttchtion                    70.00        25.38
Cr. 08-PA       1979 Repubtlie of Pakistan   Slinity Control and Reel. (rden)  *              60.00        15.78
Cr. 11-S?PA b/  1981 Raetblic of Pakistan   Grain Storge                                      23.42         S."9
Ln. 2247-PA     1983 Republic ot Pakistan   Reservoir Nointenence facitities    10.20          -            0.J6
Cr. 1243-PA bI  1982 Repubtic of Pakistan   Baluchistan Rine lerig. & Agr.                     14.00        8.03
Cr. 1348-PA bi  19J3 Repbt{ic of Pakistan   Lahore Urban Developmnt                            16.00       10.91
Cc. '374-PA b/  1983 Repubhilc of Pakistan   Karachi Water Suply                              25.00         5.53
Cr. 1375-PA bl  1983 Rep.tic of Plstan   Fourth orainag                                       6S.00        65.J0
In. 2380-PA     1984 RapaMtic ot Pakistan   lndAstrist luwestamnt Credit il      50.00                      3.01
Cr. 1439-PA bl  1984 Repubtic of Pakisttn   InAistrial investment Credit It                    50.00        3.78
Cr. 1461 -PA b   1984 Republic of Pakistan   Integrated Mitl farsing DOv.         *           21.00        11.89
Cr. 1480-PA bI  1984 Raps*tic of Pakistan   SJcond Technical Assistance                        ?.oo         1.10
Cr. 1487-PA b/  1964 Rephltic of Pekistan   Coid Water Management                             46.50        32.05
Cr. 1499-PA tJ  1984 Repubtic of Pakistan   Second Smeat Industries               *           S0.00         5.1S
Cr. 1532-PA b/  198S RepubAlic of Pakistan   Left ank Outfttt Drain - Step        -           15 .00      174.44
Cr. 1S33-PA bI  1965 Republic of Pakistan   Baluchistan Agricultural LAtansion   -             8.30         4.39
Ln. 2499-PA     1985 water/Pow  Auth.       fourth  OM Powe                     100.00          *          19.4
Cr. 1602-PA bJ  198S Rpbtic of Pakistan   Scond PrilArY Rwstion                               52.50        52.30
Cr. 1603-PA b/  105 Rephtic of Pakistan   Seco$ d On-farm Water N_agmnt                       34.50         0.99
*Ln. 25S2-PA     196  Republic of Pakistan   Eeg  Sector taon                    176.00                      1.35
Ln. 2556-PA     1965 wster/Powr Auth.       Fifth WAPOA fPwer                   100.00                     25.47
tn. 2648-PA     1966 Repubtic of Pakistan   Inrdstrisl lnvstmEnt Crdit         148.00                      T 7.93
Cr. 1646-PA O/  1986 Republc of Pakistan   Indntriat Investmnt Credit             *            2.00         1.09
Cr. 1652-PA bi 1986 Repubhlc of Pakistan   Karachi Special O      alont                       70.00        62.33
Cr. 1670-PA  / 1966 Republic of Pakistan   Second Vocationt Training              *           40.20        31.41
Cr. 1693-PA bi  1966 Repbifc of Pakistan   SCAtP tranition Pitot                *              10.00    0    .59
Cr. 1699-PA bi  1966 Repblic of Pakistan   AWic. 0ev. S"nk of Pakistan VI                     55.00         3.55
Ln. 2693-PA     1966 Repubtic of Pakistan   Agric. 0v. Sa  of Pakistan VI       16S.00                     15.33
tn. 2698-PA     1966 water/Pow   Auth.      Kot Addu Cbined Cycle                90.00         *           18.92
Ln. 2743-PA     1986  Repuq le of Pakistan  Tole coaicatiOs V                   100.00                     46.15
Cr. 1755SPA b 1 96  Republic of Pakistan   Third Tochnical Assistne                            r.00         5.56
Ct. 1762-PA bi  1W   Repubic of PAkistan   Ag. Extenion IV                        -           42.10        36.06
Cr. 1821-PA bl  19   Republic of Pakistan   Third Primary Cduation                           145.00       147.40
Ln. 2M-PA       1967 Water/Powr Auth.       Powr Plat EIffieac                   70.00                     SL60
Ln. 2614-PA     1967 Ropubile of Pakistan   Forth vihicwas                      152.00                    114.44
.n 2089-PA      1967 RepUblic of Pakistan   Third SBIl Highways                  54.00         *           40.91
in. 2J42-PA     1967  tte Petr. Ptrohb.   Refinery Energy Cerdervation           21.00         *           17.75
in. 2864-PA     1965 RepAliC of Pakistan   Count Incustry Noderniastion          96.00         *           81.26
Cr. 1SM-PA bl  1908 Repubtic of Pakistan   Second Irrigation Sytm l_etab.        *           79.50        79.39
Cr. 1IN5-PA b/  1960 tepubliC of Pakistan   Punjab Urban Developant               *           90.00       8S115
Cr. 1936-PA bh  I963  ep lic of Pakistan   Nationl Ocilseed  rle5ntnt                        20.00        16.31
in. 2M-PA       1966 Rpubifc of Pakistan   National OilseO Deltopant             31.40                     31.40
in. 2962-PA     196  Repubtic of Pakistan   Private  ector neregy Development  150.00          *          150.00
*Ln. 2966-PA     1986 Repubic of Pakistan   Agricuiture Sector Adjustment        200.00                     46.57
Cr. 1962-PA  t  ¶989 RepUblic of Pakist#n   Indstrial Investment Credit III                    2.00         1.50
in. 3019-PA     199 Repubilc of Pakistan  ItrAstritl invs tmrnt Credit tII    148.00                      137.49
Cr. 1C-PA b/  199 RPUbtic of Pakistan   Kerechi Water Supply                      *           125.00      129.19
'in. 3029-PA     1969 Republic of Pakistan   Financa1l Sctor in. 1t              150.00          *          7°.00
*Ln. 3107-PA     1969 Republic of Pakistan   Energy Sector Loan II               250.00                    I 147.75
Cr. Z0-PA h/ 196  Rp*lic of Pakistan   Floo Rtestortion                           -             0.00       23.32
Cr. 2004-PA ht  1969 RepWi$c of Pakistan   Privete Tub ewll                       *           34.40        29.44
in. 3147-PA h   1990 Water/Power Auth.      Power Transmissien & Extension      162.00                    162.00
Cr. 207-PA b   1900 RepUblIc of Pakistan   Rurat tlectrfitcatiOn                  *           37.00        40.85
in. 3146-PA tJ  1990 RepUblic of Pakistan   Rural Etcttrification               123.00                    1 23.00



- 27 -                                        SCHEDULE D
Page 2 of 3
TUE STATUS OF usNt   Gal PEATlONS fit PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT Of RANKLOANS AND IDA CREOITS
(As of Oeceer 31, 1990)
Amot-t (Silltion)
LoW           fiit c,_                                                                        ess cancel tatio)
*a.           Yoor      rower                Purpose                            8San             IDA    Undisbursed
Cr. 2102PA hi 1990 Rieuti of Pkistan   Sind Primry Education                                 112.50       119.62
Cr. 2153-PA b/  1990 OPWlit of Pakistan   Agriculture CrAdit                                   1.50         1.56
Ln. 3226-PA      1990 Lastic of Pakistan   Agriculture Credit                   148.50                    148.50
Cr. 21S4-PA 1c 1990 Rteputit of Pakistan  WAicultural Reseach                                 ST.30       42.34
*Ln. 3241-PA b/c/i990 Repulic of Pskistan   Transport Sector Investments         184.00                    184.00
;fn. 3252 bc/c  1991 Republic of Pskisttn   CaP. Restructuring                  130.00                   130.00
Total                                                   4,148.61      3,149.62    3,104.28
of which has beon repaid                                745.74        131.11
Total now outstanding                                   3.402.8r    3U04a
Amwunts sold                                               33.46         12.00
of ibicb has been repaid                                 30.11         12.00
Total now held by the Sank  nd IDA ce                  31369.41      3,006.48
Total undisbursad                                                                 3 104.28
ai Approved during of after FY80.
bi  IDA Credits begiming with the 6th Replanishment are deonminsted in SOR, and are shown in US$ equivnlonts at
the tim  of negotiations. Disbursed  amts are eoputed at the exehang  rate applicabte on the trnsaction
dates. Undfsbursed eosnts ore valued at the exchange rate applifable on the date of this statement.
c/  Not effective at the tim of this statement.
SAL, SUCAL or Progrm Loan.



- 28 -                                     SCHEDULE D
Page 3 of 3
IN STATUS O  AN  GRUP  PEtEINS IN PMISTAN
3. STATENENT OF I P INVESTMENTS
(As of Decmer 31, 1991)
Amwt  (Smitlion)
_(r les anllatians
Cete       Sorrowr                          Purpse                         LoWn         Equity       Totat
198        stel Corp of Pastsn             Rolled Stel Pr0act              0.63                      0.63
1959      AWe. le*atrfas Ltd.              Textiles                        0.75                      0.75
19U2/65    Gheribwl Cement  rd. Ltd.       Cemnt                           5.25           0.42       S.6?
1963/69
73/89    PICtC                            Developitg Finance              -             3.a        3.3
1NS        Crelnt Jute Products             Tstile                         1.84           0.11       1.9
1965/80/82 Pakage Ltd.                     Pper Products                  26.01           1.01      27.02
1967/76    Pakistan Paper Corp. Ltd         PapeW                           S.38          2.02       TA40
1969       Dawood Nercules
Chemicals Ltd                  Fertilizer3                   18.30           2.92      21.22
1979       Nil kpk Ltd.                     Food & Food Processing         2A40          0G40        2.80
1979       Pakistan Oiltfieds Ltd
And Attock Ref inry Ltd.       Chemicals 8 Petrochemicats    29.00           2.04      31.04
1980       FauJi Fowideticn                 Woven Potypropylen  Bags       1.78                       1.78
1968       Fecto Cemnnt                     Cemnt end Construction        18.S8                      18.58
1967/89    Anglo suiusf                     Chemicals & Petrochemicals                    6.80       6.80
i960       Prcsier Scawd Nills Ltd.        Prticle board                   2.70                      2.70
198S       Nillet                           Tractor                        4.90           -          4.90
1961      NHbib Arkady                      Food and food Processing       3.15           0.16       3.31
1982       Asbestos                         Cement                         3.50           0.51       4.01
1983       Pakistan Petroel.. Ltd.          Chmical & Petrochemicals    104.50            1.56     106.06
1969       Shms Textile                     Textiles nd fibes              2.76                      2.?6
95         National OeveloPpmnt
Lesing Corp.                 Money nd Capiftat Mrksts        5.49           0.37       s.86
199        Sursi Cotton                     Textiles ad Fibes              2.76                      2.76
1989       Nal                              Spisnning Plant                3.2?           0.66       3.93
19I6       Marl Gas                        Chemicals & Petrochemicals    46.53                      46.53
1990       Pakfstan Suiaki                 Motor Vehileo & Acces.         17.53           -         17.53
1990      RMipli                            Textiles & Fibers             22.64           2.00      24.64
1990       Fll8                            Develop mnt Finanee                            0.68       0.68
total Gross Coemitmnt                                         329.65          25.29     354.94
Les Caneltations, TemIstions,
Prepvmants nd Sate*                                         240.01          14.04     254.05
toal Cmitmn nts now held by IfC                                8.9.4          11.25     100.69
Undfsbs   (including prWticipants)                             45.18           3.58      48.76



MAP SECTION



THIRD ON-FARM WATER
MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                                 J A M M U &
PUNIAB PROVINCE
Commncei Wote Manoge.net Prolecti.    
OC-Fo,m, Water Monogneent Fect Ht Amt.
-  On-fwtm Waler Monogement Proecjt Hl &XunI0r1.
Fovurth Drainage Project                           C K
V] SCARP VI                                                                                                                3
] ADB OFWM Project
- iMonRoads
0  Selected Towns and Viloge*
NationrlI Capitol
Ri-er
Canals
-   District Bondories
-Prsince Bondaries                                       SA R G
9 Inteotiomnal Bouadsne t
j  cSt~~~~~~~ H A         N G   V o                   ve                r
N  W  F P                  
031
i  l   /         tt  J           \         *g            0          /               , N  D  I AI A 
A   ,i  /  tO   tv,,,,,,_,,,                 ,.       /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA
t /.-  ze; xHK W  A LPUR
g  ,;/> <;< 7~~~~N                                     I H A R I      
r S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I N  D  I A  
( 7>/ n. 2 75'RO.
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2



P A K I S T A N                                              -
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SINDH PROVINCE                                                    !
-2 CU  Contmood Wower Mogeme Pnod                                                  2. 
On-Frrn Wate, honogent Proled IN Area                                       .
COnFarm Wawer Mnogement Project IN BoutKory                                /
East Khorpw Tile Oroeowep Ptroa
K SARP North Rdtri Protect                                                   'P  U  N  J  A  B
Soouth Robri Fresh Grourndwaer Proectr
11  Ivt Bonk COufo Dratn Prot ef
-     Moio Rrood
0   Seleted Tors and Villoges
- Distrit Bordaries
Diwsim on  tSHIIi- wuws .,_
.Pr-tince Boundaries
kstenxmtstl Boundaries
(*W*uls~~ A  
It/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\ D ^ o - -* - / @ ~~~~~N   D  I A
26   8 A L o c H I s T A N                                                          s A NG H AR                                             2 X
,/  1      1 ,!     _              W      S-.H  f                       t~~4-.-
:K'ARA,FND      AB                                                  j                          ,
2F~*9AR;C  H  Y                                        E  R                                 A                                           2 '.x1        
/ W     ,         W          ,          XB ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~A D I N  A 
\     ~~           ,*1                                                           -(4   -
r  T T A  ' . . 
/  C  *0  20 _  2   5 MIk-
23'
0                  '~~~~~~~7-                65                         69*                       7& *1
, 7                 *



IBRD 2265
Iit- hl'6                                     h                      6W                    452                                          61r                    hr                    60,
3r2j                                                              P A K I S T A N                                                                                                                   s           i.1,PKT
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                       /I
BALOCHISTAN PROVINCE
_A\, ADB Per Feede, Emensian I'miect
c- Cannnd Water Management Proletd
On F-rn Woter Monagement Pro1et 1II Area                             r
31i                                                              On;-Farrn Water Monagement Project I Bo.undory        o rr                            U   E    T          A
-Moin Road*
c    Selected To,ns cnd Vlioaes                                                 S H
. -- District Sondarien
-   -  D,nrsron Eoundor es                                                                                                           I '  R A L A i
30,-                                                        .    bslmlootior.ol BwnldQ,ios                                       QU E,T                                                                                       30  .-.  .     
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                                                :/  ''S  I B  I                   0  ohOy,
1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
< . ~~~~~~M A R R I  UN   
Jf         (K  A ~~~L A T      ?                 *                    *         S
/2 Kcit <1 ~~~~~~~\                                                               .-,,42
20
zv    rIza^                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2 =   =  7 0 , r  /,    -------   . -  1. A C H A G A I  8 u G r I
t$+ t ,./ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K  HA C H H I    --  
%
no.                                                                         KHARA
|                                             _y _e         ~~~~           ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Khb                                                I
I S L A M I C                   |/,i                                                                            z(,
R E P U B L I C                                                                                                                                                                    a ,?
O   F      I R A  N                                       ~                                       .' f              /                                                                           J9
w, ._               .i   <              ~~~~~~~~K A,,'2 A T   /(I N D I A
t                v^';/           K H U Z  R                                              ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~S I N D H           *__
gJ- ~~~~M                       A   R       R,A   N  -_. 
^         {                         ~~~~~~~~~~T U R B A T             <.*L  SB E L A '                                                  ,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2P k, b_*_- .u-   Ee
4-                       <t4                                                                                                                                                                                     DECEMBER 1991



P A K I S T A N.- -                                                                                         \ 
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT  u>
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE AND FEDERALLY                                \...   j3
ADMINISTERED  TRIBAL AREAS (FATA)                                           .f                           1
Commond Woter Management Project                                                           IC-!
On-Form Water Manogement Project l1 (NWF)
On-Form Woter Monogement Project l11 IFATA)                                         -J
On-Farm Water Management Project Ill Boundary
SCARP Mordon                                                  C H I T R A L 
ADB OFWM, and Chonmo Right Bank Project     4.
3-                _   Main naRwds
0   Selected Towns and Villoges
Rives;.                                                      alm~o~
-    Conrlt
Dktict Boondaries                                                                                       5-.-'
-  -  Diisian Boandaries                                                     t'
a--Prvnal Boundairies                                  i        f ,,        s         o     
Interotional Bousdories                                           5 t/A  't      .H
35- ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      (J ; X               AX T0                        zS          \
-'4. // ie. =                             -AZASRA
A F G H A N I S T A N                              jOH MLt <                                           Z                     t@b
O Pms A  Z Aj      r
/                                                                    t    20   40   65 O R MOAtin 8
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                is  to  to  40  3COM.. 
F,T         /                                               - |  -         ,                4
I   ~         ~~ H.d    W AV Z-L I                                                                - 7'N      I      
3~~                     ->~.r 3kA
>t __y  (>              X   ~~~~~~~B A    u
S O U T 1W  A Z I R t S t A N r       D                                                      PUNJA8
i   1'c 0                                                                                         0 z
^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0 J0   30   0                                                   tl
3 B  A  L O  C  H  I S  T A  N|    # 



IBRD 226:
724                                                                       7t                                1                                       P A K I S T A N       lR  2
THIRD ON-FARM WATER
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
21 75   liO KILOMEnEeS                                                                       g__2-                                    WtXnue   1            NORTHERN  AREA (GILGIT)
On Fo,m Wwose oere
0 5         5                                              50o1r MS A# otreI
X                    X               14.t81t' ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ On FormllWore,Menogemer
+ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r g-Po1ect Boundony
-Mo- Root~
1                                                                                                              0  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Selennd To-wnscd ViSo.g,
X'N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---Despot Bo-donre
>   .r  9                                                         d                                             V         D5trtcr Eoundories~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ifensinl ondne
o  ^.    Z  r  G  I   L          G           I         T                                 _2580o Ele-on-oos so Feet
k       /                                                                                                                  <  >. Po5st  Slsisshol0                               Rivett
CHITRAL                                             e                                              o
/                                          G5uch.                    t
36~~(555  ,/                         I       Dofm  550d~
-36'~~~~~~~ 
I   k                                   k  ^                                                              X                    \                                              \~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
\   ochifrol                                              IflnI,.JisiI'n
<                 ,,-                                <                                   Y                  A        _~  B  A  L T  I S  T  A  N
IN ,.
t   ,/           f'  ~~~~~S   W    A   T   't(                                  D  t  A    M    A    R Oso   
j ,  D    I R                                                                                      26 X5Jle    ev                           krv
f  t  tY  >_,>  CR=fttv   /                          Khpld
.)   {   '.  M A N S E H R A \-2 )> '' a .s - w. .......MANSEHRA                             .
l  /  7r    4  23rshom                                74,          _        \                     ,;                             Y                   OC703ER 19i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCOBR 9



