Documcnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16634
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CR. 2245-PAK and Loan 3327-PAK)
June 3, 1997
Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations Dixvision
Country Departmeint I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVAIENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupees (Rs)
SAR (May 1991) Rs22.00 = US$ 1.00
Completion Year (December 1996) Rs 40.00 = US$ 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July I to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
All)          = Agriculture E.xtension Department
CCA           = Culturable Command Area
DC            = D)emonstration Center
I)OA          = Development Credit Agreement
DOA           = Department of Agriculture
FATA          = Federally Administered Tribal Areas
FANA          = Federally Administered Northemn Areas
ECU           = Federal Coordination Unit
FO            = Fanmers' Organization
F'l'C        = Farmer Training Center
(GOP          = Government of Pakistan
IA'I          = Irrigation Agronomy T'eam
If3RD         = Intermational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          = International Competitive Bidding
IDA           = International Development Association
LCB           = Local Competitive Bidding
MinFAC        = Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives
M&E           = Monitoring and Evaluation
NWFI'        = North West Frontier Province
O&M           = Operation and Maintenance
OECF          = Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
OFWM          = On-Farm Water Management
OFWMD         = On-Farm Water Management Directorates
OFWM I          First IDA assisted OFWM Project (Cr. 1163-PAK)
OFWM II    = Second IDA assisted OFWM Project (Cr. 1603-PAK)
PC-I            Planing Commission's Profonma Number I, Government's Project Approval Document
PLI.            Precision land leveling
RI)           = Revenue Department
SAR          = Staff Appraisal Report
WAPDA         = Water and Power Development Authority
WMvD          = Watercourse Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate
WUA           = Water Users' Association
GLOSSARY
barani        = raint'ed area with some interspersed small irrigation schemes
chak          = tertiary irrigation command (watercourse command)
sailaba         irrigation using flood waters
warabandi    = weekly rotational schedule of irrigation deliveries to farmers on a watercourse
watercourse   = irrigation distribution channel with a chak
Vice President                Mieko Nishimizu
Acting I)irector              F Fakhruddin Ahmed
I)ivision Chief/Manager       Ridwan Ali
Staff Member                  Rashed Ul Qayvum



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2245/Ln. 3327-PAK)
Table of Contents
Preface.
Evaluation Surmmary .................................................................       ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES .........................1............................... 
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ................................................................ 2
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ....................................................... 10
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ................................................................ 10
E. BANK PERFORMANCE    ............................................      .................... 11
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ................................................................   11
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ................................................................  11
H. FUTURE OPERATION           ..............................1.................................. 1
I. LESSONS LEARNED ................................................................ 12
PART II:       STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1.       Summary of Assessments
Table 2.       Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3.       Project Timetable
Table 4.       Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5.       Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6.       Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7.       Studies Included in Project
Table 8A.      Project Costs
Table 8B.      Project Financing
Table 9.       Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10.      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11.      Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12.      Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13.      Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDICES
A.             Mission's Aide-Memoire
B.             Borrowers Evaluation/Comments
C.             Financial and Economic Analysis
MAPs:       IBRD 22652, IBRD 22653, IBRD 22654, IBRD 22655, IBRD 22656
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2245/Ln. 3327-PAK)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third On-Farm Water
Management Project in Pakistan for which Credit 2245-PAK in the amount of SDR33.4 million (US$47.9
million equivalent) and Loan 3327-PAK in the amount US$36.3 million were approved on July 31, 1991
and made effective on May 14, 1992. The IDA Credit and IBRD Loan closed on December 31, 1996,
following a one-year extension. The Credit was fully disbursed on September 30, 1995, and the IBRD
loan on May 28, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program mission" which
visited Pakistan in February/March, 1997 and revised by the Agriculture and Natural Resources
Operations Division, Country Department I, South Asia Region. Preparation was based on review of the
project files, Staff Appraisal Report (No. 9142-PAK) dated May 2, 1991, field investigations and
discussions with staff of the World Bank, Federal Coordination Unit (FCU) of the Ministry of Food,
Agriculture and Cooperatives (MinFAC), the On-Farm Water Management Directorates (OFWMD) of
provincial Departments of Agriculture, the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) and the
Watercourse Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate (WMED) of the Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA) and with farmers benefiting from the project. Additional information was obtained
from comments on the mission's Aide-Memoire. The Government of Pakistan prepared its evluation of
the project which is included as Appendix B. The Government also contributed to the preparation of the
ICR by commenting on missions's aide-memoire, arranging field visits and discussions with project staff
and farmers, and providing relevant data on project performance.
"I         Messrs. D. A. Ivory (Mission Leader), R. G. Paterson (Irrigation Engineer) and
T. Lohavisavapanich (Economist).
i






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2245/Ln. 3327-PAK)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.         The positive impact of two previous International Development Association (IDA) assisted
On-Farm Water Management Projects (OFWM I, Cr. 1163-PAK; and OFWM II, Cr. 1603-PAK) and the
strong demand from farmers for continued OFWM activities, led to the Government of Pakistan (GOP)
requesting the Bank Group to finance a third OFWM project (OFWM III).
Project Objectives
2.         The objectives of the project were: (a) to increase agricultural production through effective
use of irrigation water saved by improved OFWM practices and a strengthened irrigation agronomy
program; (b) to improve the capability of the implementing agencies to carry out an expanding OFWM
program and facilitate their coordination with the extension directorates; (c) to provide for increased
farmer participation in water users' associations (WUAs) and strengthening these organizations to improve
water and non-water input management and ensure efficient operation and maintenance (O&M) of
installed facilities; and (d) to reduce government's financial obligations by increasing cost recovery and
encouraging WUAs to assume O&M responsibilities within smaller irrigation commands. Approximately
1,000,000 ha of irrigated land involving about 250,000 farm families or about 2 million people were
expected to benefit from the project.
3.         The project objectives were clear, and in line with the Government's sector policies and the
Bank's assistance strategy for Pakistan which supported growth objectives by focusing on structural
reforms, improving the enabling environment for the private sector, strengthening inadequate basic
infrastructure, reducing constraints on agricultural productivity, and protecting natural resources.
Pakistan's development plans acknowledged that huge investments made in irrigation infrastructure must
be accompanied by measures to strengthen agriculture input and support services and the role of the
private sector, if efficient agricultural production is to be achieved. The project was to address one
important part of this agenda, namely the management of a key input, water, at the farm level.
4.         The physical targets included the renovation of 7,685 watercourses, precision land leveling
(PLL) on 55,000 ha, the construction of 515 water tanks, the rehabilitation of 35 flood irrigation (sailaba)
schemes in Balochistan and the provision of 10 hydra ram pumps and higher efficiency irrigation systems.
Construction of hill torrent control structures for one seasonal river was added to the project during its
one year extension.
5.         A  number of loan covenants were aimed at enhancing farmers participation and
sustainability of the program by implementing specified levels of cost recovery, both under this and the
ii



previous OFWM  projects.  The cost recovery levels were enhanced further during the project
implementation. The implementing agencies had sufficient experience in the project implementation, a
flexible implementation program was adopted and the project works were tailored to suit the local needs.
lmplementation Experience and Results
6.          Achievement of objectives. The project increased the production of the major grain crops,
cotton, fodder and fruits. However, for the major grain crops the increase was less than estimated at
appraisal. The production of sugarcane declined because of a shift towards more water efficient crops in
improved watercourses and reduction in area planted under sugarcane. Increased production was mainly
due to increased crop area and yields as a result of water saved by watercourse improvements and
precision land leveling, particularly the lining of watercourses.
7.          Physical targets were achieved for the main components (watercourse improvement - 101 %
of target; and tanks - 188%), but fell short for sailaba (74%) and PLL (72%). Hydra ram pumps and
higher efficiency irrigation were not taken up by farmers, probably due to the low (20%) subsidy offered.
Construction of hill torrent control structures for one seasonal river was completed but their effectiveness
has not yet been tested by a flood in the river.
8.          The capability of OFWM  Directorates was enhanced substantially in implementing the
OFWM program. However, the irrigation agronomy program was not as successful as expected at the
appraisal, especially in establishing linkage with provincial Agriculture Extension Directorates (AEDS).
The number of irrigation agronomy teams was increased slightly compared to previous OFWM projects to
advise farmers on effective use of saved water. This did not lead to the expected increase in efficiency of
use of saved water for agricultural production, because a large proportion of the teams' time was involved
in forming WUAs, leaving inadequate time available to continue post-improvement support to farmers
through repeated farm visits. The involvement of provincial AEDs staff in the project was negligible.
9.          WUAs were organized according to provincial laws as a prerequisite to watercourse
improvements. Pilot projects were undertaken for experimenting with their involvement at the higher
level of the irrigation system.  The capital cost recovery levels where increased substantially by
introducing upfront recovery.
10.         Project sustainability. The benefits of the investments made under the project are likely to
be sustained.  Farmers will continue to maintain the watercourses constructed under the project.
However, the efficiency gains made when they were first renovated may decrease over time. The WUAs
formed under the project are most active during the watercourse renovations. Their activities reduce after
completion of works and some WUAs fail to continue to function. Fortunately, this does not mean that
maintenance is not done. Instead it is carried out through informal arrangements.
11.         Towards sustaining the OFWM  program, the GOP and provincial governments are
committed to continuing the process of renovation of farm watercourses under future projects. Presently,
the program is heavily dependent on continuing donor funds. However, during the project and in
subsequent projects the Government has enhanced levels of cost recovery/sharing by the beneficiaries.
With this approach it is likely that the program would continue to cover more watercourses.
iii



12.        Project costs, rmancmg arrangements and implementation timetable. Following a one-
year extension to Credit/Loan closing to December 31, 1996, the actual total project expenditures
amounted to US$158.7 million, 102% of the total project costs of US$155.5 million estimated at
appraisal. Due to higher local inflation than anticipated, the cost in rupees was 4,929 million, including
farmers' cash and labor contribution of Rsl,140 million, Rs8O million for PLL and Rs176 million for the
Vidore Hill Torrent control, representing a cost overrun of about 44% over the total project costs of
Rs3,422 million estimated at appraisal. However, these increases were balanced by depreciation of rupee
required to accommodate the higher local inflation rate. The IDA Credit of SDR33.4 million (US$47.9
million equivalent) was fully disbursed on September 30, 1995 and the IBRD Loan of US$36.3 million,
was totally disbursed as of May 28, 1997.
13.        Recovery of farmer's share of capital cost for watercourse improvements and other project
works was initially through repayment by installments. As required under the legal covenants, Punjab and
Sindh provinces achieved target recovery level of 90 percent of amount due from farmers by June 30,
1992 and December 31, 1993, respectively. However, the recovery rate in these provinces declined
thereafter, until upfront cost sharing was implemented from July 1995. Full recovery of the amount due
from beneficiaries was achieved by Balochistan, NWFP and FATA by December 31, 1996. Because of
the cumulative arrears from low recoveries between 1993 and 1995, overall recovery remained low at
68% in Punjab and slightly higher at 80% in Sindh.
14.        Key factors affecting achievement of major objectives. The considerable experience
gained by provincial governments in previous OFWM projects was a major factor enabling most of the
physical targets to be achieved satisfactorily. However, delays in establishing Federal Coordination Unit
(FCU), approval of project PC-I by the Government, meeting conditions of disbursements, procurement
and delivery of vehicles and field equipment, and shortages of counterpart funds, change in cost recovery
methods, and inadequacy of the irrigation agronomy component during project implementation, all
contributed to the need for a one-year extension of the project and lower than expected increase in
agricultural production.
15.        Bank and Borrower performance. The Bank performance during project preparation and
appraisal was satisfactory. Bank provided adequate resources for project processing. However, would
have been preferable if a more detailed design/plan had been prepared and agreed with the borrower
about the irrigation agronomy and farmers training components. The Bank supervision was satisfactory
but was less successful in directing watercourse improvements towards farmers with small landholdings,
encouraging the use of less costly lining, and developing proposals to improve the performance of the
agronomy groups. The borrower generally performed satisfactorily except with respect to procurement of
vehicles and equipment, cost recovery from farmers for their share of the costs of civil works and
fostering strong linkages with the extension services. Performance on cost recovery improved in last year
of the project with introduction of upfront cost recovery.
16.        Project outcome.  The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory.  However, the
increase in crop production and the re-estimated ERR for the whole project (23%) were both lower than
expected at appraisal.
iv



Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Lessons Learned
17.        Important rmdings. Improvement of watercourses increased water availability by about
20% and reduced the time spent by farmers on O&M of watercourses and on applying irrigation water to
their fields. Construction of water storage tanks, which is often only necessary because of the unreliability
of the electricity supply to pumps, was very popular with farmers, particularly in Balochistan. The results
from PLL are reported to be good with most of the benefits expected in the SAR being obtained. The
resulting improvements in on-farm water supply and distribution were not, however, translated into
expected increases in agricultural production due to inadequate functioning of the irrigation agronomy
component.
18.         Plans for future operation and sustainability. The general plan for future improvement of
watercourse, tanks and sailaba irrigation will continue as at present, there being no need for any changed
plan of operation.
19.         Key lessons learned.  The key lessons learned from this project which could improve
future OFWM operations are: (a) the irrigation agronomy program should be improved by establishing a
better linkage with provincial AEDs which, if needed, could be strengthened with subject matter
specialists in efficient water use; (b) external and internal monitoring programs should be strengthened; (c)
farmer participation in the irrigation management should be strengthened by establishing farmers'
organizations at the distributary/minor level and transferring to them responsibility for distribution of
water to their members, collection of water charges, and maintenance. Watercourse level WUAs should
be formed as part of the distributor/minor level organization; (d) up-front cost sharing of the capital costs
at current levels is generally accepted by the beneficiaries. Upfront contribution by the farmers towards
the capital cost improves the cost recovery and significantly reduces government's financial obligations.
However, too high levels of up-front cost recovery would adversely affect the participation of small
farmers in the program due to cash flow problems. Assessment of farmers' financial capacity to meet
costs of watercourse improvements should be undertaken prior to introducing further increases in the up-
front recovery; (e) farmers training should be emphasized and these costs should be funded from the
credit.
v



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2245/Loan 3327-PAK)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The principal goal of the Third On-Farm Water Management Project (OFWM III) was to raise
farmers' incomes and agricultural production through the improvement of the supply and application
efficiency of on-farm  irrigation water.  The stated objectives of the project were to: (a) increase
agricultural production through effective use of irrigation water saved by improved on-farm water
management (OFWM) practices and a strengthened irrigation agronomy program; (b) improve the
capabilities of the implementing agencies in the four provinces, the Federally Administered Tribal Areas
(FATA) and Northern Areas (FANA) to carry out an expanding OFWM program and to facilitate their
coordination-ordination with the Agricultural Extension Directorates; (c) provide for increased farmer
participation in Water Users' Associations (WUAs) and to strengthen these organizations to improve water
and non-water input management and to ensure efficient operation and maintenance (O&M) of installed
facilities; and (d) reduce government's financial obligations through increased cost recovery and to
encourage WUAs to assume O&M responsibilities within smaller irrigation commands.
2.     The project objectives were clear, and in line with the Government's sector policies and the
Bank's assistance strategy for Pakistan which supported growth objectives by focusing on structural
reforms, improving the enabling environment for the private sector, strengthening inadequate basic
infrastructure, reducing constraints on agricultural productivity, and protecting natural resources.
Pakistan's development plans acknowledged that huge investments made in irrigation infrastructure must
be accompanied by measures to strengthen agriculture input and support services and the role of the
private sector, if efficient agricultural production is to be achieved. The project was to address one
important part of this agenda, namely the management of a key input, water, at the farm level.
3.     Significant water savings resulted from project works. The number of irrigation agronomy teams
was increased slightly compared to previous OFWM projects to advise farmers on use of saved water.
However, this led to less than expected increases in efficiency of use of saved water and agricultural
production because a large proportion of the teams' time was involved in forming WUAs, leaving
inadequate time available to continue post-improvement support to farmers through repeated farm visits.
4.     The objective of reducing the government's financial obligations and thereby inducing financial
sustainability, was reasonable. In line with this objective, the amounts to be recovered from water users
were further increased during the project. The project physical targets were straightforward and well
within the capabilities of the implementing agencies. No serious risks were identified at appraisal.



2
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Efficient Use of Irrigation Water for Agricultural Production
5.     Watercourse renovation. This was the largest component of the project, contributing over 85
percent of the civil works costs. About 7,781 watercourses (101% of the SAR target), including 264 in
Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia Project (Cr. 2410-PAK), with a total culturable command area (CCA) of
885,827 ha (86% of the area estimated in the SAR) were improved. Targets for number of watercourses
were exceeded in NWFP and Punjab, but fell short in Balochistan, Sindh and FANA. In FATA the target
was met. The reason for the shortfall in Sindh (68% of target in canal areas and 61 % of the target in
rainfed--barani) was a lack of WUAs willing to meet the financial requirement to pay 25 % of the cost of
materials upfront, despite this having been reduced during the project from 30% (10% upfront and 20% in
installments).
6.     A  criterion specified in the SAR that watercourses to be improved should be operated
predominantly by low-income farmers with small landholdings was not always observed. Supervision
missions reported that in Punjab and NWFP preference was given to watercourses serving farmers with
small landholding but that it was difficult to achieve this in Sindh. One reason for this is that such farmers
could not easily pay the required upfront cost.  But a more basic reason is the pervasive tenancy
arrangements with a large percentage of the land farmed by landless tenants, who are often resource
starved as well as indifferent to making capital investment for land improvement. In FATA and NWFP,
farmers have provided sand and gravel but in most other places this was insufficient to meet the required
amount of the beneficiary contribution. In FATA it seems that the minimum contribution was relaxed in
some cases.
7.     Most watercourses were built of "double brick" walls on brick or concrete beds. Lower cost
alternatives proposed in the SAR such as single brick walls, concrete walls, or three-piece concrete
precast slabs were rarely used.  In Balochistan, however, in situ concrete and pre-cast pipes were
preferred. The quality of construction was generally satisfactory with mortar-faced brickwork in good
condition, sometimes after ten or more years for watercourses improved under earlier Bank projects. On
average the length of lining was about 780 m per watercourse or about 7 m per ha of CCA, representing
about 24% of the total length improved.  Culverts were generally built where needed. The maximum
number of culverts provided on a watercourse were 22. However, the average was about one per
watercourse as compared with the original provision of four per watercourse. The average length of
earthen channel improved was about 2,400m per watercourse or about 22 m/ha of command area. The
average cost of materials and skilled labor per meter lined was Rs 347/m. Unskilled labor provided by the
WUA, if priced at market rates, would add about 25 % to the cost of lining.
8.     Improved water availability. Improving watercourses, including lining, increases efficiency by
reducing seepage, evaporation (due to increased water velocity and reduced water surface area with
narrower lined sections), spillage and operating losses. The Watercourse Monitoring and Evaluation
Directorate (WMED) of the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) was employed under
the project to measure watercourse irrigation efficiency before and after improvement of the watercourses.
On the basis of the measurements by WMED for this project", the amount of water delivered to farms has
A draft of Chapter 3 of their final report discusses their results of measurements on 13 watercourses: 6
in the Punjab, 3 in Sindh, 2 in Balochistan and one each in NWFP and in FATA.



3
increased by an average of 26 percent (weighted average). The high benefit achieved was mainly a
function of the strategy used of lining the head end of the watercourse, which is the most effective strategy
where a rotational (warabandi) water distribution system is used. Other benefits of lining watercourses
are saving in time in farmer operation in irrigating farm fields and in lower maintenance requirements of
the watercourses. Farmers reported that they saved about 50% of the labor originally needed for irrigation
and as much as a further 10 days/ha/year on maintenance. The construction of washing places and lining
watercourses through villages gave additional public health benefits.
9.     Water storage tanks. Some 969 water storage tanks were constructed, about 88% more than
estimated in the SAR. There were no tanks proposed for Sindh; all other provinces and areas met or
exceeded the targets, particularly in Balochistan, where the target was exceeded by 116%. Water storage
tanks are built where the supply of water is unreliable or intermittent, such as from a spring with a low
flow or, most commonly, where the electricity supply to an electric pump for a tubewell or dug well is
unreliable. The tanks are usually constructed from brick with a cement mortar rendering and are
commonly about 12 m square and 1.2 m deep. Although there was no limit on the allowable size of tank
given in the SAR, where farmers wanted larger tanks (usually by about 30 to 35%) they were required"'
to meet the additional costs themselves. This happened for about 25 % of the tanks constructed.
10.    Other Facilities.   Some 26 sailaba subprojects (74% of the SAR target of 35) were constructed
between June 1993 and June 1996 in Balochistan with an estimated command area of 415 ha. The cost of
materials was about Rs4.5 million or about Rsll,000/ha (roughly US$300/ha). There has been no
monitoring of the benefits of these works. The project included provisions for installation of hydra-ram
pumps for pumping from perennial streams in Punjab province and the provision of higher efficiency
irrigation technologies (sprinkler and drip irrigation systems). These were not taken up by farmers due to
the low subsidy offered (20%) for relatively expensive systems.
I.    Vidore hill torrent scheme. This subproject was added to the project and constructed in 1996 at a
cost of about Rs176 million (US$4.5 million) to redistribute flows more equitably in the three branches of
the Vidore river in accordance with long-standing water rights and to spread water over an estimated
cropped area of about 10,600 ha at a cost of about US$425/ha. According to the feasibility study the
runoff from a stormn with a return period of two years, which corresponds to runoff of about 27 mm from
the whole of the 770 km2 catchment, would provide about 200 mm (less losses) of irrigation to the
cropped area. A storm with a five year return period would provide about 300 mm. The feasibility study
estimated that the subproject would increase the cropping intensity from 30% to 93 % and avoid damage to
the D.G.Khan canal and the town of D.G.Khan. Commencement of construction of the main gabion
diversion structures was delayed until August 1996, due to slow release of funds and slow preparation of
design documents, but was commendably completed by December 1996. However, the OFWM structures
planned to divert flood waters to farmers fields were not commenced due to a decision of the Government
of Punjab to delay this work until after the primary diversion structures were completed. The functionality
and benefits of the system have not yet been tested by any substantial floodwater flow.
12.   Precision land leveling (PLL). The area of land leveling is reported to be about 40,000 ha, about
72% of the SAR target. Other than in Punjab, where about 4,000 ha were leveled using laser controlled
equipment, the use of lasers for PLL has been slight: about 550 ha in Balochistan and roughly 1,000 ha in
NWFP. No lasers were used in Sindh, FATA or FANA due to the delayed procurement of the laser
11         Following a decision of the December 1993 supervision mission for equity and efficiency reasons.



4
equipment, inability of the project staff to operate the equipment until recently and, to a lesser extent, to
the reluctance of the farmers to pay the fairly modest hire charges (nonnally less than the rate for hiring a
tractor). The results from laser land leveling are reported to be good with most of the benefits expected in
the SAR being obtained.
13.    Engineering and irrigation agronomy field teams. Two significant changes were proposed to
field team operation in this project as compared with OFWM II: (i) an increased number of teams to carry
the extra workload; and (ii) posting of separate engineering and irrigation agronomy teams (IATs). The
establishment of separate IATs was aimed at achieving greater project emphasis on increasing agricultural
production from saved water and thus ensure sustainability of benefits. In fact, in all provinces and
federal areas the engineering and irrigation agronomy personnel were contained in single operational
teams, deployment of agronomists started very late in several instances, and there were frequent transfers
and numerous vacancies in the agronomy cadres.
14.    The performance of the engineering group of the field teams was satisfactory with watercourse
improvements mostly meeting targets and work completed to satisfactory design and quality standards.
However, a review" of the irrigation agronomy groups of the field teams deemed their performance
unsatisfactory, as assistance to farmers to improve efficiency of use of saved water and improve
agricultural production was judged as being limited. The sub-optimal performance of IATs to obtain the
necessary improvement in water management and agricultural production was partially due also to basic
design flaws for this component. The project design was unrealistic in expecting these small teams to be
able to: (i) organize WUAs; (ii) set up demonstration plots (centers) each year in newly improved
watercourses as well as maintain a proper "after-care" service to these demonstration centers in
subsequent years; and (iii) provide information, training and technical support to farmers in all aspects of
water management. The expectation was that the Agriculture Extension Directorate (AEDs) would
provide support to IATs which was not materialized. Strengthening of AEDs was expected from other
projects, therefore, funds were not provided under the project.  The operational cooperation between
AEDs and OFWM Directorates was minimum except for providing training of extension agents at the
Water Management Training Institutes.
15.    Demonstration centers. Deficiencies in utility and impact of demonstration plots in earlier
OFWM projects led to the proposal for Demonstration Centers (DCs) to be established on suitable areas
of land (up to 2 ha in size) in one of every 6-8 watercourses improved in this project. The intention was
for these DCs to be operated through project completion and demonstrate a full range of water
management practices and irrigation agronomy techniques to farmers for the main crops grown in local
areas. The project was expected to provide technical assistance for the planning and design of the water
management improvements, additional agricultural inputs and PLL. In reality, the DCs still remained as
demonstration plots, were mostly established for only one year (two crop seasons) and did not provide
crop production inputs. A random survey by WMED" of 10 demonstration centers in all provinces and
FATA found that dissemination of information to neighboring farmers in all but two centers was limited
and adoption of practices demonstrated was limited because farmers lacked resources and modern
equipment, despite demonstration farmers using higher levels of crop production inputs, improved cultural
practices and having increased net income.
"Impact assessment of post-training activities of irrigation agronomy field teams and farmers", Sheladia
Associates Inc., National Engineering Services Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd, June 1995.
2/          Draft final report of WMED, February 1997.



5
16.   Increased agricultural production. As a result of improvements to water supply systems and
consequent overall increase in on-farm water supplies of 26%, cropping intensities increased by 1%-17%,
crop yields increased by 9% for rice, 4%-63% for wheat, 5%-10% for seed cotton, 14%-21% for
sugarcane, 4% for fruits and 6%-46% for fodders (Appendix C). While changes in areas of wheat, rice
and sugarcane varied, depending on locality or groundwater quality, cotton, maize and orchard areas
increased throughout the project area.
17.   It is concluded that the objective of increasing agricultural production as a consequence of
increased water supply due to improvements was satisfactorily achieved. The increase in agricultural
production was mainly due to increase in water supply, and efficiency gains as a consequence of improved
OFWM practices attributable to the strengthened irrigation agronomy program were minimum.
Institutional Development
18.   Offices and residences. Because of earlier OFWM programs, there was little need for additional
buildings. Provision was only made for five offices and houses to be constructed for field teams in more
remote locations in Balochistan province in order to complete such facilities for all 17 teams deployed in
the province. These were constructed.
19.   Equipment and vehicles. Laser land leveling equipment, and office and survey equipment were
provided for under the project. Laser land leveling equipment was also received from non-project sources
in all provinces. However, equipment and vehicles supply from the federal source was very much
delayed. Less than half of the 70 pick-ups, 52 jeeps, 9 cars, 236 motorcycles and 210 bicycles scheduled
for the project were purchased, mainly through the FCU but also directly by the provinces (less costly
items in particular). Considerable delays were experienced in delivery of vehicles to provincial agencies,
mostly because of the time consuming purchasing procedures used in ICB at the Federal level.
20.   Training of OFWM staff. Infornation provided by provinces indicated some 3,490 professional
and 1,558 non-professional staff were trained during the project. These numbers are obviously much
larger than those OFWM staff deployed as it includes field staff from other line departments (extension
services, for instance) and non-government organizations (NGOs). No training was given in Balochistan
because new teams were not recruited; the teams trained under the first two OFWM projects continued to
operate for OFWM III. Other training included the training of social organizers and irrigation agronomy
teams in the development of sustainable WUAs. A series of workshops was conducted by Bank and
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF) consultants to introduce concepts of OFWM.
These were followed by a comprehensive in-service training program.
21.   Farmer Training Centers and Training Institutes. Limited support was to be provided under
the project for strengthening Provincial Training Institutes in Balochistan and Sindh. Little support was
given in Sindh and a hostel was constructed late in the project in Balochistan. Of the proposed five Farmer
Training Centers (FTCs) in Punjab province to provide farmer training in improved on-farmn water
management, only three centers were established. It is estimated that about 20,000 farmers were given
training. Further consideration needs to be given to how farmer training could be expanded. This should
include an assessment of the required number of FTCs (for common use by all directorates of DOAs) to
provide adequate formal training for farmers as well as the possible establishment of Farmer Training
Schools for more direct informal training in farmers' fields.



6
22.    In conclusion, while the capability of the provincial OFWM directorates to carry out watercourse
improvements to improve water supply has been further strengthened by the project, the capability of their
staff to carry out and/or to expand demonstration programs has remained limited. Training of farmers and
extension agents in improved OFWM practices has been carried out, while their linkages and coordination
with extension directorates has been less than satisfactory.
Strengthening of Water Users' Associations (WUAs)
23.    WUAs were organized by OFWM-irrigation agronomists, according to enacted provincial laws as
a prerequisite to watercourse improvement. Enactment of new WUA Ordinances were required in FATA
and FANA as a condition for inclusion in the project. The sustainability of the WUAs involvement as an
association, which was expected to be improved in this third project phase, does not appear any greater".
The activity and enthusiasm of the WUAs still remain greatest during watercourse renovation and within
one year most WUAs revert to informal alliances. This does not appear to be dependent on the way they
were organized or the fault of farmers, but rather a function of the narrowly defined charter of WUA
activities.
24.    It is concluded that while WUAs were satisfactorily formed as a prerequisite to improvement of
watercourses and there is a more efficient O&M of improved watercourses, the majority of WUAs have
become inactive within two years following watercourse improvement. The WUAs can only stay active if
they have continuous and essential role in irrigation management. This consists of distribution of water to
the users and collection of water charges. Since both of these functions continued to be performed by the
Government after improvement of watercourses, the WUAs become inactive. In Pakistan's irrigation
system the water supply is controlled at the distributary/minor head (above mogha). Therefore, formation
of farmers organization at the distributary/minor level with responsibility for distribution of water and
collection of revenue is essential for effective participation of farmers in managing the irrigation system.
Tlhe distributary/minor also covers a sufficiently large area to support the operation of farmers
organization through professionals.
Cost Recovery from Beneficiaries
25.    In order to reduce the financial burden of the government and to ensure the sustainability of
OFWM programs, the GOP implemented partial capital cost recovery from farmers for project works.
Punjab and Sindh provinces achieved the target recovery rate of 90% of amount due from the farmers by
June 30, 1992 and December 31, 1993, respectively. However, the recovery rate in these provinces
declined thereafter, until upfront cost recovery was implemented from July, 1995. During the project's
extended implementation period, the provincial governments (except in Balochistan initially) agreed that
all cost sharing would be by advance payments and supply of materials and labor in place of the previous
system of cost recovery partly in advance and partly in installments 2/, Farmers in many improved
watercourses visited by the ICR mission, particularly in Punjab and Sindh, reported that they had
"Sustainability of Water User Associations and their working as formal organizations", Chapter 5,
Draft Report of WMED, February, 1997.
2/  The cost sharing with beneficiaries was: Punjab - 30% of material costs and farmers also provide 100% of the cost
of sand, labor and masons; and for Sindh and NWFP - 25%. There was no change in the cost sharing of 20% in
FATA and FANA. In Balochistan, 15% of the cost of materials was paid upfront and 15% was recovered in six
biannual installments



7
difficulties in paying the upfront cost sharing, while many farmers in unimproved water courses reported
that they did not have sufficient incomes to meet the upfront cost sharing. Analysis of the financial impact
of capital cost sharing, however, shows that payments due are in most cases a small proportion of annual
net farm income and at an acceptable level for farmers in improved watercourses (Appendix C). Present
level of upfront contribution required from beneficiaries could be too high in Balochistan fruit zone where
the project works serve a limited number of farmers (only one in some cases). Considering that a maximum
number of farmers should benefit from the limited project resources, such schemes serving only a few
farmers should be given low priority.
26.    Full recovery of amount due from the beneficiaries was obtained in Balochistan, NWFP and
FATA by December 31, 1996. Although the upfront cost sharing was implemented from July 1995,
because of the cumulative arrears from low recoveries between 1993-95, cost recovery remained low at
68% in Punjab and slightly higher at 80% in Sindh. The low recovery rate was due to: (i) difficulties in
collection by OFWM staff who had the responsibilities to undertake OFWM works and at the same time
act as collection agents for the Revenue Department (RD); (ii) unsatisfactory performance of RD staff
after the collection responsibilities were delegated to them, although OFWM staff were required to
continue providing assistance to the RD; and (iii) suspension or postponement of collection due to natural
calamities (floods, drought, etc.). It appears that involvement of beneficiaries (who are the joint owners of
watercourses and have joint financial liability and other responsibilities to develop and sustain the
watercourses) in arrears collection would have helped to overcome the low collection rates.
27.         It is concluded that, while there were earlier problems with the partial recovery of the costs
of civil works associated with watercourse and water tanks improvements, these have been solved with the
later introduction of upfront payments from farmers, which has resulted in a significant reduction in the
government's financial obligations.
28.    Pilot Project. It was agreed during project implementation that the original proposal to finance a
study on "Possible role of WUAs in the distribution of irrigation water within watercourses and minor
canals" (to be completed by June 30, 1993) would be canceled and instead a "Pilot Project for Farmers'
Participation in Irrigation Management" would be established in NWF and Punjab provinces. It was
initially planned for 18 months, but it was recognized that this would be a very short time for such a pilot
project. The Pilot Project in NWFP commenced in November 1994 on two minors (Surazai and Pabbi),
but was greatly delayed in Punjab (commenced April 1996). Considerable technical assistance,
particularly from sociologists, was given in supporting the activities in these pilot areas. As the objectives
of the pilot project were only partially achieved by Credit closure, external support has been continued
under the OECF-funded OFWM project.
29.         In NWFP, the project activities have been centered on formation of WUAs, their executive
committee and numerous sub-committees (for by-laws, Survey, Cost Recovery, Construction and
Mobilization). There has been a considerable investment in project staff time to support these activities.
However, at present WUAs have not yet been established at all watercourses in the two minors. With
regard to establishing a Federation of WUAs, while preliminary activities on completion and approval of
by-laws, and awareness programs with farmers on federation and election of representatives from WUAs
have been undertaken, a Federation has not yet been registered.



8
Technical Assistance
30.          Supervisory consultants. About 108 staff-years (141 % of the appraisal target of 76.7 staff-
years) of locally recruited consultants were provided to assist the implementing agencies in reviewing
plans and designs, supervising and monitoring progress and quality of the civil works program and
preparing reports. This assistance has been satisfactory.
31.    Technical consultants. About 11.55 staff years (160% of the appraisal estimate of 7.2 staff years)
of internationally recruited technical experts were provided. Their duties and responsibilities were well
covered in the contract. However, their interaction with the many implementing agencies remained
limited. Contrary to original estimates, the team spent less than 50% of its time in the field. Most of
their activities were associated with the Pilot Project and the Vidore Hill Torrent subproject and with
preparation of resource materials and reviews. Achievements claimed in the consultants' final report"
include the updating of OFWM field manuals (in English) in conjunction with the supervisory consultants
and OECF international consultants, construction management of the Vidore hill torrent subproject,
recommendations for alternative materials and technologies for watercourse and canal lining, the design
and conduct of training for OFWM staff, social organizers and farmers and assistance to WMED to
improved M&E and cost/benefit analysis of watercourse improvement
Project Costs
32.         Project Costs and Disbursements.  Project costs, in US dollar equivalent were close to
appraisal estimates. By the Credit/Loan closing date on December 31, 1996, the actual total project
expenditures amounted to US$158.7 million (102% of the total project costs of US$155.5 million
estimated at appraisal). Due to higher local inflation than anticipated the costs in Rupees was 4,929
million, including farmers' cash and labor contribution of Rsl,140 million, Rs8O million for PLL and
Rs176 million for the Vidore Hill Torrent control, representing a cost overrun of about 44% over the total
project costs of Rs3,422 million estimated at appraisal" . However, these increases were balanced by
depreciation of the Rupee required to accommodate the higher local inflation rate. The IDA Credit of
SDR33.4 million (US$47.9 million equivalent) was fully disbursed on September 30, 1995. The IBRD
Loan of US$36.3 million was fully disbursed as of May 28, 1997.
Project Benefits
33.    External project M&E. The WMED of WAPDA was commissioned to provide external M&E
of the project performance and impact. Detailed objectives, activities and methodologies were defined for
this subcomponent in Annex 7 of the SAR. Regular reporting was required and WMED was expected to
develop and implement a computerized database system for managing the data regularly collected by field
and headquarters staff for analytical evaluation studies. About 125 staff-years of professional services
were to be provided at a cost of US$1.4 million. It was proposed to monitor: (i) 16 watercourses in fresh
and saline groundwater areas that would be renovated under OFWM III; and (ii) an additional 8
watercourses to be selected each year which had been renovated under previous OFWM projects.
I          Consultant's Final Report, Sheladia Associates Inc., World Bank funded On Farm Water Management
III, December 1996, Sheladia Associates, Inc., Islamabad, Pakistan.
2/          Excluding the expenditures of the Vidore Hill Torrent control in D.G.Khan, the cost overrun was 39%.



9
34.    The M&E was not very satisfactory due to: (i) sample size (number of watercourses) not being
large enough to provide an accurate perspective of project performance and impact on the major crop
production systems recognized in Pakistan; (ii) lack of regular reporting of M&E; (iii) high average cost
and high professional staff input of M&E (about Rs2.6 million and 1.15 staff years per watercourse); and
(iv) lack of timely and regular reporting. Fourteen newly renovated watercourses under OFWM III have
been intensively surveyed, and four watercourses from each of OFWM I and OFWM II. Within these
watercourses intensive sampling has been conducted on 15 farms, but only in two years (baseline survey
in 1992-93 and post-improvement survey in 1995-96). Although the extensive data collection for baseline
and the post-evaluation surveys was carried out satisfactorily by WMED, the sample size represented only
0.2% of total watercourses renovated under the project and is considered inadequate to develop a reliable
estimate of the changes in overall cropping patterns and productivity of major cropping systems in each
province following watercourse improvement. In any M&E of future projects a larger number of
watercourses should be sampled, but with a lesser number of farms sampled in head, middle and tail
locations of the watercourse.
35.   Internal project M&E. It is surprising that the provincial OFWM Directorates and FATA and
FANA did not regularly collect data to undertake their own evaluation of project performance and impact.
The ICR mission requested each OFWM field team to conduct a short survey on two improved
watercourses in order to collect additional information on pre- and post- improvement water losses,
conveyance efficiency, cropping pattern, cropping intensities, yields of crops, etc., for the reassessment of
project impact. Analysis of this data showed much greater improvements to crop production than the
WMED surveys, yields were much higher than provincial averages, but in many instances data were
incomplete. Therefore these data have only been used to supplement the WMED survey data. M&E is an
important activity that provides vital feedback to management and is also extremely useful to justify
activities to higher authorities when an M&E system is set up to systematically and objectively monitor
and evaluate project implementation and impact.
36.   Project impact. The reduction in water losses and increases in conveyance efficiency resulting
from improvements to water supply systems allowed farmers to bring additional land under cultivation,
increased the yield and production of many crops as a result of increased water supply and PLL, reduced
time and labor required for irrigation and the maintenance of watercourses and significantly increased
farm incomes (Appendix C). The project also had a significant impact on the acceptance of the principle
of cost sharing by beneficiaries for physical improvements to water supply systems and their responsibility
for O&M at the tertiary level.
37.   Economic rate of return. The re-estimation of the ERR for the project has been based on limited
crop production data from post-evaluation surveys conducted by the WMED Directorate in 13
watercourses, with some adjustments made by the ICR mission where appropriate based on secondary
information. Given the small sample size and only one cropping year (two seasons) covered in the M&E
surveys, the outcomes of the economic analyses should be treated with some caution. The ERRs have
been re-estimated at 23 % for the whole project, compared with the SAR estimate of 26%, and they range
between 14% and 32% for the provinces and federal areas. The original and revised ERRs are based on
all investment costs calculated at constant FY91 and FY96 values, respectively. Higher crop yields and
substantial increases in areas of high value crops (vegetables, fruits, etc.) were factors contributing to
higher than expected ERRs for Balochistan (31 %), NWFP (32%), FATA (30%), FANA (14%) and Sindh
(27%), while substantial cost overrun and lower incremental crop yields and reduced command areas of
improved watercourses were factors contributing to lower than expected ERRs for Punjab (19%).



10
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control
38.   Social discordance and lack of cash and credit for small farmers in some watercourses resulted in
their not qualifying (could not form a WUA and meet cost recovery payments) for watercourse
improvement, although a number of farmers wished to participate. A strike by brick-kiln owners in Sindh
and some civil unrest in the 1992-94 period in a number of areas hampered project implementation.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
39.   Problems with cost recovery from OFWM  II in Sindh delayed project disbursements. Staff
indiscipline and misuse of vehicles due to political interference was a problem in some cases. All
provinces would have preferred independent purchasing of equipment and vehicles; there were long
delays caused by central ICB procedures at the Federal Government level. Most components were
delayed at one time or another within one of the several implementing agencies, resulting from shortage
and delays in release of counterpart funding from the provincial governments.
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
40.   The provincial OFWM Directorates were able to implement the civil works program successfully
because of their long experience in watercourse improvement. The quality of the agronomy program was
adversely affected by the deployment of combined engineering and agronomy teams, which was at
variance with the SAR, as well as general failure to resolve several implementation issues (lack of
mobility, high staff vacancy rate, rapid staff turn-over) faced by such teams, which reduced the
effectiveness of the agronomy teams. Some OFWM Directorates had problems in filling vacancies in
field teams and appointing irrigation agronomy staff with adequate qualifications.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
41.   The benefits of the investments made under the project are likely to be sustained. Farmers will
continue to maintain the watercourses constructed under the project. However, the efficiency gains made
when they were first renovated may decrease over time. The WUAs formed under the project are most
active during the watercourse renovations. Their activities reduce after completion of works and some fail
to continue to function. Fortunately, this does not mean that maintenance is not done. Instead it is carried
out through informal arrangements.
42.   Towards sustaining the OFWM program, the GOP and provincial governments are committed to
continuing the process of renovation of farm watercourses under future projects. Presently, the program is
heavily dependent on continuing donor funds. However, during the project and in subsequent projects the
Government has enhanced levels of cost recovery/sharing by the beneficiaries. With this approach it is
likely that the program would continue to cover remaining watercourses
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
43.   Bank performance during project preparation and appraisal was generally satisfactory. Bank
provided adequate resources for project processing. However, it would have been preferable if a more



11
detailed design/plan about the irrigation agronomy and farmers training component, and M&E had been
prepared and agreed with the Borrower during preparation/appraisal. Bank supervision was generally
satisfactory.  The supervision missions were regular and reports prepared indicate that the missions
undertook detailed reviews of implementation progress of the project and, while indicating deficiencies in
implementation, gave helpful and constructive advice to overcome such problems. However, they were
less successful in directing the improvement of watercourse towards farmers with small landholdings,
encouraging the use of less costly lining, and developing proposals to improve the performance of the
agronomy teams.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
44.    The federal agency and provincial OFWM  Directorates generally performed satisfactorily.
However, some issues of delays in procurement and staffing and slow release of counterpart funds
(mentioned above) should be noted. Initially, OFWM Directorates were very slow in meeting completion
targets for watercourse improvement, particularly in FATA, FANA and Sindh, but subsequently they
improved their performances. During much of the project period the collection of repayments from
farmers as a proportion of the costs of civil works was generally unsatisfactory. There was considerable
improvement during the later years of the project, particularly after changing the collection method in July
1995 to introduce upfront cost sharing.  The OFWM  directorates failed to obtain the necessary
cooperation and involvement of the AEDs in project irrigation agronomy program. The FCU performed
adequately except in procurement and in deployment and use of technical assistance.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
45.    The outcome of the project is assessed as satisfactory in that most of the targets were obtained or
exceeded and the project objectives were generally achieved. The project had a positive impact in
increasing the income of beneficiaries. The capability of provincial OFWM Directorates was enhanced
significantly in implementing the OFWM program. The project also had a significant impact on
acceptance of the principles of cost sharing by beneficiaries for physical improvements to water supply
systems and their responsibility for O&M at the tertiary level. With introduction of upfront contributions
by farmers towards capital costs the sustainability of the program has improved while reducing
government's financial obligations.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
46.    The irrigation systems will continue to be operated as at present by the farmers involved,
generally using a rotational (warabandi) system, and there is no reason to suppose that this will not
continue satisfactorily. There is no need for any changed plan of operation for watercourses and tanks. In
the Vidore Hill Torrent subproject, OFWM works will have to be introduced and normal regular
maintenance will be needed for the hill torrent control structures. The OFWM program is extremely
beneficial and essential for the sustainability of irrigation system. Participation of the beneficiaries in
planning and construction and sharing capital cost is an indicator that these investments are valuable.
Their participation could be enhanced if the farmers' organizations have continuous crucial role in O&M
of the system. They should be given responsibility for distribution of water and collection of revenue
resulting from water charges. In Pakistan's irrigation system, this could be achieved by forming FOs at
the secondary canal level i.e. distributaries/minors.



12
I. LESSONS LEARNED
47.    The main lessons learned from implementation of this project which are relevant for future
OFWM operations are:
a)     Provincial OFWM  Directorates are organized, staffed and mandated to give major
support to engineering aspects of irrigation (watercourses and sailabas). They have little
capability of providing the support for efficient use of water and other agronomic
practices in an integrated manner required to improve agricultural production. The
intention under the irrigation agronomy component was to strengthen their capacity in
this area by introducing irrigation agronomy teams. This approach was not very
successful. It would have been better to design the irrigation agronomy component by
fostering better linkage with the provincial AEDs which, if needed, could be strengthened
with subject matter specialists in efficient water use.
b)     The external and internal M&E program should be improved. The external M&E should
be more independent. In any future project it is critical that appropriate (adequate) M&E
systems are set up for both external and internal on-going and final evaluation of project
performance.
c)     For long term sustainability of the irrigation system, participation of farmers in irrigation
management is necessary.  Their participation could be enhanced if the farmers'
organizations have continuous crucial role in O&M of the system. They should be
responsible for distribution of water and collection of revenue resulting from water
charges. In Pakistan's irrigation system, this could be achieved by forming FOs at the
secondary canal level i.e. distributaries/minors.
d)     There has been a systematic increase in the amount recovered from beneficiaries for
investments made in watercourse improvement through several phases of OFWM
projects. Improvements have also been made in the system of cost recovery. The recent
move to introduce complete up-front payment of the beneficiaries' share has become
generally accepted by farmers and removes the problems faced by government in cost
recovery. Upfront contribution by the farmers for capital costs also significantly reduces
Government's financial obligations. However, too high levels of up-front cost recovery
would adversely affect poor farmers with small land holdings from participating in this
scheme unless their access to financial markets is made easy and trouble free. Assessment
of farmers' financial capacity to meet costs of watercourse improvement is required prior
to the introduction of any further increases in the amount of capital cost recovery.
e)     The training component was insufficiently emphasized, particularly the farmer training.
Because funding was solely from Government's share of project financing, this created a
problem for OFWM directorates in financing such activities due to shortage of
counterpart funds. Bank/IDA sharing of financing for such activities might have resulted
in their being given higher priority. In any future projects more emphasis should be
given to providing appropriate facilities and establishing a suitable modality for farmer
training.



13
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives          Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
(/)       (/~~)        (I,)            )
Macro policies                       E                          El            El
Sector policies                      FE                         EJ            El
Financial objectives                 [Z           El           El             El
Institutional development            El           El]          El             E
Physical objectives                  [g           El            El            El
Poverty reduction                    El           [3           El             El
Gender issues                        El           El           El              71]
Other social objectives              E             El           ElJ
Environmental objectives             7E                         El            El
Public sector management             El           El               l          E
Private sector development           El           E             E             E
Other (specify)                         l          E               l          El
B. Project sustainability            Likrly      Ulnlikely    Uncertain
(/)           (/)         (/)
C. Bank performance               satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(/)          (V)          (/)
Identification                       l         El 
Preparation assistance             E              l          E
Appraisal                            l         El 
Supervision                       E            {3            E



14
D. Borrower  rformance             satisfacty   Satisfactory   Deficnt
(/)          (/1)         (/)
Preparation                      Li                           l F
Implementation                   El           [I]         ELI
Covenant compliance              El           E[           EII
Operation (if applicable)         El          E            El
Highly                                      Highy
E. Assessment of outcome         satisfactory   Sasfactg     Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
V)           ()             (V)             ($)
Ol   E:    El    El



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                       Purpose                  Year of         Status
approval
Preceding operations a!
1. Khairpur Tile Drainage Project (Cr.  To improve drainage and reclaim soil  1978      Completed
648-PAK)                           (included OFWM).
2. SCARP Mardan (Cr. 877-PAK)      To improve drainage and reclaim soil    1979         Completed
(included OFWM)
3. On-Farm Water Management        To increase agricultural production through    1981  Closed on
Project (Cr. 1163-PAK)             (i) inproved utilization of irrigation water         December 31,
saved through improved OFWM, (ii)                   1985
strengthening provincial OFWM Directorates
and Federal Water Management Cell, (iii)
organisation of farmers into Water User
Associations, and (iv) facilitating
coordination and cooperation between
OFWM Directorates and Extension Services
in provincial DOAs.
4. Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation I    To improve irrigation system     1982         Completed
Project (ISRP-I)(Cr. 1239-PAK)
5. Balochistan Minor Irrigation &  To construct minor irrigation channels and  1982     Completed
Agric. Development Project (Cr. 1243-  develop agriculture
PAK)
6. Fourth Drainage Project (Cr. 1375-   To improve drainage and reclaim soil  1983      Completed
PAK)
7. Command Water Management        To improve irrigation system and OFWM   1984         Completed
Project (Cr. 1487-PAK)
8. Left Bank Outfall Drain Project (Cr.  To improve drainage/irrigation and OFWM  1985  On-going
1532-PAK)
9. Second On-Farm Water            To increase agricultural production through    1985  Closed on
Management Project (Cr. 1603-PAK)    (i) improved utilization of irrigation water       December 31,
saved through improved OFWM, (ii)                   1991
improved capability of provincial OFWM
directorates to plan and implement an
expanding OFWM programme, (iui)
facilitating coordination and cooperation
between provincial OFWM and Extension
Directorates, and (iv) strengthening farmer
participation in WUAs.



16
Table 2: Contd.......
10. SCARP Transition Pilot Project  To improve irrigation and drainage     1986         Completed
(Cr. 1693-PAK)
ll.ISRP-II (Cr. 1888-PAK)          To improve irrigation system            1988        Completed
12.Private Tubewell Development    To test viability of integrated tubewell  1989      Completed
Project (Cr. 2004-PAK)             development for increasing agricultural
production
Following operations
1. Second SCARP Transition Project    To increase agricultural productivity through   1991  On-going
(Cr. 1239-PAK)                     improved provision of supplementary
irrigation water
2. Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia Project  To increase agricultural productivity by  1993      On-going
(Cr. 2410-PAK)                     improving irrigation channels and drainage
3. Balochistan Community Irrigation &   To develop sustainable farmer organizations   1996  On-going
Agri. Development Project (Cr. 2780-  to own, and efficiently operate and maintain
PAK)                               irrigation systems
4. Punjab Private Sector Groundwater   To increase the scope and productivity of  1997  On-going
Development Project (Cr. 2901-PAK)   Punjab's irrigation and drainage sub-sector



17
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                   Date planned              Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                 August 1988
Preparation                                                                February/March 1990
Appraisal                                           October 1989           May/June 1990
Negotiations                                        March 1990             25-29 March, 1991
Letter of development policy (if applicable)        NA                     NA
Board presentation                                  July 1990              21 May, 1991
Signing                                             October 1990           31 July, 1991
Effectiveness                                       29 October, 1991       14 May, 1992
First tranche release (if applicable)               NA                     NA
Midterm review (if applicable)                      NA                     NA
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)  NA                     NA
Project completion                                  30 June, 1995          30 June, 1996
Loan closing                                        31 December, 1995      31 December, 1996
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimates and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY92       FY93         FY94      FY95       FY96       FY97
Bank Group Disbursements
Appraisal estimate "/                   19.0        37.5      58.0        79.0       83.6
Actual
IDA Credit                            4.1         17.9      33.2       45.1       47.9      47.9
IBRD Loan                             0.0         0.0        0.0       10.0       27.1      36.3
Total                                4.1        17.9       33.2       55.1       75.0      84.2
Actual as % of estimate                 21.6        47.7      57.2        69.7       89.7     100.7
Date of final disbursement                    May 28,
1997
'IDA Credit of SDR 33.4 million (US$47.3 million equivalent), and IBRD Loan of US$36.3 million.



18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I.  Key implementation                                                                      Percent
indicators in SAR             Province/Agency    Estimated    Revised      Actual     Estimated
Irrigation Infrastructure
a. Watercourse Renovation (No.)    Balochistan           920          827        717         78
(canal + barani)"               NWFP                  1010         1364       1326        131
Punjab               3975         4995       4546        114
Sindh                1650         1542       1121         60
FATA                  65           56         63          97
FANA                  65           34          8          12
Total               7685          8818      7781         101
b. Water Storage Tanks (No.)       Balochistan           350          764        756        216
NWFP                  100          137        140        140
Punjab                45           79         50         111
Sindh                  0            0          0          -
FATA                  10           11         10         100
FANA                  10            7          8          80
Total                515          998        969         188
c. Sailaba Irrigation              Balochistan            35                      26         74
Rehabilitation (No.)
d. Hydra Ram Pumps (No.)           Punjab                 10           0          0           0
e. Higher Efficiency Irrigation    Punjab                 10           0          0           0
(No.)
f. Area Benefited (ha)2/           NWFP                55,350                  48,454          88
Punjab             599,625                 643,887         107
Barani (NWFP &      71,388                 (60523)3l        83
Punjab)
Subtotal (NWFP     726,363                 692,471          95
& Punjab)
Balochistan:
-Fruit                                    (21,902)
-Mixed                                     (7,981)
-Subtotal         31,10(0                 29,820          96
Sindh              267,250                 161,616          60
FATA                 1,196                   1,767         148
FANA                  256                     153           60
Total              1,026,165               885,827          86
g. Precision Land Levelling (ha)   Balochistan          2500          2073       2769        111
NWFP                 5000         5813       5054        101
Punjab              38000         19308      21889        58
Sindh                9000         9971       9935        110
FATA                  250          130        110         44
FANA                  250          145         0          0
Total               5500()       37440      39757        72



19
Demonstration Centres (No.)
Balochistan          150         138         155        103
NWPF                 150          159        148      99
Punjab               500         776         724      145
Sindh                250         274        266       106
FATA                  5            6          5       100
FANA                  5           4           2      40
Total               1060        1357       1300      123
Facilities (No. units)
Offices and Residences           Balochistan            5                       5           100
Training Institutes              Balochistan            1                       1           100
Sindh                  1                       I           100
Farmer Training Centres          Punjab                 5                       3           60
Vehicles (No. units)
Pickups                                              70                     31           44
Jeeps                                                52                     25           48
Cars                                                  9                      0            0
Motorcycles                                         236                      0            0
Bicycles                                            210                      0             0
Staff, Field Teams (No.)
a. Engineering                    Balochistan                        17         17          100
NWFP                               13         13          100
Punjab                             57         57          100
Sindh                             25          25          100
FATA                               1           1          100
FANA                               1           1          100
Total                            114        114         100
b. Irrigation Agronomy            Balochistan                        17          0            0
NWFP                               13         13          100
Punjab                             57         57          100
Sindh                             25         25           100
FATA                                1          1          100
FANA                                I         0            0
Total                           114         96           84
Technical Assistance (Staff
Years)
Supervisory Consultants                              76.7                  108.00        141
Technical Experts                                       7.2                   11.55         160
Training (Number)
Government Staff                                                             5048
Farmers                                                                     19316
"Includes 264 watercourses in Fordwah East Sadiqia Project financed by OFWM III
21 The "actual" figures for area benefited were given to the ICR mission. Subsequently, NWFP and Balochistan submitted revised
figures totalling 946,350 ha (92% Of SAR). The mission was unable to verify these figures.
3/ The actual benefited barani areas are not separated but included in the total figures for NWFP and Punjab



20
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(This table is not applicable to this project)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                     at appraisal/redefined   Status        Impact of study
1. Possible role of Water User Associations                       Not        Study replaced by Pilot
in the distribution of irrigation water within                    under-    Projects in NWFP and
watercourses and minor canal commands.                             taken     Punjab



21
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate 1 |    Actual/latest estimate
Item                              Rs M        US$ M         Rs M         US$ M
Civil Works                      1,792.00      81.45      2,902.30        93.45
Equipment                         116.16       5.28         99.52         3.20
Technical Assistance              126.28       5.74         94.02         3.03
Training                           15.18       0.69          NA            NA
Monitoring & Evaluation            35.42        1.61        32.20         1.04
Supervision & Administration      379.06       17.23       811.01 2/      26.11 21
Total Cash Cost                2,465.00      112.00      3,939.05       126.83
Farmers Labour Contribution       957.00       43.50       989.56         31.86
TOTAL                          3,422.00      155.50      4,928.61       158.69
Including price contingencies.
2/ Including training.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimates   Actual/ICR Estimate
Source
IDA                                               47.3                 47.9
IBRD                                              36.3                 36.3
Government of Pakistan                             22.4                37.8
Farmers (cash)                                     6.0                 4.8
Total Cash Cost                                 112.0               126.8
Farmers Labour Contribution                       43.5                 31.9
TOTAL                                            155.5               158.7



22
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benerits
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal Estimates                 ICR Estimates
No. Beneficiaries                             250,000                            197,170
Benefited Areas (ha)                          1,026,165                         885,827
Incremental Production (tons):
Paddy                                       46,300                            23,000
Wheat                                       104,100                           60,400
Seed Cotton                                 25,900                            65,000
Sugarcane                                   122,900                           -35,000
Fodder                                      928,000                           29,000
Fruits                                      37,500                            91,900
B. Economic Benefits
Appraisal Estimates              ICR Estimates
(ERR%)                         (ERR%)
Provinces/Federal Areas
Balochistan                                         19                             31
NWFP                                               25                              32
Punjab                                             28                              19
Sindh                                              24                              27
FATA                                                14                             30
FANA                                                14                             14
Whole Project                                       26                             23
Assumptions
Project Life (years)                               20                              20
Incremental cropping intensity (%)                 4-12                           2-17
Incremental crop yields (%)                        5-13                           4-28
SCF                                                0.90                           0.90



23
C. Financial Impact
Appraisal Estimates              ICR Estimates
Net project costs to GOP as % of total project costs             58                             87
11
Net Project Costs to GOP after Cost Recovery as %                48                            78
of total project costs 1.
I/ Discounted at 10% over 20 years.



24
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Covenant  Present  fulfillment  fulfillment              Description of
Agreement   Section       type"    status"'    date       date                      covenant                         Comments
DCA         4.01         1        C      3/31 each              FCU and MINKA (FATA) to maintain records
year                and accounts, have them audited each fiscal
year, and furnish audit reports to IDA
Project      3.01         1        C      3/31 each              The Provinces and FATADC to maintain       Audit reports were
Agrmt (PA)                                     year                records and accounts, have them audited each  submitted with general
fiscal year, and furnish audit reports to IDA    delays
DCA         4.02         2         C       7/1/91               Implement in FATA and FANA a policy to
recover (a) 20% of the cost of construction
materials for watercourses renovation and
water storage tanks as a lump sum advance,
and (b) 80% of the cost of installing hydra ram
lifting/other high efficiency irrigation devices
from farmers as a lumpsum advance
DCA         4.03         12       CD      6/30/93     12/31/96  Carry out a study on WUAs role in the      Pilot projects instead of the
distribution of water in minor canal and  study have been
watercourse commands, and implement       implemented in NWFP and
reconimendations of such study as agreed with  Punjab
IDA
DCA       Schedule      12         C                            Reimbursements for expenditures made by
1, subpara                                            FANA and FATA not to cotnmence unless
b & c                                               WUA Legislation for FANA and FATA
satisfactory to IDA enacted
DCA       Schedule       2         C                            Reimbursements for expenditures made by
1, subpara                                            Sindh not to commence unless it has reached a
d                                                 recovery level of 25 % for amounts
outstanding from farmers under OFWM 11
project
DCA       Schedule       5         C                            Project cordination at the federal level shall be
4, Part                                              assigned to FCU established in MinFAC with
A. .a                                               staffing and reporting arrangements
satisfactory to IDA
DCA       Schedule       9         C      4/1 each              FCU to prepare, inter alia, annual work plans
4, Part                         year,                based on inputs from implementing agencies;
A. I .b                       annual &              prepare consolidated quarterly and annual
quarterly             reports; procure equipment through ICB;
reports              appoint supervisory consultants and technical
within 60             experts; and to conclude M&E contract with
days                WAPDA
DCA       Schedule       9         C      3/1 each              Each Provincial OFWM Directorate, inter
4, Part                         year,                alia, prepare annDual work plans as input to
A.2.b                         annual &              ADP and to consolidate project work plan;
quarterly             submit annual and quarterly progress reports
reports              to FCU; organize, register, train, and assist
within 30             WUAs; and procure local equipment/materials
days
DCA       Schedule       5        CD      9/30/91     9/30/93   Provinces, FATADC, and MINKA shall
4, Part                                              prepare and furnish to IDA for review
A.5.e                                               operational action plans for their respective
irrigation agronomy field teams
DCA       Schedule       5        CD      9/30/91;    6/30/92   Supervisory consultants and technical experts
4, Pars C                      6/30/91 as             shall be appointed in accordance with Bank
10                           revised               guidelines
date for
technical
experts
DCA       Schedule       5        CD      9/30/91     9/30/93   A training programme shall be prepared on
4, Part C                                             the basis of requirements from Provincial
11                                                OFWM Directorates, MINKA, and FATADC
and furnished to IDA through FCU
DCA       Schedule       9        CD      9/30/91     6/30/92   MINFAC, through FCU,shall enter into an
4, Part C                                             inter-agency agreement with WAPDA under
13                                                terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA for
carrying out the impact evaluation of the
Project
PA        2.01 (a)      4         C                            The Provinces and FATADC shall carry out
activites under the project with due diligence



25
Original    Revised
Covenant  Present  fulfillment  fulfillment              Description of
Agreement   Section       typel    status-    date        date                     covenant                          Comments
and efficiency ..., and shall provide ... the
funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for their activites under the Project
PA        2.01 (c)      I         C                            The Provinces shall open and maintain in
dollars special accounts in the National Bamk
of Pakista, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA
PA        3.02 (a)      2         C       7/1/91               The Provinces shall implement a policy of cost
recovery from farmers the cost of construction
materials to be provided under the future
OFWM project, including the Project, in
respect of renovation of watercourses and  In July, 1995 cost recovery
construction of water storage tanks. as   arrangments were revised
follows:                                  as following:
Puoiab: 30% cost recovery in 6 equal  Punjab: farmers paid
instalments over 3 years with no grace  30% of the material cost
period;                             upfront and provided sand,
Sindh 30% cost recovery,l0% as a    and skilled (masons) and
lump sum advance and 20% in 10      unskilled labor;
equal instalments over 5 years with no  Sindh and NWFP: 25
grace period;                       percent of the cost upfront.
NWFP: 20% cost recovery as a lump
advance; and
Balochsitan: 15% of cost
Balo hislan 25% costrecovery, 10%    upfront and another 15%
as a lumpsum advance and 15% inlO   recovered in six biannual
equal instalments over 5 years with no  installments.
grace period
PA        3.02 (b)      2         C       7/1/91               The Provinces shall implement a policy to
recover from farmers 80% of the cost, as a
lumpsum advance, in respect of installation of
hydra ram lifting and other high efficiency
irrigation technology devices to be provided
under the future OFWM projects, including
the Project (OFWM  lil)
PA        3.03 (a)      2        CP       6/30/92              Punjab shall take measures to recover the cost 90% achieved by June,92
of construction materials provided to farmers  but not maintained
under OFWM 11 Project so as to reach a    thereafter. Recovery
recovery level of 70% by December 31, 1991, status as of 31 December
85% by March 31, 1992, and 90% by June    1996 was 65% in Punjab
30, 1992
PA        3.03 (a)      2        CP      12/31/93              Sindh shall take measures to recover the cost  90% achieved by
of construction materials provided to farmers   December, 1993 but not
under OFWM 11 Project so as to reach a    maintained thereafter.
recovery level of 45% by June 30, 1992, 70%   Recovery status as of 31
by December, 1992, and 90% by December   December 1996 was 76%
31, 1993                                  inSindh
Covenant Type, I - Accounts/audit; 2 - Financial performance; 3 - Flow and utilization of project funds; 4 - Counterpart funding; 5 -
Management aspects of the project; 6 - Environmenal covenants; 7 - Involuntary resettlement; 8 - Indigenous people; 9 - Monitoring,
review and reporting; 10 - Implementation; II - Resource allocation; 12 - Regulatory/institutional action; and 13 - Other
/     Status C - Complied with; CD - Compliance after delay; CP - Complied with partially; SOON - Compliance expected in reasonable time:
NYD - Not yet due; and NC - Not complied with.



26
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. No deviations from applicable operational manual
statements were noted
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned           Revised              Actual 2/
Stage of
project cycle
Weeks     US$      Weeks    US$    Weeks   US$ (000)3
Preparation to appraisal                              -                 -       38.4       76.7
Appraisal                                             -                  -      63.9       124.5
Negotiations through Board approval                   -                 -       24.9       50.6
Supervision                                           -                 -      109.5       172.4
Completion                                                                                       l
TOTAL                                                                         236.7      424.2
Xi  Estimates for original and revised staff weeks and dollar budgeting only introduced in FY95 and
therefore total original and reviesd staff weeks and costs cannot be computed.
2/  Data from World Bank MIS.
31  Includes US$300 for Grade 18-21; US$37,600 for Grade 22-23; US$6,000 for Grade 24-25;
US$241,000 for unidentified grades; US$110,400 for consultants and US$28,800 for all other staff.



27
Table 13: Bank Resources: NMissions
Performance ratingb/
Number                 Specialized    Implement-    Develop-
Stage of      Month/        of       Days in    staff skills      ation         ment        Types of
project           year       persons     field     representeda      status     objectives    problemsc/
cycle
Through        May/June        5          27      Ec(2),Ag,W
appraisal      1990                                   M,IE
Appraisal
through
Board
approval
Supervision    April/May       3          14        IE,Ag,So           2            2            F,M
1993
Dec./Jan.       2          19          IE,Ag           2             2           F,M
1993-94
June/July       4          29       IE,Ag,IS,So         S            S            F,M
1994
Jan./Feb.       2          12          IE,Ag           S             S
1995
April           2          13          IE,Ag           S             S
1996'
Completion      Feb/Mar        3          22         Ag,IE,E
1 1997                11
Staff specialisations: Ag-Agriculturist; RS-Research Specialist; Ar-Architect; Ec-Economist; Ho-Horticulturist; IS-Institutions
Specialist; and PS-Procurement Specialist.
;    Performance ratings based on 1BRD and IDA - Implementation Summary Form 590
Types of problems: T-Technical; M-Managerial; and F-Financial.
Informal supervision and implementation assistance was provided by the Bank staff in between long supervision intervals.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2245/Ln. 3327-PAK)
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire



PAKISTAN: Third On-Farm Water Management Project
(Loan 3327/Credit 2245-PAK)
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program ICR Mission
12 February to 6 March 1997
Mission Aide-Memoire
A. INTRODUCTION
1.         At the request of the World Bank, an FAO/CP Mission'/ visited Pakistan from  12
February to 6 March 1997 to meet with officials of the Federal Coordination Unit (FCU) of the
Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives (MinFA), the On-Farm Water Management
Directorates (OFWMD) of provincial Departments of Agriculture, the Federally Administered Tribal
Areas (FATA) and the Watercourse Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate (WMED) of the Water and
Power Authority Development Authority (WAPDA) to obtain relevant information for the preparation
of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for this project. Field visits were made to a number of
centers in Balochistan, Northwest Frontier, Punjab and Sindh provinces and FATA. Irrigation water
distribution systems constructed and renovated under the project were inspected. Meetings were held
with staff of local units of the provincial OFWMDs and farmers to discuss project activities and
benefits obtained from project interventions. The mission briefed the Secretary of Agriculture in each
province.
2.         The mission wishes to thank all staff of the FCU and units of the provincial OFWMDs
and farmers visited for their kind hospitality and the information and assistance given with arranging
meetings and field visits and in preparation of the ICR for this project. The preliminary findings and
views presented in this draft Aide-Memoire reflect those of the mission, based on discussions with staff
of OFWMDs and farmers visited in project areas and from prior consultation of project documents at
the World Bank. The Aide-Memoire has been amended to take into account many points raised in a
final wrap-up meeting, chaired by the Additional Secretary of MinFA, Government of Pakistan (GOP)
on March 6, 1997. Additional points raised will be covered in the ICR.
B. THE PROJECT
3.         The GOP requested the International Development Association (IDA) and International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) to finance the Third On-Farm Water Management
Project (OFWMP III) because of the positive impact of the first two IDA assisted OFWMPs (OFWM I,
Cr. 1163-PAK; and OFWM II, Cr. 1603-PAK) and the strong demand from farmers.
4.         The project was prepared during February/March 1990 by a team of national consultants
and appraised by an IDA mission in May/June 1990. Project effectiveness was delayed due to several
postponements of negotiations of the loan and credit agreements and slow progress of provincial
governments in effecting agreed cost recoveries from the previous OFWMPs prior to project
commencement.
Messrs. D. A. Ivory (Mission Leader), R. G. Paterson (Irrigation Engineer) and T. Lohavisavapanich
(Economist)



2
5.         The rationale for the project was to support GOP policy to reinforce the huge investments
made in irrigation infrastructure by improving the efficiency of water delivery and use and to continue
Bank assistance to Pakistan's OFWM program, by providing external financial and technical assistance
to continue the renovation of the remaining 89,300 unimproved watercourses. The objectives1/ of the
project were (i) to increase agricultural production through improved on-farm water management
(OFWM) practices; (ii) to enhance the capabilities of OFWM agencies to enable them to carry out an
expanding OFWM program and to facilitate their coordination with the extension agencies; (iii) to
strengthen Water User Associations and to increase farmer participation in them so as to improve water
and non-water input management and to ensure efficient operations and management (O&M) of
installed facilities; and (iv) to reduce the Borrower's financial obligations in respect of OFWM works
through increased cost recovery and encouragement of WUAs to assume O&M responsibilities.
C. MISSION FINDINGS
Project Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
6.          The original five-year project was approved on July 31, 1991, but only became effective
on May 14, 1992 and closed on December 31, 1996, following a one-year extension to Credit closure.
The OFWMP III has a national perspective and has provided assistance to each of the four provincial
OFWMDs, the FATA and the Federally Administered Northern Areas (FANA). An additional
component (Vidore Hill Torrent Scheme) was introduced to control and utilize flood waters for
agricultural purposes in barani areas in D.G.Khan area of Punjab province, as part of the extension
phase. The project achieved most of its physical targets but was less successful in achieving its main
objectives, as indicated in subsequent sections.
Project Costs
7.          Total project costs. By the Credit/Loan closing date on 31 December 1996, the actual
total project expenditures amounted to Rs4,929 million, including farmers' cash and labour contribution
of Rsl,140 million, Rs8O million for precision land leveling (PLL) and Rs176 million for the Vidore
Hill Torrent control, representing a cost overrun of about 44% over the total project costs of Rs3,422
million estimated at appraisal/ . The main contributing factors were the substantial increases in the unit
costs of civil works and a 114% increase in the costs of project supervision and administration, both of
the provincial OFWM III offices and the supervisory consultants. However, due to the substantial
depreciation of the rupee against US dollar, the actual total project expenditures amounted to US$158.7
million, 102% of the total project costs of US$155.5 million estimated at appraisal.
8.         Disbursements. The IDA Credit of SDR33.4 million (US$47.9 million equivalent) was
fully disbursed on 30 September 1995. For the IBRD Loan of US$36.3 million, total disbursement as
of 11 February 1997 stood at US$34.9 million (96%). As the amount of expenditures incurred during
October to December 1996 were substantial, amounting to about US$5.0 million, the balance of the
IBRD Loan of US$ 1.4 million is expected to be fully disbursed by 30 April 1997.
2/  As described in Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement.
3/  Excluding the expenditures of the Vidore Hill Torrent control in D.G.Khan, the cost overrun was 39%.



3
9.          Capital cost recovery. In order to reduce the financial burden of GOP and also to ensure
the sustainability of the OFWM Program, the GOP agreed to implement partial capital cost recovery
from farmers for water course renovation, construction of water storage tanks, Sailaba irrigation,
precision land leveling, installation of hydra ram pumps and higher efficiency irrigation schemes, and
to increase the collection efficiency. After considerable delay, Punjab and Sindh provinces satisfactorily
complied with the legal covenants in implementing the above capital cost recovery, to achieve a
targeted recovery rate of 90% by June 30, 1992. During the project's extended implementation period,
the provincial governments agreed to implement upfront cost sharing" (except in Balochistan) by
collecting a lump sum advance payment from farmers prior to construction in place of the cost recovery
in installments. Farmers in many improved water courses visited by the ICR mission, particularly in
Punjab and Sindh, reported that they had difficulties in paying the upfront cost sharing, while many
farmers in unimproved water courses reported that they did not have sufficient incomes to meet the
upfront cost sharing. During the preparation of ICR, the mission would reassess the financial impact on
farm income from the water course renovation as well as the farmers' financial capacity to meet costs
associated with the above methods of capital cost recovery, taking into account the strong views
expressed by the provincial authorities at the wrap-up meeting against reintroducing installment
financing.
10.         Although the upfront cost sharing was implemented from July 1995, because of the
cumulative arrears from low recoveries between 1993-95, overall recovery as of 31 December 1996
remained low at 65% in Punjab, 76% in Sindh and slightly higher at 80% in Balochistan. The low
recovery rate was due to: (i) difficulties in collection by OFWM staff who had the responsibilities to
undertake OFWM works and at the same time act as collection agents for the Revenue Department
(RD); (ii) unsatisfactory performance of RD staff after the collection responsibilities had been handed
over to them, with OFWM staff required to continue assistance to the RD; and (iii) suspension or
postponement of collection due to natural calamities (floods, drought, etc.). It appears that involvement
of beneficiaries (who are the joint owners of watercourses and have joint financial liability and other
responsibilities to develop and sustain the watercourses) in arrears collection would have helped to
overcome the low collection rates.
Irrigation System Improvement
11.        Watercourse renovation. About 7,781 watercourses (101 % of the SAR target), including
264 in Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia Project, with a total culturable command area (CCA) of about 846,000
ha (80% of the area assumed in the SAR) were improved. Targets for number of watercourses were
exceeded in NWFP and Punjab, but fell short in Balochistan, Sindh and FANA. In FATA the target
was met. The reason for the shortfall in Sindh (68% of target in canal areas and 61% of the target in
barani) was a lack of Water Users' Associations (WUAs) able to meet the financial requirement to pay
25 % of the cost of materials in advance, despite this being reduced during the project from 30% (10%
advance and 20% in installments). The criterion in the SAR that watercourses to be improved should be
operated predominantly by low-income farmers with small landholdings has not always been observed
largely because such farmers cannot easily find the necessary deposit.
4   The proposed cost sharing with beneficiaries was: Punjab 30% of material costs as cost sharing and farmers
also provide 100% of the cost of sand and masons; and Sindh 25%. There was no change in the cost sharing of
20% in NWFP, FATA and FANA. In Balochistan, 15% of the cost of materials as advances and 15%
recovered in six biannual installments



4
12.        Most watercourses were built of "double brick" walls on brick or concrete beds. The less
costly "single brick" suggested by the SAR was not adopted. In Balochistan, in particular, in situ
concrete and pre-cast pipes were preferred. The quality of construction seen by the mission was
generally satisfactory with mortar-faced brickwork in good condition, sometimes after ten or more
years for watercourses improved under earlier Bank projects. On average the length of lining was about
780 m per watercourse or about 7 m per ha of CCA, representing about 24% of the total length
improved. The mission found no evidence that the computer program prepared by the international
consultants was used to determine the length to be improved. The SAR stipulation that the maximum
number of culverts would be four per watercourse seems to have been, quite sensibly, ignored and
culverts have generally been built where needed: one watercourse is reported to have 22; the average is
about one per watercourse. The average length of earth channel reported as being improved was about
2,400m per watercourse or about 22 m/ha of command area. The improvement of farm branches and
field ditches does not on the basis of the missions observations appear to have resulted in lasting
improvements to earth channels. The average cost of materials and skilled labour per meter lined was
Rs 347/m. Unskilled labour provided by the WUA, if priced at market rates, would add about 25% to
the cost of lining.
13.         Improved water availability. Improving watercourses, including lining, increases
efficiency by reducing seepage, evaporation, spillage and operating losses. The Watercourse
Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate (WMED) of the Water and Power Development Authority
(WAPDA) was employed under the project to measure watercourse irrigation efficiency before and
after improvement of the watercourses. On the basis of the measurements by WMED for this project" ,
the amount of water delivered to farms has increased by an average, weighted according to the number
of watercourses improved, of 26%. These results are comparable with other reported increases
including 34% by Punjab Economic Research Institute (PERI) in 1985 for evaluation of OFWM in
Punjab, 27% by WAPDA in 1984 for M&E of USAID OFWM and 38.5 % in 1979 by OFWM
Training Institute" . Other benefits of lining watercourses are saving in operation of the irrigation and
in maintenance of the watercourses. Farmers reported to the mission that they saved about 50% of the
labour originally needed for irrigation and as much as a further 10 days/ha/year on maintenance. The
construction of washing places and lining watercourses through villages gives additional public health
benefits.
14.        Use of incremental water. Increased delivery of water does not seem to be translated
into comparable increases in cropping intensities. Reasons for this include reduction in tubewell
pumping to compensate for the increased supply in the watercourse, more water being applied to the
same area of crop and a shift to thirstier crops.
15.        Water storage tanks. Some 969 water storage tanks were constructed, about 88% more
than estimated in the SAR. There were no tanks proposed for Sindh; all other provinces and areas met
or exceeded the targets, particularly in Balochistan, where the target was exceeded by 116%. Water
storage tanks are built where the supply of water is unreliable or intermittent, such as from a spring
5/  A draft of Chapter 3 of their report discusses their results of measurements on 13 watercourses: 6 in the
Punjab, 3 in Sindh, 2 in Balochistan and one each in North-West Frontier Province (NWFP) and in Federally
Administered Tribal Areas (FATA).
6/  Draft PCR of OFWM III by DG Agriculture (Water Management), Punjab, February 15 1997, pages 9 and 10.



5
with a low flow or, most commonly, where the electricity supply to an electric pump for a tubewell or
dug well is unreliable. The tanks are usually constructed from brick with a cement mortar rendering
and are commonly about 12 m square and 1.2 m deep. Many farmers (maybe 25%) paid the excess
cost of building larger tanks (by 30-35 %). These were allowed under the project.
16.        Precision land leveling (PLL). The area of land leveling is reported to be about 40,000
ha, about 72% of the SAR target. Other than in Punjab, where about 4,000 ha were leveled using laser
controlled equipment, the use of lasers for PLL has been slight: about 550 ha in Balochistan and
roughly 1,000 ha in NWFP. No lasers were used in Sindh, FATA or FANA due to the delayed
procurement of the laser equipment, inability of the project staff to operate the equipment and, to a
lesser extent, to the reluctance of the farmers to pay the fairly modest hire charges (normally less than
the rate for hiring a tractor). The results from laser land leveling are reported to be good with most of
the benefits expected in the SAR being obtained.
17.        Sailaba Irrigation. Some 26 sailaba subprojects (74% of the SAR target of 35) were
constructed between June 1993 and June 1996 in Balochistan with an estimated command area of 415
ha. The cost of materials was about Rs4.5 million or about Rsl 1,000/ha (roughly US$300/ha). There
has been no monitoring of the benefits of these works.
18.       Hydra ram lifting devices and higher efficiency irrigation technology. The project
was to have included the supply of hydra-ram pumps for pumping from perennial streams in Punjab
province and for the provision of higher efficiency irrigation technologies. These were not taken up
by farmers due to the low subsidy proposed (20%).
19.       Vidore hill torrent scheme. This subcomponent was added to the project and
constructed in 1996 at a cost of about Rs176 million (US$4.5 million) to redistribute flows more
equitably in the three branches of the Vidore river in accordance with long-standing water rights and
to spread water over an estimated cropped area of about 10,600 ha at a cost of about US$425/ha.
According to the feasibility study the runoff from a storm with a return period of two years, which
corresponds to runoff of about 27 mm from the whole of the 770 km2 catchment, would provide
about 200 mm (less losses) of irrigation to the cropped area. The storm with a five year return period
would provide about 300 mm. The feasibility study estimated that the subproject would increase the
cropping intensity from 30% to 93% and avoid damage to the D.G.Khan canal and the town of
D.G.Khan. Commencement of construction of the main gabion diversion structures was delayed until
August 1996, due to slow release of funds and slow preparation of design documents, but was
completed by December 1996. The OFWM structures to divert flood waters to farmers fields was not
commenced due to a decision of the Government of Punjab to delay this work until after the primary
diversion structures were completed. The functionality and benefits of the system have not yet been
tested by any substantial floodwater flow.
Institutional Development
20.       Ofrices and residences. Five offices and houses were constructed for field teams in more
remote locations in Balochistan province in order to complete such facilities for all 17 teams deployed
in the province.



6
21.        Equipment and vehicles. Laser land leveling equipment and office and survey equipment
was to be purchased under the project. Laser land leveling equipment was not received from project
sources in all provinces and that received was very much delayed. Some laser land leveling equipment
was sourced from other Federal projects. In Sindh this equipment was never used to level farmer fields
because of technical difficulties experienced in commissioning the equipment. Most of the 70 pick-ups,
52 jeeps, 9 cars, 236 motorcycles and 210 bicycles scheduled for the project were purchased.
Considerable delays were experienced in delivery of vehicles to provincial agencies, mostly because of
the time consuming purchasing procedures used in ICB at the Federal level. Provincial authorities
indicated that independent purchase by them would be both cheaper and quicker. The amount paid in
taxes and duties alone exceeded the unit cost of comparable vehicles procured locally.
22.        Engineering and irrigation agronomy field teams. Two significant changes were
proposed to field team operation in this project as compared with OFWM II, viz: (i) an increased
number of teams to carry the extra workload; and (ii) posting of separate engineering and irrigation
agronomy teams (IATs). The establishment of separate IATs was aimed at achieving greater project
emphasis on increasing agricultural production from saved water and thus ensure sustainability of
benefits. In fact, in all provinces and federal agencies the engineering and irrigation agronomy
personnel were contained in single operational teams.
23.        The performance of the engineering group of the field teams was satisfactory with
watercourse improvements mostly meeting targets and work completed to satisfactory design and
quality standard. However, a reviewl/ of the irrigation agronomy groups of the field teams deemed
their performance unsatisfactory, as assistance to farmers to improve efficiency of use of saved water
and improve agricultural production was judged as being limited. However, the mission considered the
failure to obtain the necessary improvement in water management and agricultural production was due
to a serious basic design flaw for this component, both logistically and conceptually. The project design
was unrealistic in expecting this team to (i) organize WUAs (refer also paras 27-28), (ii) setup
demonstration plots (centers) each year in newly improved watercourses as well as maintain a proper
"after-sales" service to these demonstration centers in subsequent years (refer para. 26), and (iii)
provide information, training and technical support to farmers in all aspects of water management.
Furthermore, the conceptual flaw was exacerbated by the expectation that somehow the Agricultural
Extension Directorates of the provincial DOAs would be strengthened and they would provide advice
on agronomic practices, without any budgeted activity included in this project. There was no evidence
of any operational cooperation or involvement of provincial Agricultural Extension Directorates with
OFWM Directorates.
24.        Training of OFWMD staff. Information provided by provinces indicated some 3,490
professional and 1,558 non-professional staff were trained during the project. These numbers should,
however, be treated with skepticism, since, for example, the number of professional OFWM staff in
NWFP associated with this project was less than 104, yet the number claimed to have been trained is
1,892. No training was given in Balochistan because new teams were not recruited: the teams trained
under the first two OFWM projects continued to operate for OFWM III. Training included the training
of social organizers and irrigation agronomy teams in the development of sustainable WUAs. A series
7/   "Impact assessment of post-training activities of irrigation agronomy field teams and farmers", Sheladia
Associates Inc., National Engineering Services Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd, June 1995.



7
of workshops was conducted by Bank and OECF consultants to introduce concepts of OFWM. These
were followed by a comprehensive in-service training program.
25.        Farmer Training Centers and Training Institutes. Limited support was to be provided
under the project for strengthening Provincial Training Institutes in Balochistan and Sindh. Little
support was given in Sindh and a hostel was constructed late in the project in Balochistan. It was also
proposed to establish five Farmer Training Centers (FTCs) in Punjab province to provide farmer
training in improved on-farm water management. Only three centers were established. The training of
farmers generally received insufficient emphasis in this project. Further consideration needs to be given
to how farmer training could be expanded. This should include an assessment of the required number
of FTCs (for use by all directorates of DOAs) to provide adequate formal training for farmers as well
as the possible establishment of Farmer Training Schools for informal training in farmers' fields.
Support to Farmers in Agricultural Development
26.        Demonstration centers. Deficiencies in utility and impact of demonstration plots in earlier
OFWMPs led to the proposal for Demonstration Centers (DCs) to be established on suitable areas of
land (up to 2 ha in size) in one of every 6-8 watercourses improved in this project. The intention was
for these DCs to be operated through project completion and demonstrate a full range of water
management practices and irrigation agronomy techniques to farmers for the main crops grown in local
areas. The project was expected to provide technical assistance for the planning and design of the water
management improvements, additional agricultural inputs and PLL. In reality, the DCs still remained
as demonstration plots, were mostly established for only one year (two crop seasons) and did not
provide crop production inputs. A random survey by WMED of 10 demonstration centers in all
provinces and FATA found that dissemination of information to neighboring farmers in all but two
centers was limited and adoption of practices demonstrated was limited because farmers lacked
resources and modern equipment, despite demonstration farmers using higher levels of crop production
inputs, improved cultural practices and having increased net income.
27.        Water User Associations (WUAs). WUAs were organized  by  OFWM-irrigation
agronomists, according to enacted provincial ordinances as a prerequisite to watercourse improvement.
The ordinances provided authority for assessment of members for improvements and services they
receive and for their subsequent organization into federations along minors, distributaries and canals.
Enactment of new WUA ordinances were required in FATA and FANA as a condition for inclusion in
the project. They also provide sanctions if individual members or the Association fail to adequately
maintain communal watercourses.
28.        WUAs were formed according to the above conditions in all watercourses to be improved.
However, the formation of a WUA, as presently conceived, only has relevance to communal use of
public water resources, not privately owned tubewell systems. Farmer participation remains an
essential cornerstone to operations and maintenance of watercourses (and eventually, it is proposed,
minors). However, the sustainability of their involvement as an association, which was expected to be
improved in this third project phase, does not appear any greater" . The activity and enthusiasm of the
WUAs still remains greatest during watercourse renovation and within one year reverts to an informal
8/  "Sustainability of Water User Associations and their working as formal organizations", Chapter 5, Draft Report
of WMED, February, 1997.



8
alliance. This does not appear to be dependent on the way they were organized, but rather that the
purpose of the WUA has been too narrowly defined. The WUA should have been seen as an essential
vehicle through which all agricultural services (training, technical information, input supplies, credit
facilities, etc.) could be funneled, to maximize utilization of on-farm water. The role of sociologists in
formation of WUAs also has to be examined further (refer paras 29 and 30).
29.        Pilot Project. It was agreed during project implementation that the original proposal to
finance a study on "Possible role of WUAs in the distribution of irrigation water within watercourses
and minor canals" (to be completed by June 30, 1993) would be canceled and a "Pilot Project for
Farmers' Participation in Irrigation Management" established in NWF and Punjab provinces. It was
initially planned for 18 months, but recognized that this would be a very short time for such a pilot
project. The Pilot Project in NWFP commenced in November 1994 on two minors (Surazai and Pabbi),
but was greatly delayed in Punjab (commenced April 1996). Considerable technical assistance,
particularly from sociologists, was given in supporting the activities in these pilot areas (refer para. 32).
As the objectives of the pilot project were only partially achieved by Credit closure, external support
has been continued under the OECF-funded OFWM project.
30.       In NWFP, the project activities have been centered on formation of WUAs, their executive
committee and numerous sub-committees (for By-Laws, Survey, Cost Recovery, Construction and
Mobilization). There has been a considerable investment in staff time to support these activities.
However, at present WUAs have not yet been established in all watercourses in the two minors in the
study area in NWFP. With regard to establishing a Federation of WUAs, while preliminary activities
on completion and approval of By-Laws, awareness programs with farmers on federation and election
of representatives from WUAs have been undertaken, a Federation has not yet been registered. There
remain serious questions as to the effectiveness and cost of this approach to the formation of WUAs and
Federations and the basic concept of the role of such farmer associations. A rigorous review of this
pilot project is required before proceeding further with this approach.
Technical Assistance
31.        Supervisory consultants. About 108 staff-years (141 % of the appraisal target of 76.7
staff-years) of locally recruited consultants were provided to assist the implementing agencies in
reviewing plans and designs, supervising and monitoring progress and quality of the civil works
program and preparing reports. This assistance has been satisfactory.
32.        Technical consultants. About 11.55 staff years (160%  of the appraisal estimate of 7.2
staff years) of internationally recruited technical experts were provided. Their duties and
responsibilities were inadequately defined in the staff appraisal report. As a consequence, many aspects
of the project with which they were to have been associated have been unsuccessful, including support
to agronomy field teams, M&E activities of WMED and introduction of hydra ram pumps and higher
efficiency irrigation technology. All provincial directors commented that they had received limited
useful input from the international consultants. It seems that the team did not spend over 50% of its
time in the field (as was expected in the SAR). Most of their activities have seemingly been associated
with the Pilot Project and the Vidore Hill Torrent subproject and with preparation of resource materials



9
and reviews. Achievements claimed in the consultants' final report" include the updating of OFWM
field manuals (in English) in conjunction with NESPAK and OECF international consultants,
construction management of the Vidore hill torrent subproject, recommendations for alternative
materials and technologies for watercourse and canal lining (the mission found no evidence that this had
been used), the design and conduct of training for OFWM staff, social organizers and farmers and
assistance to WMED to improved M&E and cost/benefit analysis of watercourse improvement. The
major assistance actually required, but not given, was for "hands-on" work with the field teams,
demonstrations and farmers to ensure that the savings in water from improved field irrigation were
translated into increased agricultural production and household incomes. This does not seem to have
been adequately provided.
Monitoring and Evaluation
33.       External project M&E. The Watercourse Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate
(WMED) of WAPDA was commissioned to provide external M&E of the project performance and
impact. Detailed objectives, activities and methodologies were defined for this subcomponent in Annex
7 of the SAR. Regular reporting was required and WMED was expected to develop and implement a
computerized database system for managing the data regularly collected by field and headquarters staff
for analytical evaluation studies. About 125 staff-years of professional services were to be provided at a
cost of US$1.4 million. In this program it was proposed that two chak samples would be monitored: (i)
16 watercourses in fresh and saline groundwater areas that would be renovated under OFWM III; and
(ii) an additional 8 watercourses to be selected each year which had been renovated under previous
OFWM projects.
34.       The M&E undertaken is considered unsatisfactory, on the basis of (i) watercourse sample
size being too small to provide an accurate perspective of project performance and impact on the major
crop production systems recognized in Pakistan, (ii) lack of regular reporting of M&E, and (iii) high
average cost and high professional staff input of M&E (about Rs2.6 million and 1.15 staff years per
watercourse). Fourteen newly renovated watercourses under OFWM III have been intensively studied
during only one year (two crop seasons in 1994-95). They should have been studied every year in order
to remove seasonal variation and obtain reliable changes in production. Four watercourses from each of
OFWM I and OFWM II were sampled in two years. Within these watercourses intensive sampling has
been conducted on 15 farms. It is suggested that the original sampling design was inadequate and in any
M&E of future projects a larger number of watercourses should be sampled in consecutive years, but
with a lesser number of farms sampled in head, middle and tail locations of the watercourse.
35.       Internal project M&E. It is surprising that the provincial OFWM directorates and FATA
and FANA did not regularly collect data to undertake their own evaluation of project performance and
impact. M&E is an important activity that provides vital feedback to management and also is extremely
useful to justify activities to higher authorities.
9/  Consultant's Final Report, Sheladia Associates Inc., World Bank funded On Farm Water Management III,
December 1996, Sheladia Associates, Inc., Islamabad, Pakistan.



10
Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation
36.        Undoubtedly, the greatest factor contributing to the success of the project in achieving
most of the civil works targets was the engineering experience gained by provincial governments in
previous OFWM projects. However, several factors impeded project implementation. Project
effectiveness was delayed by nearly one year, principally due to considerable delays in some provinces
(Sindh particularly) meeting the conditionality imposed by the Bank on cost recovery from previous
OFWM projects. This has led some provinces to suggest that a future project should not be national in
scope but be a provincial project. A number of other factors also subsequently hampered
implementation, such as shortage of counterpart funds, delays in procurement and delivery of vehicles
and PLL equipment, change in cost recovery methods and strike by brick makers in Sindh. This led to
the need for a one-year extension of the project to achieve the original targets set.
Project Benefits
37.       Project impact.  Although the extensive data collection for baseline and the post-
evaluation surveys was carried out satisfactorily by WMED, the sample size represented only 0.2% of
total watercourses renovated under the project and the surveys were conducted only for one cropping
year. Therefore, the sample size and results of the surveys are inadequate to provide an accurate basis
for the assessment of project impact. Therefore, the ICR mission requested each OFWM field team to
conduct a short survey for two water courses in order to collect additional information on pre- and
post- improvement water losses, conveyance efficiency, cropping pattern, cropping intensities, yields of
crops, etc, for the reassessment of project impact. The data have been received and will be analyzed
subsequently. At this stage, only qualitative benefits can be identified. These include: (i) reduction in
water losses and increases in conveyance efficiency resulting in the increase in water supply to bring
additional land under cultivation that could not be farmed before improvement; (ii) increases in yield of
crops resulting from PLL and improved water management; and (iii) reduced time and labour required
for irrigation and the maintenance of watercourses.
38.       Economic rate of return. Assuming increases between 5-13% in crop yields and 4-12% in
cropping intensities (as estimated at appraisal), with a project cost overrun of about 39% and a
reduction in project command area of about 20%, the ERR of the whole project would be substantially
lower than the appraisal estimate.
Project Sustainability
39.       The benefits of the investments made in watercourse lining are likely to be sustained.
Farmers will continue to maintain the increased efficiency of water distribution on-farm, but probably
at a lower level than when watercourses were first renovated. The GOP and provincial governments are
committed to continuing the process of renovation of farm watercourses under future projects.
However, this process is heavily dependent on continuing donor funds. When donor financial support
ceases, provincial governments do not provide additional budget to continue this program and
experienced field staff, which are on the development budget (temporary staff), are redeployed to other
activities. Both factors adversely affect the sustainability of the program of watercourse improvement.



11
Bank and Borrower Performnance
40.       Bank Performance. Some serious deficiencies were apparent in project design and project
start-up which the Bank should have corrected. Firstly, the project objectives were not altogether clear
(three different versions appear in the SAR and the DCA). Secondly, the design of the irrigation
agronomy component is considered to be conceptually and logistically unrealistic. Thirdly, the
expectation that the linkage between the directorates of OFWM and Agricultural Extension would be
strengthened without any prescribed joint field activities and budget was naive. Fourthly, the Bank
failed to ensure that the PC-Is drawn up for the provincial governments ensured the project would be
implemented exactly as planned (for example, separate engineering and field teams were not present,
M&E was not as prescribed, etc.). Furthermore, the introduction of upfront cost sharing was simply to
increase collection rate, but failed to assess its impact on the farmers' financial capacity. By contrast,
Bank supervision missions were regular and reports prepared indicate that the missions undertook
detailed reviews of implementation progress of the project and while indicating deficiencies in
implementation gave helpful and constructive advice to overcome such problems.
41.       Borrower Performance. The provincial directorates of OFWM  were able to implement
the civil works program successfully because of their long experience in watercourse improvement. In
most provinces, retrospective cost recovery for irrigation canal works was problematic. Staff
indiscipline and misuse of vehicles due to political interference was a problem in Balochistan. All
provinces would have preferred independence in purchasing of equipment and vehicles due to the long
delays caused by central ICB procedures and heavy duty payments required. Some components were
delayed in implementation resulting from shortage and delays in release of counterpart funding from
the provincial governments. Other than in procurement, the FCU performed adequately. It has been
suggested that better coordination and performance would have been obtained from the technical
assistance component by bringing the technical and supervisory consulting groups under a single level
of control, as has happened in other projects.
Future Operational Plans
42.       The GOP has not yet prepared their assessment of the project as required by the Bank or
their plans for future improvement of watercourses beyond project completion, except for those
associated with uncompleted projects with other donors. The mission has provided guidelines to the
GOP for preparation of their completion report (Appendix A).
Lessons Learned
43.       The project was a third phase of assistance by World Bank in improving OFWM  in
Pakistan in which some changes in project design were introduced to improve project effectiveness.
The main lessons learned from implementation of this project which are relevant to any further
assistance include:
(a)      Provincial OFWM  Directorates are organized, staffed and mandated to give
major support to engineering aspects of off-farm irrigation (watercourses, tanks
and sailabas). They are organizationally not capable of providing the necessary
integrated support to the management and use of on-farm water and other
agronomic support required to advance agricultural production. The project



12
should have included a component that would have provided the necessary
operational integration of Agricultural Extension with OFWM services.
(b)       The assessment of project impact by external monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
was unsatisfactory and internal M&E by provincial OFWM Directorates was
non-existent. In any future project it is critical that appropriate (adequate) M&E
systems are set up for both external and internal on-going and final evaluation.
(c)       WUAs provide a natural grouping of farmers with common agricultural
interests and problems. Therefore their future role should be changed to
include, not only an association for operations and maintenance of tertiary and
farm irrigation systems, but a farmers' group through which support (technical,
training, demonstrations, etc.) for all aspects of efficient use of crop production
inputs (water, fertilizers, credit, etc.) and improved crop husbandry practices
can be provided by government and non-government services.
(d)       There has been a systematic increase in the amount and system of cost recovery
from beneficiaries for investments made in watercourse improvement through
several phases of OFWM projects. The recent move to introduce complete up-
front payment of the beneficiaries' share of materials has become generally
accepted by farmers and removes the problems faced by government in cost
recovery. However, higher levels of up-front cost recovery will adversely
affect poor farmers with small land holdings from participating in this scheme.
Assessment of farmers' financial capacity to meet costs of watercourse
improvement is required prior to the introduction of any further increases in the
amount of capital cost recovery.
(e)       The training component was insufficiently emphasized, particularly farmer
training, and because funding was to be solely from counterpart funding,
created a problem for OFWM directorates in financing such activities. It is
suggested that in any further projects considerably more emphasis be given to
establishing appropriate facilities and establishing a suitable modality for farmer
training.
E. FOLLOW-UP
44.The mission will complete the preparation of the ICR for this project for submission to World Bank
by early April, 1997. The GOP must prepare their final assessment of the project according to the
guidelines provided by the mission (refer para. 42). The amended Aide-Memoire will be attached to the
ICR prepared by the mission for submission to the World Bank.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2245/Ln. 3327-PAK)
Appendix B: Borrowers' Evaluation and Comments



Fax: 553967
,~ .< v,t,MAIA.b         D.  .                    O850978-9
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
RY OF FOOD, AGRICULTURE AND LIVE STOCK
(Federal Water Maragernent Cell)
14-N  (Riaz Plaza) ;I-Markaz. F-:,
From: DR  BAZ MIUH.AMHMAAD KHA.N
Director General  (WM)               Islamabadthe Hav 10-  199 7
Subject:    ON-FARM  WATER  MANAGE.MENT  (CR. 2245`-PAK/Ln.
32 7 PAK) IA PLEME_T AT ION  COMPLET IN  REPORT:
d,> dear Qamar Sahibi.
Kindly refer to World Bank's letter dated 26
April 1997  addressed to the Secretary (F&.A.)- Governmnent
of  Pakistan.  on  above  noted  subject.    The comments,
Evaluation Report and a plan fo-r the operational on the
draL-t TCR are enclosed herewith which have been prepared
in consultation with the Provincial Government-.and Fede-ral
Water Management Cell
With kind regards.
Yours Since-el;
(Dr. Baz Muhammad Khan)
Director General (WM)
Mr. Usman Qamar
Senior Project Advisor.
World Bank Resident Mission,
Sector G-5,
ISLAMIABAiD:



COMMENTS ON
DRAFT ICR OF ON FARM WATER
MANAGEMENT -III PROJECT
(CR. 2245-PAK/LN. 3327-PAK)
Draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of IDA assisted On Farm Water
Management-III Project, prepared by a mission from the Food and Agriculture
Organisation (FAO) World Bank Co-operative Programme, has been circulated amongst
the implementing agencies for comments. The Government of Pakistan & provincial
governments have reviewed and generally agree with the findings of ICR.



BORROWER'S EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT ON-
FARM WATER MANAGEMENT III
PHYSICAL ACHIEVEMENTS OF PROJECT.
The targets in terms of main project activities have been completely met whereby, (I)
7,781 watercourses have been renovated against originally envisaged target of 7,685, (ii)
969 water storage tanks have been constructed against a target of 515, (iii) 39,757
hectares of land have been precisely levelled against target of 55,000, (iv) 1,300
demonstration centres have been laid out against original target of 1,060, and (v) some
3,490 professional and 1,558 non-professional staff were imparted training in improved
OFWM practices etc.
ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES.
The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) as worked out by the ICR Mission comes out to be
22% against the SAR estimates of 26%. The report also mentions that as a result of
improvements of water supply system and consequent overall increase in water supplies
at farm level by 26%, cropping intensities have been increased upto 17%, crop yields by
9% for rice, 4% - 63% for wheat, 5%-10% for seed cotton, 14%-21% for sugarcane, 4%
for fruits and upto 46% for fodder.
The report concludes that the objectives of increasing agricultural production as a result
of increased water supplier was satisfactorily achieved. It, however, points out that
improvements to agricultural production, as a consequence of improved OFWM
practices, would have been far greater, had the irrigation agronomy program functioned
as envisaged under the project.
Above mentioned finding of the report regarding lesser translation of saved water into
increased production than its potential is mainly because of flaws in project design. It is



pointed out that Irrigation Agronomy Field Teams (IAFTs) were established to ensure
increased agricultural production through saved water and thus sustenance of benefits
accrued. IAFTs were also entrusted with the responsibility to (I) organise WAUs, (ii) set-
up demonstration plots each year in newly improved watercourses as well as provide a
proper "after-sales" services to the demonstration centres in subsequent years, and (iii)
provide information, training, and technical support to farmers in all aspects of water
management, apart from implementation issues. It is, however, mentioned that the IAFTs
were merely created by bifurcating the then prevailing Field Teams wherein, both the
engineering and agriculture staff were working together. One set of staff comprising of
an Agricultural Officer, two Field Assistants and some support staff was designated to
form an Irrigation Agronomy Field Tearn. No mechanism was described and even no
funds were provided enabling the IAFTs to function and operate separately and
independently. Creation of separate IAFTs and their functioning as envisaged appears to
be over ambitious. Assigning too many responsibilities to these teams without provision
of adequate resources and absence of a proper design to undertake envisaged tasks was,
therefore, one of the major project design flaws.
EVAL UA TION OF BORROWER'S OWN PERFORMANCE.
The borrower's performance during implementation of the project remained quite
satisfactory which has duly been acknowledged in the evaluation report. This is evident
from the fact that all the physical targets envisaged under the project were substantially
met, despite of the fact that it took late start by about fourteen months. moreover, there
have been frequent strikes by brick kilns and a shift was made from post improvement
recovery of material costs to up-front cost sharing.
The performance of Irrigation Agronomy Field Team has, however, remained less
satisfactory than intended due to inadequate provision of resources and improper design
to undertake assigned/envisaged function. Furthermore, since no mechanism to ensure
co-ordination between Agriculture Extension and Water Management Directorates was



delineated in the project design, co-ordination remained limited to sporadic training of
extension staff at the Water Management Institutions. It has correctly been pointed out in
the report that project implementation suffered adverse affects due to shortage and delays
in release of counterpart funding from the provincial governments. in fact, timely release
of funds is sometimes beyond the control of provincial governments. It is, thereof,
proposed that instead of making the Governments of Provinces to contribute a certain
percentages of each category, it would be batter if they are made to bear the 100% cost
(equal to the total share of the respective government) of one or more of the project
categories such as salary, operating cost etc. The remaining components may be fully
financed by the donor e.g. civil works, consulting services, equipment etc.
Payment of salary/allowances of employees can not be denied by the government.
Delayed release of funds will, therefore, not affect the physical project activities as
experienced under previous OFWM projects.
E VALUATION OF THE PERFORMANCE OF THE WORLD BANK
BANK PERFORMANCE.
Bank performance remained substantially satisfactory during the project implementation.
Certain project covenants introduced by the Bank, however, hampered the project
implementation. For example, effectiveness of loan was linked with achieving 90%
recovery level of the due amounts under OFMW-II project whereby, most of the staff
available for project implementation could not commence their activities on time. Like-
wise, it was envisaged in the original project to carry out a study on farner's management
of irrigation system at minor/distributary level but its scope was later on altered to a level
of pilot project and was made one of the pre-conditions for one year's extension of the
project. Similarly, rate and mode of payment of farmers share towards material costs was
changed altogether and beneficiaries were made to make up-front contributing as their
share of project costs. The Bank was highly inflexible in considering any alternate
proposal and borrower was left with no option except to accept this change as it was also



a conditionally for project extension enabling the government to avail the already
committed credit/loan. This fundamental alteration in project implementation adversely
affect watercourse improvement activity as majority of the farmers under the revised cost
sharing mechanism were not in a position to bear the burden of up-front payments due to
their poor financial positions. Accordingly, they could not join the programme or
resorted to curtail actual requisite lining length according to their paying capacities. The
reduction in lining length have ultimately resulted in less benefits of watercourses
improvement program than potential.
It is, therefore, suggested that major changes or introduction of new covenants for
undertaking already envisaged targets of the project should be avoided.
RELA TIONSHIP BETWEEN THE WORLD BANKAND THE BORROWER.
Relationship between the Bank and the borrower remained satisfactory during project
implementation period.
LESSONS LEARNT.
MAKING WUAs VIABLE.
Participation rates world-wide in community base common interest groups are
surprisingly low, such that both expectations and the approach adopted to support future
irrigation system investments and management needs to be carefully based on local
realities and not dictated by a board master plan and physical implementation targets.
The sustainability of Water Users Associations (WUAs) formed under the project,
therefore, needs to be ensured and investigated in order to continue beneficial use of these
institutions as in case of watercourse improvement. it has been observed that WUAs
have no further significant task/role to continue their existence.  As such, their
enthusiastic response observed during improvement of watercourse is not seen in the post
improvement period. It is, accordingly, required that possibility for making such
provisions be investigated whereby, WUAs or Farmers Organisation may be made a



pivotal point for all agricultural services like training , technical assistance, input supply,
credit facilities etc. The arrangements will not only make WUAs/FOs more viable but
will also help in harnessing the positive impacts of On-Farm Water Management
interventions alongwith other activities.
The deficiency of social organisation input in Field Teams of IDA assisted OFWM-III
has been compensated by the introduction of Community Development Officer in each of
the OFWM Field Team under World Bank assisted Punjab Private Sector Groundwater
Development Project. it is anticipated that community mobilisation activity under new
scheme may help to achieve the requisite results.
Furthermore, now Farmer Organisations are being considered to assume greater role to
take over operation and management of irrigation at minor/distributry/canal level. There
is, accordingly, a need of proper legislation to Federate Associations at different levels
and cater with other responsibilities i.e. assessment and collection of water rates (abiana),
water distribution etc.
AFFECT OF ENHANCED COST RECOVERY.
Upfront sharing of 30 percent cost of materials in cash or kind, is conceptually a good
attempt toward sustainability of OFWM Program, but the same has been observed to
have its adverse affect also. Majority of farmers under the project area did not possess
the requisite financial capability to afford up-front payments. Accordingly, they either
did not come forward for improvement of their watercourse altogether or carried out
lesser improvements than there required, to the extent they could mobilise resources. It is
obvious from the fact that lining lengths have drastically been reduced by almost 60
percent i.e. average lined length per watercourse has been educed from 812 meters before
introduction of upfront cost sharing mechanism to only 328 meters after its introduction.
The reduction in lining length would ultimately result in lesser benefits of watercourses
improvement program than potential. moreover, greater number of visits and meetings
with farmers had to be organised by the OFWM staff to convince them to adopt this new



mode of cost sharing which has, resulted in additional expenses on travelling, P.O.L,
T.As etc. on project staff. It is, therefore, imperative to consider affordability of the
farmers to share up-front cost while designing future projects.
RECRUITMENT OF STAFFAND PROCUREMENT OF EQUIPMENT.
Requirements of staff and equipment are always very carefully worked out while
preparing development projects. If vital inputs are not timely made available to the
project, its implementation is adversely affected. It is learnt from the past experience that
ban on recruitment of new staff and procurement of equipment/vehicles subsequently
imposed by the government affects the project execution very seriously. It is, therefore,
proposed to give coverage to approved positions of staff and equipment/vehicles and
exempt them from such bans imposed by the government during project implementation.
MONITORING AND EVALUATION.
The assessments of external as well as internal Monitoring and Evaluation arrangements
made under IDA assisted OFWM-III project have been identified as less satisfactory in
the project Implementation Completion Report. In order to rectify this defect, it is
proposed that in-built M&E model being followed under OECF funded OFWM-III
Project with some improvements be adopted for future projects wherein, staff can be
utilised, at no extra cost, to collect required input data. There could be a limited
consultency input to ensure validity/quality of the data so collected and for its
processing/analyses, and preparation of reports.



OPERATION PLAN
ON FARM WATER MANAGEMENT III PROJECT
(CR.2245-PAK/LN.332 7-PAK)
Under the WUA ordinance the Water users farmers are responsible for the operation and
maintenance of watercourses below the mogha. The field observations show that farmers
are discharging their duty with due diligence.
However, under the ordinance if farmers fail to fulfil their obligation the department may
rehabilitate the watercourses at farmers cost. The department plans to carry out spot
checking of the watercourses improved under the program to ensues its compliance.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2245/Ln. 3327-PAK)
Appendix C: Financial and Economic Analysis



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2245/Ln. 3327-PAK)
Appendix C: Financial and Economic Analysis
A. Production Impact
1.         At appraisal, it was proposed that renovation of watercourses and construction of water
storage tanks would provide additional on-farm water supply, and when combined with other project
improvements (PLL, demonstration centres, improved water management), would result in increased
crop yields and cropping intensities. Additional water supply would be used to: (i) intensify cultivation
on the same areas cropped before improvement; (ii) bring additional new land under cultivation; or (iii)
a combination of (i) and (ii). Eight cropping systems, covering a total command area of about
1,026,165 ha, were chosen to represent the project area, as shown below:
Expected Changes in Cropping Intensities under the Projecti/
Cropping Systems               CCA I(h)               Cropping Intensity (%)
Present        w           Incremental (%)
Balochistan-Fruit Zone          31,100         95            102               7
NWFP-Mixed Cropping            55,350          145           151               6
Punjab:Cotton-Wheat (FGW)      239,850         124           130               6
Punjab: Cotton-Wheat (SGW)     119,925         93            101               8
Punjab: Rice-Wheat             239,850         126           130               4
Sindh: Cotton-Wheat            120,250         105           111               6
Sindh, RiceWheat               147,000         100           107               7
|Barani Areas                   72,840         60             72              12
Total                         1,026,165
l/SAR
2/ WOP:without project; WP: with project
1



2.          It was estimated that the project interventions would increase cropping intensities by 4%-
12% and crop yields by 5%-13%. As a result, incremental annual production at full development was
estimated to reach 46,300 tons of paddy, 104,100 tons of wheat, 25,900 tons of seed cotton, 122,900
tons of sugarcane, 37,500 tons of fruits and 928,000 tons of fodder.
3.          The re-assessment of production impact for the ICR has been based on the limited
production data of the FY92/93 baseline and the FY95/96 post-evaluation surveys conducted in 13
watercourses'/ by the Watercourse M&E Directorate, with some adjustments made by the ICR
mission, where appropriate, based on other secondary information'/ . Because of the small sample size
and only one cropping year (two seasons) of the M&E surveys, separate cropping systems (cotton-
wheat, rice-wheat) in Punjab and Sindh have not been prepared, but the overall cropping systems for
each of the entire provinces, have been used in the analysis. It should be noted that as the M&E
surveys do not provide a sufficiently rigorous and accurate representation of the whole project, the
outcomes of the farm incomes and economic analyses should be treated as indicative results only.
4.          The M&E surveys show that as a result of improvements to water supply systems and
consequent increases in on-farm  water supplies, cropping intensities increased by 2%-17%, as
summarized below:
Command Area and Cropping Intensity
Cropping Systems                        CCA (ha)               Cropping Intensity (%)
WOP         WP        Incremental
Balochistan-Fruit Zone                   21,902           118        120           2
Balochistan-Mixed Cropping                7,918           82          87           5
Subtotal                               29,820           106        109           3
Punjab a/                                643,887          168        170           2
Sindh                                    161,616          118        128           4
NWFP a/                                  48,584           180        197           17
FATA a/                                   1,767           186        198           12
FANA a/ bl                                  133           186        198           12
Total                                    885,827
a/ Including barani areas
b/ Assumed to be the same as FATA.
I/ Six watercourses in Punjab, four watercourses in Sindh, two water courses in Balochistan, and one watercourse
each in NWFP and FATA.
2/ Pakistan Statistical Yearbook, 1994; OECF reports; and requested rapid survey by provincial and federal
agencies.
2



5.        Overall crop yields in Punjab and Sindh, which comprise 95% of total command area,
increased by 9%-13% for paddy, 4%-I 1% for wheat, 5%-12% for seed cotton, 83% for maize, 140/o-
28% for sugarcane, 8% for fodder and 4% for fruits as shown below:
Crop Yields in Punjab and Sindh (t/ha)
Crops                                WPo        WlP              Inceena (%    l
Paddy    <     0 0  0  f 000 00004 00002.474.56   2.70-2.90     9-13
Wheat                                1.8XW.08     2.00216       4-11
Seed cotton                         0o.86I.02      0 .961O07     5-12
Sugrcne               :43-65                        55.74        14-2i
Maize                                 2.03           3.71        83
Fodder                               26-490         26-53         8
Fruits                                12.0          12.5          4
6.          Based on the above cropping intensities and crop yields and the total command area of
885,827 ha, incremental annual production at full development has been re-estimated at 23,000 tons of
paddy, 60,400 tons of wheat, 65,000 tons of seed cotton, 79,900 tons of maize, 29,000 tons of fodder
and 91,900 tons of fruits. Because of the reduction in WP cropped area, annual production of
sugarcane is estimated to be 35,000 tons lower at full development.
B. Farm Incomes
7.          At appraisal, the impact of the project on farm financial incomes was assessed for eight
farm models, representing different cropping systems and farm sizes. The size of the model farms was
taken to be 5 ha for canal command areas in Punjab and Sindh, and 2 ha in Balochistan, NWFP,
FATA, FANA and barani areas of Punjab. Re-stated in FY95/96 constant prices, the WP annual net
farm incomes would be expected to be Rs27,520 for Sindh rice-wheat farms, Rs65,280 for Punjab
cotton-wheat farms, Rs28,400 for barani farms and Rs69,000 for Balochistan fruit farms. Incremental
annual net farm incomes were estimated to be about 9%-14% higher than WOP net farm incomes for
Balochistan fruit farms, NWFP mixed farms, Punjab and Sindh rice-wheat and cotton-wheat and mixed
farms, and 11 % higher for barani farms.
8.        Re-estimation of farm financial incomes for the ICR for those farms with improved water
supply systems (WP) indicate that net farm incomes at full development would range from Rs35,000 for
Balochistan mixed farms to Rs126,135 for Sindh mixed farms and Rs208,000 for Balochistan fruit farms,
representing 8-177% increases of net farm incomes, compared with unimproved areas (WOP), as shown
below:
3



Annual Net Farm Incomes (Rs)
Cropping Systems             Farm                       ICR Estimates
Size (ha)
WOP           WP      J       Incremental
Rs            Rs            Rs
Balochistan-fruit             2         115,630       208,000        92,370        80
Balochistan-mixed Cropping    2          12,650        35,000        22,350       177
Punjab-mixed cropping         5          80,150        86,920        6,770         8
Sindh-mixed cropping          5         117,065       126,135        9.070         8
NWFP-mixed cropping           2          63,110        72,360        9,250         15
FATA/FANA-barani              2          64,240        78,110        13,870        22
C. Capital Cost Recovery
9.          Capital cost recovery. In order to reduce the financial burden to the GOP and also to
ensure the sustainability of the OFWM Programme, the GOP agreed to: (i) implement a system of
capital cost recovery from users (farmers) for watercourse renovation, water storage tank construction,
and installation of hydra ram pumps and higher efficiency irrigation schemes - the costs of PLL were to
be fully borne by farmers; and (ii) increase monetary collection efficiency. Under the project, besides
the donated labour, plus the costs of masons which were to be paid by farmers in Punjab, the costs of
material for watercourse renovation and water storage tank construction were to be recovered as
follows: Purliab-30% in six biannual instalments; Sindh-30% (10% in lump sum advance and 20% in
ten biannual instalments); Balochistan-25% (10% in lump sum advance and 15% in ten biannual
instalments); and NWFP. FATA and FANA-20% in lump sum advance. For the installation of lift
pumps and higher efficiency irrigation technology, 80% of the costs were to be recovered in lump sum
advance payment. In addition to the implementation of the above capital cost recovery, collection was
to be increased to 90% by 31 June, 1992 in Punjab province and 31 December, 1993 in Sindh
province.
10.        With considerable delays, Punjab and Sindh OFWM  offices had satisfactorily complied
with the legal covenants of the DCA in implementing the above capital cost recovery, and in achieving
the targeted recovery rate of 90% by 30 June, 1993. However, because of difficulties in the collection
of instalments (see para. 11), the cost recovery method in Punjab and Sindh was amended on I July,
1995 by replacing the cost recovery in instalments with the cost sharing by "upfront" advance
payment. The cost sharing was: PuThab - 30% of the costs of material (excluding sand), plus farmers
providing the costs of masons and sand; and Sindh - 25% of the cost of materials. In Balochistan, 15%
of the cost of materials was to be by advance payment, and the remaining 15% to be recovered in six
biannual instalments. The upfront cost sharing of 20% of the cost of materials in NWFP. FATA and
FANA, remained unchanged. The cost recovery was further revised on 1 July, 1996: Sindh - 25 % cost
4



sharing plus farmers paying the cost of masons; and Balochistan - 15% cost sharing plus farmers
paying the cost of masons.
11.        Recovery rate. The recovery rates in FY93 were 90% in Punjab and 100% in Sindh, but
dropped to about 63% and 75%, respectively, in FY95 (Table 11). With the exception of NWFP and
FATA (100% recovery rate), collection rates in the remaining provinces were low in FY93 but
improved substantially towards FY95: Balochistan- 6% in FY93 and 99% in FY95; and FANA - 94%
in FY95. Although the upfront cost sharing was implemented from July 1995, because of the
cumulative arrears, overall cost recovery as of 31 December 1996 remained low at 68% in Punjab and
80% in Sindh, but full recovery was achieved in Balochistan. The low recovery rate was due to: (i)
difficulties in collection by OFWM staff who already had responsibilities to undertake the OFWM
works and at the same time act as collection agents for the Revenue Department (RD); (ii)
unsatisfactory performance of RD staff after collection responsibilities were handed over to them, even
though OFWM staff continued to provide a lot of assistance to the RD staff; and (iii) suspension or
postponement of collection due to natural calamities (floods, drought, etc.). It appears that involvement
of beneficiaries, who are the joint owners of watercourses and have joint financial liability and other
responsibilities to develop and sustain the watercourses, would help to enhance the present low
collection rate. This was evident from ICR mission discussions with the chairmen of many WUAs who
have successfully acted as collection agents for the RD. Staff of the International Irrigation
Management Institute (IIMI) and OECF consultants are currently working with WUAs in pilot projects
in many provinces with the aim of forming Federations of WUAs who would take the responsibility for
maintaining watercourses, minor and distributary canals as well as water charge collection. If the pilot
projects prove successful, the system could be replicated on a nationwide basis.
12.        Cost recovery and farmers' financial ability to meet payments. Although upfront cost
sharing was implemented during the one-year extension to the project, its impact on financial capacity
of the participating beneficiaries to meet payments, particularly small farmers, was not assessed.
Farmers in many improved watercourses visited by the ICR mission, particularly in Punjab and Sindh
provinces, reported that they had difficulties in paying the upfront cost sharing and many farmers had
to seek informal loans, while many farmers in unimproved watercourses reported that they did not have
sufficient incomes to meet the upfront cost sharing.
13.        At appraisal, the proposed cost recovery of 15%-30%  of the costs of materials for
watercourse improvement, to be paid in six to ten biannual instalments in Punjab, Sindh and
Balochistan, was estimated to comprise about 1%-9% of annual net farm incomes following project
improvement, which was considered to be affordable to farmers. Based on re-estimated annual net farm
incomes, the amount of advance required to meet cost sharing payments would comprise about 4%-
39.5% of the re-estimated WOP annual net farm incomes for Balochistan fruit farms, and 1.8%-10.6%
of the WOP annual net farm incomes for Punjab, Sindh, NWFP, FATA and FANA mixed farms
(Tables 12 and 13). The amount required from farmers to participate in cost sharing appears to be
affordable in all provinces except Balochistan, where the amount of cost sharing appears to be too
heavy for farmers. In terms of recovery in six biannual instalments, annual instalment would comprise
only 1.4%-8.6% of the WP annual net farm incomes of Balochistan fruit farms, and 0.5 %-3.3 % of the
WP annual net farm incomes of mixed farms. This indicates that farmers' financial capacity would
gradually improve and they would more easily be able to pay for partial recovery of project costs as
annual net farm incomes gradually rise after watercourse renovation.
5



14.          Financial impact. At appraisal, farmers were expected to contribute cash for masons and
donate unskilled labour and assume full responsibility for PLL and full O&M costs of completed
works. In addition, farmers were to repay a share of the costs of construction materials and installation
of works, and water charges. In present value terms (discounted at 10% over 20 years), the net cost to
the GOP, net of farmers' contribution to project investment cost and incremental O&M cost and capital
costs and water charges recoveries, is estimated at 48% of total project costs.
15.          Using the appraisal assumptions and the project's actual expenditures (re-stated in FY96
constant prices), the net cost to the GOP, net of farmers' contributions to project investment cost and
incremental O&M costs and capital cost and water charges recoveries, has been re-estimated at 78% of
total project costs as shown below:
Present Values of Project Costs and Recoveries
(FY96 constant prices)
Rs Million
Total Investment Costs                                                       3,730.8
Incremental Watercourse and Water Storage Tank O&M costs                     -531.2
Total Costs                                                                  3,199.6
Farmers' Contribution:
Investment costs                                                              931.7
O&M costs 1/                                                                 -531.2
Net cost to GOP                                                             2,799.1
Cost recoveries                                                               265.7
Incremental water charges                                                      43.9
Total direct recoveries                                                       309.6
Cost to GOP after recoveries                                                2,489.5
l/ savings in O&M of watercourses in WP (see para. 17).
D. Economic Rate of Return
16.          At appraisal, ERRs were calculated separately for six sub-project areas and the whole
project. ERRs were estimated to range from 14% for FATA and FANA to 28% for Punjab, and 26%
for the whole project. The following main assumptions were used in the economic analysis:
(i)          All costs and benefits were expressed in FY91 constant values;
(ii)         Project life was assumed for 20 years, with full development reached in
project year 10, five years after completion of works;
6



(iii)       All investment costs, net of taxes and duties, and incremental crop
production costs were taken into account in the analysis. The costs of FCU,
technical assistance and M&E were distributed proportionately among the
six sub-projects.
(iv)        O&M  costs for improved watercourses were estimated at 1 %  of the
investment costs;
(v)         Economic farm gate prices of traded goods were based on export parity
prices for cotton, rice and sugarcane, and import parity prices for wheat,
maize and fertilizers. For non-traded goods and unskilled labour, their
domestic prices prevailing in the project areas were adjusted by a standard
Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.90; and
(vi)        Build-up of cropping intensities would take four years post watercourse
improvement, and that of yields would require five years for each batch of
improvements;
17.         The economic analysis undertaken to re-estimate the ERRs for the individual sub-projects
and the whole project (Table 14), follow the assumptions used at appraisal, except that:
(i)         All costs and benefits have been expressed in FY96 constant values; actual
expenditures have been re-stated in FY95/96 constant prices by using the
wholesale price and MUV indices. Local costs and unskilled labour were
further adjusted to border prices by SCF of 0.90; and
(ii)        O&M costs have been estimated as follows:
O&M Costs
Balochistan     Punjab          Sindh        NWFP       FATA/FANA
Watercourse
(labour days/ha)
WOP                7.2             3.8            2.4         12.0           12.7
WP                138              2.3            1.4          7.1           7.7
Water Storage
Tanks (Rs//ha)                       47             75           86             38
WP a/
a/ 1 % of investment costs.
18.         Based on the above assumptions, ERRs have been re-estimated at 23.4%  for the whole
project and between 14.4% and 31.7% for the individual sub-projects (Tables 16-22), as shown below:
7



Economic Rates of Return (%)
Provinces/Federal Areas                              Appraisal estimate    ICR Estimate
Balochistan                                                 19                 30.8
Punjab                                                     28                  19.2
Sindh                                                      24                  27.2
NWFP                                                       25                  31.7
FATA                                                        14                 30.4
FANA                                                        14                 14.4
Whole project                                              26                  23.4
19.         Higher crop yields and substantial increases in areas of high value crops (vegetables,
fruits. etc) were factors contributing to higher ERRs for Balochistan, FATA, NWFP and Sindh, while
substantial cost overrun and lower incremental cropping intensities and yields in improved watercourses
were factors contributing to lower ERRs for Punjab.
8






I   7r                             71-                           7r                             7r          (  9              74'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12  7'5'
34'                                                                                M K-*                                                                                                    34-
P A K I S T A N
THIRD ON-FARM WATER
MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                  J A M M u &
PUNJAB PROVINCE                                                                                                                           KASHMIR
_    Commond Water Management Project
,     On-Form Woter Manogement Project Ill Areao
On-Form Woter Management Project IIl Boundary
dlt   Fourth Drainage Project
\33        SCARP VI                                                                                                                                        3prosne le fCota
[ l ADB OFWM Protect
Main Roads
ci   Selected Towns and Villages/                                                       --
  National Capitol                                 /         7/f
~d  Rivers                                                        7
Disrict Boundaries-
-    Inision Boondaries7"// 
Province Bo.ndaries                                              K,,     S
-32'-           International Bo.ndories                                                    3"r -
N WfF P
31C)31-
-30'                                                                                                                                                                                        30'
-         i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I ..o ,-     Nse  De- Iem A rm-               0
",'R A J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
72'    J






P A  K I S T A  N 
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                          .                                                    )
SINDH PROVINCE                                                           '
sgj    Commend Woter Management Project                                                      )    L   i                                                         r
j/    On-Form Water Management Pra1cct Ill Area                                               K      I
_    On-Farm Woter Management Pro-ect Ill B-ondory                                              \
r    East Khoirp.r TIle Droinage Proect/
3    SCARP North Rohri Project                                                                                   /-                      N    J  A    B
South Rahri Fresh Gronodwater Project
Let Re-k sOatfll Drain Project
Ma c Roads ,,Mwd~w
0    Selected Towns and Villoges
D -str ct Beondaries                                    -          / 1X/ or5
--Dos'' son oed-ries
Cs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
27r           --   Francc Beandaries                                                   /2                           /
In ~loternt oal Rnoi wderies; t, 
~~~~ i C?                                                                                                                                                  C t  b
2W~  ~            r A  L 0  C1 H  I  e T A  N                                                                                                                         26
/n       ."/ '                                                           r
tK                     /Ax                                                      .                   / MA
_            a-                               r                               e                            ,j7  /2  - 7 
Ce-
A r a b   a fn      e a
-23-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
Cs-                                                                                                               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6






IBRD 22654
/r i  P1 -                                |T                                         A  N
rr  j                                            ~~~~~~~~~P A  K  I S T A  N                                                                                                           ,r                           r
THIRD ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
BALOCHISTAN PROVINCE
%_ ADB Pot Feeder Ete.nsion Projet
0    Come-ond Woter Monogen,ent Project
On-Form Woter Management Pro1ect III Area
3,.  ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ nF.mWt,M.-n  ,ic  I a.dy81*31'
,/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Si - e                                  To ,   and     Village
Diicte Bond_ i.,_
P-ince r   e   "^               <                       e                        r   '                                                                           0  DECEMEER 1DM 1






P A K I S T A N                    t            J           _._._-- --           -  *  -
THIRD ON-FARM  WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT _.
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE AND FEDERALLY             \...-    .             p
ADMINISTERED TRIBAL AREAS (FATA)                        .1       
Command Wafer Management Pro-jc *-%.)                    I
Z    On-Form Waler Monagement Project Ill (NWF)  A
On-Form  Waler Monagement Projecl III (FATA)                   J ' 3
On-Form  Watr Manogement Project INl BRondor.  .           |
SCARP M.ordon .                               C H I T,R A I  V
ADB OFWM, and Chosm.   Right Bank Project  . i.
Main Roads                                                 /
o  Selected Tom-s and Villages
Rivers                                       Chifrd
- Canals
Distric  Boondries/
-  -    Division Boondories                  N                                     'M - -.
-       Province Bon -dories
I                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~K O H IS A 
35.
I    A   U
A F G H A N I   T A N                     A H MAPUN  JAB
(t-/9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ __ 404 5 9Uoa
.                                                                       oi~~~~~~~~~~~P
7E7~~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ to to  30 40  tOW
8  'A7,0   t   7}- 1  77r                  sr                      i,i
75*                                                                      a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SA AA






IBRD 22656
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~ ~                                                                                                     P A K I S T A N
C        _ H I N ATHIRD ON-FARM WATER
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
________________________________                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NORTHERN AREA (GILGIT)
Ill Arl-
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W" D    R-g-W7.dO 
(                                                                                                                                                       ProIect Ill R o,-d ory
0   Selected Tom-, ond Vill..,
78 777  Elet,-      Feet
74.                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCT03ER 1990









IMAGING
Report No.:         16634
Type:     ICR



