OFFICfAL
DOCUMENTSI
CREDIT NUMBER 2245 PAK
LOAN NUMBER 3327 PAK.
Project Agreement
(Third On-Farm Water Management Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
and
PROVINCE OF SINDH
and
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE
and
PROVINCE OF BALOCHISTAN
and
FEDERALLY ADMINISTERED TRIBAL AREAS
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated     T  L) L.. 7      3 1     1991


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2245 PAK
LOAN NUMBER 3327 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     JT L) L-- 7                   , 1991,
among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association),
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank),
the PROVINCE OF PUNJAB acting by its Governor (Punjab), the PROVINCE
OF SINDH acting by its Governor (Sindh), the NORTH WEST FRONTIER
PROVINCE acting by its Governor (NWFP), the PROVINCE OF BALOCHISTAN
acting by its Governor (Balochistan) and the FEDERALLY ADMINISTERED
TRIBAL AREAS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (FATADC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-three million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 33,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Punjab,
Sindh, NWFP and Balochistan (the Provinces) and FATADC agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth
in this Agreement;
(B)   by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amourn,t in various currencies equivalent to thirty-
six  million   three  hundred  thousand  United   States  dollars
(US$36,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Provinces and FATADC agree
to undertake such obligations towards the Bank as are set forth in
this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Provinces and FATADC, in consideration of the
Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with
the Borrower, and the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with
the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan


﻿- 2-
Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General
Conditions (as so defined in the Development Credit Agreement and
the Loan Agreement, respectively) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Provinces and FATADC declare their
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry
out their activities under the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and irrigation practices, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for their activities under the
Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association, the Bank, the
Provinces and FATADC shall otherwise agree, the Provinces and FATADC
shall carry out their activities under the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)   The  Provinces  shall, for   the  purposes  of  their
respective activities under the Project, open and maintain in
dollars special deposit accounts in the National Bank of Pakistan,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Provinces and FATADC shall carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and
9.08 of the General Conditions applicable to the Development Credit
Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of


﻿-3-
the General Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively)
in respect of the Project Agreement and the activities to be carried
out by the Provinces and FATADC, respectively, under the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) The Provinces and FATADC shall, at the
request of the Association and the Bank, exchange views with the
Association and the Bank with regard to the progress of their
activities under the Project, the performance of their obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit and the Loan.
(b)   The Provinces and FATADC shall promptly inform the
Association and the Bank of any condition which interferes or
threatens to interfere with the progress of their activities under
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and
the Loan, or the performance by the Provinces and FATADC of their
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Provinces and FATADC shall maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices their operations and financial condition in
respect of their activities under the Project.
(b)   The Provinces and FATADC shall:
(i)   have such records and accounts including, in the
case of the Provinces, those for the Special
Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association and the Bank;
(ii)   furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than nine
months after the end of each such year, the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association and the Bank
shall have reasonably requested; and


﻿-4-
(iii)   furnish to the Association and the Bank such other
information concerning said records and accounts
as well as the audit thereof, as the Association
and the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Provinces shall each, with effect from July 1, 1991, implement
a policy to recover from farmers the cost of construction materials
to be provided under future OFWM projects, including the Project,
under which:
(a)   in  respect   of  renovation   of   watercourses  and
construction of water storage tanks under such projects:
(i)   in Punjab, 30% of such cost shall be recovered
from the farmers, in 6 equal installments over a
period of 3 years with no grace period;
(ii)   in Sindh, 30% of such cost shall be recovered from
the farmers, 10% as a lumpsum advance and 20% in
10 equal installments over a period of 5 years
with no grace period;
(iii)   in NWFP, 20% of such cost shall be recovered from
the farmers as a lumpsum advance; and
(iv)   in Balochistan, 25% of such     cost shall be
recovered from the farmers, 10% as a lumpsum
advance and 15% in 10 equal installments over a
period of 5 years with no grace period; and
(b)   in respect of installation of hydra ram lifting and
other higher efficiency irrigation technology devices under such
projects, 80% of such cost shall be recovered from the farmers as
a lumpsum advance in all Provinces.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
Punjab and Sindh shall take measures to recover the cost of
construction materials provided to farmers under OFWM Project II so
as to reach:
(a)   in Punj ab, a recovery level of 70% of amounts due on
account of such cost by December 31, 1991, of 85% of such amounts
by March 31, 1992, and of 90% of such amounts by June 30, 1992; and


﻿-5-
(b)   in Sindh, a recovery level of 45% of amounts due on
account of such cost by June 30, 1992, of 70% of such amounts by
December 31, 1992, of 85% of such amounts by June 30, 1993, and of
90% of such amounts by December 31, 1993.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan
Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association, the Bank, the Provinces and FATADC thereunder shall
terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
and the Loan Agreement shall terminate in
accordance with their terms; or
(ii)   the date twenty (20) years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan
Agreement terminate in accordance with their terms before the date
specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association
and the Bank shall promptly notify the Provinces and FATADC of this
event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions applicable to the
Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,


﻿-6-
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿-7-
For Punjab:
The Chairman
Planning and Development Board
Government of Punjab
Lahore, Pakistan
Cable address:                Telex:
DEVELOPMENT               82-04-4868
Lahore                    Punjab Secretariat
Pakistan                  Lahore, Pakistan
For Sindh:
The Additional Chief Secretary (Development)
Planning and Development Department
Government of Sindh
Karachi, Pakistan
Cable address:                Telex:
DEVELOPMENT SINDH         952-23950
Karachi, Pakistan
For NWFP:
The Additional Chief Secretary
Planning and Development Department
Government of North West Frontier Province
Peshawar, Pakistan
Cable address:                Telex:
DEVELOPMENT               952-52371
Peshawar, Pakistan


﻿-8-
For Balochistan:
The Additional Chief Secretary
Planning and Development Department
Government of Balochistan
Quetta, Pakistan
Cable address:                Telex:
DEVELOPMENT               7875 BLNSE PK
Quetta, Pakistan
For FATADC:
The Chairman
Federally Administered Tribal
Areas Development Corporation
2-Warsak Road
Peshawar, Pakistan
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Provinces and FATADC, or by the Provinces
and FATADC on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit
Agreement or the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the
persons specified in Section 2.09 of the Development Credit
Agreement or such other person or persons as they shall designate
in writing, and they shall furnish to the Association and the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the
contrary to the Provinces and FATADC and as long as the Development
Credit Agreement shall not have terminated prior to the termination
of the Loan Agreement:
(a)   the obligations of the Provinces and FATADC to consult
with, and to furnish information, documents, plans, reports, records
and statements to the Bank shall be satisfied to the extent
performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the
Association;


﻿-9-
(b)   the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to
furnish information to, the Provinces and FATADC shall be satisfied
to the extent such obligations are fulfilled by the Association; and
(c)   all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or
granting of waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development
Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be taken pursuant to both the
Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, and in the name
and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
4C   Ik/7 Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
PROVINCE OF SINDH
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE
PROVINCE OF BALOCHISTAN
FEDERALLY ADMINISTERED TRIBAL AREAS
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
ByAuthoe
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
the Development Credit Agreement;
(b)   the tcrm "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or
the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement; and
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means, in respect of
Punjab, an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited in the Punjab
Special Account; in respect of Sindh, an amount equivalent to
$1,700,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan
Account and deposited in the Sindh Special Account; in respect of
NWFP, an amount equivalent to $600.000 to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited in the NWFP Special
Account; and in respect of Balochistan, an amount equivalent to
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account
and deposited in the Balochistan Special Account, all pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
relevant Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish such Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, Punjab,
Sindh, NWFP, or Balochistan, as the case may be, shall furnish to
the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Association shall, on behalf of Punjab, Sindh, NWFP or Balochistan,


﻿- 11 -
as the case may be, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as Punjab, Sindh, NWFP or Balochistan, as the case may be, shall
have requested.
(b)  (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, Punjab,
Sindh, NWFP or Balochistan, as the case may be,
shall furnish to the Association requests for
deposits in the Special Account at such intervals
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
Punjab, Sindh, NWFP or Balochistan, as the case
may be, shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of Punjab, Sindh,
NWFP or Balochistan, as the case may be, withdraw
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount as
Punjab, Sindh, NWFP or Balochistan, as the case
may be, shall have requested and as shall have
been shown by said documents and other evidence
to have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account or the Loan Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by Punjab, Sindh, NWFP or Balochistan,
as the case may be, out of the Special Account, Punjab, Sindh, NWFP
or Balochistan, as the case may be, shall, at such time as the
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.


﻿- 12 -
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph     3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by Punjab, Sindh, NWFP
or Balochistan, as the case may be, directly from the Credit Account
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02
of the Development Credit Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions applicable thereto or from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions applicable thereto; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for the parts of the
Project for which Punjab, Sindh, NWFP or Balochistan, as the case
may be, is responsible, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the respective General Conditions with respect to
such parts of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the relevant Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal
from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories for such parts of the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to Punjab,
Sindh, NWFP or Balochistan, as the case may be. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in such Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any pay,ment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, Punjab, Sindh, NWFP or Balochistan, as the case
may be, shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association in the Special Account shall be
made until Punjab, Sindh, NWFP or Balochistan, as the cs.e may be,


﻿- 13 -
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the
case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
Punjab, Sindh, NWFP or Balochistan, as the case may be, shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association
or the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)   Punjab, Sindh, NWFP or Balochistan, as the case may be,
may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association or
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special
Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the case may be, for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan
Agreement, including the General Conditions applicable thereto.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


