FILE COPY                                Document of
The World Bank
FCOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-1943a-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
]'RESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPM]
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON TWO
PROPOSED LOANS
ONE TO
STOPANSKA BANKA SKOPJE
AND ONE TO
INVESTICIONA BANKA TITOGRAD
1ITH THE GIJARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
EnR THFE
AGRICULTURE AND SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES PROJECT IN MACEDONIA
AND THE
AGRICULTURE AND AGRO-INDUSTRIES PROJECT IN MONTENEGRO
February 7, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit                                            Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$1                                                     Din. 18.00
Din. 1                                                   US$0.0555
Din. 1,000                                               US$55.55
Din. 1,000,000                                           US$55,555.55
*The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973.
The currency equivalents given above are as of Decenber 31, 1976.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
LDR                 -        Less-Developed Regions (of Yugoslavia)
Agrokombinat        -        Agrokombinat "July 13" (Montenegro)
IBT                 -        Investiciona Banka Titograd (Montenegro)
SBS                 -        Stopanska Banka Skopje (Macedonia)
SAS                 -        Social Accounting Service
SFRY                -        Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMIENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON TWO PROPOSED LOANS,
ONE TO STOPANSKA BANKA SKOPJE AND THE OTHER
TO INVESTICIONA BA.NKA TITOGRAD
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on two proposed
loans, one equivalent to US$24.0 million to Stopanska Banka Skopje (SBS) and
the other equivalent to US$26.0 million to Investiciona Banka Titograd (-3T),
with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SPRY),
to finance the foreign exchange costs and the estimated interest and other
charges during construction on two proposed loans for the agriculture and
agro-industries projects in Macedonia and Montenegro. The loans would bear
interest at 8.5 percent per annum and would have a term of 15 years including
a grace period of 3 years. The loan for Montenegro would be made to IBT for
on-lending to the Agrokombinat. "July 13" (Agrokombinat) with a naximum repay-
ment period of 15 years including a 3-year grace period and with an effective
on-lending interest rate at 11. percent per annum. The loan for Macedonia
would be made to SBS for on-lending to social and private sector sub-borrowers
with maximum repayment periods of 14 and 10 years including grace periods of
3 and 5 years, respectively, wtith an on-lending interest rate of 11 percent
per annum.
PART I -  THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A basic economic mission visited Yugoslavia in November 1972; its
report entitled "The Economic Development of Yugoslavia" (194a-YU) was dis-
tributed to the Executive Dirsectors on January 2, 1974. An economic mission
visited Yugoslavia in October 1975; its report entitled "Economic Memorandum--
Yugoslavia" (1086b-YU) was distributed to the Executive Directors on September
3, 1976. A special Economic ]'lission to review the new development plan and
the new planning system visited Yugoslavia in October and November 1976, and
its report is under preparatiDn. Some of the material gathered by the Mission
has been utilized for updating the information contained in the subsequent
paragraphs of this report. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
3.        The Yugoslav economy has experienced rapid growth during the last
two decades, with total GDP at constant prices having increased by an average
rate of 6.3 percent, and per capita GDP at 5.2 percent annually. In 1975,
per capita GNP was about US$1,480 (World Bank Atlas methodology). This
1/   Part I of this report is substantially identical to that in the Report
and Recommendation of the President to the Metohija I Mlultipurpose
Project (Report No. P-1923a-YU) dated December 17, 1976.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
irpressive record of growth was accompanied by some fundamental structural
changes in the economy which has moved towards a nodern industry/service
oriented urban society.
4.        The population growth rate averaged 1 percent per year during the
last two decades, but with considerable regional variations ranging from an
average rate of 1.6 percent for the less developed Republics and Provinces
to 0.7 percent for the developed ones. The structural changes in the economy
permitted a sizeable transfer of the labor force from agriculture to industry
and services. Despite this, however, by 1975, 37 percent of the employed
resident labor force was still engaged in agriculture and forestry, mostly
on sfnall private farms; industry lincluding mining) accounted for 23 percent,
and other sectors for 40 percent.
5.        The socio-political framework evolved through several constitu-
tional amendments which were consolidated in the new Constitution of 1974.
It strengthens three important features of the socio-political system of
Yugoslavia. First, self-management, whereby the use and control of the socially
owned means of production are entrusted to the workers' collectives, is the
fundamental right and obligation of every Basic Organization of Associated
Labor (BOAL--the smallest technologically identifiable unit of operation) in
every sector and activity. Second, the responsibility for most important
social and policy decisions has been shifted from the Federation down to the
Republics and Provinces, and on to the communes. And third, the management
and financial responsibility for social activities (health, education, wel-
fare, etc.) is transferred from the realm of the state to Communities of
Interest (decision-making bodies which comprise delegates of both suppliers
and users of the specific services). Responsibility for certain economic
activities affecting large segments of the society (like communal services,
power production, highways and water management) can be--and progressively
is--similarly organized through Conmunities of Interest.
6.        The social sector, which includes government, most enterprises and
public institutions such as libraries, hospitals, theatres and schools, has
the leading role In economic and social development; it accounts for 85 per-
cent of GDP and employs over half cf the total labor force.  The private
sector is comprised predominantly cf peasant farms (generally with a 10
hectare limit to land holdings) and small enterprises (generally with a 5
person limit on the number of nonfamily workers), mainly in handicrafts,
construction, trade, transport and tourism. In the past, the private sector
had been relatively neglected by government policy.  However, lately increased
attention is being devoted to private farmers with a view to accelerating the
growth of agricultural production and reducing the rural/urban income disparity.
7.        Regional income disparity--with a gradient of per capita income
falling generally from North to South--has emerged as one of the most impor-
tant development issues of the country. Four regions can be distinguished
by stage of development.  The RepubLic of Slovenia is the high income region
with almost double the national average.  The Republics of Serbia, Croatia
and the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina make up the middle income regions,
ranging from 100 to 125 percent of the national average; however, even within



-3-
these regions pockets of underdevelopment persist. The Republics of Bosnia-
Herzegovina, I4ontenegro and Miacedonia, with per capita income between 67 to
75 percent of the national average, constitute the upper group among the
officially designated Less Developed Regions (LDRs).  The Socialist Autonomous
Province of Kosovo (Kosovo), with an average inccme of only 33 percent of the
national average (about US$490.0 equivalent), is at the bottom of the spread.
These inter-regional disparities can be traced back further to intra-regional
disparities. Within Republizs and Provinces the spread between communes can
extend over the range of 10 to 1, and it is the prevalence of stagnating poor
rural communes within the LDRs which largely determines the disparity between
the regions. The rate of economic growth of the LDRs as a whole was only
slightly below the average for Yugoslavia, but dte to the faster population
growth (1.6 percent per year versus 0.7 percent in the more developed regions)
the income disparity has tended to widen significantly during the last two
decades. In order to reverse this trend and to accelerate economic growth
and social development in the LDRs, mechanisms have been instituted for
sizeable transfers of financial resources. In 1975, net credits on highly
favorable terms (containing a grant element of around 50 percent) were made
available through the Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of Less
Developed Regions to the LDRs in the amount of US$370 million, equivalent
to about 20 percent of their total investment in the social sector. An addi-
tional US$197 million were transferred as budgetary grants for social services.
The mechanism for both categories assures a growth of transfers in line with
the growth in total GDP.
8.        Open unemployment has not been a serious problem and is estimated
to be only around 4 percent of the resident labor force in 1975. However,
this low rate conceals three important aspects of the employment problem.
First, an estimated 800,000 out of a total labor force of around 9 million
(in 1974) has assumed temporary employment abroad. Second, there is some
evidence of growing regional and occupational imbalances, due to low inter-
regional mobility of labor and to unmatched skill requirements in a fast
changing economy. Third, severe underemployment persists in the private
agricultural sector.
Recent Developments
9.        In 1974, YugoslaviEL recorded a rapid increase of GDP of 9 percent
in real terms as compared to 5 percent and 4 percent in 1973 and 1972, respec-
tively. Industry was the Leading sector with an estimated growth rate of 11
percent in 1974; however, the growth of agricultural production, enhanced by
favorable weather conditions, and of services (with the exception of tourism)
also accelerated during the year. This rapid expansion of economic activity
permeated the whole economy. Investment outlays grew in nominal terms by
almost 40 percent (9 percent in real terms) and total consumption expenditures
by about 41 percent (13 percent in real terms). The resulting rapid increase
in total demand for goods and services was reflected both in the rise of em-
ployment and of imports--both in nominal and real terms--and domestic prices.
The gain in total employment amounted to about 5 percent in 1974 and exceeded
for the first time the nat:ural increase of the labor force. Industrial pro-
ducer prices rose by almost 30 percent while the cost of living rose less



-4-
rapidly by some 21 percent. Since fiscal policy leaves, for institutional
reasons, little room for demand management, the major response to the infla-
tionary pressures was in terms of monetary policy and direct controls through
prices and income policy, including recent legislation placing greater con-
trol on investment expenditures. After an expansionary phase during 1972 and
1973, the money supply increased by only 24 percent as compared to a nominal
increase of social product of about 36 percent. The shift to a large deficit
in the balance of payments in 1974 also contributed to the increased effec-
tiveness of the monetary policy.
10.       The balance of trade deficit increased from US$1.7 billion in 1973
to almost US$3.7 billion in 1974 both on account of an increase in the volume
and the rapid rise in the price of imports and the stagnation of real exports
(the terms of trade for the country are estimated to have deteriorated by
about 11 percent). The recession in Western Europe led to a sharp decline in
exports to that area. The traditionally large surplus for invisibles (mostly
from workers' remittances and tourism receipts) failed to compensate for the
large trade deficit, and the country recorded a current account deficit in
excess of US$1 billion in 1974 as compared to a surplus of US$464 million in
1973. In response to the circumstances, the import regime has been gradually
tightened since August 1974, affecting a large variety of consumer goods and
some capital and intermediate goods. In addition, the National Bank raised
the intervention point in the foreign exchange market, in effect devaluing
the dinar by about 7 percent against the currencies of Yugoslavia's major
trading partners. The large current account deficit led to some loss of
foreign exchange reserves; the official reserves fell by US$438 million in
1974 (compared to a gain of US$632 million in 1973). In addition, net for-
eign borrowing, which averaged US$390 million during 1971-73, increased to
around US$650 million in 1974. Commercial import credits from suppliers
and credits from financial institutions continued to be the major sources
of foreign capital. Long-term funds related to financing of development are
being made available mainly by the IBRD and some bilateral sources (particu-
larly the US Export-Import Bank and Federal Republic of Germany). Yugoslavia
has also been one of the beneficiaries of the IMF's Special Oil Facility.
Yugoslavia's medium- and long-term external debt outstanding as of December 31,
1975 is estimated at US$6,050 million (disbursed only). Debt service payments
amounted to about 16.5 percent of foreign exchange earnings (including workers'
remittances) in 1974 and 16.9 in 1975.
11.       In 1975, the growth rate of the economy receded to 4.5 percent, due
mainly to the combined effects of a restrictive monetary policy, stagnating
exports and a reduced growth of personal incomes and stagnating consumption;
economic investment and housing construction provided the major growth stimulus
during 1975. The inflationary pressure, which built up during 1974 and ex-
tended into 1975, receded drastically in the second half of the year; the rate
of increase of industrial producer prices decreased from 30 percent for 1974
to 11 percent during 1975, and the index of real personal receipts slightly
declined for the whole of the year.   The good harvest in 1974 had a favor-
able impact on the balance of payments, although meat exports were severely
affected by the European Community ban on meat imports. Exports to oil



-5-
producing countries and to the non-convertible currency area continued to
expand rapidly in 1975, but were insufficient to compensate for the sharp
decline in exports to the convertible currency area. As a result, commodity
exports declined by 2 percent in-real terms. Workers' remittances and re-
ceipts from tourism have increased marginally.  However, a larger contraction
of imports and an improvement in the terms of trade led to a decline in the
current account deficit to $1,032 million.
Estimates for 1976 and Prospects for 1977
12.       Further reduction of the balance of payments deficit and of the
inflationary pressures in the economy were the major objectives of economic
policy during 1976. On both counts, these objectives are successfully being
met. Due to the reduction of imports--with sizeable stocks of imported inter-
mediate goods being gradually depleted--and to a lesser extent the increase of
exports, a small current account surplus is expected for the year as a whole.
The rate of inflation declined further, with the cumulative index of indus-
trial producer prices dropping to 6 percent for the first nine months of 1976
compared with 26 percent for the same period of the preceding year. However,
the measures and policies leading to this improvement simultaneously halted
economic growth during the iirst half of 1976.  By the middle of the year,
industrial production started to expand again, mainly as a result of an ex-
pansion of investment and exports, and an increase of money supply during the
first part of the year. This upsurge, in conjunction with the favorable crop
of 1976, is expected to lead to a real increase of GDP by about 4 percent for
the year as a whole. For 1977, Yugoslav authorities expect the growth rate
to rise to 5.5 percent, accompanied, however, by a reappearance of a moderate
current account deficit and a moderate resurgence of the rate of inflation.
Employment growth, estimated at 3 to 3.5 percent for 1976 is expected to
continue at about the same rate through 1977.
Medium- and Long-Term Objectives and Prospects
13.       The surfacing of major economic problems during 1974, such as rapid
inflation and balance of payments pressures, has led to a reappraisal of
development objectives. In the light of the recent shift of relative prices
in favor of raw materials, more emphasis will be given to the development of
Yugoslavia's own natural resources. In this connection, the development of
the energy sector is given th,e highest priority. It focuses on electric
power, where the generating capacity is likely to fall critically short of
the rapidly rising power requirements of the expanding economy. The devel-
opment of the power sector will be based primarily on the largely unutilized
hydropower potential and soft-coal reserves of the country. Other priority
activities are ferrous metallurgy, some segments of non-ferrous metallurgy
(notably lead, zinc, copper, nickel and bauxite/aluminum), technologically
advanced production equipment, basic chemicals including petroleum refining,
agriculture and food processing, interrepublic transportation, multipurpose
works, and housing and basic construction material.



-6-
14.       This emphasis on accelerated development of the raw material basis
and of the economic infrastructure requires a more capital-intensive- invest-
ment pattern, associated with longer time lags between investment and out:-
put. To sustain this development path, both continued high borrowing abroad
and an increased savings rate will be essential. Since, with the possible
exception of private savings, interest rates have not been given a signifi-
cant role to play in the determination of the level of aggregate savings, the
income policy--i.e. the guidelines governing the distribution of enterprise
income between workers' income and accumulation--will have a crucial role.
15.       The new Five Year Plan (1976-80) focuses on the implementation of
these objectives. For growth, an average rate of 7 percent per year is pro-
posed, comparing with a target growth rate of the previous Plan of 7.5 per-
cent and an expected realized growth rate of 6.5 percent. For employment,
the average planned growth rate would come to about 3 percent with annual
increments exceeding the natural increase of the labor force by growing
margins. This would permit more vigorous pursuit of two major social objec-
tives: the reduction of the number of temporary migrants abroad, and an
increased absorption of the rural underemployed into the social sector. The
economy will continue to be open to the world market, although the composition
of foreign trade is expected to change with a reduced share for raw material,
semi-finished products and consumer goods on the import side, and an increased
share for agricultural products and manufactured goods on the export side.
Workers' remittances are not expected to increase in real terms, but rising
tourism receipts are expected to compensate for the expected declining impor-
tance of workers' remittances.
16.       The reduction of regional disparities is another priority objective
of the new Five Year Plan. To that end, the transfer of financial resources
to the LDRs in the forms of loans at concessionary terms for economic invest-
ment and of budgetary grants for social development will be continued and
probably increased as a proportion of total GDP. Since most of the natural
resources of the country, including hydropower, are to be found in the LDRs,
these regions will also benefit from the increased emphasis on the develop-
ment of power and basic industries which will be financed largely through
direct financial contributions from the consuming regions.
17.       The new Five Year Plan was prepared according to the self-management
principle stipulated in the Constitution of 1974. Self-management planning is
perceived as an iterative process of sequential, converging consensus-finding.
In the initial stage, tbroad priorities (as to sectors and activities) and
general quantitative targets and constraints (like growth rates of social
product and the volume of savings and investment) are determined on the basis
of consensus by the Assemblies (Commuoial, Republican and Provincial, and
Federal) of the socio-political communities. Subsequently, the planning
process starts at the bottom with individual enterprises and Communities of
Interest setting out expectations and targets. The planning process then
proceeds through successive and partially overlapping stages of horizontal
adjustments within sectors and branches (aimed primarily at eliminating gross
duplications), vertical adjustments between closely interdependent sectors and



-7-
branches (aimed at determining realistic orders of magnitudes of production,
conceptually within an input/output framework), and regional adjustments
between Republics and Provinces (aimed at both horizontal and vertical con-
solidation). The socio-political communities participate in this process by
ensuring observance of the broad priorities, targets and constraints, and by
resolving conflicts which cannot be resolved by the direct participants. The
evolving consolidated programs of action, which in their totality constitute
the operational portion of the Plan, are codified in the form of "social
contracts" or "self-management agreements" which are legally binding for the
whole Plan period unless renegotiated in the case of major deviations occur-
ring in the course of Plan implementation. The new Plan differs from the
previous one in strengthening and formalizing the commitments for implemen-
tation by enterprises, banks and government institutions.
Creditworthiness
18.       In spite of the recent balance of payments problems, the prospects
for Yugoslavia's continued economic growth during the next decade are good.
The country's endowment of natural and human resources, its relatively low
dependence on imported primary energy, its pragmatic approach to economic
problems and its readiness to undertake institutional changes, combine to
give grounds for a favorab]e assessment of future prospects.  Yugoslavia will
need to continue to raise foreign capital on a fairly large scale, mostly
from established channels such as the Euro-currency market, suppliers' credits
and the World Bank. In addition, greater use may be made of credit lines from
COMECON countries and the European Communities, and efforts are being intensi-
fied to open up new sources of capital in OPEC countries. The debt service
ratio is likely to remain iin 1976 at the same level as in 1975 (around 17
percent), and it is expected to decline slightly in the subsequent years.
Taking into account Yugoslavia's debt service record and the measures taken
in the past to control balance of payments problems, as well as the prospec-
tive growth of production and structural improvement of the balance of trade,
Yugoslavia remains creditworthy for a substantial amount of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
19.       The Bank has made 40 loans to Yugoslavia totalling about US$1,367
million. Of this amount, approximately 45 percent (US$620.4 million) has
been for 14 loans for the itransportation sector--7 for highways totalling
US$220.0 million, 4 for railways totalling US$248.0 million, US$59.4 million
for a natural gas pipeline, US$49.0 million for an oil pipeline, and US$44.0
million for a port project. Bank lending has generally concentrated on
infrastructure including, in addition to the transportation loans, power
(three loans totalling US$135.0 million), telecommunications (one loan for
US$40.0 million), US$51.0 million for two water supply and sewerage projects
1/   Part II of this report is substantially identical to that in the Report
and Recommendation of the President for the Metohija I Multipurpose
Project (Report No. P-1923a-YU) dated December 17, 1976.



-8-
and five multipurpose projects totalling US$177.0 million which included
substantial agricultural components for irrigation and agricultural credit.
Two loans totalling US$81.0 million have been made for agriculture and agro-
industries. Ten loans have also been made for industry and two for tourism.
The first Bank loan for air pollution control was approved May 25, 1976. In
addition, IFC has made investments in nine Yugoslav enterprises totalling
about US$130.0 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
and IFC investments as of December 31, 1976, and notes on the execution of
on-going projects.
20.       The basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia continues
to be dictated by the following interrelated, yet distinct objectives:
(a) support of the Yugoslav efforts to accelerate development in
the Less Developed Regions (LDRs);
(b) promotion of agricultural development in both the private and
social sectors by providing basic infrastructure and credit;
(c) encouragement of structural reforms in the major sectors
through improved coordination, institution-building and
technical assistance;
(d) help in the identifying and financing of gaps in basic
infrastructure--particularly transport and energy; and
(e) alleviation of critical shortages of convertible foreign
exchange by providing part of the required long-term capital,
encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other
sources of medium- and long-term capital, and supporting
projects which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
These objectives have guided Bank lending in previous years. It is obvious
that each Bank operation cannot address all these objectives which are not
always fully compatible. There has, however, been an evolving change in the
relative weights of these objectives with particular emphasis being directed
towards the support for the lesser developed regions and the agricultural
sector.
21.       Our emphasis on aiding the accelerated development of the LDRs is
fully in accord with the Federal Government's wishes and avowed policy to
reverse the widening gap between the richest and the poorest regions (Slovenia
and Kosovo). Over the past two years, over two-thirds of our lending has been
to the lesser developed regions, and we hope to maintain a comparable pattern
of distribution over the medium-term, though there will undoubtedly be year
to year fluctuations. Over the next two years, operations envisaged for LDRs
include a second loan for agricultural credit, a third loan for industrial
credit, and three loans for irrigation, water supply and sewerage and multi-
purpose water resource and agriculture development. Highway, railway and
power transmission projects during the same period will both assist the LDRs
and promote structural reforms in the transport and energy sectors. IFC is



-9-
currently investigating several new investment opportunities to encourage
joint ventures which would provide technical, management and marketing exper-
tise as well as long-term capital.
22.       In recognition of the fact that such an expanded investment pro-
gram for the LDRs would need to be preceded by a systematic survey of these
regions to take stock of development potential and identify constraints,
the Bank undertook and completed economic surveys of the four LDRs (Kosovo,
Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro). These regional surveys,
coupled with intensified Bank assistance in project formulation, should enable
the Bank to achieve a high level of participation in the development of these
regions.
23.       The Bank supported and assisted in the formulation of the 1973
"Green Plan" which, in addition to providing a comprehensive framework for
promoting agricultural development, recognized and encouraged the role of the
private sector which holds almost 85 percent of the cultivated land and employs
over 90 percent of the farm. population. It is now generally appreciated that
the private farm sector can--given sufficient support in terms of extension
services, credit for inputs and basic infrastructural facilities--generate
significant increases in production. Our loans for the Ibar Multipurpose
Project (Loan No. 777-YU) and the Metohija Multipurpose Project (Loan No.
1360-YU) in Kosovo, the Agro-Industries Project (Loan No. 894-YU) in Macedonia
and the Agricultural Credit. Project (Loan No. 1129-YU) have given special
attention to the needs of the private farm sector. The two proposed projects
and the forthcoming projects for irrigation and agricultural credit will
support agriculture development in general and in particular the private
sector.
24.       Decentralized management, which is the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosophy, compounds the inherent complexities of coherent
sector planning which are evident in any economy. This is of particular
relevance to the transport and energy sectors. The Bank's significant in-
volvement in these sectors, both in terms of money and technical assistance,
has helped to highlight the critical need for, and to evolve mechanisms to
further countrywide coordination of, sectoral investment programs and policies.
The limited, yet discernib:Le progress made has been supported by our lending
for electric power distribution, railways and highways. Our continuing in-
volvement in the transport and power sectors, though the funds we can make
available are limited, will, we hope, have further beneficial impact on
fostering coordination. For instance, a proposed eighth highway project,
for which we expect to negotiate a loan shortly, will provide for studies of
road-user charges and railway costs which the Government and ourselves believe
essential for fostering inter-modal coordination and devising a policy frame-
work for the transport sector.
25.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to atta:in its growth targets. While the Yugoslavs are
making concerted efforts to open up and enlarge access to Western financial
markets and institutions (including the European Investment Bank), there is
presently no concrete evidence of substantial additional inflows. The Bank,



- 10 -
therefore, remains a major source of long-tert external capital for the
foreseeable future. In our financing of infrastructure projects, we propose
to devote particular attention to those which have clear possibilities of
attracting co-financing and where our participation, albeit limited, is likely
to induce the entry of financing partners.
26.       The level of Bank lending has remained constant, averaging about
US$200 million annually during the period FY74-76. Although this represents
only a small proportion of the country's need for external finance, it is
equivalent to almost one-third of the annual long-term official capital in-
flow in convertible currencies. Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank amounts to
about one-fifth of its total public debt outstanding and disbursed. The
outstanding debt to the Bank is, however, expected to decline gradually from
its current level of less than 10 percent of Yugoslavia's total external debt.
Service on Bank loans as a proportion of total debt service was 4 percent in
1974 and is projected to increase to about 6 percent in 1980.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Agriculture in Yugoslavia
27.       The agriculture sector, which occupies about one-third of the
population and accounts for around 15 percent of the GMP (Gross Material
Product) 1/ in 1975 has grown at an average rate of about 3 percent during
1970-75. In view of emerging food deficits and rural poverty, increasing
emphasis is being placed upon accelerating agricultural development, and the
new Plan (1976-80) projects an increase in the growth rate to about 4 percent
over the period.
28.       The country has three distinct climatic zones and a predominantly
mountainous terrain. Agricultural activities are consequently many and
varied, ranging from cultivation of wheat, maize and sugar beets in the
fertile plains, to livestock rearing in the upland pastures, and cultivation
of sub-tropical crops and fruits along the Adriatic Coast and in the catch-
ment basin of the Aegean Sea.
29.       An important feature of Yugoslav agriculture is the co-existence of
social and private sectors. The social sector, which grew out of the postwar
collectivization, is made up of a number of different institutions including
kombinats (integrated factory farms), cooperatives and research institutions,
all operating under the principles of social ownership of the means of produc-
tion and workers' self-management. This sector accounts for about one-third
of the total agricultural output, controls 15 percent of agricultural land,
1/   GMP (Gross Material Product) corresponds to GDP (Gross Domestic Product)
less output of certain services, such as public administration, defense,
education, health and social insurance.



- 11 -
and employs about 6 percent of agricultural manpower. In contrast, the
private sector, which controls 85 percent of the cultivated land and employs
over 90 percent of agricultural manpower, is handicapped by fragmented and
poor quality landholdings aiid has been neglected in terms of provision of
basic infrastructure, financing and technology. The Government now recognizes
that any further significani: growth in production will have to emanate from
the private farms, and has accordingly launched programs which embrace the
private sector and give it access to infrastructural facilities, credit, im-
proved technology through extension services and cooperation with the social
sector, and also to marketing services.
30.       The proposed agriculture and agro-industries project for the
Republic of Montenegro (primarily involved-with the social sector) and the
one for the Republic of Macedonia (about 20 percent of which is directly
involved with the private sector) would represent the fourth and fifth Bank
loans for agriculture and agro-industries in Yugoslavia, following the first
Agro-Industries Project in Macedonia (Loan No.894-YU) in 1973 (primarily
involved with the social sector), the first Agriculture Credit Project (Loan
No. 1129-YU) in 1975 (about 30 percent of which is directly involved with
the private sector) and the Metohija Multipurpose Project (Loan No. 1360-YU)
in 1976 (primarily involved with the private sector). Other Bank loans for
multipurpose projects have included agricultural components; such as, irriga-
tion works under the Ibar Multipurpose Project (Loan No. 777-YU) of 1971 and
two pilot irrigation projects under the Morava Region Development Project
(Loan No. 1262-YU) of 1976, both involving primarily private sector farmers.
Agro-industries projects in particular, typically involve large-sized invest-
ments involving social sector enterprises; however, through providing market
outlets to the private sector major benefits also accrue to the private
farmer. The mix between involvement in the social and private agricultural
sectors in Bank projects in Yugoslavia has been determined in each particular
case by the Federal and Replablic Governments' own efforts for the social and
private sectors, the high priority attached to the specific agricultural
project and the relative absorptive capacity of the private and social sectors.
Agriculture Sector in Montenegro and Macedonia
31.       Montenegro and Macedonia are two of the less developed Republics
of Yugoslavia with estimated per capita incomes approximately 70 percent of
the national average. AgricuLture contributes 15 percent to the total GMP
of Montenegro and 23 percent to that of Macedonia, and absorbs 40 percent
and 32 percent of the active working population of the two Republics, respec-
tively. Though agriculture's role has been declining relative to the rest
of the economy with the rapid progress of industrialization, it still remains
an important sector in the overall development of the two Republics. Agri-
cultural production expanded at an average annual growth rate of 2.8 percent
in Montenegro and 3.6 percent in Macedonia between 1966 and 1975. In both
Republics, fruit and vegetable production grew most rapidly, encouraged by
the rising relative prices and increased availability of irrigation facili-
ties. The increase in vegetalble production was achieved largely by area
extension rather than by yield improvements. On the other hand, with the
increase in the opportunities for employment in the industrial sector, the



12>
- 12/ -
active agriculture population declined by 1.5 percent annually in Macedonia
and by 1.7 percent in Montenegro between 1961 and 1971. The net result of
production growth and labor input decrease was the growth of labor produc-
tivity by an average annual rate of about 4.5 percent.
32.       Montenegro and Macedonia are both characterized by extremely moun-
tainous terrain covering 93 percent of the total area of Montenegro and 75
percent of MIacedonia. These areas are unsuitable for field crop production,
but extensive upland pastures make possible sheep and some cattle grazing.
The plains and valleys suitable for cultivation are capable of intensive
grain, vegetable and fruit farming.
33.       In Montenegro, due to its particularly mountainous topography,
agricultural production is low and transportation is difficult for effective
collection of produce for delivery to processing industries. The main agri-
cultural production area is the Cemovsko Polje plain, which will be partly
developed under the proposed project. Macedonia, on the other hand, is a
major producing region within Yugoslavia. Nevertheless, the share of
Macedonia in total Yugoslavia processed vegetable production has declined
from about 25 percent in 1960 to 15-16 percent in recent years. This is.
largely due to the fact that the expansion and replacement in the processing
industry has not kept pace with the expansion of fresh vegetable production.
Both Republics have an underdeveloped agro-industrial base.
34.       Agriculture in Montenegro and Macedonia, like that in the rest
of Yugoslavia, is characterized by the parallel existence of the social and
private sectors. In 1973, the social sector held 5 percent (Montenegro)
and 20 percent (Macedonia) of the cultivated land; employed 1.9 precent
(Montenegro) and 8.8 percent (Macedonia) of the agricultural labor force;
produced 8 percent (Mlontenegro) and 30 percent (Macedonia) of the agricul-
tural product; and contributed 35 percent (Montenegro) and 45 percent
(Macedonia) to the market production in the Republics.
35.       The social sector has been the dynamic force in the development of
modern agriculture in Yugoslavia and, in both Republics, its performance has
been strong. In Montenegro production in the social sector rose at a trend
rate of 5.4 percent between 1962 and 1975, about double that of the private
sector; while in Macedonia, the social sector recorded an average rate above
9 percent between 1965 and 1975, about triple that of the private sector. The
main explanations for the rapid growth of the social sector in agriculture
are: (a) heavy concentration of investments in this sector, absorbing more
than two-thirds of the gross fixed investment in agriculture in the postwar
period; (b) much greater "intellectual input" of university-trained workers
in the social sector; and (c) much greater emphasis placed on research in
the social sector.
36.       The private sector in both Montenegro and Macedonia occupies by far
the larger part of the cultivated land and employs more than 95 percent of the
total agricultural labor force.  -[t consists of 62,000 holdings with an aver-
age size of 4.9 ha in Montenegro and of about 160,000 holdings with an average
size of 3.1 ha in Macedonia. The production in the private sector has fallen



- 13 -
far below the performance of the social sector. The major causes for the low
productivity and yields in the private sector and the increasing productivity
gap between the two sectors are: (a) a generally lower quality of land; (b)
lower share in the irrigated area; (c) inferior varieties of seeds, plants
and animals; (d) low degree of mechanization; (e) low fertilizer input; and
(f) small farm size and scattered holdings.
37.       The private and social sectors are for the most part complementary
rather than competitive. Labor-intensive crops, such as vegetables and
tobacco, are almost exclusively produced in the private sector, which also
has 95-98 percent of the cattle and 92-99 percent of the sheep. Cooperation
between the social and private sectors takes the form of trade in inputs and
output, provision of services by the social sector such as supply of fertil-
izers, harvesting, cultivations, marketing and credit and the contracting of
joint production. While such cooperation brings considerable benefits to the
private farmers, it is fairly limited and declining--limited because of the
concentration of social sector organizations in the valleys and high plains
and consequent lack of cooperation possibilities in the mountains; declining
because of the increasing importance of off-farm income of private farmers
and the dissemination of new production techniques in the private sector, both
factors that make contract cooperation less attractive to private farmers.
38.       As elsewhere in Yugoslavia, Montenegro and Macedonia have "organized"
markets with "authorized purchases" by social sector enterprises existing side
by side with "informal" markets where the peasants sell directly to consumers.
The importance of the orgarLized markets is relatively high in Macedonia
because of the orientation of large parts of the private sector's production
for delivery to other parts of Yugoslavia or to exports. In Montenegro the
role of the organized market has been less significant, accounting for less
than 10 percent of total production going through the organized market, re-
flecting the predominantly subsistence nature of agriculture in Montenegro.
Agriculture Policy in Montenegro and Macedonia
39.       The basic objective of the Agricultural Development Plans (1976-80)
for the two Republics is to raise the production of agricultural crops to
meet expected domestic needs and to allow for some exports by emphasizing
(a) the further development: of the social sector through modernization of
production techniques, expansion of processing facilities, better utilization
of available resources and the adjustment of production to changes in demand,
and (b) the development of private farms primarily through cooperation with
the social sector. To ach:Leve these objectives, the Plans focus on three
areas: (a) price policies,, (b) investment policies, and (c) support for
cooperation between the social and private sectors.
40.       Annual total private and social sector investments are expected
to reach about US$83 million in Macedonia, more than a 50 percent increase
against the previous Plan period, of which 13 percent (compared to 8 percent
for the previous Plan period) would be in the private sector. In Montenegro,
the Plan calls for about US$17 million of annual total investments during
the Plan period, of which about one-third is planned in the private sector.



- 14 -
Special incentives are foreseen for encouraging mobilization of the enter-
prises' own resources--income tax rebates for agricultural investments,
turnover tax exemptions, :interest rate subsidies for investment credits,
reduction of import duties on imports of agricultural machinery and increase
in the foreign exchange retention quota from depreciation charges.
41.       The Agricultural Development Plans represent a significant step for-
ward in focusing on some of the specific problems of private farmers; however,
top priority is also given to the large investment needs in the social sector
for irrigation, land development and processing facilities and therefore con-
tinued importance is given to the social sector as the leader in agricultural
development and as a catalyst in stimulating increased production from the
private sector.  The specific measures outlined for the promotion of the
private sector are:  (a) increased cooperation between the two sectors and
establishment or improvement of the extension services in order to achieve
a more rapid transfer of nodern technology to the private sector, and (b)
provision of credit for on-farm investments.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The proposed project for Montenegro stemmed from initial studies
undertaken by OECD and FAO. Bank assistance was requested from Montenegro
in 1974 and following a Bank reconnaissance mission in June 1974, the IBRD/FAO
Cooperative Program undertook an identification mission in November 1974 and
subsequently prepared the project.  After a Bank mission in March 1976 to
assist in the preparation, the project was appraised, along with the proposed
project for Mtacedonia, in June 1976. The Macedonia project was prepared by
Stopanska Banka Skopje (SBS) under the first Agro-Industries Project (Loan No.
894-YU) and assisted by Bank supervision missions and a subsequent preappraisal
mission in March 1976. Negotiations were held in December 1976 in Washington.
The Yugoslav delegations were led by Mr. Vasil Tudzarov, Vice-President of the
Executive Council of Macedonia, representing Macedonia, and Mr. Savo Lakic,
General Manager of Investiciona Banka Titograd (IBT), representing tiontenegro.
Project Objectives and Description
43.       The proposed loans and projects are summarized in Annex III and
the projects are described in detail in the report "Appraisal of Agriculture
and Agro-Industries Project--Montenegro and Agriculture and Agro-Industries
II Project--Macedonia: Report No. 1316a-YU, dated January 26, 1977" which is
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
44.       The two agriculture and agro-industries projects in two of
Yugoslavia's less-developed Republics, Montenegro and Macedonia, would help
achieve the agricultural development objectives of the two Republics, namely:
to increase agricultural production both for the growing domestic market and
for exports, to raise productivity and income, particularly on private farms,
to expand agro-industrial processing capacity, to improve product quality
and to stabilize food supply. They address the major agricultural develop-
ment constraints, that is, the lack of capital for large investments in land



-15-
development, irrigation and food processing in the social sector, and the
lack of market outlets and credit for the purchase of on-farm investments
in the private sector; they would also help strengthen the organization and
appraisal/supervision capacity of the two borrowing banks, Investiciona Banka
Titograd (IBT) and Stopanska Banka Skopje (SBS). The project investments
have high priority in the 1976-80 Agricultural Development Plans of the two
Republics. They are in line with the Bank's lending strategy for agriculture
in aiming at production growth, expansion of processing capacities, support
for small and low income farmers and institution building.
45.       The projects would provide credit through IBT in Montenegro to the
Agrokombinat "July 13" (Agrokombinat) and through SBS in Macedonia to ten
agricultural processing enterprises and agricultural cooperatives in the
social sector and some 960 private farmers, for investments in agricultural
processing facilities and primary production. Processing investments would
include wine and wine by-product processing, cold storage, vegetable and fruit
processing, vegetable collection, tobacco drying, dairying and slaughtering
facilities; in primary production the project would finance irrigation facili-
ties, vineyard and fruit tree establishments, livestock and vegetable produc-
tion, and on-farm mechanization.
46.       Although about 20 percent of the Macedonia project expenditures
are directly invested in the private sector, investments under both projects
are involved primarily with. the social sector and agro-industrial processing
facilities, particularly in. the case of Montenegro. In terms of the agricul-
tural development alternatives available in these two Republics, the expansion
of the social sector's proc.essing and marketing facilities is one of the most
important means for both expanding agricultural production in general and
increasing the productivity and incomes of the private sector in particular.
As such, therefore, social sector investments in agro-industrial facilities,
through the creation of improved marketing outlets for private farmers' pro-
duction, are an essential complement to the more direct means of providing
credit for the purchase of on-farm investments and transfer of knowledge to
the private sector.
47.       The project in Montenegro would provide for:  (i) the establish-
ment of a 2,000 ha sprinkler irrigation system using both groundwater and
Lake Skadar water in the Cemovsko Polje plain (located south of Titograd),
which comprises more than one-third of the cultivable land in the Republic;
(ii) land preparation for and planting of 1,300 ha of vineyards with wine
and 200 ha with table grapes, 200 ha of peach and 300 ha of sour cherry
plantations, and 60 ha of windbreaks; (iii) 14 km of farm roads, equipment
sheds and supporting facilities and experimental research on new fruit tree
varieties (30 ha); (iv) a winery with an annual capacity of 10 million liters
including by-product processing facilities; and (v) a 3,000 metric ton cold
store with blast freezing, grading and packing facilities for fruits and
vegetables; and (vi) a collecting center with a total of 500 m2 collecting
and storage space.
48.       The project in Macedonia would include:  (i) processing facilities
in the social sector including a dairy plant, slaughterhouse, potato cold
store, and fruit and vegetable processing facilities; and (ii) investments



- 16 -
for the private sector in grape and fruit production, plastic greenhouses
and mechanization for vegetable production, and livestock and tobacco drying
facilities. Sub-loans would be provided for buildings and related infra-
structure, processing equipment, agricultural machinery, plantation estab-
lishment and high quality livestock. Investments would be phased over a
one- to two-year implementation period. US$100,000 would be provided to
finance a feasibility study for the design, construction and operation of
a wholesale market center for agricultural products which was proposed in
the marketing study conducted under the first Agro-Industries Project in
Macedonia (Loan No. 894-YU).
Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
49.       The total estimated cost of the Mlontenegro project is US$55.6 mil-
lion and that of the Macedonia project is US$56.0 million. The estimates
include duties and taxes (about 4 percent of project costs in Montenegro and
9 percent in Macedonia) and average allowances for physical contingencies of
about 5 percent. Average price contingencies or estimated price increases of
about 9 percent per annum have been included in project costs to meet expected
inflation in foreign and local costs during the project implementation period,
in accordance with Bank guidelines. The foreign exchange costs for the
MIontenegro and Macedonia projects are estimated at US$20.1 million and US$21.0
million, respectively, and include estimates of the foreign exchange component
of internationally and locally bid contracts expected to be won by Yugoslavs
(see paragraphs 70-72). Interest during construction on the proposed Bank
loans would add an additional US$5.9 million to the foreign exchange required
for the Montenegro project and US$3.0 million for the Macedonia project.
Details of the cost estimates are shown in Annex III.
50.       The proposed Bank loans of US$26.0 million and US$24.0 million to
lMontenegro and Macedonia, respectively, would finance 100 percent of the es-
timated foreign exchange cost of equipment and materials, civil works, and
engineering services of the projects, and interest on the Bank loans. This
would represent about 42 and 41 percent, respectively, of total cost (in-
cluding interest during construction on the Bank loans) of the MIontenegro
and Macedonia projects. Financing of interest during construction on the
Bank loans, 6 years in the case of Montenegro and 4 years in the case of
Macedonia, is justified by the financial requirements of the borrowers and
beneficiaries. The projected cash flows for both projects indicate that,
without the inclusion of such interest during construction financing in the
Bank's loans, the cash flow position of the beneficiaries and those of the
borrower during the period of construction would be imprudently stretched in
meeting their obligations including the servicing of the proposed Bank loans.
51.       For both the private and social sectors the Bank's contribution to
the cost of sub-projects would be about 37 percent (36 percent in the case of
the Agrokombinat). The sub-borrowers in the Macedonia project would contribute
about 20 percent of the total project cost with the remaining 43 percent being
financed from a loan from SBS. The sub-borrower in the Montenegro project,
the Agrokombinat would contribute 5 percent to its total project cost due to
the higher investment cost of its project. The Agrokombinat would obtain the



- 17 -
remaining funds from IBT (39 percent) and the Federal Fund referred to in
paragraph 7 of this report (20 percent). IBT and SBS would also finance any
cost overruns that may occur in their respective projects (IBT and SBS Loan
Agreements, Sections 5.01). As in previous Bank loans to Yugoslavia for
agriculture credit and agro-industries, the foreign exchange risk would be
borne by the social sector sub-borrowers for their investments and by the
Government, in the case of Macedonia, for sub-loans made to private farmers.
The banks would take adequate steps to protect themselves against the foreign
exchange risk on funds accruing to them from sub-loan repayments before they
are needed to make amortization payments on the Bank loan (IBT and SBS
Loan Agreements, Sections 5.07).
Project Implementation and the Institutional Setting
52.       The proposed loans would be channeled through IBT for the Montenegro
project and SBS for the Macedonia project. The IBT loan would finance invest-
ments of the Agrokombinat, which would be responsible for the implementation
of the Montenegro project.  A. project agreement (Agrokombinat Project Agree-
ment) between the Bank and the Agrokombinat would detail its responsibilities.
Accordingly IBT's role wou[Ld be limited, apart from providing part of the
financing, to loan administration and financial coordination and supervision.
On the other hand, the loan to SBS would finance investments of numerous social
and private sector subborrowers and, therefore, 8BS would be responsible for
implementing the MIacedonia project. SBS was the borrower under the First
Agro-Industries Project --Macedonia (Loan No. 894-YU). Both banks are par-
ticipating banks in the First Agricultural Credit Project (Loan No. 1129-YU)
and are borrowers under the First and Second Industrial Credit Projects (Loans
Nos. 1012-YU, 1013-YU and [277-YU). In each case the Founders' Assembly, the
apex governing body, establishes the bank's business policy annually. It also
appoints the chief executive and guides the bank's operations. Changes in
management are infrequent, and professional competence is the main criterion
for selection and appointment at all levels.  The staff of the banks is
generally experienced and capable.
53.       Macedonia.  The Agr-icultural Operations Department in SBS is respon-
sible for implementing the First Agro-Industries Project.  It has sufficient
expertise in agriculture, Livestock, irrigation, and economic and financial
analysis areas. However, experience under the First Agro-Industries Project
indicates continued weaknesses in appraising agro-industry sub-projects, par-
ticularly their technical and marketing aspects and in international procure-
ment. Therefore, to carry otut effectively the supervisory and administrative
functions with respect to the project, the SBS would need to form and maintain
a unit staffed by five senior staff members. Assurances have been obtained
from SBS that it would appDint by September 1, 1977 a qualified and experienced
agroindustries and a marketing specialist, employ consultants acceptable to
the Bank to assist in international procurement and form a coordination unit
(SBS Loan Agreement, SectiDn 3.02).
54.       Montenegro.  IBT's organization (with some staff strengthening),
financial condition and operating policies are adequate for its role under



- 18 -
the Montenegro project. JBT's IBRD operations unit, which handles all work
relating to lending under IBRD-financed projects, would also be responsible
for this project. To handle the increased workload under this project, the
unit's staff would be increased to efficiently administer the proposed loan.
Assurances have been obtained from IBT that it would appoint to the unit by
Setepmber 1, 1977 a qualified and experienced agriculturist/agro-industries
expert and a senior credit officer (IBI Loan Agreement, Section 3.02).
55.       The Agrokombinat was created in 1963 by amalgamation of small agri-
cultural production and processing units. With its 2,800 employees it is the
largest agrokombinat in Montenegro. It is an autonomous body structured along
the lines of social sector enterprises and is operated on the principle of
workers' self-management, as are all enterprises in Yugoslavia. Its workers'
council is the apex body which decides the basic policy of the Agrokombinat
and is composed of members elected from amongst the employees who are also the
collective overseers of the Agrokombinat. The General Manager is the chief
executive of the Agrokombinat and is appointed by the workers' council. He
is elected for 4 years with the possibility of re-election.  The management of
the Agrokombinat is competent. The operations of the Agrokombinat are carried
out by 26 basic economic units (basic organizations of associated labor) which
cover primary agricultural production, agro-processing industries and marketing
services.
56.       The Agrokombinat has considerable experience in irrigation, vineyard
and fruit tree production, and agricultural processing. A Project Unit, or-
ganized as a basic organization of associated labor, would be created within
the Agrokombinat for the implementation of the project in Montenegro. The
Unit would include qualified irrigation engineers, agronomists and procurement
specialists and employ consultants for specific technical and international
procurement matters. Assurances have been obtained that the Agrokombinat
would establish the Project Unit as described above prior to effectiveness of
the proposed loan, and continue to maintain it until completion of the project
(IBT Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(a) and Agrokombinat Project Agreement,
Section 2.02). The Director designate of the Project Unit participated in
the negotiations. Assurances were obtained that the Agrokombinat would by
September 1, 1977 (a) appoint other key staff, appropriately qualified and
experienced, and (b) hire consultants acceptable to the Bank, most likely to
be Yugoslav, for irrigation work and procurement matters. After the project's
implementation, the facilities would be transferred to the Agrokombinat's
respective operating units. These units are adequately organized and staffed,
and follow satisfactory policies to warrant efficient operation of the project
facilities.
57.       A course in appraisal c:riteria and techniques used in agroindustries
and agriculture credit projects would be organized by SBS. IBT would be in-
vited among other banks to partic:ipate in the course. The SBS would also
organize a procurement course with participants including staff of the Agro-
kombinat and other social sector enterprises likely to be sub-borrowers under
the project as well as IBT and other interested banks (SBS Loan Agreement,
Section 3.07). Efforts would also be made to train SBS and IBT staff in



- 19 -
agro-industrial lending through participation in EDI courses. The SBS, IBT
and the Agrokombinat would also set up project monitoring systems by March 1,
1978, to be designed on the basis of the study on project impact undertaken
under the First Agro-Indust:ries Project in Macedonia ard acceptable to the
Bank and would, on completion of the projects5, Evaluate the projects' benefits
and assess the economic impact thereof (IBT and SBS Loan Agreements, Sections
3.03(b) and 3.05(iii), respectively).
58.       The Montenegro project is expected to start in early 1977 and to
be completed by end 1982. Th!e various sub-projects comprising the Macedonia
project are expected to be phased over a period beginning in mid-1977 and
ending in mid-1981.
Relending Terms and Procedures
59.       SBS would appraise its sub-projects and both IBT and SBS would make
their respective sub-loans following on-lending policies, procedures, terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank (IBT and SBS Loan Agreements, Sections
3701(b) and 3.04, respectively).  Strengthening of the technical and financial
appraisal capability of both banks for agro-industrial lending would be an
institutional objective under the projects and has an important bearing on the
efficient allocation of resources. IBT and SBS would also ensure that the
seasonal credit requirements of each sub-borrower during the implementation
of the sub-project would be met.
60.       The IBT would grant the sub-loan to the Agrokombinat after reviewing
the updated sub-loan application, taking into account any possible changes in
the economic and market environment, and the project's and Agrokombinat's
financial situation. The sub-project has been fully appraised by the Bank
and normal control on implementation and design will be exercised through
Bank approval of tender documents and in terms of the Project Agreement to
be concluded with the Agrokombinat. On these premises no prior approval by
the Bank for the granting of the sub-loan to the Agrokombinat by IBT would
be necessary, unless a major change in project design were to occur.
61.       SBS would forward to the Bank its appraisal reports for social
sector sub-projects whose project costs exceed US$1.5 million, for review
and approval. In addition, SBS would forward to the Bank for approval sub-
projects in the private sector having an aggregated investment cost above
US$1.5 million. (SBS Loan Agreement, Section 2.02(b)). This would result
in the Bank reviewing about 6 to 7 sub-projects for a total amount of US$45.0
million, or about 80 percent of the Macedonia project.
62.       Interest rates cn loans and deposits are fixed each year by each
individual bank's Assembly of Founders.  Furthermore, Federal, Republic and
Communal funds are providecd to the banks at low cost with pre-described mar-
gins for on-lending. Interest rates for long-term loans for agriculture in
the two Republics vary from 5 to 6 percent on loans made out of Federal funds
up to 11.5 percent on loans from the banks' own resources with most of the



- 20 -
lending done at 7 to 8 percent. Interest rates for investments in priority
sub-sectors may be subsidized to even lower levels such as 3 percent for
irrigation in Macedonia. Interest paid by the subborrower on the portion of
the sub-loan financed out of the proceeds of the Bank Loan to SBS would be 11
percent. In the case of the Bank loan to IBT, an effective rate on Bank funds
of 11 percent would be achieved by charging an on-lending interest rate to the
Agrokombinat of 9 percent and a fee of two percent per annum for guarantee and
other operations performed by IBT (IBT Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, paragraph
3(B)). This would approximate current market costs of foreign borrowings to
Yugoslav investors including loans from IFC and would also provide an adequate
spread for the two banks sufficient to cover the total financing and administra-
tive costs arising under the projects. On the portion financed from local
loans, the sub-borrower would pay interest at the prevailing rate for that
type of investment in that particular Republic. These interest rates would
result in a blend cost of about 8.5 percent to the Agrokombinat in Montenegro,
and in Macedonia, about 9.5 percent for the social sector and about 8.5 percent
for the private sector. The loan for Montenegro would be made to IBT for on-
lending to the Agrokombinat with a maximum repayment period of 15 years in-
cluding a 3-year grace period.  The loan for MIacedonia would be made to SBS
for on-lending to social and private sector sub-borrowers, based on the type
of investments to be undertaken in each sector, with maximum repayment periods
of 14 and 10 years including grace periods of 3 and 5 years, respectively.
Marketing
63.       Most of the incremental production of the commodities included under
the two projects would be marketed domestically. With Yugoslavia's GNP ex-
pected to rise substantially (see paragraph 15) and further increases in
tourism, the market prospects for the projects' production are good. Exports,
primarily to both Western European and COMECON markets, would include some
of the early vegetables and fruits, a substantial amount of the processed
products, wine and sheep production. Wine to be produced under the Montenegro
project, equivalent to about 2 percent of Yugoslavia's present production,
would be mainly marketed domestically although about 15 percent of it, largely
high quality wines, would have good market prospects in Western Europe and the
United States.
64.       Farm-gate prices as well as farminput prices with few exceptions
have, in practice, been determined by deman~d and supply. The Federal and
Republic Governments' efforts to contain increasing prices have not been
notably successful, primarily because of the inadequate price control mecha-
nisms (see Appraisal Report No. 1316-YU, Annex 1, paragraphs 32 and 33). The
incremental production from the projects, which would result in substituting
for or reducing the growth of imports, or supplying otherwise unmet needs,
would not induce a reduction in producer prices since the expected demand
increase is likely to exceed the additional production. Thus rising farm-
gate prices due to excess demand are expected, but they would increase less
than without the project.
Financial Structure and Performance
65.       IBT and SBS play a prominent role in mobilizing investment resources
within their respective Republics. As in the rest of the country, these two



- 21 -
regional banks assumed thei-r present form through mergers of commercial and
investment banks. The recipients of the two proposed loans are not the only
banks operating in their regions--banks from other regions have branch offices
there--but they dominate in financing investments in their respective Republics.
They acquire their resources from private and enterprise savings, borrowings
from the National Bank and, to a lesser but still important extent, from
foreign credits. lIost Federal funds and regional resources are channeled
through the banks. Both banks operate as mixed commercial/investment banks
and their loan accounts are fairly evenly distributed among enterprises in all
sectors of the economy, inclicative of a reasonably diversified loan portfolio.
An important part of SBS' current loan operations deals with the agricultural
sector (short-term loans: 12.4 percent and long-term loans: 8.5 percent).
In IBT, lending to agricult:ure comprised 7 percent of total short-term loans
and 3 percent of total long-term loans. Both banks are the major source of
credit to the agriculture sector in their respective Republics.
66.        The total assets of IBT and SBS as of December 31, 1975 were US$578
and US$1,917 million, respectively, representing a growth of 21.5 percent and
22.4 percent over the previ.ous year. The long-term loan portfolio accounted
for 63.3 percent (IBT) and 55.8 percent (SBS) of the total assets.  Each bank
also manages, at no risk to itself, substantial funds on behalf of Federal and
Republic Governments and socio-political organizations. The current ratios of
the banks are near 1.1:1 and are satisfactory. The long-term debt/equity
ratios are high, 13.7:1 and 6.7:1, respectively, for IBT and SBS. The high
debt/equity ratios do not pose a danger to the banks' solvency as most of the
long-term debt are loans from Federal or Republic authorities, repayments of
which are tied to the corresponding repayments by the enterprises to the
banks. Financial structure and performance of the banks are satisfactory,
keeping in view that the banks have close ties with their respective regional
economies, both in funding and lending operations, and they merely seek to
earn sufficient revenues to cover all their expenses and financial obliga-
tions. Any surpluses that might accrue are returned to the member enter-
prises as dividends or transferred to the founders' fund of the bank to be
used to supplement the bank's lending resources.
67.        The financial performance of the Agrokombinat should be viewed in
the context of the self-management system prevailing in Yugoslavia in which
the financial objective of thie investor is to maximize the income per worker,
The net income of the Agrokombinat increased from Din. 38 million in 1973 to
Din. 110 million in 1975.  The average income per worker was Din. 35,500 in
1974 and increased to Din. 39,500 in 1975.  The long-term debt/equity ratio
in 1975 was 0.7:1.0.  The Agrokombinat's financial performance has been
satisfactory and its financial position is sound and no difficulty is anti-
cipated in meeting its share of its sub-project costs. Since the project
investments in vineyards and fruit tree production have a long gestation
period and, therefore, a slow build up of cash inflow, the Republic of
Montenegro would undertake to provide through IBT additional funds to the
Agrokombinat, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, to cover any
financial deficits that would occur before yields are obtained from the
vineyards and before suffi2ient earnings are realized from the first several
years of full production in the ancillary processing facilities (IBT Loan
Agreement, Recital C and Sactions 5.01 and 7.01(d), and Agrokombinat Project
Agreenent, Section 4.04).



- 22 -
Performance Under First Agro-Industries and Agricultural Credit Projects
68.       The objective of the First Agro-Industries Loan made to SBS in 1973
(Loan No. 894-YU) to assist in fiaancing part of Macedonia's agricultural
development program relating to investments in the social sector (livestock,
agroindustry, storage and fish ponds) and the private sector (farm mechaniza-
tion, plantation, livestock and viegetable production) was generally achieved
up to the Bank's expectations and appraisal report estimates. All loan funds
(US$31 million) under the Project have been committed and the implementation
of sub-projects is progressing satisfactorily after delays in the implementa-
tion of some sub-projects caused by procurement problems and cost overruns.
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by June 1978 as estimated in the
appraisal report. Under the Project, the appraisal procedures of SBS were
streamlined and its appraisal reports of sub-projects have shown consistent
improvement. Greater attention will still need to be focused, however, on
management information systems, regular supervision and adequate review and
provision for effects of inflation on costs. Three studies were undertaken
in the project to provide a clearer understanding of private farm operations
and productivity improvement opportunities, marketing prospects for agricul-
tural products and further needs and benefits of various irrigation schemes.
The three studies under the project are completed and are being reviewed by
SBS and the Bank. The marketing and small farm credit studies have contri-
buted significantly to the development and appraisal of this project.
69.       Additional experience has been gained by SBS and IBT under the
Bank's First Agricultural Credit Loan to Yugoslavia in 1975 (Loan No. 1129-YU),
the objective of which is to make funds available to participating banks in
each of Yugoslavia's eight Republics and Provinces for credit to social sector
enterprises and private farmers. The funds from this loan support the objec-
tives of the agricultural development plans to increase production, improve
product quality, and raise productivity and income, especially on private
farms. Montenegro has committed about 40 percent and Macedonia 49 percent of
their respective allocations under this Loan. Under this Project, a study of
interest rates in Yugoslavia's agriculture sector has been undertaken by the
Borrower (Vojvodjanska Banka). The study has recently been completed and
will serve as the basis for a discussion with the Yugoslav authorities on the
impact of the existing interest rate regime on resource allocation and mobil-
ization in the agriculture sector and on appropriate measures to improve
resource allocation and mobilization in the sector.
Procurement and Disbursements
70.       The winery and cold store in Montenegro (US$18.7 million) and the
processing facilities in Macedonia (US$43.7 million) would be procured by
the Agrokombinat and the respective sub-borrowers in Macedonia under inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB',, in accordance with the Bank Guidelines
for Procurement, under the supervision of IBT and SBS, respectively. These
facilities, except for the tobacco drying sheds, would be procured under
turnkey contracts since the civil works need to be closely integrated with the
electrical-mechanical equipment. For the purpose of bid comparison, qualified
domestic manufacturers of these goods would be given a margin of preference of
15 percent or customs duties, whichever is lower.



- 23 -
71.       The civil works anld equipment for the irrigation facilities in
lIontenegro (US$8.7 million) would be grouped in about five contracts which
would be phased over four years. These, along with the infrastructure in-
vestments and collection center (US$2.0 million) are not likely to be attrac-
tive to foreign contractors due to their relatively small size. These items
would be procured by the Agrokombinat under IBT supervision, under nationally
applicable local bidding procedures which have proven satisfactory to the
Bank, based on the experience under other on-going Bank projects in Yugoslavia.
The Bank would review the specifications prior to local bidding and receive
copies of all contracts as well as the bid evaluation reports.
72.       Items for plantation establishment and on-farm development (US$38.5
million) would not be suitable for bulk procurement and international compe-
titive bidding because investments would be phased over four years and, in
Macedonia, dispersed throughout the Republic. Sub-borrowers would, under the
supervision of IBT and SBS, purchase equipment, fertilizer, seeds, planting
material, livestock and construction materials costing less than US$50,000
directly through existing commercial channels, which include both domestic and
international suppliers. The total of such direct procurement would be about
US$8.5 million. Such items exceeding US$50,000 (totalling about US$30 million)
would be procured by the sub-borrowers under IBT's and SBS' supervision through
local bidding procedures.  The Bank would receive the specifications prior to
local bidding and receive copies of contracts and bid evaluation reports on
all items except those for on-farm investments in the private sector (SBS Loan
Agreement, Schedule 4 and Agrokombinat Project Agreement, Schedule 1). Retro-
active financing in accordance with normal Bank procedures would be provided
for expenditures of about US$300,000, which are expected to be incurred by the
Agrokombinat prior to loan signature, in order to carry out detailed irrigation
design work by consultants, to order rootstocks for the first 200 ha of vine-
yards and to purchase machinery for land development. The appointment of the
consultants and procurement of the goods would be done in accordance with Bank
guidelines.
73.       Bank disbursements in MIontenegro and Macedonia would extend over six
and five years, respectively. An estimated disbursement schedule is given in
Annex III. Disbursement cf the IBRD loan in 1l4ontenegro would be made against
100 percent of foreign expenditures or 36 percent of local expenditures up to
a maximum of 36 percent of total expenditures. In Macedonia the IBRD loan
would be disbursed against. 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 37 percent
of local expenditures up to a maximum of 37 percent of total expenditures.
Disbursements would also be made against 100 percent of interest and other
charges during constructicin on the Bank loans.  Disbursement requests would
be supported by full docunientation including procurement contracts in both
H4ontenegro and Macedonia except for SBS subloans to private farmers for which
IBRD would disburse against certificates of expenditure. For the latter,
documents and contracts would be available for review by IBRD during super-
vision (SBS Loan Agreement, Schedule 4 and Agrokombinat Project Agreement,
Schedule 1).



- 24 -
Accounts and Audit
74.       IBT and SBS each would maintain an account for its respective project.
This would include disbursements made under the project for all subloans. The
Agrokombinat would maintain separate accounts for transactions under the proj-
ect and submit annual audit reports acceptable to the Bank within four months
of the end of each fiscal year.
75.       As required by Yugoslav law all banks and enterprises are audited
annually by the Social Accounting Service (SAS). Normal audit by SAS which is
limited to verification of cash balances and checking of financial statements
for mathematical accuracy and comparisons with previous years does not con-
form to internationally accepted standards. SAS has implemented a training
program for its staff, with the Bank's support, to undertake internationally
accepted audits of Yugoslav banks including SBS and IBT. A reclassification
of the accounts of SBS and IBT was done by SAS for the year 1974 to eliminate
double counting. Interim audits of the 1975 accounts of SBS and IBT have been
done. Full audits with audit opinion on both banks are expected in two to
three years as per schedule agreed under the Second Industrial Line of Credit
(Loan No. 1277-YU). Both SBS and IBT would submit audit reports satisfactory
to the Bank, within four months from the end of each fiscal year and will
compile and furnish information on their loan portfolios in such a fashion
as to enable analysis of the quality of the loan portfolio (IBT and SBS Loan
Agreements, Sections 5.04(iii)).
Benefits and Justification
76.       The two projects would finance investments in two less-developed
regions in Yugoslavia with per capita incomes of about 30 percent below the
Yugoslav average and would contribute to achieving the objectives outlined
in the agricultural development plans of Montenegro and Macedonia. In
Macedonia about 10 social sector enterprises, comprising 6,840 workers plus
1,200 workers for whom new jobs would be created, and 960 private farm fami-
lies would receive credit under the project. In addition, about 1,150 private
farm families would be directly inivolved with some of the social sector
investments under the Macedonia project, bringing to a total of about 2,100
the number of small farm families that the project would directly benefit,
of which 1,350 belong to the target low income groups with annual per capita
incomes below US$340. Their incomes are estimated to increase by about 40
percent for mechanization investments up to around 130 percent for livestock
farmers. The annual incremental income of social sector enterprises in
Macedonia at full development would be US$28 million, raising the income
of the workers' families by an average of about 63 percent. In the private
sector, the farm families' total annual income would increase by US$4.6
million. In Montenegro the annual incremental income of the Agrokombinat,
comprising 2,800 workers plus 630 jobs newly created under the project, is
estimated at US$7.5 million, raising the income of the workers' families by
an average of about 55 percent.  The investment cost per beneficiary family



- 25 -
would amotnt to an average for both projects of about US$2,300. The proc-
essing investments under both projects would bestow indirect benefits by
providing marketing outlets for their incremental production to some 21,300
private farmers in Macedonia and about: 170 private farmers in Montenegro,
of which more than half are estimated to belong to the target groups. In
Macedonia the project would support efforts to help reduce the income gap
between the social and private sectors. The additional investments and
consumption of inputs, suc'h. as fertilizers, pesticides, and fuel, via their
backward linkages, and the increased production via forward linkages, would
generate sizeable indirect employment opportunities which were not quantified.
77.       Due to the limited agricultural development alternatives available
in the extremely mountainous Republic of Montenegro, the Montenegro project
is directed at the single best alternative for increasing agricultural pro-
duction within the Republic--vineyard and fruit production in the Cemovsko
Polje plain which comprises approximately one-third of the total cultivable
land in the Republic. The more direct means for increasing the productivity,
incomes, and employment of the private farmers in Montenegro, largely located
in the mountainous areas, are being undertaken by the Government as a part of
its five-year agricultural development plan and in part by Montenegro's par-
ticipation in the Bank's First Agricultural Credit Loan and planned partici-
pation in the Bank's proposed second agricultural credit loan, which is
scheduled to be presented for consideration by the Executive Directors later
this year.
78.       While the projects' incremental production would largely be mar-
keted domestically, exports of meat, fruits, vegetables and wine would in-
crease foreign exchange earnings by about US$100 million during the projects'
lifetime. Total net foreign exchange earnings and savings, taking into account
the projects' import components and foreign exchange savings through import
substitution, would be about US$60 million (at 1976 prices).
79.       It is estimated that the Montenegrin project would generate a 17.3
percent economic rate of return and the Macedonian project 25.6 percent.
These rates of return do not take account of the non-quantifiable benefits
resulting from the contribution of the project to improved resource allocation
in the agricultural and agro-industries sectors through training and institu-
tion building.   Sensitivity tests were conducted to assess the stability of
Lhe respective rates of return to variation in project costs and benefit
streams, and even under pessimistic assumptions the rates of return remain
satisfactory. Regarding the financial rates of return, under the Montenegro
project the winery sub-component is projected to generate a financial rate of
return of 13 percent and t:he fruit orchards and cold store component 17.7
percent. In Macedonia the financial rates of return of the investments vary
between 13 percent and 28 percent. The financial calculations are based on
April 1976 Yugoslav prices for both inputs and outputs.  The fact that the two
borrowers are well-established banks with whom the Bank has had previous and



- 26 -
satisfactory experience and with the strong market demand for the agricultural
products produced under these projects, no special risks are involved in the
operations under these two projects.
PART V - LEGAl. INSTRUIENTS AND AUTHORITY
80.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Stopanska Banka
Skopje; the draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Investiciona Banka
Titograd; the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Agrokombinat
"July 13"; the draft Guarantee Agreements between the Socialist Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank; the reports of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement; and, the
text of draft resolutions approving the above loans, are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
81.       Provisions of the agreements of special interest were noted in
paragraphs 51 through 75 of this report. Special conditions of effectiveness
for the proposed loan to Montenegro (IBT Loan Agreement, Section 7.01) are:
(i) The execution.of the Project Agreement on behalf of the
Agrokombinat has been duly authorized or ratified;
(ii)  The execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of IBT and the Agrokombinat has been duly authorized or
ratified;
(iii) The Project Unit within the Agrokombinat has been estab-
lished under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank; and
(iv) The Republic of Montenegro has adopted a decision, or
given other assurances to make funds available through
IBT to the Agrokombinat, on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank and IBT, to meet its financial
obligations undertaken for carrying out the project
(referred to in paragraph 67 of this report).
82.       I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 27 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
83.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loans.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 7, 1977






ANNEOX I
TAMLE 3A                                               Page 1 of 4 pages
YUMOSLAVOA              * SOCIAL  INDICATORS  DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU   M..21...                                                          .
..... .. 5 .........                                       YUGOSLAVIA                                 REFERENCE COUNTRIES  (1970)
TOTAL         2S5,8                                               M0ST REeENT                                          GERMIANY
A3RIC.         144.7                           1960         1970    E3TIMATE               RUMANIA, REP   SPAIN    FED. REP.*:*
......... ..............   ,   ._.....,,........., ......   .... ...... ,............. ......... _
GNP PER CAPITA  (USS)                           390.0        820.0       14B0.0                      . .I     1560.0        4420,0
.,,.,.... ., .........................._
POPULAT7IN AND vITAL  STATISTICS
.. .,_,,,,,,,,_ ............................... .
DOPJLATIIN  (RTD-YR, MTLLOON)                  18.4         20.4         21.0                   20.3          33.,          61.6
POPULATION OENSITY
PER SOJARE  KM,                              72.0         800n         83.0                   85.0          67.0         240.0
PER 9S^, V.U  A7R1CJLTURAL LAND            124 .0       13 .0         147.0                 134 .0          97 .0        439. 0
VITAL STATTSTICS
4VER5F  9TRTH RATE  (I/T.0U)                2a,8         21.0         18.2                    19,0          21.0          17.3
4VEQ14 E FIEATH RATE (t/TR410                11.D          9.1          9.2                    8.9           8.8          11.6
0NFb49 T HORTALITy RATE  (/TxrU)             88.0        55.5         40.4                   49.4           27.9          23.6
LI9E ExPECTANVY AT  IRTpT  CYRS)             63 7        67.7         68.0 /a                 684          70.8          70.3
!PDSS PEPqO7tj:Tll\ PATE                      1.4I         I.3          1.3                    0.9           1.4           1.2
POPULATIJN GR3aTH RATE (C)
TDTAL                                         1.2          1,.0                                1.0           1.1           1.0
IR8A"                                        6 ,0         4.6           ,,                    3.4           2 .0           4, 1
JRMSN  PIDOL4ATTO4 (C  DF T'OTAL)              27,2         3s,7         39.0b                 40,8          59.1           82.4
A3l 970iCTJRE (PEdCE4TI
n 70 14 YEARS                              30,7         28.3         26.b la                25.9           27.8          23.2
15 TI 64 YEARS                              63,2         64.3         65b2 7w                65.5           62.5          63 6
65 vEARS AND OVER                             6,1          7.4          8,2 fa                 8,6           9.7          t3 2
471 nEDENIENCV R4Tr3                            0,6          0.6          0.5 /a                 0.5            0,6           0.6
*ICN11MI  oEPE'T'ENCV  OATh                      10                        o ,  0.8 7Ti           0,7  lb      11            0.9
* ^qtLy PLANNTIG
ACCEPTORS  (CCJIJLATTVE, O JI                  ,.           ..           .. .T..*
iSFQS  ro  "r 0APRTE) ,,r1EN)                  ,            ,           ..
TOTAL  L4ARn   F[JPCE  (T4111S4\O)           s300,0            ,,      9100.0 Ic              9900.0       11900.0       26500.0
-A8R3  FORCE  TN AGRI: JLTULRE  1)             57 ,0            .         36.1 /d               49,0          25.o            8.9
JNrHoLDVE7  (x 15 L.63   FORCE)                7,0            ..          3.9 /d                  ,,           1.0 Ia        0,7
T1031E ISTOIS ITI3N
... .. _. S. ......... _
X IF PRTISATE I 9C'I0E REr ) o y-
41;HEST   SX oc  ,OJSEWDOL.S                 t8,4 Ia    15.1             .
0159rST 20x DF -1OJ9EH%LDS                   415 Ia    41.4 Li
LOIEST   20x oc -%JSErNLDS                    6,,9 Ia      6,6           ..6
LJaESt   an00 OF 'E        LS                19,  Ia      18.4            .                     ..             ..            ..
OTSTRIP TOlT: (IF LAND 3JF4qHIP
S I.F1 Ry T11  n0 %  F I-NEPS  (I)              15.1 *      15S.*         15.1 *
Y )fE') My S4ALLEST  10   Dc'^ERS   (D)   84.9 *            4i.Q*        84.9 *                   .             .
4EALT- 4'17b IITOTTI'J:
*O'JLATII4  PER PHYSICIAN                    1420,0          0 ino.0    9o  0.  Ia             680.0         740.0/b       580.0
POPILATI7   PEP NURSINi  PENSON               SOO, 0,o lb   350.1  Ia   350.0 T.,             2O,.0             ,,        350o0
IO,ILTTI0O   PER  jISPITaL 8E3                 90,0        1  0.Q0      170,0  Fa,f            120.0         220.o           90,0
4ER CTOIT6 SUPPLY Or -
41A 3R0I   CZ OF RE7JIE0'ENTS)             IIS,         120 1245, 125.0                      I  118.0      107,0         121.0
PRIT977    (rRAMS PER DAY)                   91,o        92.0         94,0 /g                 92.0          81.0          88.0
ICO  cHTCI A4TMA, AND PIJLSE              27 ,0        29,0            2, 28.0                           40.o           56.0
)EATH PATE (/TH3LI) AGES 0.4                    4,5          2,h          2.5 lb                  3,0           0.9           0.9
EDJCATT71'
ADJUSTED EVJROLLMENT RAT41'
ORPTARY SCHOOL                               96,0         A4.0        96.0                   112.0         131.0  Ic      129.0
RETONOAOY SCHOOL                             34,0        4 S.0        48.0                    46.0          57.o Ic        66.0
YEARS IC sbcHOLING PRRVIDED
fFTRST AND SE:OJD  LEVEL)                    12,0        12.0         12.0                   12-13          15.0          15-0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(0 3O  qECTI4DAqy)                           72,n        72.0         74.0                    58.0/c        20.o          4a.0
ADILT LITIOACY  RATE (0)                       77,0         85.0            ..                  99.0           9a4.          99.0
HOJS I ND
DS0874   0E9 PO0D  )4IERAGE)                   1,7           ..          1.3 /b                 1.3  /d                      0,7 Il
1CCUPIED 'IaELLINGS  4TTHOJT
PIPED  .4TER  CX)                                             *        6.0 . bh               88.0  Id,e       ,,           0,3 3b
ACCI9S TO ELECTRICITY
11 IF ALL 0iELLIN;S)                        54,5                      87,9 lb                 49,0  Id        ,,         100.0
RURAL  3AELLING8 CONNECTED
TO ELECT9ICOTY  (W)                          36,1 .I                   80.1 lb                27.0  Id         ..
CONSUMPTION
0....r.._...
RAOII  RECE9 VE1 S (PER TNOU  POP)             64,0        163,0        t76,0                  152,0         214,0          318.0
0A6SENGE8   CARS (PER TWOU POP)                 3,0         35. b0 63                              ,           7 .0         220.0
!LECTRTCTTY  C(,g1YR PER CAP)                 480.0       1288.0      1865,0                  1615,0        1627,0        4128,0
NEwSPRTNT  fKG1YR  PER CAP)                     2.3          4.3          3.9                     2.6           5.7          17.7
SEE    TESITEVERS.......................E................................................



'7
611Mm 1
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless atber,olan noted, date foe 1960 refer to any year be-ween 1959 and 1961. for 1970 between 1968 and 1970 aed for Moot Recent Ettimate between
19 73 end1975.
I    Agi-cultroe land held bv  -cian   sector "Sonbinote". I1 Agrlciltcrn land held by private sma'l-holdern  "10 hectaren" nacinsa.
Salaction of Federal Repuhlic of - -any a0 an objective country  o based an the nt-ecnnn, lie  ninteined by tho tw    ntie   a   el
onthG   oc  ta th  greater  part of Yugoslavia-a around one nillion  -ork-  teopo.orerily abroad have foued enploynat in the Yaderal Ropoblic of
tl9COSLAVIA              1960       'a  1963   /b  Iclndiog midwives  assistant nidwives. asniocenut -res and nursing  -uilaries
1970     a  9nutndin- midsivns, asisntt   -id ,vlsc  onsiotant n-ro-a and numing ounilarien.
9999  99fCf  ETIYATE:   'a  1972;    Lb  1971;    /c  Inluding about 8ff  th-oand nigrant  -ookero working outside:    Id  Reidete
only;     n  Ineleding midwiver, assistact nidwies., assist-ant nurses and noroing annilarln               se
If  Govercnont hospinal -stablislhents;         g  1969-71  -verage;    / h  Inside;    /i  Ratio cf ppoplstion
onder 15 end 65 and over to total labor force.
RfMANIA:                1970    /a  The clcnlstion of those figures is ceder diocussion; the  ostinate fir 1975 in $1300;    lb  Ratio of pop_latIon  -nd-r
lb and 6o  and ocer to tot.-l Iabor fore;    /0  full-titce eduatios    only;    /d  1966;    /'  tLside.
SysIb                   197C      rs gist-nd uncplyb;    /b  Regi-sered, not  ill pr-cticn in tic cot'-"-,y;    /c  6-10 and 11-16 yearn ut age
GE1ANY FED._l 7P.       1970    Ic  Total.  -rb-n snd enrol;    /b  lneide only.
R1, Deceh-er 6b 1976
fMlITl'7  S 0/F SOCAL hIDICATiPS
Land Area (thou ____                                                                        Ponulcuica see r nursn   nersor -nPoptulaton d- ded by net-er of proctio-
Total - Tonal surfoce ares cem?rusing lend anea end inland vacere.                            ice rale orb zesnoe g.aduate 101090  i"taied" on "tort/Id" tioses,
egrit. - rest recent estinate of aiiultural area used tonpononily or                        nud aotiliry neron-el '    i th troiuirg or experience.
permanectly  for crops, nas -ores, caket & kitfchen gardens  r to lie fallen.            Pcoplutic  peg  h. t 9009  ,n-  Pinul- on iin-ided by nu' hober of hosyitol
be  ayailable   r ub'ic and  r ra-e geneaol anud speniaized hoopital
032 pen napica  1S$) - 9s 7 pet capt ito estinates et Ctrrert -nrknt prices,                 and rehabilitao nutnouere  encludes  trusing Runes onr -stablirs'e;ts
'entrinatd by cane onversi,rn netbod an <Orld Snobk -tlas (1973-75 bueo);                   for custodill any pn'ventive core
lush. 1.-70 and 1i79 data.                                               dt_ tuner lcarita ourpy op na orino /P  of rerquireorejts) - Goepted from  energy
equi-lunt of ne-' fod suppiur  a -ilable _'5nout'y per capita pey
xopolottom and vital otonisitno                                                               bay; avoiai'able bparies  nos- se direct n produuc-on, L.o'splf'u  Tess
Population (nib-yr. viliSone   - As of July first:  if conotva, labIa,                       exqnrny, onb nhanges ot stuoc;  rne  -dl'es nexlude acti-u  feed, seebd
overage of t-o end-year  ntioo-teo; 1960, 1970 and 1975 dote.                                _nuat_tiee used   'nub prncenor   arnod losses in distr5tionl; ye-
qu_rev.ent  were eutited by P.10 -ased 00 physiolngicel ncedn for
populction densy-crr square kron- Mid-year population per sq-are kilo-                        _oj o   - '.; to a A heolt s  n; or,idnnog  - voronmnr .ol emnntaa'e
meter (ItO hectares) of  total area.                                                         nbdy "''ighbs-  ;ge  rsbe   do's boon  dIf on 'aoie
Population densitv -pr squate km  oCnin. Iard - tonpustd us oboe foe                         lon%       - or s t   hus-eiond level.
sgricnlsural laTnd only.                                                                 Petrt u  n;  juol' o- p"' 9rs' (fam  uer boo) - prot'ion no-,ent of per
T-- 1ritS et seuply fn fnd Por db-y; net  seply 04 ob.d is defined as
Vital statinscItie                                                                            aboove' r-q'-roerfs fur alt c       rntries nestablishel d oy uSan  E-bnonic
Crude birth rate per tiousand _av-era   - Anunu  live births  set tno sarb                                   tc ornvrte fo           vo m   lcarare rf 60 ir,n  of uotul
of nib-year porulanin; ten-year a hr-nmtic averages n,di,, in .160 ar.d                                                                      -,- -fr  aan ,,0    ooti
1970, and five-yeao average ending in 1$7975n tor moot   r       e fi -t.v
t ~ 75  r" g na,,    totlu  psI .   o   tO        os.ipoesnO    tr
fear pugulint; tee-yoar otuntit averages  ebding in 1967 nub1970ahnd                  bot m ,uid-   age   c tohon  w nd, ruip rd by rAO u n  h o Th r drr eorl otn ae  of efn
five-poor auerage ending ic 1975 for most tenene retinoma                     n          Per raola   cte_n  s,ppv   rom  a._  ar            pl-     tein  suppy   f   -o
Infant netorlisv ecte - otn.ou  - Annoal booths of infants  onfe- one yeer                   daerived frnoo  nr'Is anu  pulses -n gram  per 
age per thousand live births.                                                           oDath ie-e C/tbou) ores '    -   nao l beaths per thousend    o ge group
Life enponnoecy  tn birth (vrs) - Average enumber of years of l:fe renpagnif                  -a years, us nh  drem        h s ag0 group;  suggnsted as  - indictnor
.t birth; unuaIly five-year avcrages eding in 1960, 1971  and 1975 f-o                    if ruanoorito
dev-logpig csotnties.
Grosn reproductionforoe -rerge nonbes of lioe i        eghters a aoman -- ill              tonootign
beer in her nor. al reproductive period if she eaperieoces preonnt age-                  Adlusee  eur'll'nt .- tno - prnmerv nooe    -  Er.rolen  of all ages 00
specificfertlty alon; usually  fioe-year ovefagen  ending in 1960,                     percntage of r    ry't o-d ol-age populatior. otcudes f        'dren aged
1970 and 1975 for dev-elping  countries.                                                   6    _11y    es  Sd               erentl
Pcoulatica growth rote (I) - total - Conpeond annusl groih rate; nf ofd-                      fur conr.-o'is n:.n r-rgrnoi ndtcntl   entol7er.tomay  t'.-eed 100%
year ppoplation far 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-75.              rs'uo n                       c oo  tp'ps are nlo'  or 00050  9t0 sf ticag school ago.
n'opuloujnr g rowth ru-v (%' - uo'ban - fComu ed ' ike groth "one of no'l                 Adguntet  emnrllr dny rot'o - esocudory gcbool - Cnomputed  n abno-; sec-
poyosotiou; diffrreut defiriti-on of urbsn ateas nay  tfoet compura-                        rndar  cuctnor r-qidi'so na le-ti four  years  of oryrnoob urtenry
bility  dr          -g o'reon'  -o'rus.                                                     0, orb-ficrn  ry- oa of   gerrero   vnoaty onar   or teacher nootot .g inotruc-
Ur pa      ion  (        t% o u e-) -  Reoa   of _riao  to  o n' oo' sion, d-L                tonos fur pr                    years sf uge; correospndenco  soursee  ore
forent definitions cf urban areas ray            nonect  comparn.bility ow ds-              oernra  3y excl aed.
dennt    finn os.       r boo       a1 afft                           n'.n o-  i'ol-' -or b                              (f-yet  and n sbend levels) - T-nal years of
Age strucou-n (esrenot  - thildren (C-14 yeare)  vnrn'K-g  ore (:5-64 --es.rs'.               schooirog;  at  sco".dary le"el, ono,inog.  irenru-tioen n" he partirlly
and rotmed  up*,oear  nod o'er1 no onrnsfev  o "un-your so 'n'i-y- .                        or oc _s' tely e.tluder.
4     d9    syo    -    so of eneulunlon nuder 1S .-nd i  sob-eno'  >                       7,rnnlo or"uileer 'f ou enouort) -    a /nion-  inetiotiuns i'cleAn
tigtbet      R-im,  n                                                                              e ru   oo  ar mnron  stntnyraitbdpodt3
Enononr  gbepetben" r-ti o -    'c0  of goonlu'lon-:nde-  1 ced 6'   ond over             o    r on dneouxt-n0 9  n-torn lnotit0i on;.
ustlo the boo for-e or ooe trove of 1/-fL yoor9.                         './.             Adult liturno,  olte (0) -  .,unrc-e adults (able no read and -urite) as
tomil      b plarrion afeeptos '  (5 'osulsutune  nbcu) - fuoolrtnve  on' er uf               pe-eonogs o' -otanl adnot populatiuo  oged 1n yn-ars gn  over.
a~eeptore of bitct-ontro-l devces urder  auspinees   f  etioral fnarly                    H- -
pla--ong prgorar s-nce ireo-tinn.                                                          _s_r.e
on a   - use n. %nf m orhed noanoon) - Parcentages of sorrbed                   Peroone  r om  uubnn    t   ugs nunbet of presons pet rote in
women a  child-bearino  ge         7.7r.vea      l    ^see birth-orot-ol de-     o           ncupied u-convti-ol dolingo  Snotbon  areas;  odelling es lode
vices       n    'toal'rarried woreorto name oge groof.                                     perranent  stru' -t-e6 nr.i wonobupled pfrts.
t.   sa' --ied   a-  in  e-e   g~ gl.t=O                           e        o .  o d.mson    * . voter (5)  - ,O-ctied c-nvertitoal
3lea nv 5rtviwe^ings In. u-eanbn ani rua  areas -Sithout in-ide or outside piped
Total 10t0. fonnc (thweard)   - 3cn30-.ricnlly attire psres3no  tool bong                     *.aer fanilities    ar g erntage oIf al o-oupied dwellinge
armed forces ano  rnemplcyei I n excluddng henorwucer, eulde  3, sint;                    rucess .t elenor n. t y (%   of .     el        -  onventionral d"ellingo
befiri nons ir. nsr'oae new-.rnes  are s uoh.r-.bvo         t -e.      wtub eie, tri-'c"i to li'tng quarters -o pernent of Itotl doe-ollings
a'initib,s  i,   -i-a   arl mt ~   ~        ~        ~      ~       inoronnobr,ru  ieo
Labor forvo in norooltore (   - Ariculural labor f-roe (it  faruing,                       Sin                       s)ban  ni   r s                                for
fnrestr',   o  n-cin obd f'shinE) on neroentgae  of       lbaarr fb-    .                   la!rlr    un d       p
Unemplyoye  (5_  0le_bor orse  - UnepIyei are - soo    do ined a.s persona
w.Iho aro    orb n  w_'ing to tako   o jot    of 0 ich 00.- a g "'0 de n
r,,n,i  ad  out of ajob, and s"eking -zrk  for a  spe iz'ied m,i-                          osro.o
nens-   no   0a     00roognr   o  nopnobonmo                                        Prdloysn     nr  (Pe, nbnul Pn;) - All n-/pee efi roesivra for robin brand-
per_od not   Ixed ng sea-1ek; may rot boecmparahle  betwerrD-          _                   ai   -ec<            ,bli (p er  tho o)- A1 tpe of   resvesfo a io  ra-
pries  noe t.go nebefo one'-otions If -to   -ssplroedi ad henrc  on data                     stn 'o gererol goblin per tnor.  of popuoaior.; encludos uni-
ies.-gns- tlom bioffn destatiustius, sI annple vd s vsub corpulore o r  -t,                osued recivs     s io   t  conntries and in years hy rogistratioc   f radio
p.l. neplnt   -t  fi           -tie,eple c y               mplary aeen                      nets    us' effect; datb   for recent yearns ty rnt bei conprable  ieinc
mnst cnun-trie  a-lisehed licnnsing.
Intone distributio   -Perce-tage of prisase inoone (boeh in .eoh and kid)                   Pasenger cars (per thou of) - P-eenger core -ompprise mete   cars seat-
received by ricbest 5%7  richest 20Y  70000st 201    , and p         4    b inf              tg nese tn-o eight pernonn; neolnodes 5nobulanc,b hearsoes and mill-  -
householbs.                                                                                 'try vebscle.
o oc=ri-u  (koh/vo psr  oap) - A.luol consumption of indhbtrial, cno-
Dienribhtion of land Ownrehi  - ?cmetlge, of land cw-ed by  -th- mbrial, pobic and priate eletrlicity in kilo,,'tt hoboo    per capita;
'eei 505 orb prnreen  -I ot non                                      ost~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eneraly hanoi uu pr-dsrtion  data, clihhout ollowonee for 1oc.e. in
iest ,10  Jr.d pcores+ 1T19; of                                                    grids hot er.ral lg for t-tporot und e.npurts of electricity.
Health and Nutrilon                                                                        \enprirt (kg/yr per 0a0) - Per napita anrual ecnsumption ie kilograms
Populauisr. per phrseoian  - Poypnootion divided by renbc-  of pr-ctcirig                      estimatei from domnsttc prodontlon pls  net irporte nf necoepedat.
physiicins qualified fron a meinal snbosl an urcoinrit.y Seve.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
ECONOMiC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Aoants in Million US Dollars)
Actual              PrelioiPary    Projected
1972     1973      1974         1975            1976               1965-72       1972-75       1973-76         1972      1974      1976
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                        Cosstant 1974 Prices and Exchange Rate of 91 = 17.0 Din.                 Average Annual Growth Rates                 As Peccant of GDY
Groas Domestic Product                      21,638  22,720   24,765  -   25,887            26,922                 5.6           6.2           5.8          97.8    15O          99.3
Gains icon Terms of Trade                      468     681       -           +142            +197                                                           2.2      -           0.7
Gross Donestic Income                       22,106  23,401    4,7;65       26,029          27,119                 5.5           5.6           5.0         100.0    100         100.0
Imports (ifol. NFS)                          6,588   7,600    8,312        89350            8,082                12.6           8.2           2.1          29.7      33.6       29.8
Sxports (inol. NFS)                          5.437   5.788    5.694         5.872           6.506                 8.3           2.6           4.0          24.5      23.0       24.0
Resource Gap                                 1,151   1,812    2,618         2,478           1,576
Consumsption Eopenditure                    16,139  17,716   19,953        19,795          19,670                 6.7           7.0           3.5          73.0    89.6         72.5
Investment Expenditure                       6,650   6,816    7,429         8,570           8,827                 6.0           8.8           9.0          70.1      30.0       32.5
National Savings                             6,904   6,806    6,241         7,330           8,717                  6.6          2.0           8.6          31.2      25.2       32.1
Domestic Savings                             5,499   5,006    4,612         6,092           7,252                 3.1           3.5          13.2          24.9      19.4       26.7
NERChANDIS!E TRADE                                   Annual Data at Current Frices                                                                         As a Percentage of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                                689   1,004    1,105         1,887           1,877                                                          21.4      17.4       25.0
Petrolesm                                    126     296       tl43         756           1,015                                                           3.9      11.2       13.5
Intermediate Goads                         1,910   2,513    4,:198       4,296            3,826                                                          59.2      58.5      51.0
Consumption Goods                            502     698      9172          758             784                                                          15.6      12.9       10.5
Total Merch. Imports (c.i.f.)             3,227   4,511    7,518          7,097           7,502                                                         100.0    100.0       1D10.
Enports
Capital Goode                                316     389       314          695             920                                                          14.1      13.5       18.8
Tentils and Leather Goods                    362     409       477          6D0             761                                                          18.2      12.5       15.6
Non-ferrous Metallurgy                       272     325       556          4I8             472                                                          12.2      14.6        9.7
Agricultural Products (i.cl. food)           400     475       439          488             640                                                          17.9      11.5       13.1
Other                                        887   1.255    1,319         1.831           2.093                                                          39.7      47.8       42.8
Total Merch. Exports (f.o.b.)              2,237   2,853    3,305         4,072           4,886                                                         100.0    100.0       100.0
MNERChANDISE TRADE INDICES                                     1974 = 100
Enport Price Iden                            63      76       100          109             114
Import Price Inden                            58      68       100          105             109
Terms of Trade Index                         109     112       100          104             105
Eaport Voltae  Index                          93      99       100           98             112
VALUE ADDED By SECTOR                       Annual Data in Constant 1974 Prices and Enchange Rate
of $1 = 17.0 Din.                                                                           Ax a Percentage of Total
Agriculture                                3,213   3,496    3,763         3,663           3,846                 2.7           4.5           3.7          15.6      16.0       15.0
Manufacturing and Mining                   6,374   6,712    7,471         7,888           8,125                 6.6           7.4           6.6          31.0      31.8       31.8
Other                                    10.956  11,362   12.276         13 026          13 589                 5.4           5.9           6.2          53.3      52.2       53.2
Total                                    20,543  21,370   23,512         24,577          25,560                 5.3           6.2           6.2         100.0    100.0       100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE  fL                                             Current Prices                                                                             As Percent of GDP/Market Prices
Current Receipts                           2,772   3,489    4,841          ..              ..                    ..           ..            ..           17.5      19.5
Current Expendit-Is                        2,520   3,154    4,794           ..             ..                    ..           ..            ..           16.0      19.4
Budgetary Savings                            251     334       -47                                                                                        1...  ..  ..   ..   1.6  0.2
Public Sector Investxent                     224     281       328                                                                                        1...  ..  ..  ..  1.4  1.3
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER WORKER /2                        TOTAL LABOR FORCE-                                  VALUE ADDED PER WORRER (1974 PRICES AND EXCHSANGE RATE $1 = 17 Din.
Million        h of Total          1972-75                       US Dollars             Percent of Average         1972-75
1972    1975    1972    1975   Av. Ann. Growth Rate                1972      1975             1972      1975    Av. Ann. Growth Rate
Agrioulture /3                              3.6     3.0    45.0    37.4           -5.9                         893    1,211                35        40            10.7
M3nufacturing and Mining                    1.65    1.87   20.6    23.3             4.3                      3,863    4,218               150       138             3.0
Other 3/                                    2.75    3.15   34.4    39.3            4.6                       3.984    4.135               155       135             1.2
Total                                       8.00    8.02  100.0   100.0             0.1                      2,568    3,064               100       100             6.1
/1  Budgets of Federation, Republic. afd Autonomou  Provincec, and Comsunes.
/2 Total resident active labor force, i.e. excluding workers abroad and umnemployed.
7 Active labor force in the private sector (agriculture and other) and, accordirgly, total are estinates.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regin
December 6, 1976



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
Annual
Actual                    Projected  Growth Rates
1972    1973    1974    1975       1976        1972-75
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                 3425    4407    5694    6315        7306           16.5
Imports (incl. NFS)                 3821    5168    8312    8767        8809          23.1
Resource Balance (X-M)              -395    -761   -2618   -2452    -1503
Interest                            -165    -222    --285    -337       -355          19.6
Workers Remittances                   889    1310    1511    1575       1747           15.4
Other factor services net              17      50       93       62        70          38.2
Current Transfers (net)                74      87      110    _i20        135          12.8
Balance on Current Account            419     454   -189   -1032          94
M&LT Loans /1
Disbursements                       943    1170    1426    1850       2031          20.1
Repayments                        -570    -686    --814    -930    -1025            13.6
Net Disbursements                     373     454      612      920     1006          28.3
Capital Transactions n.e.i.'         -117    -285      139      -68      -
Use of Reserves                      -675    -663      438      180    -1100                               Actual
Est imated
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                              DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE/4-   1972    1973    1974          1975
Official Grants & Grant-like           -       -        -        -    Public Debt Out. &
Disbursed
Public M&LT Loans
IBRD                              75.0   104.9   256.5   209.0   Interest on Public Debt    63.2    97.1   101.2    120.8
IDA                                 -        -        -       -    Repayments on Public Debt 154.3   205.0   282.3    309.0
Other Multilateral                   -       -        -        -    Total Public Debt Service 217.5   302.1   383.5    429.8
Governments                      183.9   179.7   615.4   274.7   Other Debt Service             634.5   726.9   826.6    937.0
Suppliers                         82.3      3.0       .6       -    Total Debt Service          852.0  1029.0  1210.1   1366.8
Financial Institutions           121.4       -      73.1    86.2
Bonds                                -       -      51.5       -    Burden on Export Earnings (%)'5
Public Loans n.e.i.                 4.2      -        -        -
Total Public M&LT Loans             466.8   287.6   997.2   569.9   Public Debt Services Ratio  5.0           5.2     5.2       5.3
Total Debt Service Ratio   19.4    17.7    16.5         16.9
IDS - Direct Investment Inc. -          -       -
Actual Debt Outstanding orn Dec. 31, 1975
EXTERNAL DEBT                 Disbursements only          Percent       Average Terms of Public Debt
World Bank                          559.1                 24.6
IDA                                   -                    -            Int. as % Prior Year
Other Multilateral                    5.3                    .2                         DO&D         5.3     7.3      6.3       6.5
Governments                        1304.3                 57.4          Amort. as Z Prior Year
Suppliers                           115.6                  5.1                          DO&D        12.9    15.3    17.4       16.5
Financial Institutions             269.9                  11.9
Bonds                                18.1                    .8       IBRD Debt Outs. & Disbursed
Public Debt n.e.i.                     .1                  -            "  as % Public Debt O&D  20.7    19.6    18.8          20.6
2272.5                100.0           "  as % Public Debt
Services    14.7    12.7    11.9        13.4
Other M&LT Debts/3                3780.0
Short-term Debt (disb. only)         -
I/  Includes direct foreign investment.
2/  Includes errors and ommissions, short term loans, net export credits,  IMF account,
National Bank and Commercial Bank Credits.
3/  Estimate.
4/  Figures on debt service do not correspond with balance of payments figures due to
differences in coverage.
5/  Includes workers remittances.
Europe, Middle East & North Africa Region
December 2, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS 'as at December 31, 1976)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year              Borrotwer(s)           Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
Sixteen Loans fully disbursed                                       474.7
751      1971   SFRY                           Roads                 35.0      0.3
752      1971   Hotel "Bernardin", Piran    Tburism                  10.0      1.6
777      1971   SFRY                           Multipurpose Water   45.0    29.5
782      1971   "Babin Kuk" Hotelsko
Turisticki Centar,Dubrovnik Tourism                 20.0      2.3
836      1972   Twelve Electric Power
Enterprises in Yugoslavia   Power                   75.0    14.8
894      1973   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Agricultural
Industries          31.0      8.2
916      1973   Naftagas                       Gas Pipeline          59.4    24.4
947      1973   Kikinda                        Iron Foundry          14.5      1.5
965      1974   IMT                            Tractor Factory        18.5     0.5
966      1974   FOB                            Iron Foundry           15.0     1.8
990      1974   Bosnia-Herzegovina
Road Funds                 Roads                  30.0      2.0
1012     1974   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Industrial Credit    28.0    12.5
1013     1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Industrial Credit    22.0    13.6
1026     1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                   Railways               93.0    58.8
1060     1974   Port of Bar                    Harbor Expansion      44.0    37.7
1066     1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik              Water Supply and
Wastewater           6.0      5.9
1129     1975   Vojvodjanska Banka             Agricultural Credit  50.0    48.6
1143     1975   Republic Road Organizations
in Slovenia, Montenegro
and Serbia                  Roads                 40.0    38.0
1173     1975   Jugoslavenski Naftovod         Pipeline              49.0    49.0
1262     1976   Republicki Fond Voda           Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources             20.0    20.0
1263     1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &        Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise           Sewerage              45.0    45.0
1264/a   1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise        Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit           Control               38.0    38.0
1277     1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Stopanska Banka Skopje,
InvesticionEa Banka
Titograd, Kc,sovska Banka    Second Industrial
Pristina                      Credit                50.0    50.0
/a Not yet effective.
Note: A loan of US$54.0 miLlion to the Water Management Organization
"Metohija" for a multipurpose project was approved and signed sub-
sequent to the above date of Statement A; it is not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8 pages
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)             Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
Total (less cancellation)                                1,313.1    504.0
of which has been repaid                                   153.9
Total now outstanding                                    1,159.2
Amount sold                              7.8
of which:  Amount repaid              6.3                  1.5
Total now held by Bank                                   1,157.7
Total undisbursed                                                   504.0
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at December 31, 1976)
Type of        Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                       Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment Corporation  Investment
for Yugoslavia                        Corporation      -       2.0       2.0
1970   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.P.A.        Automotive
Industry         5.0    8.0      13.0
1971   Tovarna Automobilov in Mororjev          Automotive
Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt       Industry          7.6    2.2       9.8
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler               Automotive
Benz A.G.                             Industry         13.0    2.9      15.9
1972   Sava/Semperit                            Tires            4.0    1.5       5.5
1973   Belisce/Bell                             Pulp and Paper 13.3       -      13.3
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO                 Special Steel  10.0       -      10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                           Cement Plant   100       -      10.0
1975   Rudarsko Melaturski                      Steel           50.0      -      50.0
Total Gross Commitments                                   112.9   16.6    129.5
less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                      59.6    2.3      61.9
Total commitments held by IF(:                             53.3   14.3      67.6
Total Undisbursed                                           8.8    6.2      15.0



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 751 Fifth Highway: US$35..0 million Loan of June 18, 1971; Effective
Date: June 12, 197:2 Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
After an initial delay of about eight months in fulfilling the con-
ditions for effectiveness of the loan, construction work on all sections has
progressed well. All road sect:ions are open for traffic, although one section
in Slovenia is about 92 percent complete. Because of shortage of funds the
Republican Road Authority has reprogrammed its completion. The first 44 km
was opened at the end of June 1976 and the last 6.5 km will be finished by
September 1977.
Loan 752 Bernardin Tourism: US$10.0 million Loan of June 18, 1971; Effective
Date: May 31, 1972 ;Closing Date: June 20, 1977.
Following initial delays in project implementation due to appointing
consultants, providing the necessary infrastructure and obtaining approvals by
local authorities, bids received in July 1974 indicated that the project, as
originally envisaged (2,500 beds), would cost approximately 100 percent above
the originally estimated cost of US$25.6 million. This increase was mainly
due to rapid inflation in construction costs. The Bank and the project spon-
sors have agreed to finance a. reduced complex containing some 1,616 beds
(Amendment to Loan 752-YU, December 16, 1974, R74-258) at an estimated cost
of US$39.9 million, requiring additional financing by the sponsors of about
US$14.0 million. Following the resolution of the financial problems excellent
progress was made and the Port and Village hotels were opened for occupancy on
June 4, 1976. Structural problems were encountered with the foundations for
the Cliff Hotel, but the main structure has now been completed and the hotel
is scheduled to be opened in early March, 1977.
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 20, 1971;
Effective Date:  May 31, 1972; Closing Date:  December 31, 1978.
The start of project work was delayed for one year. Construction
is now underway, the main damn is almost completed and the reservoir will be
filled starting in February. A small part of the irrigation network has been
completed with the remainder expected to be completed by 1978. Project costs
have been above appraisal estimates, but the overrun financing is being pro-
vided by the Province of Kosovo and from Federal sources. Delays have been
encountered in the arrangements for boundary adjustment. Consultants have
been engaged to help find solutions, and the Kosovo Government has enacted
1/   These notes are designed ito inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8 pages
appropriate legislation. A draft law has been prepared by the Kosovo Govern-
ment and is expected to be enacted in the near future, which will assist in
the formation of specialized services, including agricultural extension for
the private sector.
Loan 782 Babin Kuk Tourism: US$20.0 million Loan of July 21, 1971; Effective
Date: June 12, 1972; Closing Date: July 31, 1977.
There were initial delays in the implementation of the project due
to lateness in making the loan effective and in mobilizing consultants. Bids
for civil works and estimates for other components indicated that the project
would cost at least twice as much as originally estimated (US$49.9 million),
largely due to rapid inflation in construction costs. The Bank and the
project sponsors agreed to finance a reduced complex containing some 2,034
beds (Amendment to Loan 782-YU, December 16, 1974, R74-259) at a total cost
of US$51.5 million, requiring additional financing of about US$1.6 million
and a change in sponsorship which has been approved by the Bank (Amendment
to Loan 782-YU, October 4, 1976, R76-237). The hotels were inaugurated and
opened for occupancy on June 5, 1976.
Loan 836 Power Transmission: US$75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective
Date: December 29, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The Project construction is progressing slowly and is expected to
be completed by December 1977, about one year late. Its cost has increased to
about $415 million (up 84 percent) chiefly due to escalation in prices. The
resulting cost overrun is being financed by the Government from funds received
from the Federal Republic of Germany and from the Borrowers' own internal
sources. Appointment of management consultants was delayed until mid-1976
and their report is now expected in. June 1977, about 3 1/2 years late. The
financial performance of 3 of the 12 Borrowers in 1976 was below the required
level of 35 percent self-financing following a downturn in electricity sales
and higher operating costs arising from inflation. The promulgation of the
new Constitution in 1974 and the consequent evolution of the legal and
financial status of the Borrowers, particularly in regard to the requirement
of their policy of pooling resources at the Republican levels requires changes
in the legal arrangements includinig the application of financial covenants.
These are being considered along with the proposed second power transmission
project which has just seen appraisal.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Mataedonia): US$31.0 million Loan of May 25,
1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
All loan funds provided under the project have been committed by
ubloan agreements through Stopar.ska Ean>%a.  There have been, however, diffi-
_ulties in obtaining satisfactory procurement contracts for the big facilities
.nainly due to the heavy cost overvuns. With considerable delay, contracts
have now been signed for one of the wine by-products processing facilities,



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8 pages
and the central wine cellar and construction has begun on both sites.  Con-
tract negotiations for the slaughterhouse are nearing completion. The second
wine by-products facility will either be retendered or not constructed at all
because of the high investment costs and resulting low financial viability.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effective
Date:  March 22, 1974; Closing Date:  J2ne 20, 1977.
The costs of equipment and civil works increased so that project
costs were about 71 percent above the appraisal estimate. As a result of
this and of a reallocation of priorities in the use of natural gas, the
project has been redefined (Amendments to Loan 916-YU, May 13, 1976, R76-116).
Phase I is a reduced version of the original plan. Phase II provides for a
pipeline extension to link up with the pipeline to be constructed under the
Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project, for which additional Bank financing
was obtained.  Naftagas has obtained additional local currency financing
required for Phases I and II. A delay of more than two years in project
implementation has occurred as a result of the increased project costs and
revision of the project. Construction started in late June 1976, and the
project is scheduled for completion by end 1978.
Loan 947 Kikinda Iron Foundry:  US$14.5 million Loan of November 30, 1973;
Effective Date:  May 28, 1974; Closing Date:  March 31, 1978.
Effectiveness was delayed about five months due primarily to the
extra time required for the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement by the
Federal Assembly. Project implementation is about four months ahead of
schedule. Total project cosl:s now are about 13 percent (about US$4.6 million
equivalent) above appraisal estimates due to large increases in local costs.
Financing of this cost overrun has been arranged with a local bank.
Loan 965 IMT Tractor Factory Expansion: US$18.5 million Loan of February 22
1974; Effective Date: tune 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The factory was officially inaugurated on March 7, 1976. Completion
work on minor portions of the project, however, is continuing.
Loan 966 FOB Iron Foundry: US$15.0 million Loan of February 22, 1974;
Effective Date: May28, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Implementation is expected to be on schedule. Local costs are about
27 percent (about US$10.0 million equivalent) above appraisal estimates due to
design changes and domestic inflation. Financing of this local cost overrun
has been arranged with a local bank.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8 pages
Loan 990 Sixth Highway:  US$30.0 million Loan of May 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Four out of six road sections are complete. The remaining sections
should be completed by March/April '77. Two requests for changes in road
alignments have been agreed in order to provide better service to two commu-
nities.
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28.0 million Loan of June
21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is almost fully committed,
but the final date for submission of sub-project* has been extended by six
months to June 30, 1977 to allow adjustments in individual sub-loans, as
needed, and to allow the banks time to submit additional projects for finan-
cing from resources freed as a result of such adjustments. Loan disbursements-
have been accelerating after a slow start and are expected to soon catch up
and even surpass appraisal estimates.
Loan 1013 Bosnia-Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The note under Loan 1012 above applies also to this loan.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway:  US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974; Effective
Date:  February 12, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31, 1977.
The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the Railways' 1973-77
Investment Plan. There have been substantial delays in project execution due
principally to financial and administrative difficulties. Government efforts
to combat inflation have caused railway tariffs to lag behind inflation. Sub-
stantial subsidies are now being proposed, and the Bank is currently reviewing
this matter with the Government. Good progress continues on investment plan-
ning.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
In general the Project is progressing well, but is now about 8
months behind schedule due to delays in procurement, most recently regarding
the grain silos, for which final designs have not yet been completed. Com-
pletion of the project is likely to be at least 6 months after the original
completion date of December 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8 pages
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water SupT1y and Wastewater:  US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Isffective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have put
construction about a year behind schedule. Services to the Bank financed
Babin Kuk Hotel Complex (Loan 782-YU) were, howbver, completed in time for
its initial operation. Preliminary calculations indicated the need for a
substantial tariff increase to meet the Loan Agreement's financial covenants,
but the commune authorities approved a smaller increase. The Bank is seeking
explanations from the communal and federal authorities together with their
proposals for resolving the matter.
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975; Effective
Date: February 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The Project Operations Unit of Vojvodjanska Banka, established in
March 1976, is working in a competent manner with respect to preparation of
subproject appraisal reports. Disbursements of IBRD funds under the project
initially were lagging behincl appraisal estimates, reflecting both learning
curve problems with the methodology for subproject appraisal and the time
required for the effective organization of implementation by Vojvodjanska
Banka, the lead bank. Project operations now show encouraging progress with
respect to appraisal methodology and related aspects of institution building.
Commitments for investments -Ln social sector enterprises are running ahead
of those for private farmers, dLue largely to institutional arrangements in
Yugoslavia, but a substantia:L pipeline of private sector subprojects should
ensure the desired balance. A second project is at the appraisal stage and
is expected to reach negotiations by May 1977.
Loan 1143 Seventh Highway: UJS$40.0 million Loan of July 18, 1975;
Effective Date: March 30, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Construction has started in the Republic of Serbia. Construction
contracts are in the process of being awarded in the Republics of Slovenia
and Montenegro.
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline: US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 28, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Due to slower than, anticipated progress of design and procurement
it is estimated that a four-month slippage in the completion of Phase I will
occur, though it is expectedl that the balance of the project will be completed
on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8 pages
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources:  US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The regional development study is under way.  Terms of Reference
and selection of consultants is about to be finalized for the flood control
and water quality studies. Final designs and tender documents for the Vrutci
Dam are being reviewed, and construction should begin in 1977. Construction
is under way on some parts of the Cacak component and tenders are being in-
vited for the principal work in Titovo Uzice. The impetus towards the creation
of the Morava Region Water Community of Interest has slowed due to the longer
than anticipated process of seeking agreement among all the Yugoslav parties
concerned on the structure of the organization. Staffing is being strength-
ened in the water authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice.
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage:  US$45.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Consultants for final designs and tender documents have begun their
work. Tendering is expected to begin early 1977.
Loan 1264 Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is March 31, 1977.
Loan 1277 Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Eight subprojects, including 7 below the free limit, have been
approved for disbursements for a total committed amount of US$4.3 million.
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is May 31, 1977.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 7
YUGOSLAVIA: AGRICULTURE AND AGRO-INDUSTRIES
PROJECTS IN MONTENEGRO AND MACEDONIA
Summary of Loans and Projects
Borrowers:          Montenegro:  Investiciona Banka Titograd.(IBT).
Macedonia:   Stopanska Banka Skopje (SBS).
Guarantor:          Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Amount:             Montenegro:  US$26 million equivalent in various
currencies.
Macedonia::   US$24 million equivalent in various
currencies.
Beneficiaries:        Montenero:  Agrokombinat "July 13"
Macedonia:   10 agricultural processing enter-
prises and agricultural cooperatives
in the social sector, and about 960
private farmers.
Terms:              Amortization in 15 years, including 3-year grace
periods, with interest at 8.5 percent.
Project             The two projects would help achieve the agricultural
Description:       objectives of Montenegro and Macedonia; namely, to
increase agricultural production both for the growing
domestic market and for exports, to raise productivity
and income, particularly on small farms, to expand
agro-industrial processing capacity, to improve product
quality and to stabilize food supply. The projects
would include:
Montenegro:   (i)  the establishment of a 2,000 ha
sprinkler irrigation system in the
Cemovsko Polje plain, using both
groundwater and Lake Skadar water;
(ii)  land preparation for and planting
of 1,300 ha of vineyards with wine
and 200 ha with table grapes, 200 ha
of peach and 300 ha of sour cherry
plantations, and 60 ha of windbreaks;



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 7
(iii) 14 km of farm roads, equipment sheds
and supporting facilities and ex-
perimental research on new fruit
trees varieties (30 ha);
(iv) a winery with an annual capacity
of 10 million liters including by-
product processing facilities;
(v)  a 3,000 metric ton cold store with
blast freezing, grading and packing
facilities for fruits and vegetables;
and
(vi) a collecting center with a total of
500 m2 collecting and storage space..
Macedonia:   (i)  processing facilities in the social
sector including a dairy plant,
slaughterhouse, potato cold store
and fruit and vegetable processing
facilities;
(ii) investments for the private sector
in grape and fruit production,
plastic greenhouses and mechaniza-
tion for vegetable production,
livestock and tobacco drying facil-
ities. Sub-loans would be provided
for buildings and related infra-
structure, processing equipment,
agricultural machinery, plantation
establishment and high quality
livestock; and
(iii) a feasibility study for the design,
construction and operation of a
wholesale market center for agri-
cultural products.
Relending Terms:    Montenegro:  Agrokombinat--maximum repayment period
of 15 years, including 3-year grace period,
with an effective on-lending interest rate
at 11 percent.
Macedonia:   Social Sector--maximum repayment period
of 14 years, including 3-year grace period,
with on-lending interest rate at 11 percent.
Private Sector--maximum repayment period
of 10 years, including 5-year grace period,
with on-lending interest rate at 11 percent.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 7
Estimated Cost:
US$ Millioni
Percent
(of total
Local   F2oeign    Total   Project Cost)
Montenegro:
Agrokombinat Project
Plantation establishmernt         10.6       4.4        15.0         27
Irrigation facilities              2.7       2.7         5.4         10
Ag. machinery and equipment        0.6       0.5         1.1          2
Infrastructure                     1.0       0.1         1.1          2
Winery                             5.4       4.2         9.6         17
Cold store and other
investments                       2.2       1.2         3.4         6
Total (at 1976 prices)                 22.5     13.1        35.6         64
Contingencies
Physical                             119
P rice                              11.9 9n2              ISOI         5
.>otal Project Cost                   35,5      2OMI        5526
-.terest During Construction
(including US$5.9 millioni
on Bank loan'                       l e         9        -7g  7
'ota-l Project
.inancial Recuirements              37,2 76,0 26             2



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 7
Estimated Cost:
US$ Million
Percent
(of total
Local    Foreign    Total    Project Cost)
Macedonia:
Social Sector
Dairy plant                         1.4       1.0       2.4          4
Cattle/sheep slaughterhouse         2.6       1.8       4.4          8
Potato cold store                   1.9       1.1       3.0          6
Vegetable processing plant          2.8      2.1        4.9          9
Vegetable drying plant              5.7       3.8       9.5         17
Apple processing plant              4.3       3.7       8.0         14
Subtotal                           18.7     13.5       32.2         58
Private Sector
Fruits and vegetables               1.3      0.5        1.8          3
Mechanization                       1.9      0.5        2.4          4
Livestock                           2.0       0.4       2.4          4
Tobacco drying facilities           1.8      0.4        2.2          4
Market Center Study                  -        0.1       0.1           1
Subtotal                            7.0      1.9        8.9         16
Total (at 1976 prices)                 25.7      15.4       41.1         74
Contingencies
Physical                              1.1       0.7       1.8          3
Price                                 8.2       4.9       13.1        23
Total Project Cost                     35.0      21.0       56.0        100
Interest During Construction
(including US$3.0 million
on Bank loan)                        3.2       3.0       6.2
Total Project
Financial Requirements               38.2      24.0      62.2



ANNEX III
Page 5 of 7
Financing Plan:
Montenegro        Macedonia
(US$ Millions)
Project Requirements
Project Cost                          55.6              56.0
Interest During Construction           7.7               6.2
Total Requirements                      63.3              62.2
Sources of Funds
IBRD                                  26.0              24.0
SBS                                                     27.0
IBT                                   34.3
Sub-borrowers                          3.0              11.2
Total Sources                           63.3              62.2
Estimated Disbursements:
Amount (US$ Million)
Calendar Year                   Annual                   Cummulative
Montenegro  Macedonia    Montgenegro  Macedonia
1977                      0.8          0.5          0.8           0.5
1978                      5.1          6.2          5.9           6.7
1979                      9.1         13.7         15.0          20.4
1980                      4.8          3.5         19.8          23.9
1981                      4.2          0.1         24.0          24.0
1982                      2.0           -          26.0            -
Procurement      The winery and cold store in Montenegro (US$18.7 million)
Arrangements:  and the processing facilities ln iacedonia (US$43.7 million)
would be procured by the Agrokombinat and the respective
sub-borrowers in Macedonia under interniational competitive
bidding (ICE,), in accordance writh the Bank Guidelines for
Procurement, under the supervision of 1BT and SBS, respec-
tively. These facilities except the tobacco drying facili-
ties would be procured under turnkey contracts since the
civil works need to be closely integrated with the electrical-
mechanical equipment.  For the purpose of bid comparison,
qualified domestic manufacturers of these goods would be
given a margin of preference of 15 percent or customs duties,
whichever isc lower. Most contracts are expected to be awarded
to foreign firms with sub-contracting, particularly for civil
works. to local firms.



ANNEX III
Page 6 of 7
The civil works and equipment for the irrigation
facilities in Montenegro (US$8.7 million) would be
grouped in about five contracts which would be phased
over four years. These, along with the infrastructure
investments and collection center (US$2.0 million)
are not likely to be attractive to foreign contractors
-due to their relatively small size. These items would
be procured by the Agrokombinat under IBT supervision,
under nationally applicable local bidding procedures
which have proven satisfactory to the Bank based on
the experience under other ongoing Bank projects in
Yugoslavia. The Bank would review the specifications
prior to local bidding and receive copies of all con-
tracts as well as the bid evaluation reports.
Items for plantation establishment and on-farm devel-
opment in Montenegro and Macedonia (US$38.5 million)
would not be suitable for bulk procurement and inter-
national competitive bidding because investments would
be phased over four years and, in Macedonia, dispersed
throughout the Republic. Sub-borrowers would, under
the supervision of IBT and SBS, purchase equipment,
fertilizer, seeds, planting material, livestock and
construction materials costing less than US$50,000
directly through existing commercial channels, which
include both domestic and international suppliers.
The total of such direct procurement would be about
US$8.5 million. Such items exceeding US$50,000
(totaling about US$30 million) would be procured
by the sub-borrowers under IBT's and SBS' supervision
through local bidding procedures. The Bank would
review the specifications prior to local bidding and
receive copies of contracts and bid evaluation reports
on all items except those for on-farm investments in
the private sector. Retroactive financing in accordance
with normal Bank procedures is proposed for expenditures
of about US$300,000, which are expected to be incurred
by the Agrokombinat prior to loan signature in order to
carry out detailed irrigation design work by consultants,
to order rootstocks for the first 200 ha of vineyards and
to purchase machinery for land development.
Technical      Montenegro:  About 10 manyears for consultant assistance
Assistance:   with final designs, specifications, tender documents and
procurement for irrigation works, as well as supervision.
Macedonia: About 18 manyears for consultant assistance
to the social sector enterprises and SBS in preparing
final designs, specifications, tender documents and
ICB procedures related to international procurement,



ANNEX III
Page 7 of 7
as well as sijpervision. A course in appraisal criteria
and techniques used in agro-industrial and agricultural
credit projects would be organized by the SBS. IBT would
be invited among other banks to participate in the course.
The SBS would also organize a procurement course with
participants including staff of the Agrokombinat and other
social sector enterprises likely to be sub-borrowers under
the Macedonia project as well as IBT and other interested
banks.
Rate of Return:      Montenegro:  Project would generate a 17.3 percent
economic rate of return.
Macedonia: Project components would generate overall
economic rate of return of 25.6 percent.
Estimated Project   Montenegro:  December 31, 1982.
Completion Date:   Macedonia:   June 30, 1981
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 1316a-YU
Date: January 26, 1977
Agricultural Credit and Agro-Industries
EMENA Projects Department



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
YUGOSLAVIA: AGRICULTURE AND AGRO-INDUSTRIES
PROJECTS IN MONTENEGRO AND MACEDONIA
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:          Montenegro-About two years
(June 1974 to May 1976)
Macedonia-About one year
(June 1975 to May 1976)
(b)  Agency which prepared project:          Montenegro-Agrokombinat "July 13"
with assistance from the FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program
Macedonia-Stopanska Banka Skopje
(c)  Project first presented to Bank:        Montenegro-May 1974
Macedonia-During visit in October
1975 of supervision mission for the
first Agro-Industries Project
(Loan No. 894-YU)
(d)  First Bank mission to review project:  Montengro-June 1974
Macedonia-March 1976
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:         Montenegro-May 17, 1976
Macedonia-May 17, 1976
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:             Montenegro-December 13, 1976
Macedonia-December 17, 1976
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:          Montenegro-May 31, 1977
Macedonia-May 31, 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
Section III:  Special Conditions
(a)  IBT and SBS would appraise the sub-projects and make the sub-loans fol-
lowing on-lending policies, procedures, terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank (paras 59-62);
(b)  IBT and SBS would finance any cost overrun that may occur in their
respective projects (pata 51);
(c) The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the social sector sub-
borrowers for their investments and by the respective Republic Govern-
ments for sub-loans made to private farmers (para 51);
(d) SBS would appoint by September 1, 1977 a qualified and experienced agro-
industries and marketing specialist, employ consultants acceptable to
the Bank to assist in international procurement and form a coordination
unit (para 53);
(e)  IBT would appoint to its IBRD operations unit by September 1, 1977 a
qualified and experienced agriculturist/agro-industries expert and a
senior credit officer (para 54);
(f) SBS would organize a course in appraisal criteria and techniques used
in agro-industries and agriculture credit projects, as well as a course
on procurement (para 57);
(g) SBS, IBT and the Agrokombinat would set up project monitoring and
evaluation systems by March 1, 1978 (para 57);
(h) A Project Agreement between the Bank and the Agrokombinat, in the
Montenegro project, would be entered into (condition of effectiveness,
para 52);
(i) The Agrokombinat would establish a Project Unit and hire by September 1,
1977 consultants acceptable to the Bank for irrigation work and procure-
ment matters (condition of effectiveness, para 56);
(j)  The Republic of Montenegro would undertake to provide additional funds
through IBT to -the Agrokombinat, on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank, to cover any financial deficits that occur before yields are
obtained from the vineyards and before sufficient earnings are realized
from the first several years of full production in the ancillary proc-
essing facilities (condition of effectiveness, para 67); and
(k) A Subsidiary Loan Agreement between IBT and the Agrokombinat would be
entered into (condition1 of effectiveness, para 81).






To So,o1evo                   To Ca.ok                To BeI,,,.de 21*T                 22
ii,          ~~~20                         TOBACCO   %
CEELPROKUPLJEPIO
\sw  iN GD                                                                                                                                   N
~~~"    V~~~~~~~~.  -. ~~~~~~~~~ESKOVAC
CA  NOVI PAZAR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I~   ~~4VrI u~~
-N  Sirl E E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a% M~o6i   A,P~~J
KOSOV ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~   ~~l
0     :HARDS ~                    ~        ~         ~ ~ ~ RCADSX     
PRISTINA                         RI  E           __ __  EW  ea
~~ A  C  E                         0  N EI
~~ rMACEDONIA     ~~ DA 
0%_______                           ___________________TIVATTITOGRA_________________________






/V,          Rn,-G        "
N                       0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
)MO0N T,EN  G"RO)- 0,                                                                                                                      3
)                                               Ko~~~~    ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~sovo/(.-- ,
to ~~~~~~~~~~~K0  S  0....V...0
UOLE ARE                                                                                                                                         0
1(ftOME VRS
. .j.  .....  
~~~~or                        ( ~~~~~~~~~~Skopje4                                                              0
-e                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~460
A'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A.'
\~ \HERZEGOVINA                  3
444
N.' -.3
m0                                                                                                                               42.06                               L.. 
ii~ ~ L-KSV



