77-GO
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1371 YU
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Agriculture and Second Agricultural
Industries Project in Macedonia)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STOPANSKA BANKA SKOPJE
Dated March 10, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 10, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and STOPANSKA BANKA SKOPJE (hereinafter called the Borrower),, a
bank established and operating under the laws of the Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (hereinafter called the Guarantor).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Macedonia" means the Socialist Republic of Macedonia;
(b) "Coordination Unit" means the unit to be established
and maintained by the Borrower in accordance with Section 3.02 (a)
of this Agreement;
(c) "Self-Management Agreement of the Borrower" means the
self-management agreement of the Borrower dated December 14, 1973,
as amended from time to time;
(d) "Borrower's Statutes" means the statutes of the Borrower
dated December 14, 1973, as amended from time to time;


﻿-3-
(e) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan and out of the
Borrover's own contribution in accordance with Section 3.o (a)
of this Agreement to a Sub-borrower for an Investment Project;
(f) "Sub-borrower" means an eligible beneficiary of a Sub-
loan who may be either: (i) a Social Sector Sub-borrower; or (ii)
a Private Sub-borrower;
(g) "Social Sector Sub-borrover" means a Sub-borrower which
is a beneficiary of a Sub-loan included in Part A of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(h) "Private Sub-borrower" means a Sub-borrower who is a
private farmer who proposes to enter or enters into au agreement
with the Borrower under Part B of the Project, directly, or indi-
rectly through his farmers' cooperative or a social sector organ-
ization;
(i) "Investment Project" means a specific project for any
of the investments included in the Project, to be carried out by
a Sub-borrower utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(j) "Statement of Operations and Policies for the Project"
means the statement of lending and investment operations and
policies for the Project set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement,
as such statement may be amended from time to time with the agree-
ment of the Bank;


﻿(k) "Dinars" and the letters "Din" mean the currency of the
Guarantor; and
(1) "Social Accounting Service" means the Sluzba Drustvenog
Knjigovodstva referred to in Article 77 and in paragraph (5)
of Article 281 of the Guarantor's Constitution.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
four million dollars ($24,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
by the Sub-borrowers under Sub-loans in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of interest
and other charges on the Loan, provided, however, that no withdrawal
shall be made in respect of a Sub-loan unless: (i) the Sub-loan
shall have been approved by the Bank; or (ii) the Sub-loan shall
be a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account.
(b) Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 (C) of Schedule
5 to this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a sub-loan
for an Investment Project or group of Investment Projects whose
estimated aggregate cost is less than the equivalent of $1,500,000,
the foregoing amount being subject to change from time to time
as determined by the Bank.


﻿-6-
(c) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank an application in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank together with the detailed appraisal of the Investment Proj-
ect specified in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(d) On or before each of the semi-annual interest payment
dates specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
pay to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest
and other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before
the date set forth, and up to the anount allocated, in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required
for the Project shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a cor-aitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-7-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate agricultural, engineering, administrative and financial
policies and practices and in accordance with the Statement of
Operations and Policies for the Project, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, servic*s and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In carrying out the Project, and except as
the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall, not later than September 1, 1977:
(a)   establish and maintain, u)nder arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank, a Coordination Unit, appropriately staffed in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement;
(b) appoint and assign to its Agricultural and Forestry Loans
Department a qualified and experienced .specialist in agricultural
industries and a qualified and experienced specialist in marketing
of agricultural products; and
(c) employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank, in order to assist the Borrower in international procurement
procedures.


﻿Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the study included in Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ, not later than May 15, 1977, or such other date as the Bank
and the Borrower may agree, consultants whose qualifications, ex-
perience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, each Sub-loan will be made on financial
terms and conditions consistent with the Statement of Operations
and Policies for the Project and on additional terms and conditions
whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the
Sub-borrower (which party shall, for the purposes of this Section,
also include, but without limitation, a farmers' cooperative or
a social sector organization through which Sub-loans may be made
to Private Sub-borrowers) or by other appropriate legal means,
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the
Borrower, including the right of the Borrower to: (i) require
the Sub-borrower to carry out its Investment Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate agri-
cultural, engineering, technical, administrative and financial
policies and practices and to maintain adequate records; (ii)
require that (1) the goods and services to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and (2) such goods and services
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of an Investment
Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives
of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, buildings, property, equipment and construction included
in an Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant


﻿- 10 -
records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Sub-borrower
shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insur-
ance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent
with appropriate business practice, and (2) without any limitation
upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover marine, transit and
other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made
payable in a currency freely usable by the Sub-borrower to replace
or repair such goods; (v) obtain all s-ch information as the Bank
or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Sub-borrower; (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Sub-
borrower to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by
such Sub-borrower to perform its obligations under its contract
with the Borrower and, in appropriate cases, to premature the
Sub-loan; and (vii) require any of the Social Sector Fub-borrovers
or any of the farmers' cooperatives or social L ,tor organizations
through which Sub-loans may be made to private farmers: (1) to
have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, state-
ments of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year prepared in accordance with appropriate accounting
principles consistently applied by the Social Accounting Service
or another competent and experienced independent accounting organ-
ization; (2) to furnish to the Borrower as soon as available but
in any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, certified copies of its certified financial statements for
each such year as so prepared; and (3) to furnish to the Borrower
such other information concerning the accounts and financial state-
ments of the Social Sector Sub-borrower and farmers' cooperative


﻿- 11 -
or social sector organization as the Borrower shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Bank and of the Borrower; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records ade-
quate to record the progress of the Project and of each Inirestment
Project (including the cost thereof, the amount of financing pro-
vided by the Borrower, disbursements, repayments, interest and other
charges on such financing, including the Sub-loan therefor, general
information on agriculture and economic policy affecting the imple-
mentation of the Project); (ii) furnish to the Bank quarterly and
annual reports thereon within three months after the end of each
quarter and each calendar year, respectively, or such other date
as the Bank and the Borrower may agree, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request; and (iii) put into effect by March 1, 1978,
or such other date as the Bank and the Borrower may agree (1) a
supervision system acceptable to the Bank for the purposes of
ensuring adequate technical and financial supervision of each
Investment Project during and after its construction, and (2) a
monitoring system acceptable to the Bank for the purposes of
evaluating the benefits of, and assessing the economic impact of,
each Investment Project, upon its completion.


﻿- 12 -
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the Coordina-
tion Unit and its procedures, operations and records, the Invest-
ment Projects, and the Sub-loans.
Section 3.07. Not later than March 1, 1978, or such other date
as the Bank and the Borrower may agree, the Borrower shall organize
and hold, according to a program satisfactory to the Bank, a course
for staff of the Borrower and Investiciona Banka Titograd, as well
as of other Yugoslav banks, in procurement matters and in appraisal
criteria and techniques applicable to agricultural industries and
agricultural credit projects.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times continue to
conduct its operations and affairs, including the Project, in
accordance with appropriate financial and investment standards
and practices, with qualified and experienced management and
staff, and in accordance with its Self-Management Agreement and
its Statutes.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower unconditionally undertakes, when-
ever there is reasonable cause to believe that the funds available
to any of the Sub-borrowers will be inadequate to meet the estimated
expenditures required for the carrying out of any of the Investment
Projects, to make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, promptly
to provide any such Sub-borrower with such funds in foreign or
local currencies as needed to meet such expenditures.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the progress of the Project and its opera-
tions and financial condition.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall establish and maintain sep-
arate accounts for the Project and shall record in such accounts
all amounts disbursed or received for or in connection with the
Project.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements and the certificates of expenditures
specified in paragraph D.3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by the Social Accounting Service
or another competent and experienced independent auditing organi-
zation acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon


﻿- 15 -
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial state-
ments for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank,
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request, such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
the Borrower and the audit thereof as well as appropriate informa-
tion concerning the structure of the Borrower's loan portfolio and
arrears together with reschedulings.
Section 5.05. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to
the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created cn any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower shall
grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to
the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the fore-
going provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any


﻿- 16 -
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any of its outstanding debt which,
in the judgment of the Bank, would materially and adversely affect
the ability of the Borrower to meet its financial obligations.
Section 5.07. The Borrower shall establish and maintain arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Bank to protect itself against the risk
of losses resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the currencies (including Dinars) used in its lending and borrowing
operations for the purpose of carrying out the Project and servicing
the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance
of maturity as provided in the relevant contractual instruments,
or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
and
(b) a change shall have been made in the Self-Management
Agreement or in the Statutes of the Borrower which would materially
and adversely affect the financial condition or operations of the
Borrower or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(a) the events specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Guarantor and the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date June 30, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Stopanska Banka Skopje
Ul. 11 Oktombri Br. 7
91000 Skopje
Yugoslavia
Cable address:                Telex:
Stopanska Banka Skopje             51140
Skopje                             Yusbank
Yugoslavia


﻿- 20-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
STOPANSKA BANKA SKOPJE
By Is! Aleksandar Misev
Authorized Representative


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans for             16,600,000          100% of foreign
Investment Proj-                             expenditures and
ects included in                             47% of local
Part A of the                                expenditures
Project                                      up to a maximum
of 47% of each
Sub-loan
(2) Disbursements              3,200,000          100% of foreign
actually made                                expenditures and
by the Borrower                              47% of local
on account of                                expenditures
Sub-loans for                                up to a maximum
Part B of the                                of 47% of each
Project                                      Sub-loan
(3) Consultants'                 100,000         100% of foreign
services for                                 expenditures
Part C of the
Project


﻿- 22 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to lie F'inianced
(4) Interest and               3,000,000         Amounts due
other charges
on the Loan
accrued on or
before December 31,
1980
(5) Unallocated               1,100,000
TOTAL     24,000,000


﻿- 23 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, part of Macedonia's Agricultural Development
Program for the years 1976-1980, consists of the following:
Part A:   Sub-loans to Social Sector Sub-borrowers
The provision of Sub-loans to be made by the Borrower to fi-
nance investments for the following processing facilities:
(1) Dairy Plant
The construction and equipping of a milk processing
plant in the town of Prilep with a capacity of about
40,000 liters per day for dairy products, including the
construction and putting into operation of milk collec-
tion stations and the provision of chilling centers and
insulated tanker-trucks.
(2) Meat Processing Plant
The construction and equipping of slaughtering and
meat processing facilities in the town of Gostivar, de-
signed to process annually about 12,000 cattle and about
300,000 lambs and sheep.


﻿- 26-
(3) Potato Cold Storage Facilities
The construction and equipping of potato cold storage
facilities in the town of Delcevo with a total capacity of
about 5,000 tons, including facilities for washing, grading,
sizing and bagging potatoes, and the provision of trucks and
pilers.
(4) Fruit and Vegetable Processing Plant
The improvement and expansion of the existing fruit
and vegetable processing plant in the town of Gevgelija
to increase its capacity to process annually about 20,000
tons of fresh produce, including the construction and
equipment of new facilities for processing tomatoes
and the expansion of existing facilities for processing
fruits, all equipment being constructed or upgraded to
meet international sanitary standards.
(5) Dehydrated Vegetable Plant
The construction and equipping of a plant in the town
of Ovee Polje for the production of tomato paste and
the dehydration of vegetables such as onions, peppers,
carrots, leeks and parsley, with an annual capacity of
about 30,000 tons of fresh tomatoes and about 20,000
tons of other fresh vegetables.


﻿-27-
(6) Apple Processing Plant
The construction and equipping of an apple process-
ing plant near the town of Resen, designed to process
annually about 10,000 tons, including facilities to pro-
cess reject apples for the production inter alia of con-
centrated apple juice and aroma, pure nectar and dis-
tilled alcohol.
(7) Tobacco Drying Facilities
The construction and equipping of about four
tobacco drying sheds having an annual drying capacity
of about 200 tons each.
Part B:   Sub-loans to Private Sub-borrowers
The provision of Sub-loans to be made by the Borrower to fi-
nance investments in the following fields:
(1) Fruit Production
On-farm development of about 1 ha each of orchards
and vineyards, including investments for land prepara-
tion, planting materials, fertilizers and labor.


﻿- 28 -
(2) Vegetable Production
The construction and equipping of plastic green-
houses for early vegetable production, including the
purchase of tubing, plastic for covering and other
items for such construction.
(3) On-farm Mechanization
The purchase of tractors and implements such as
trailers, ploughs, tillers, rollers and harrows.
(4) Livestock Production
The purchase of about 300 in-calf heifers and
dairy cows and about 20,000 ewes, and the construction
of winter housing and feeding facilities, and pasture
improvement.
Part C:   Market Center Feasibility Study
Feasibility study for the construction and operation of a
wholesale market center for agricultural products expected to be
located in the Skopje area.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning July 1, 1980
through   January 1, 1992                  1,000,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 30 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.70%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              3.40%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              6.25%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                              7.35%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                              8.50%


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods or for civil works shall be procured by the Sub-
borrowers under the supervision of the Borrower in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Contracts for the processing facilities included in Part A (1)
through A (6) of the Project shall be awarded under turnkey
contracts.
3.   Foreign contractors and suppliers shall not be required
to register in Yugoslavia as a prerequisite for submitting bids.
In the event that registration shall be necessary after a foreign
contractor or supplier has been notified that he will be awarded
a contract, the Borrower shall facilitate the registration.
4.   Contracts for civil works shall include a provision allow-
ing non-Yugoslav contractors and suppliers to convert into
foreign exchange and to repatriate a reasonable portion of
contract payments, and to import equipment and specialized
manpower as required to carry out their services.


﻿- 32 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods and works included in Part B of the Proj-
ect shall be procured by the Sub-borrowers under the supervision
of the Borrower (a) on the basis of advertising in accordance with
local competitive bidding procedures, if a contract is estimated
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, and (b) through nego-
tiated purchases in accordance with local procurement procedures,
if a contract is estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$50,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import tax:s on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Yugoslavia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:


﻿- 33 -
(a) All bidding document,3 for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Yugo-
slavia if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Yugoslavia equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Yugoslavia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.


﻿-34~ -
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods and works included in
Part A of the Project:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿- 35 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in
Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement, on the evaluation and com-
parison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award of the said consultants and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably reque3t. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the rea-
sons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract in English shall be
furnished to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract for goods or works included in
Part B of the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more, the Borrower shall, before bids are invited,
furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, and
shall make such modifications in the said documents as the Bank


﻿- 36 -                   1-25-77
shall reasonably request. The bid evaluation report, as well as
two conformed copies of the contract, both in English, shall be
furnished to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to contracts to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraphs,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, a certificate of expen-
ditures relating to such contracts along with applications for
withdrawals.


﻿- 37 -
SCHEDULE 5
Statement of Operations and Policies
for the Project
1.   The Coordination Unit
The Coordination Unit shall provide adequate coordination be-
tween the various departments of the Borrower involved in the carry-
ing out of the Project. The Coordination Unit shall be headed
by an Assistant General Manager of the Borrower and its staff
shall include the Director and the Assistant Director of the
Borrower's Agricultural and Forestry Loans Department, a representa-
tive of the Borrower's Disbursement and Collection Department and
a representative of the Borrower's Foreign Exchange Department.
2.   Sub-loan Processing
(A) Registration
Each Investment Project shall be registered with the
Borrower upon receipt of application therefore made by a Sub-
borrower to the Borrower.
(B) Appraisal
(i) Sub-loans to Social Sector Sub-borrowers
The Borrower shall prepare a detailed appraisal for
each Investment Project, including:


﻿- 38 -
(a) creditworthiness and managerial compe-
tence of the Sub-borrower;
(b) technical feasibility, financial viability,
commercial soundness, economic justification
and availability of markets, raw materials
and other facilities necessary for the
incremental production of the Investment
Project;
(c) generation of sufficient cash flow to creer
debt service, legal claims, legally-required
allocations to the enterprise's depreciation,
reserve, joint reserve and business funds,
reinvestment needs, and the need to achieve
adequate financial rates of return; if the
financial rate of return is calculated to be
less than 12%, a particular justification will
be required;
(d) financial structure of the Sub-borrower,
expected to result from a financing plan
presented at the time of the approval of the
Sub-loan, in which its business funds and
reserve funds (equity) would not be less than
25% of its total capitalization (equity plus
long-term debt). Exceptions may be allowed
(based on the financial and economic merit of
each Investment Project) provided that the
Sub-borrower enters into an agreement with the


﻿- 39 -
Borrower or another Yugoslav bank, to increase
its equity over a suitable period of time,
determined in the course of appraisal, to not
less than 25% of its total capitalization;
(e) study of the need for the introduction of
capital-intensive and automated technology
as opposed to more labor-intensive methods
and of the consequences of such a choice
on the investment and operating costs of
the proposed Investment Project; and
(f) adequate allowance for physical and prior
contingencies of the Investment Project.
(ii) Sub-loans to Private Sub-borrowers
The Borrower shall prepare a detailed appraisal for
each Investment Project, including:
(a) technical feasibility, financial viability,
commercial soundness, economic justification
and availability of markets and processing
facilities for the incremental production of
the Investment Project;
(b) generation of sufficient cash flow to cover
debt service, legal claims and needs for
reinvestment;


﻿- 40 -
(c) availability of adequate and continuing tech-
nical assistance, and suitable market outlets
at fair and reasonable prices; and
(d) in the case of lending to private farmers through
their own cooperatives or through social sector
organizations, adequacy of cooperation agree-
ments.
(C) Review of Investment Projects and Aporovals of Sub-loans
On the basis of the detailed appraisal referred to above
in paragraphs B(i) and (ii), Investment Projects shall be reviewed
and proposed Sub-loans therefor shall be approved as follows:
(i) the Borrower shall review each Investment Project or
group of Investment Projects submitted to it and shall
give its approval for a Sub-loan to be made, if the
Investment Project or group of Investment Projects
to be financed in part out of the proceeds of said
Sub-loan is estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $1,500,000;
(ii) the Borrower shall not approve a Sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project or group of Investment Projects submitted
to it before the Bank has reviewed the Investment
Project or group of Investment Projects to be financed
in part out of the proceeds of said Sub-loan and has
given its apnroval pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of


﻿- 41-
this Agreement, if said Investment Project or group
of Investment Projects is estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $1,500,000 or more;
(iii) notwithstanding the provisions of above sub-paragraphs (i)
and (ii), the first Investment Project recommended for
approval for a Sub-loan for a tobacco drying shed under
Part A(7) of the Project shall be submitted by the
Borrower to the Bank for its review and approval and
the Borrower shall not approve said Sub-loan before
the Bank has given its approval;
(iv) as part of the review of an Investment Project and prior
to approving any free-limit Sub-loan or seeking the Bank's
approval for a Sub-loan, the Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) contributions to Sub-loans are available as set
forth in paragraph 3(A) hereunder as and when required
to enable the Sub-borrower to carry out its Invest-
ment Project in a timely manner; and
(b) adequate arrangements are made to make available
to Sub-borrowers yearly seasonal credits in amounts
sufficient to enable the Sub-borrowers to realize
the potential of the investments included in the
Project.


﻿- 42 -
3.   Terms of Sub-loans
(A) Contribution to Cost of Investment Project
Sub-borrowers shall be required to contribute not less
than 20% of the estimated cost of each Investment Project.
The Borrower shall be required to contribute not less than
43% of such estimated cost. The remainder of such estimated
cost, i.e., up to 37%, shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan.
(B) Rate of Interest
Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, Sub-loans shall
carry interest on the principal amount outstanding from time
to time:
(i) on the portion of a Sub-loan not financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, at an annual rate of not
less than the rate of interest prevailing in
Macedonia at the time a Sub-loan is approved, for
the type of Investment Project to be financed out
of the Sub-loan;
(ii) on the portion of a Sub-loan financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, at an annual rate of not less
than:
(a) 11% in the case of Sub-loans to Private
Sub-borrowers who are private farmers sub-
borrowing through their own cooperatives or


﻿-43 -
through social sector organizations or directly
sub-borrowing; and
(b) 11% in the case of Sub-loans to Social Sector
Sub-borrowers.
(C) Repayment
Unless otherwise satisfactory to the Bank, grace and
amortization periods for the repayment of principal of
Sub-loans shall not exceed the following:
Grace    Amortization
Period      Period       Total
Investment Project       (years)      (years)      (years)
(a) Sub-loans to
Social Sector
Sub-borrowers          3           11            14
(b) Sub-loans to
Private
Sub-borrowers          5            5            10
4.   Supervision
The Borrower shall supervise the application of the Sub-loans
in accordance with sound banking, financial, technical and agricul-
tural practices. Such supervision shall include, inter alia, periodic
visits to the Investment Projects to ensure that the proceeds to
the Sub-loans are properly used and that satisfactory progress is
made in the carrying out of the Investment Projects, as well as
written reports on the field visits.


