RESTRICTED
FILE    COPY                  Report No. P-779
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
COMISION FEDERAL DE ELECTRICIDAD ( COMISION)
AND
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A. (NAFIN)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF MEXICO
FOR THE THIRD POWER SECTOR PROGRAM
February 10, 1970



IM-¶I ATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
RIOPOSED LOAN TO COMISION FEDERAL DE ELECTRICIDAD
(CJmisION) AND NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A. (NAFIN) OF MEXICO
FOR THE THIRD POWER SECTOR PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan .rn an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$125 million to
Comiclon Federal de Electricidad (Comision) and Nacional Financiera, S.A.
(Naf.Ln).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The Bank has now made a total of nine loans for power expansion
in Mexico totaling about $h55 million, net of cancellations. Seven of
the nine power loans have been made to the Comision. The most recent
power loan (5U44E), for $90 million, was made in 1968 to the Comision
and Nafin to help finance the continuing expansion program of the entire
Mexican power sector. Disbursements under this loan have been completed
except for the major generating equipment category, which has a closing
date of March 31, 1971.
3.        Initial discussions with the Bank regarding a further power
loan to Mexico to help meet the large and continuing needs of the power
sector's expansion program took place in the spring of 1969. An
appraisal mission visited Mexico in May 1969. Negotiations were held
during January 5-12, 1970. Negotiators from the Con.ision were headed by
Lic. Guillermo Martinez Dominguez, its Director General, and from Nafin
by Lic. Francisco Ruiz de la Pena, head of its Washington office.
h.        The proposed loan would increase the Bank's lending to Mexico
to $957 million (net of cancellations). Mexico has received no IDA
credits. The following is a summary of Bank loans to Mexico (as of
December 31, 1969):



-2-
Loan      Year          Borrower                 Purpose       Amount Undisbursed
(US$ million)
1949-1965 Loans fully disbursed                       521.6   Nil
(less cancellations)
336-ME    1963       Nacional Financiers, S.A.   Irrigation      12.5    3.2
35h-ME    1963       Nacional Financiera, S.A.  Roads            39.3    0.I
40L-ME    1965       Caminos y Puentes Federales
de Ingresos and Nacional
Financiera, S.A.          Toll Transport  32.0    8.3
450-ME    1966       Nacional Financiers, S.A.   Irrigation      19.0    8.9
52Y-ME    1968       Nacional Financiers, S.A. Irrigation        25.0   24.9
528-ME    1968       Nacional Financiera, S.A. Roads             27.5   27.1
5b4-ME    1968       Comision Federal de
Electricidad and Nacional
Financiera, S.A.          Power           90.0   15.7
610-ME    1969       Nacional Financiera, S.A.  Agriculture      65.0   60.8
Total (less cancellations)                831.9
Of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                       176.6
Total now outstanding                     655.3
Amount sold                 49.0
Of which has been repaid    41.7            7.3
Total now held by Bank                    648.0
Total undisbursed                                149.3



-3-
5.        Serious delays have occurred in construction and procurement
and disb-Wi:sements have been slower than was expected under the following
irrigation loans: Loan 336-ME of 1963 - Construction in one district
has beein resumed after having been temporarily postponed while efforts
were under way to improve drainage, increase the supply of water and
Jmprove the cropping pattern; Loan 450-ME of 1966 - Construction of the
distribution system was delayed in order to concentrate efforts on com-
pletion of major storage works; the project may however still be com-
pleted by the scheduled March 1972 closing date; and Loan 527-ME of 1968 -
Effectiveness was delayed 13 months because of problems in reaching
agreements with farmers on water charges; progress with the execution
of the project is now satisfactory. Disbursements under the following
highway loans have been lagging: Loan 354-ME of ].963 - the project has
suffered from delays in placing contracts and in obtaining local funds,
bad weather and the problem of right-of-way acquisition. It is now
about 95% complete and would be fully completed in 1970. Loan 401-ME
of 1965 - substantial changes in design and revisions in quantities of
work weire needed 6n this toll road project.  It is now nearing completion, a
year behind schedule. Loan 528-ME of 1968 - although delays have
occurred in making disbursemenv applications, construction is gernerally
proceeding as expected.
6,        A new highway project is under appraisal and projects in
tourism and forest industries are under preparation for consideration
by the Bank.
7.        IFCts total commitments to Mexico had reached $29.0 million
by December 31, 1969, consisting of $6.5 million of operational invest-
ments and $22.5 million standby and underwriting commitments. From
these commitments the Corporation still held $3.9 million on that date,
nonsisting of $1.4 million in loans and $2.5 million in equity.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
8.
Borrowern                 Comision Federal de Electricidad, a
public agency charged with the devel-
opment of electric power in Mexico;
and Nacional Financiera, S.A., a
financial agency of the Mexican gov-
ernment which, under the existing
Mexican legislation, has to be the
borrower or co-borrower of Bank loans.
Guarantor:                The United Mexican States



Amount:                   The equivalent in various currencies
of $125 million.
Purpose:                  To help finance the continuing ex-
pansion program of the power sector.
Amcrtization:             20 years: with no repayments during
the first four years; amortization in
semi-annual installments beginning
March 15, 197h, to retire the loan
by March 15, 1990.
Interest Rate:            7% per annum.
Commitment Charge:        3/4 of 1%.
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.        An Appraisal Report entitled "Appraisal of the Investment
Program of the Electric Power Sector" (PU-27a) is attached.
10.       The project is the continuing expansion program of the power
sector in Mexico, consisting of facilities under construction on
January 1, 1970 or expected to be started during 1970 and 1971.   It
includes not only the program of the Comision, which has overall respon-
sibility for power development in Mexico, but also that of Compania de
Luz y Fuerza del Centro (Centro), which still administers the distribu-
tion system in Mexico City and its environs. The loan would be made to
the Comision, which would make available a portion of it to Centro on
the same terms.
11.       The project consists of the installation of new generating,
transmission and distribution facilities, as well as a program for rural
electrification and the first stage in the conversion of the 50-cycle
system in the Centro area to 60-cycle frequency. It will include comple-
tion of facilities under -y and commencement of new ones. It is based
on the long-range power sector expansion plan which is reviewed
periodically by the Bank and by CFE1s engineering consultants, SOFRELEC.
The facilities to be financed under the loan represent the best means
of meeting the power requirements of each system. The list of the
facilities eligible for financing, which would be subject to modifica-
tion by agreement with the Bank, is presented in the exhibit to
Schedule 3 of the Loan Agreement.
12.       The proposed Bank loan would consist of:
(a) $96 million to help finance the foreign exchange costs
of equipment;
(b) $27 million to assist in financing the foreign exchange
component of civil works;



(c) $2 million for consulting fees and training expenses
payable in foreign exchange.
In order to r±aintain continuity with disbursements under the previous
power sector loan, it is proposed that the Bank reimburse the borrower
for up to $,5 million of eligible expenditures for the program made
prior to the approval of the loan but not earlier than December 1, 1969.
13.       As in the case of the two previous power sector loans, arrange-
ments az,; being worked out for export financing institutions in major
equipmenit supplying countries to join with the Bank in financing equip-
ment for- the project. The major change in the new joint financing
arrangement is that joint lenders will now finance half rather than one-
third of the cost of eligible equipment, i.e. individual orders of
$200,000 or more placed in each participating country provided such
orders in that country total $1 million. While the exact amount which
will be financed by joint lenders will depend on the outcome of bidding,
it is expected that it will be in the range of $40-45 million. The Bank
will finance 100 percent of smaller orders for equipment placed in these
countries, as well as all orders placed in countries not providing
joint financing, except within Mexico, where the Bank will finance the
foreign exchange component, estimated to be 50 percent, of equipment
procurement. The Bank will finance 35 percent of the cost of civil works.
14.       Equipment to be financed under the Bank and joint loans would
be procured under international competitive bidding, both abroad and in
Mexico, with a 15 percent preferential margin for Mexican firms, as
under previous power loans to Mexico. There would be a substantial
additional amount of equipment in the program reserved for procurement
in Mexico but this would not be financed by the Bank. Civil works
contracts with an estimated value greater than Mex.$20 million
(US$1.6 million) would, as in the case of the three previous power loans
to Mexico, be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding.
15.       Performance of the power sector during the period of the most
recent loan has been generally satisfactory. The major interrelated
problems have been poor, although improving, coordination between Comision
and Centro, the only public power entity in Mexico not yet merged with
Comision, and failure to carry out the first phase of frequency unifica-
tion which had been agreed upon in connection with Loan 5h4-ME and
which was also the subject of an earlier understanding under Loan 436-ME.
The Government has continued to take a cautious approach to the actual
initiation of conversion because of the strong opposition of the power-
ful Centro labor union, as well as the lack of cooperation by Centro
management and fears of complaints by consumers. Prospects both for
integration of Centro into Comision and for frequency unification have
been substantially improved as a result of several developments during
the past year. Following the purchase by Comision of a majority of the
shares of Centro's parent company Mexlight, the Director General of
Comision has recently been given the added function of President and
Director General of Centro. In addition, an agreement was reached in



-6-
January 1969 by Comision with the Centro union and the other two labor
unions in the power sector under which they pledged support for both
Centro's integration in general and frequency unification in particular.
Application of the agreement was delayed because of a change in the
Centro union leadership but efforts have subsequently been initiated
to obtain the effective cooperation of the Centro union in frequency
unification. Agreement was reached during the loan negotiations on a new
program for the first phase of frequency unification which would be
focused on conversion of selected large industrial consumers in the
outer portion of the 50-cycle zone.
16.       The financial position of the power sector has been improving
steadily and the rate of return on the consolidated net fixed assets
was 9.8 percent in 1968 and about 10.0 percent in 1969, as compared
with the 8 percent required under the tariff commitments of Loans 436-ME
and 544-ME. The major outstanding financial problem of the sector has
been a heavy burden of short and medium-term indebtedness due during
1970-74. A portion of this debt is to be refinanced as a condition of
effectiveness of the loan agreement and the Guarantor undertakes to make
arrangements by September 30, 1970 for refinancing the remainder of
the medium-term debt due Nafin during 1970-7h.
17.       In combination with rising internal cash generation, joint
loans, and other external borrowing, a Bank loan of $125 million would
be appropriate to meet the financing needs of the power sector on the
basis outlined above. Under the current financing plan external financ-
ing would cover 57 percent of the financing of the construction program.
The balance would come from internal cash generation including the power
tax and contributions from governments and consumers.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
18.       The draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements, the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and a draft Resolution approving a proposed
loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
19.       The provisions of the Loan Agreement generally conform to the
pattern of loan agreements for similar projects. Special features are:
(a) The borrowers agree to make their best efforts to obtain
and utilize for the project joint loans from financial
institutions outside Mexico in such amounts and on such
terms and conditions as shall be satisfactory to the
guarantor, the Bank and the borrowers (Section 5.15).
The amortization schedule of the Bank loan will be re-
vised insofar as practicable, without extending the total
term of the loan, so that payments of principal on the
Bank loans plus payments of principal on other loans
under the "joint financing" arrangement would equal the



- 7 -
payments of principal which would have been necessary if
uhe full amount of this external financing had been
provided by the Bank (Section 2.08). Prematuring of a
joint loan because of a default would give the Bank the
right to declare a default under the Bank loan (Section
6.02(a));
(b) Additional conditions of effectiveness of the Loan Agree-
ment are:
(i)   the effectiveness of a subsidiary agreement between
the borrowers and Centro on parts of the project
which Centro is to carry out (Section 7.01(a)); and
(ii) the entering into contractual arrangements between
Comision, Centro and Nafin for the rescheduling over
a period not less than 10 years beginning December 31,
1971 of Mex$1.1 billion of debt falling due between
1970 and 1974 (Section 7.01(b)).
20.       The Guarantee Agreement also follows the usual pattern.   Special
features are:
(a) The guarantor will set and maintain electricity rates at
levels which wrill provide the power sector with an annual
rate of return of not less than 8 percent (Section 3.08);
(b) The guarantor will take action necessary to carry out the
initial stages of frequency unification in accordance with
an agreed upon program (Section 3.11 and Schedule 2); and
(c)  The guarantor will make timely arrangements whereby the
balance of the debt of Comision and Centro repayable to
Nafin during 1970 through 1974, will be refinanced
(Section 3.07(c)).
PART V - THE ECONOMY
21.       In December 1969 a report on the Current Economic Position and
Prospects of Mexico (WH-l94a) was submitted to the Executive Directors.
The report noted that Mexico's remarkable growth and industrialization
performance without excessive inflation during the last 20 years places
it in the forefront of the developing world. However, since 1966 expan-
sion has been accompanied by a significant widening of the external
deficit on current account and by increasing recourse to external
borrowing for public investment financing. The report notes and the
Mexican authorities recognize that, unless more is done to increase both
domestic savings and exports, the growth of the economy will be slowed
down by a shortage of foreign exchange. Mexico is having to borrow
abroad on a scale that is matched by very few other developing countries,



-8-
and this must be4 a matter for concern when international cap-tal markets
are so tight. Mexico is making increased efforts to expand exports but
with a change in the Administration impending in December 1970, Mexican
authorities have not yet decided on a definite course of action in the
fiscal field. The present current account deficit, population pressure
and the accompanying need for a rapid increase in public sector expendi-
tures call for increasing federal fiscal resources and additional
measures to increase export earnings, and thus hold the external debt
serv`.co ratio at its current level of about 22 percent.  While serious
probl-ms currently exist with regard to fiscal policy and export per-
formance, Mexico has been remarkably successful in mobilizing its re-
sources for development and maintaining without interruption a high
rate c2 economic growth.
PART VI -_CC.S-LIA'LTE WITLI THE OLTICLT2S OF ACREE17'-T
22.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - R COUi7 iATION
23.       I recomrioend that the Executive Directors, approve the proposed
loan.
Pobert. 3. r4ci'T: .,ara
Prci2ident
Attachment
ATashington, D.C.
;.'ebruary 10, 1970



