Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20074-ZA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 48.3 MILLION
(US$ 64.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
TN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE
FOR THE
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND (ZAMSIF)
May 1, 2000
Human Development 1
Country Department 2
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2000)
Currency Unit = Zambian Kwacha (ZMK)
ZMK 2754.84 - 2758.21 = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 = ZMK 2754.84 - 2758.21
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL                      Adaptable Program Lending
ASIFNet                  African Social Investment Funds Network
AWPB                     Annual Work Plans and Budget
BA                       Beneficiary Assessment
BESSIP                   Basic Education Subsector Investment Program
CAS                      Country Assistance Strategy
CBO                      Community-Based Organization
CIF                      Community Investment Fund
CSO                      Central Statistics Office
DDB                      District Data Banks
DDCC                     District Development Coordinating Committee
DDPRS                    District Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy
DIF                      District Investment Fund
DPA                      District Poverty Assessment
DPO                      District Planning Office
EA                       Environmental Assessment
EOP                      End of Project
EU                       European Union
F                        Financial Intermediary
GDP                      Gross Domestic Product
GRZ                      Government of the Republic of Zambia
GTZ                      Deutsche Geselischaft flier Technische Zusainmenarbeit
HBS                      Household Budget Survey
HHS                      Household Survey
HV/AIDS                  Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immunodeficiency
Syndrome
ICB                      International Competitive Bidding
Vice President    Callisto Madavo
Acting Country Director.    Michael Sarris
Sector Manager/Director    Dzingai Mutumbuka / Birger Fredriksen
Task Team Leader/Task Manager    Laura Frigenti



ICR                       Implementation Completion Report
IDA                       International Development Association
IEC                       Information, Education and Communication
IFI                       International Financial Institutions
IMS                       Indicators Monitoring Survey
IPF                       Indicative Planning Figures
lACI                      Loan Administration Change Initiative
LASF                      Local Authorities Suiperannuating Fund
LCMS                      Living Conditions Monitoring Study
LCMU                      Living Conditions Monitoring Unit
MICH                      Matcrnal and Child Health
MLGIH                     Ministry of Local Government and Housing
MMS                       Monitoring Management System
MOFED                     Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MOH                       Ministty of Health
MOU                       Memorandum of Understanding
MPU                       MicroProjects Unit
MTP                       Mediumn Term Plans
MTR                       Mid-Term Review
MU                        Management Unit
MW                        Minor Works
NASTLP                    National Anti-Immune Deficiency Syndrome/Sexually Transnitted
Diseases/TIuberculosis and Leprosy Control Programme
NCB                       National Competitive Bidding
NGO                       Non-Governmental Organization
NRM                       Natural Resource Management
OC                        Operating Costs
OM                        Operational Manual
OVC                       Orphans and Vulnerable Children
PA                        Poverty Assessment
PAC                       Provincial Assessment Comnmittee
PAG                       Participatory Assessment Group
PEF                       Pilot Environmental Find
PLW                       Project Launch Workshop
PMA                       Poverty Monitoring and Analysis
PMR                       Project Management Reports
PRS                       Poverty Reduction Stralegy
PSC                       Planning Sub-Committee
PWAS                      Public Welfare Assistance Scheme
RIP                       Rural Investment Fund
RO                        Regional Officer
ROADSIP                   Roads Sector Investment Project
RWS                       Rural Water Supply
SAR                       Staff Appraisal Report
SAS                       Statistical Analysis System
SEA                       Standard Enumeration Area
SC                        Steering Committee
SF                        Social Fund
SIF                       Social Investment Fund
SOE                       Statement of Expenditure
SOPU                      Strategic and Operational Planning Unit
SRPI                      Social Recovery Project
SRPII                     Second Social Recovery Project
STD                       Sexually Transmitted Diseases



UNAIDS                   United Nations Anti-Immune Deficiency Syndrome Program
UNCDF                    United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNICEF                   United Nations Intemational Children's Education Fund
USAID                    United States Agency for International Development
WCF                      Workman's Compensation Fund
WWW                      World Wide Web
ZAMSIF                   Zambia Social Investment Fund
ZNPF                     Zambia National Provident Fund
ZRA                      Zambian Revenue Authority



ZAMBIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND (ZAMSIF)
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                  Page
I Program purpose and program phasing                                                  3
2 Project development objective                                                        3
3 Key performance indicators                                                           4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      6
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          6
3, Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 10
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                  12
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 12
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      14
3 Benefits and target population                                                      14
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                           16
2 Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          17
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposed project design                            18
4 Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    19
5 Value added of Bank support in this project                                         1 9
E. Summary Project Analysis
1 Economic                                                                            19
2. Financial                                                                          20
3. Technical                                                                          20
4. Institutional                                                                      22
5. Social                                                                             22
6. Environment                                                                        23
7. Participatory Approach                                                             23
F. Sustainability and Risks
1 Sustainability                                                                      24



2. Critical risks                                                                     24
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     26
G Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            27
2. Other                                                                              27
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          27
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         28
Annexes
Annex 1  Project Design Summary                                                          29
Annex 2. Project Description                                                             37
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs                                                         50
Annex 4: Economic Analysis                                                               51
Annex 5  Financial Summary                                                               52
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       53
Annex 7. Project Processing Schedule                                                     61
Annex 8. Documents in the Project File                                                   62
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  63
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            65
Annex 11: Structure of Local Govemment                                                   67
Annex 12. Strategy on HIV/AIDS                                                           70
Annex 13. Environmental Analysis                                                         73
Annex 14 Financial Management Arrangements                                               77
MAP(S)
IBRD 26792R



ZAMBIA
Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF)
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH4
Date: May 1, 2000                                  Team Leader: Laura Frigenti
Country Manager/Director: Michael N. Sarris        Sector Manager/Director: Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
Project ID: P063584                                Sector(s): SA - Social Funds & Social Assistance
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s): Poverty Reduction
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Dataa                                                   t
EWAPLM ~..R.>..@   Indicative Financing Plans  ,  . Implementation ieriod .    >B ' m Borrower' f.
(Bank FY)  > j   '
IDA             Others       Total    Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %      USS m       US$ m         Date       Date
APL 1       64.70    87.2      9.50       74.20    05/01/2000   07/01/2005 5 0
Loan/
Credit
APL 2       61.50    71.5    24 50        86.00    07/01/2005   07/01/2010 14 5
Loan/
Credit
APL 3
Loan/
Loan/
Credit
Total       126.20            34.00      160.20                        _
Project Financing Data
[l Loan         N Credit        [] Grant        C1 Guarantee    Cl Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 64.7 (APL Phase 1)
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Not to exceed 1/2 of                   Service charge: 0.75%
1% per annum.
GOVERNMENT                                                      5 00            0 00           500
IBRD
IDA                                                             58.80           5.90          64.70
COMMUNITIES                                                     4.50            0.00          4 50
Total:                                                          68.30           5.90          74.20
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF ZAMBIA



Responsible agency: ZAMSIF MANAGEMENT UNIT AT MOFED
Social Recovery Project
Address: P.O Box 50268, Nationalist / Mbita Road, Lusaka, Zambia
Contact Person: Mr. Cosmas Mambo
Tel: 260 1 252519                Fax 260 1 252522                 Email: Cosmas@srp org.zm
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
Annual     7.5          13 4         14.8       14.8        14 2
Cumulative     7.5         20 9         35.7        50.5        64.7
Project implementation period: 5 Years for Phase 1 (10 years in total)
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
OCS SAPADFc.~ R.v W_ 20_



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The Program would support, as part of the core Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) strategy, two main
strategic objectives of the Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ/Government): (i) decentralization
and empowering local authorities to improve governance and efficiency in service delivery; and (ii)
increasing access to basic social services through direct poverty interventionis. In order to better achieve
these two objectives, the program would also strengthen the capacity to provide and use poverty
information. The Program comprises two phases over 10 years: (I) Initiation and (H) Transition. The
triggers to move from Phase 1 to Phase 2 are outlined below:
Program Development Objective      Triggers to Move from Phase 1 (Initiation) to Phase 2 (Transition)
Improved, expanded and sustainable  Outcome Triggers
use of services provided in a   1. 400 Community Investment Fund (CIF) and 80 District Investment Fund
governmentande communiiese .ar    (DIF) projects meeting the program objectives completed and operational
goverimnent and communities are
mutually accountable            2. Improved level of satisfaction of beneficiary communities with: (i) council
administrations; (ii) local line agency representatives; and (iii) non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) and conununity-based
organizations (CBOs)
Output Triggers
1 For DIF at end of year 5:
12 districts at level 1
20 at level 2
20 at level 3
15 at level 4
5 at level 5
2. For CIF at year 5.
12 districts at level 1
20 at level 2
20 at level 3
15 at level 4
5 at level 5
3. Strategic and Operational Planning Unit (SOPU) in the Ministry of Finance
and Economic Development (MOFED) established and functioning
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to achieve improved, expanded, and sustainable use of services
provided in a governance system where local government and communities are mutually accountable. The
project will build upon the positive experiences gained through the implementation of the Social Recovery
Projects (SRP) I and II which have been providing support to poor rural cornmunities for the last nine
years, as well as strengthening capacity for poverty monitoring (Living Conditions Monitoring Unit,
LCMU) and poverty analysis (Study Fund) through the Poverty Monitoring and Analysis (PMA)
component.
-3 -



3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Outcome indicators
Overall
Full devolution of Community Investment Fund (CIF) and District Investment Fund (DIF)
activities to district authorities by end of year 10
* Increase in number of community-driven activities and community-based organizations
Availability
* 10% reduction in time to facilities
*  10% in distance to facilities for roads, water and new projects before/after project
* 10% increase of the year community is accessible roads projects, before/after
Use
1% p a. [5% end of project (eop)] increase in school attendance in beneficiary primary schools by
sex/grade more than national average -Living Conditions Monitoring Surveys (LCMS)/Indicators
Monitoring Survey (IMS)
*  1% p.a. (5% eop) increase in maternal and child health (MCH) attendance in health projects more
than the national average
* 10% increase in orphans and vulnerable children (OVC) attending school, beneficiary communities
(before/after)
* 25% increase in numbers using safe water, in rural areas
* 5% increase in numbers using safe water, in urban areas (before/after)
*  5% increase in births attended by trained personnel (before/after)
Improvement between beneficiary/non-beneficiary at Mid-Term Review (MTR), and eop satisfaction with
*  council administration
* local line agency representatives
* non-governmental organizations (NGOs)/community-based organizations (CBOs)
* traditional authorities
Output indicators
1. District performance
(Not all 72 urban and rural districts are expected to enroll in CIF and DIF in year 1 They will join the
program gradually)
Number of districts at each level of performance of DIF:
* Year I - 50 level I
* Year 2 - 40 level 1, 10 level 2
* Year 3 - 30 level 1, 20 level 2, 15 level 3, 5 level 4
*  Year 4 - 20 level 1, 20 level 2, 15 level 3, 10 level 4, 5 level 5
• Year 5 - 12 level 1, 20 level 2, 20 level 3, 15 level 4, 5 level 5
Number of districts in levels of CIF.
* Year 1 - 60 level 1
* Year 2 - 55 level 1, 10 level 2
• Year 3 - 30 level 1, 20 level 2, 15 level 3, 5 level 4
* Year 4 - 20 level 1, 20 level 2, 15 level 3 10 level 4, 5 level 5
* Year 5 - 12 level 1, 20 level 2, 20 level 20, 15 level 4, 5 level 5
2. CIF outputs
* 500 projects financed cop
* 400 projects completed, eop
-4 -



* 0.4 million beneficiaries
* 80,000 OVCs assisted
*  400 beneficiary Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
(HIV/AIDS) modules delivered
* 50 beneficiary communities have improved counseling
* 500 project committees trained
*  400 communities have completed projects
*  10% increase in community-driven activities comparing beneficiary md non-beneficiary
communities
3. DIF outputs
* Staff in 72 districts trained in various modules
* 40 districts have completed poverty assessments
*  20 districts have completed district development and poverty reduction strategies
* 40 districts have implemented DIF projects
* 80 district projects financed, eop
* 0.8 million beneficiaries
4. PMA outputs
*  Full cycle of household surveys by end of phase (LCMS and IMS) (year 1- Preparation of
LCMS and Household Budget Survey (HBS); Year 2- LCMS implemrented, Year 3- Dissemination
of LCMS, preparation of IMS, Year4- Implementation of IMS, Year 5- Dissemination of IMS,
preparation of LCMS)
* LCMS data available 4 months after field work
a LCMS report completed 6 months after field work
a IMS report available 6 months after field work
a  Household Survey (HHS) data available on CD-ROM and World Wide Web (WWW) 2 months
after report
* Annual public consultation or review of poverty, social conditions by eop
a Functioning Strategic and Operational Planning Unit (SOPU) in the Ministry of Finance and
Economic Development (MOFED) managing Study Fund by eop
* 5 districts using information from Monitoring Management System (MMS) in planning
a 4 annual poverty reports years 2-5
* 40 demand-led studies, Phase 1
10 priority studies in Phase 1
* 15 capacity building workshops
* At least 12 studies funded by Study Fund using survey data
* 5 studies analyzing impact of H1V/AIDS
e  10% of study results used for policy, eop
5. Key performance indicators of the ZAMSIF Management Unit (MU)
* Commitments and disbursements follow profiles, procurement plans andAnnual Work Plans and
Budget (AWPB)
* Administration costs less than 20% of the total ZAMSIF costs
* Average of 50% committee membership attendance at meetings
• 100% projects technically appropriate and sustained operations and maintenance
* Reports produced on time
* Key stakeholders have knowledge of ZAMSIF procedures and performance
-5-



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex l)
Document number: 19582-ZA                 Date of latest CAS discussion: 10/07/99
The long-term objective of the Banks work in Zambia is to increase incomes and living standards for the
vast majority of Zambians who are poor. The short-term objective of the CAS is to sustain positive growth
rates and demonstrate that economic reforms are beginning to bring tangible, measurable benefits to the
Zambian people, especially the poor. Projects financed by the International Development Association
(IDA), as well as non-lending activities, will support all three strategic areas identified through a process of
systematic consultations and articulated in the Government's priorities -- removing constraints to
sustainable, diversified growth; improving govemance; and increasing access to basic services and direct
poverty interventions. The proposed ZAMSIF project will contribute directly to the last two priorities
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
High prevalence and new dimensions of poverty
The majority of Zambians are poor with a national poverty prevalence of 69% in 1996 Poverty increased
during the 1980s and 1990s, although a small improvenment is observed since the reform program began. A
very large share of the population continues not to have access to basic social services or the capacity to
provide for their basic needs. Rural poverty is more prevalent (82%), and deeper, and is closely associated
with geographic isolation. The Southern, Northern, Eastern and Copperbelt provinces account for almost
60% of the core poor, while the more sparsely populated and distant Western and Luapula provinces have
the greatest prevalence of poverty New factoTs and dimensions of poverty are also emerging HIV/AIDS
has reached epidemic proportions, with prevalence over 19% and has become more than just a health issue.
it is a multisectoral development issue in need of urgent attention. HIV/AIDS is the major factor behind
increasing rates of infant and maternal mortality, as well as declining life expectancy. By the year 2000,
some 35% of children under 15 years will be orphans (United Nations International Children's Education
Fund (UNICEF), forthcoming 2000). the highest percentage in the world. Child-headed households are
growing in number especially in urban areas. HlV/AIDS is also among the reasons for the increase in the
number of female-headed households. These are more likely to be among the poor, since customary law
still inhibits women's equitable access to economic resources, particularly land and inheritance Finally,
another emerging social problem is the recent increase in refugees fleeing war in Angola and the Congo,
which put additional pressure on a system of social service delivery already inadequate for the Zambian
population. Zambia currently has over 150,000 refugees within its northern and western borders.
Government strategy
The Govermment has committed itself to a number of policy measures to improve the welfare of the
population, which are described in a draft National Poverty Reduction Strategic Framework and Action
Plan for 1999-2004. The document is based on four main observations: (i) that the levels of poverty in the
country are extremely high; (ii) that these are more prevalent, deep and severe in rural areas; (iii) that
poverty affects the informal sector more than the formal sector; and (iv) that poverty hits more those with
lower education levels. The strategy for reducing poverty outlined in the Plan involves: (i) achieving
broad-based economic growth through agriculture and rural development, (ii) providing the public with
adequate and necessary infrastructure through labor intensive techniques; (iii) increasing productivity of
micro-enterprises especially in the informal and rural sectors; (iv) developing human resources; and (v)
constantly coordinating, monitoring and evaluating poverty reduction programs and activities. The
Government has recognized that poverty is detrimental to good governance and is committed to work
towards increasing the capacity of the poor to participate fully in the fulfillment of their own needs. The
Government is also aware that while economic growth is essential for poverty alleviation, it is not
-6 -



sufficient, and that there is need for allocating adequate resources to carefully targeted social interventions,
and capacity building among the various players. " The empowerment and subsequent involvement of the
people not only as beneficiaries but also as providers of their own services and requirements is a
pre-requisite to any meaningful and sustainable poverty reduction strategy" (pg 43, draft strategy plan).
Low access and quality of basic social services
The 1996 LCMS shows that the overall situation in terms of access to and qiuality of basic social services
remains much below acceptable levels. Basic social services for all Zambians are a Government priority,
and while basic education and health sector programs are in place, wider coverage, increased efficiency and
a more participatory approach to service delivery are needed.
Education. Only about two thirds of eligible children are attending school ir ZamLbia. Non attendance is
widespread and as high as 40% in rural areas and 20% in urban areas at the primary level. Enrollment
rates have stagnated in the context of steady population growth. Half-empty classrooms in rural areas,
extensive drop-out rates and low school completion rates are the manifestation of an education system in
crisis Many of those children who are enrolled in school are not of the appropriate age for the grade they
are enrolled. A major factor identified as having an impact on school attendance is the distance from the
school to the household - each km reduces attendance rates by about 1.5%. Nearly 200,000 households
live further than 6 km from a primary school, and of these 25,000 live further than 16 km. Parents state
that they attach a decreasing value to education, as they perceive the quality of education diminishing.
They define quality in terms of: (i) the state of the school infrastructure and furniture; (ii) grade 7 passes;
and (iii) time spent in school actually learning. Surveys show that when quality improves attendance picks
up Parents state that the most powerful factor related to school attendance is the quality of the school
infrastructure, and that they do not believe in the possibility of a worthwhile education when the school is in
a dilapidated state (for more information on the beneficiaries' perception on education, see the report
"Basic Education for Some").
Health and demographic change. The national life expectancy at the time of the 1990 census was 46 9
years, but as low as 44.9 in rural areas. It is now estimated to have fallen to about 43 years, primarily due
to the impact of HIV/AIDS on increased mortality. Under-five mortality belween 1992 and 1996 increased
from 167 to 197 deaths per 1,000 births. Children in rural areas have a higher risk of dying before age five
than urban children, and children born to mothers who have had no education are one and a half times more
likely to die before their fifth birthday. Maternal mortality is also high -- 64.9 per 100,000 births -- as
many women are assisted in childbirth by relatives rather than health personnel. Over half of rural
households live further than 5 km from a health facility. In terms of people's views on the health sector it
seems important to remark that: (i) the health cost-sharing scheme has created problems for many of the
very poor, as the Public Welfare Assistance Scheme (PWAS) has not effectively addressed the problems of
the would-be clients; and (ii) if drugs, medical supplies and qualified staff are not available, people stop
using clinics [for additional information see "Demographic and Health Survey", 1996, Central Statistics
Office (CSO) and Ministry of Health (MOH)].
Householdfood security. Forty-two percent of all Zambian children are stunted, and this is a serious
threat to the country's prospects of future growth since malnutrition reduces a child's mental and physical
development, and makes children more prone to diseases and death. The causes of malnutrition are linked
to several factors, including low household income levels, poor maternal and child care, insufficient health
care and poor environmental conditions. The advent of HIV/AIDS has exacerbated many of these factors.
A recent trend analysis shows that chronic malnutrition increased between 1991 and 1996, especially in the
Southern Province. Household food security has followed a similar pattern. More than 60% of households
- 7 -



in most rural districts are severely food insecure. Female-headed rural households are more severely
affected (for additional information see "Food Security and Child Nutritional Status in Zambia- Status,
Trends and Key Determinants", 1999, Draft Report)
Water and Sanitation. In 1996, less than 50% of the population had access to safe drinking water The
situation is particularly bad in rural areas, with the lowest access rate varying from 11 to 13% in Northern,
Luapula and North-Western Provinces, Nearly a quarter of the population does not have access to
sanitation, with the worst indicators in Eastern, Southern and Western Provinces.
Government strategy
The high level of priority attached by GRZ to the social sectors is confirmed by: (i) the implementation of
broad sector investment programs in both education and health which address the need for policy and sector
reforms, issues related to quality of the services provided and increased efficiency and cost-effectiveness in
the delivery system, and (ii) maintaining its commitment to allocate at least 36% of recurrent expenditures
(excluding debt service) to the social sectors
Environmental management
Careful management and judicious use of Zambia's natural resources are central to growth and poverty
reduction The main environmental concems relate to the need for safe water, sanitation and solid waste
management; to deforestation, whose costs fall mostly on the poor, especially women, and to pollution and
physical degradation linked to mining activities, especially copper and cobalt production.
Government strategy
Zambia has recently completed a National Environmental Action Plan, created an Environment Ministry,
and developed an Environmental Support Program which will strengthen the institutional and regulatory
framework for environmental protection and management, and enable communities to pilot sustainable use
and protection activities.
Weak local government increases inefficiency of service delivery
As is the case in many other African countries, the delivery of services (in particular social services) is
made more inefficient by the absence of a strong, competent and empowered system of local government.
Despite the Government's apparent interest in fostering decentralization and greater control by local
population, recent initiatives have weakened, rather than strengthened the local government Most local
government responsibilities are still under the control of central ministries or have been taken back given
the poor performance of councils. Few councils adequately discharge those responsibilities that by nature
need to be administered or delivered by the local government (water, sanitation and drainage, local roads,
urban planning and construction permits, markets, bus stops, etc.) This is due to their lack of resources
(human and financial) and poor management, but also to their limited powers and the general lack of clarity
surrounding responsibility assignment between the central and local governments Annex 11 describes in
details the current organization of the local goventnent system.
Government strategy
In September 1997, the Govermment adopted a Public Sector Reform Program aiming at reducing public
employment, decompressing public sector salaries and strengthening public payroll control and
performance management systems. A revised action plan was prepared in the first half of 1999, and its
implementation has started. A critical part of the program is local capacity building. A decentralization
policy has been drafted with the objective of having it approved by the Cabinet before December 2000.
The Government has announced its decision of deploying District Administrators in the councils, who
-8-



would be central government employees "in charge of local coordination". The exact terms of reference of
these district administrators is yet to be determined, as are the exact dates and modalities of their
deployment.
Lack of community self-reliance
A main feature of poverty is the inability to react to the circumstances, and therefore becoming dependent
on external assistance provided by the state, community or the family. Productive poor (people who in one
way or another still participate in economic and productive activities, even if their income is not sufficient
to allow them to provide fully for themselves) easily become unproductive poor (people who are fully
dependent on external assistance). There are many factors that bear an influence on this trend: poor people
reduce their average food intake or number of meals and become weaker and more prone to disease; the
poor invest less consistently in education and are thereby cut off from highly productive jobs; poor
breadwinners need to separate from their families and migrate elsewhere in search of better opportunities,
leaving behind them families who are often living below subsistence level. But important factors are also
cultural and psychological: the poor become mentally dependent because they lose trust in their capacity to
provide for themselves and their families.
Government strategy
The Government believes that a successful and sustainable strategy to reduce poverty should not be based
on dependency on state hand-outs, but on the empowerment of poor communilies and the creation of social
capital To strengthen this approach, GRZ has supported SRP I and II which were based on promoting
active community participation and contribution to the implementation of small projects which had a direct
impact on their welfare. Communities have been trained to manage project activities effectively.
Furthermore, capacity in identifying priorities, managing the full project cycle, and operating and
maintaining facilities has been created among the direct beneficiaries.
Poverty information is not well coordinated and used by policy-makers
T'he successful implementation of a National Poverty Alleviation Plan, requires the capacity of collecting
data on poverty trends in a systematic way; of analyzing them thoroughly, and of making sure that the
analyses reach the policy makers. The GRZ has invested resources in building up the country's capacity to
monitor changes in poverty and the impact of policies in reducing poverty. Norwegian, Swedish and IDA
resources mobilized via SRP I and SRP I1 have been directed towards building up simultaneous capacity
on the data collection side and in analysis of this information. The CSO has established an LCMU which
implements regular household surveys to provide detailed data on economic anid social indicators of
poverty. Thus far, two Priority Surveys and two LCMS have been carried out. Under SRP I and II,
moreover, a Participatory Assessment Group (PAG) has been established and strengthened to carry out
regular participatory poverty assessments The PAG was established as an NGO in 1995, and became
financially self-sufficient after March 1996, by marketing its participatory skills. On the analysis side, a
Study Fund has been established, again supported by SRP I and II which utilizes established guidelines to
seek, support and disseminate research findings which have a direct relevance to improving the
understanding of poverty in Zambia. Government and donor analysis of various kinds now draw on the
data that has been generated, particularly with reference to the trend in poverty levels in the 1 990s. In
summary, Zambia's poverty monitoring and analysis system has achieved outputs which reflect
improvements in capacity to collect and analyze different types of poverty information and which reflect
awareness and use by policymakers of the data Under ZAMSIF, GRZ intends to continue supporting this
activity, with the purpose of achieving a better coordination between poverty monitoring and analysis and
the implementation of poverty targeted interventions, to make sure that the operational activities are always
-9-



in line with the conceptual framework, and that the analysis of poverty, its roots and characteristics, is used-
as baseline information for policy formulation.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
High prevalence and new dimensions of poverty
The entire World Bank assistance program is geared towards reducing poverty. Macroeconomic support
is aimed at providing the appropriate opportunities for the poor and an enabling environment conducive to
poverty reduction. Sectoral programs in agriculture, education, health, transport and water are all geared
towards removing key constraints for the poor's own development. SRP has proven that there is an
important niche which wilt complement and build on the other more macro and sectoral measures. The
proposed ZAMSIF (like SRP) will continue to build on the poor's own expressed needs and help build
community management skills and capacity through the communities' own implementation of
microprojects This participatory and learning-by-doing approach helps make service providers more
accountable since communities that have managed their own microprojects will have greater confidence to
demand quality support from the providers. The project will also help leverage scarce government funds
through community contributions. Under SRP I and II, poor communities have contributed more than
15% to their own projects. This is an implicit taxation, and many times higher than the officially
accounted, locally generated taxes. The low level of overall tax revenues is one of the major constraints
for poverty reductions To ensure better local level management in poorer areas, the proposed project will
also finance district-based interventions in those districts with more than two-thirds of the population in
poverty. The project will also include activities to both prevent and mitigate the impact of the HIV/AIDS
epidemic, which is one of the main factors contributing to the new dimension of poverty in Zambia
Low access and quality of basic social services
During SRP I and II, the Microprojects Unit (MPU) has financed more than 1400 microprojects in all
regions of the country. It is estimated that ZAMSIF would be able to finance improved social services and
infrastructure in an additional 500 communities through the first phase of the proposed Adaptable
Program Lending (APL). This is a significant part of the overall government investment program
especially as relates to primary services The SRP and ZAMSIF projects help balance the otherwise often
skewed regular government investment program, which is largely concentrated in urban centers
Evaluation results from the SRP I and II show that SRIP beneficiaries are generally poorer and have a
larger share of female-headed households than the non-beneficiaries. The one worrisome finding is that
SRP seems to have reached poorer households that are not as isolated as the non-beneficiaries in terms of
distance to major services. Under ZAMSIF this will be addressed by better outreach to more remote
villages, building on the successful process of community learning. Another issue emerging from the SRP
experience is the dominance of requests for schools. This has been due to two factors: (i) the very
prominent role of parent-teacher associations within beneficiary communities; and (ii) the good reputation
of the Microprojects unit for financing schools ZAMSIF will: (i) invest more in strengthening other
CBOs; and (ii) bring out the priorities in non-education sectors by working more closely with district
authorities. To specifically target the HIV/AIDS epidemic, ZAMSIF is proposing to train
community-based HIV/AIDS educators to help build the local capacity for management of the epidemic.
Environmental management
Environmental concems have been successfully mainstreamed into the microprojects financed under SRP I
and II, and special environmental support projects have been financed The integration of the
environmental planning process with SRP has been less than successful. ZAMSIF will revisit the
approach for community-driven inicroprojects in this sector.
-1 0 -



Weak local government increases inefficiency of service delivery
Based on the successful involvement of local government staff (of both the councils and line agencies) in
the microprojects' project cycle (specifically desk appraisal and support to implementation) under SRP I
and II, ZAMSIF will expand this approach in a phased manner, gradually increasing the role of local
council staff in planning, appraising, approving and (ultimately) financing community-based projects.
Agreement has been reached with GRZ on the process and criteria for moving districts through the cycle
While the process has improved under SRP I and II, experience shows that the completed devolution to
District Councils of the whole project cycle is likely to: (i) be non-linear, i.e, some districts will improve,
some will worsen; and (ii) take about a decade to complete. In addition to gradually devolving
responsibility for the community-based microprojects, ZAMSIF will include direct support for districts in
two ways:
*  Capacity building for all districts, especially in terms of financial management and participatory
planning, and
*  Financing of district-based projects gradually moving towards financing an annual allocation for
better performing districts.
Lack of community self-reliance
The SRP programs have been shown to greatly increase community empowerment and accountability and
have become the key participatory element in the Government's poverty reduction strategy. ZAMSIF will
continue with this approach, while building into district councils the ability to supply services to meet the
empowered communities' demand, and at the same time, improving local govemance by gradually
transferring the management of the community-projects to local authorities
Poverty information is not well coordinated and used by policy-makers
While the SRP I and II projects have been successful in improving significantly the collection of data
through household and participatory surveys, and in financing a number of studies critical for policy work,
the regular monitoring of poverty still remains to be financed. Despite these achievements, however, there
are significant gaps in the availability of -- and demand for -- poverty information and the institutional
capacity to meet those gaps
(i) As yet, there is no permanent, focal unit or institution which has the nmandate to synthesize
different types of information to carry out systematic poverty monitoring or to systematically
channel this synthesized analysis to policy makers at different levels. One of the consequences of
this gap is that the information generated by different sources, includi:ng the CSO and the Study
Fund, is not compiled to produce an Annual Poverty Review which is discussed through a national
consultative mechanism or which can be updated yearly.
(ii) The household survey program which has been built up in the CSO is structured in a way which
reveals redundancy and overlap among different surveys, lack of integration of the surveys,
overload in capacity to deliver timely information and a high dependence on extemal financing.
The technical and financial sustainability of this program is in question.
(iii) While the long-term thrust of the Government's policy is to strengthen community decision-making
and local governance, districts do not maintain or utilize a data-base cf local living conditions
which can assist them to design interventions
(iv) While some use of the poverty information is in evidence by policymakers and others, there is no
question that these levels could be much higher and far more systematic
- 11 -



The proposed project would build on the successes and failures of the past and will help improve the
sustainability of data collection and analysis as well as help link better policy work with the available data
Specifically the project will
*  Support the functioning of a unit within MOFED to coordinate poverty monitoring and analysis
•  Streamline the collection of economic and social statistics at household level
*  Build on the success of the study fund in SRP I and II, look to mainstream the analysis of poverty
data, including the production of an annual poverty and social indicators monitoring report
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The program comprises two phases over 10 years Key triggers, for moving from Phase 1 to Phase 2, are
presented in the table in section A. 1 Successful implementation of the program would result in: (i)
establishment of policy environment conducive to devolution of responsibilities to local authorities, (ii) full
devolution to district authorities of the complete cycle of CIF and DIF activities; (iii) sustainable
improvement in the efficiency and effectiveness of local governance, (iv) sustainable improvement in
availability and use of basic services, and (v) government support, in a sustainable way to PMA activities
C. Program and Project Description Summary
l. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown).
ZAMSIF will have three components:
*  The Community Investment Fund component will finance community-based small projects
following selection criteria detailed in the project Operational Manual. These will include basic
social and economic infrastructure (education, health, rural water supply and sanitation,
rehabilitation of community roads); natural resources management projects; capacity building,
basic skills training, and other activities aiming at stimulating local productivity; special programs
targeting poor and vulnerable groups (such as orphans, those affected by HWV/AIDS, etc.).
Communities are expected to contribute about 15% of the total cost of each project, in cash, kind
labor and/or a combination of them There will be five levels of district participation in the project
cycle, indicating various levels of responsibility and involvement. At the final stage districts are
expected to be able to perform all steps of the project cycle.
* The District Investment Fund component will finance larger infrastructure benefiting more than
one community, such as district health facilities, market places, etc. District authorities are
expected to gradually take the lead in the implementation of these projects, initially by managing
resources allocated on a project by project basis, and eventually by managing a district allocation
grant Both components will also include training and other related activities aiming at
strengthening the planning, management, and implementation capacity of local authorities and
community members. Special attention will be given to financial management and accountability
Districts may also require leadership skills in the management of multisectoral interventions related
to HV/AIDS.
*  The Poverty Monitoring and Analysis component will continue the activities carried out under
SRP I and II related to data collection, analysis, and assessing the impact of poverty reduction
programs and govemment policies on poverty. The component will also finance a range of
activities which are designed to strengthen the institutional, technical and financial framework for
sustainable monitoring and policy use of poverty information. This will include support to
-12 -



strengthen a coordinating SOPU in MOFED and the development of pilot District Data Banks
(DDBs).
Finally, some resources will be allocated to finance the implementation support for ZAMSIF.
1. Community Investment Fund                         42.00       56.6     37.50       58.0
(community-based small projects
including social mobilization,
infrastructure, improved natural
resources management and service
delivery activities; capacity building
for communities)
2 District Investment Fund                            13 00       17.5     10.00      15 5
(larger projects benefiting more than
one community to be managed and
executed by district authorities;
capacity building and training for local
govemments and administrations)
3. Poverty Monitoring and Analysis                     3.50       4 7       3.00       4.6
(data collection, training and capacity
building on financial, technical and
institutional issues, workshops and
dissemination)
4. ZAMSIF Institutional Support                       15.70      21.2      14 20      21.9
(administration and operating costs,
beneficiary assessment, environmental
impact assessment, poverty maps and
other targeting, training and capacity
building for ZAMSIF staff)
Total Project Costs                   74.20      100.0     64.70     100.0
Total Financing Required                   74.20      100.0     64 70     100 0
* Total Project Costs - including physical and price contingencies *
- 13 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Poverty reduction strategic plan and decentralization policy. ZAMSIF is designed to support the
implementation of both the National Poverty Reduction Strategic Plan and the National Decentralization
Policy by: (i) empowering poor communities, (ii) strengthening the capacity of district authorities and
gradually handing-over to them a major role in the implementation of the Plan; (iii) improving the targeting
of public resources to the poorest segments of the population, and (iv) putting in place a permanent
mechanism to monitor the impact of Government policies and programs on the poor, and provide relevant
inputs to policy-making. The approval and implementation of a National Decentralization Policy is a very
important factor contributing to the impact of project activities, but it is not an indispensable condition to
achieve the project development objectives. In fact the viability and sustainability of the activities financed
by the project is guaranteed by specific features included in the project design. ZAMSIF will monitor
closely the development of the National Decentralization Policy to make sure that the activities undertaken
in the framework of the project will be beneficial to its implementation and continue to be consistent to its
strategic objectives.
Consistency with specific sectoral standards and guidelines. ZAMSIF will make sure that national
technical standards are used, whenever these are available. Technical standards for the most frequently
built infrastructure for which no national standards are available are being prepared in collaboration with
relevant line ministries.
National HIV/AIDS strategic plan. ZAMSIF will support the newly drafted (October 1999) National
HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan to facilitate HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation interventions across all sectors
The Strategic Plan is built upon the current knowledge of the epidemic and its impact on individuals and
society, an analysis of the national response to date and guiding principles for future efforts. Two steps
important to the success of the Strategic Plan have yet to be taken. First, rMt yet developed, is a
comprehensive implementation framework to cost the Strategic Plan activities and set up the institutional
modalities for scaling up interventions. Second, not yet operational, is the proposed National AIDS
Council to direct the Strategic Plan The consequences of these two actions occurring soon, would ease
ZAMSIF's incorporation of HIVIAIDS-related efforts into its operations.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits The project is expected to generate the following benefits. (i) increasing access to and improving
the quality of basic social and economic services at the community level; (ii) strengthening the capacity of
rural communities to design and manage development activities that affect their welfare; (iii) strengthening
the capacity and accountability of district authorities' staff; (iv) supporting the collection of poverty
information and data, and (v) strengthening the national capacity to analyze poverty issues, effectively
monitor poverty trends, and formulate policies that will effectively contribute to poverty reduction
Target groups. The target population are poor communities, mostly located in rural and particularly
remote areas of the country. Special consideration will be given to vulnerable and particularly
disadvantaged groups, such as children, orphans, HIV/AIDS affected and elderly. The second group of
beneficiaries are district councils and authorities, whose planning, management and implementation skills
will be strengthened by the project activities.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period. The program will be implemented over 10 years, with each of the two phases
operating for five years
- 14 -



Institutional arrangements. ZAMSIF will be managed by a semi-autonomous MU established within
MOFED The MU will assume the existing legal characteristics of the SRP MU and will be headed by a
program director supported by the necessary sections and staff, including Monitoring and Evaluation,
Technical Services; Field Operations; Finance, Administration and Audit; Capacity Building; Poverty
Monitoring and Analysis; and Infonuation and Communication Technology, each of them headed by a
section head. The Management Unit will be supported by the existing network of SRP Regional Offices,
headed by Regional Officers, who will continue to operate at the provincial level Adjustments in the staff
mix and an increase in the number of staff will be agreed during implementation, consistent with the
volume and nature of the activities to be carried out. With further increased capacity built at the district
level, it is expected that direct responsibility for planning, approval and supervision activities will be
gradually taken over by district authorities.
Funds will continue to flow between the ZAMSIF MU and communities for projects financed through the
CIF. Once a district reaches level 5 for CIF, an annual allocation will be made directly from ZAMSIF to
the district authorities, who will then be responsible for financing CIF activities in their district. Regarding
the DIF, funds will be allocated directly from ZAMSIF to individual district authorities initially on a
project by project basis, and once the district reaches level 4 on an annual basis.
A series of committees will be established to overview, guide and monitor the project activities, and to
enhance the flow of information through all levels of government A national level Steering Committee
(SC) will be chaired by the Permanent Secretary for Budget and Economic Affairs in MOFED, as the
controlling officer for ZAMSIF, and include as members the Pennanent Secretaries, Directors of Planning
and/or Chief Planners from the Ministries of Health, Education, Community Development and Social
Welfare, Local Government and Housing, Works and Supply, Environment and Natural Resources, and
Communication and Transport, together with the Directors of the Departments of Water Affairs and of
Roads, representatives from various non-governmental institutions, and the Director of SOPU. The
ZAMSIF MU will be the secretariat to this committee. Representatives from co-financing donors will also
be invited to attend the SC meetings. The role of the SC will be: (i) to guide, develop and hannonize the
project strategy; (ii) to monitor the impact of ZAMSIF interventions; (iii) to approve annual work program
and budget, (iv) to recommend the proposal for the annual GRZ contribution, (v) to monitor the financial
management aspect of ZAMSIF; (vi) to review the efficiency and cost effectiveness of the management
strategy put in place by MU; (vii) to advise on government policy and sector policy issues, and (viii) to
endorse decisions made by Provincial Assessment Committees (PACs). The SC will meet every six
months
At the local level, ZAMSIF will operate through a system of committees at provincial and district levels,
whose functions are described in Annex 2.
Annex 2 also describes in detail the project cycle (for CIF and DIF) and role that various actors play in the
different steps for each level.
The PMA component will be managed by a component manager located within the ZAMSIF MU and
reporting to the ZAMSIF Program Director. Once SOPU in MOFED is established, the component
manager will work in close collaboration with the management of this unit gradually transferring
responsibilities to it. It is expected that by the end of Phase I of the APL, the PMA Component Manager
and the Study Fund Administrator will have migrated to SOPU. A Memorandum of Understanding which
lays ouLt the deliverables for Phase 1 of the APL, has been signed between ZAMSIF and the Central
Statistics Office (CSO), who will remain responsible for conducting the large household survey program.
- 15-



Annex 2 describes in detail the implementation arrangements under ZAMSIF MU and CSO for this
component.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
From SRP II to ZAMSIF. When SRP II was negotiated in 1995, GRZ and the Bank had agreed that
the (MPU), as supported by IDA, will not be sustained beyond the life of the Project" and that "itwas likely
that at the time of the MTR, the capacity of district agencies will have been sufficiently strengthened to
allow the District Development Coordinating Committee (DDCC), with funds from the proposed District
Investment Fund, to gradually assume the functions of the MPU using its approaches and processes" [SRP
II Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), June 19951 During the MTR however, it was assessed that "the progress
in strengthening local government authorities had been slower in general that expected at credit
negotiations. It should therefore not be assumed that the MPU should be discontinued in the year 2000,
and that while the MTR should examine further the decentralization of the MPU and progress in capacity
building of the district staff, the MTR will not plan for the discontinuation of the MPU in the year 2000"
(MTR report for SRP II, September 29, 1998).
The original idea of discontinuing the project's activities in 2000, was considered and rejected by the GRZ,
which in June 1999 submitted a document to the Bank outlining the vision for future activities of SRP, and
requesting Bank's support. In the document it was stated that "while during the preparation of SRP II it was
felt that no additional phase for the project was going to be needed, the actual decrease in basic social
indicatois, acute economic crisis, increase in poverty, both rural and urban, and increased impact of
HIV/AIDS and other epidemic diseases, make a powerful case for continuing the activities of SRP, which
so far has been one of the most successful instruments put in place by GRZ to alleviate poverty and reduce
the negative impact of social and economic crises." In the same document, the GRZ detailed their vision
that "a really successful strategy to alleviate poverty needs to include strong capacity at the local level to
directly respond to the population's needs. This includes both local communities and local govermment's
bodies. The emphasized focus on poverty alleviation is reflected in the proposal of changing the name of
the project from Social Recovery Project to Zambia Social Investment Fund". During the identification
mission for ZAMSIF, carried out in June 1999, it was agreed that ZAMSIF will build upon the positive
experiences made during the implementation of SRP I and II, but expand its focus and strategy, in order to
became the platfonn to develop the national poverty reduction strategy.
Income-generating component. Discussions were held on the opportunity to include an
income-generating component in ZAMSIF's menu. While there was agreement on the fact that stimulating
income-generating capacity at the local level is a critical part of any sustainable strategy to reduce poverty,
it was eventually felt that other channels might be more appropriate. In fact the experience with social
investment funds (SIFs) implementing this type of activities has rarely been successful, since they require
an organizational structure, management skills, and implementation arrangements rather different from the
ones traditionally used by social funds. Currently, a Rural Investment Fund (RIF), supported by IDA,
which will be financing productive activities for individuals and groups, is under preparation. During the
preparation mission, both teams agreed that these projects will be developed as separate windows within
the same implementation framework (MOFED). They will also work towards hannonizing the same
implementation modalities at the district level, the same prioritization process and operational procedures.
Different methodology for community participation. Currently, many organizations in Zambia have
-16 -



expertise in the methodologies to facilitate community participation processes In addition, there is a wide -
range of experiences from other African countries During the preparation mission, it was recommended
that an exercise of taking stock of various community level participatory decision-making methodologies be
organized to establish a common methodology This process would be implemented through the RIF and
eventually become the basis for community participation, for not only the RIF and ZAMSIF, but for all
other interventions to support community priority actions.
Why an APL? The experience of SRP I and II shows the need to provide a longer tenr framework than
that provided by a specific investment loan for the devolution of management of district and
community-based projects to the District Councils The method of "learning-by-doing" and gradual
involvement of districts under SRP I and II has proven to be very successful -- this learning mode would be
formalized in an APL format as we would agree on the sketches of a ten-year program while building in
stocktaking of the learning processes mid-way.
Other alternatives rejected and reasons why. A more traditional capacity-building program through a
free standing training and technical assistance project has proven to be largely unsuccessful and
unsustainable, since staff are trained, but they do not have the opportunity to practice what they have
learned because resources are not made available Instead, the proposed project would combine training,
incentives for improved performance through management of projects and programs combined with a
phased approach that would ensure that districts are not overwhelmed Similarly, in a more traditional
sector program, the Bank would have required that an overall decentralization policy is developed prior to
investing in capacity building. This project takes a more pragmatic approach, since the experience under
SRP I and II shows that the better performing districts can take on more responsibility and improve their
management in the absence of a formal policy In other words the learning-by-doing approach would also
be extended to the development of a decentralization policy. When it was decided to look at an extension of
the activities of SRP I and II, the government also decided to move towards a sectoral approach where the
processes, forms etc. of ZAMSIF would become the basis for agreements with other donors in the area of
community development So instead of continuing tie parallel financing aTrangement witi the European
Union (EU), it was decided to work on a broader framework and allow donors to select in to this
framework.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
A    ..    tor . s  . a a  X .    Project"                      Rting.
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Community Based Development      Social Recovery Projects          S            S
and Social Protection            I and II
Agriculture Sector I             S             S
Environment                      S             S
Social Sector                    Health Sector                    U             S
Basic Education Sub-sector       S            S
Investment Program
Infrastructure                   ROADSIP                           S            S
- 17-



Rural Development                  Rural Investment Fund
Other development agencies
Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer Technische  Support to Decentralization
Zusammenarbeit (GTZ); United
Nations Capital Development Fund
(UNCDF)
European Union (EU), United Nations  Community-based Development::::::::
International Children's Education Fund
(UNICEF), many bilaterals
IP/DO Ratings HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project design reflects lessons learned from international experience with social investment funds
(SIFs), as well as from IDA's experience with SRP I and II (Mid-Term Review for SRP II, Implementation
Completion Report for SRP I). The following are among the most relevant lessons learned.
Clear objectives and consistency with national development strategies. ZAMSIF, like all SIFs, needs
to maintain clear and limited objectives. Efficiency of operational policies and procedures, as well as
overall program effectiveness, depend upon clear understanding of ZAMSIF's role in an overall
developrnent strategy framework When objectives are unclear, efficiency and effectiveness can become
compromised It is particularly important for governments to clarify SIFs' roles in the context of national
policies for social development, poverty alleviation, and decentralization Furthennore, it is important to
remember that SIFs are designed to finance and oversee implementation of subprojects and not to make
policies, and that while SIF managers and staff may bring important perspectives to inform policy
discussions on the above-mentioned topics, participation and coordination of all actors relevant to such
discussions (including from the public, private, and NGO sectors) should be assured.
Key institutional characteristics. The project would place due emphasis on the institutional
characteristics that are considered most critical for success of SIFs: (i) operational efficiency; (ii)
transparency and accountability, which are bolstered by clear resource allocation criteria and operational
guidelines, reliable independent audits and evaluations, an effective management information system, and
vigilant supervision by external financing agencies; (iii) clear and simple procurement and disbursement
procedures; (iv) competitive salaries and freedom from standard government personnel restrictions, in order
to permit reeruitment/retention of a highly qualified staff; (v) proper targeting mechanisms; (vi) integration
of the environmental viewpoint into operations; and (vii) improved attention to monitoring and evaluation
activities, including beneficiary assessments
Sustainability. Subproject sustainability requires a participatory process that seeks open consultation with
conununities on their needs and priorities and an involvement of communities throughout the project cycle
to secure their commitment to subproject operation and maintenance. However, community support alone
cannot assure subproject sustainability. To be fully successful, subproject sustainability requires the
coordinated support of both the central and local governments, with clearly defined roles and
responsibilities for each.
Role of local government. Local (district and provincial) governnent needs to play an important role in
ensuring participatory priority-setting, and in contributing financial resources for subprojects. This can, in
- 18 -



turn, lead to more efficient and equitable distribution of resources within districts, and can improve
prospects for subproject sustainability. GRZ stressed that strengthening local governments' capacities to
carry out these functions should be seen as a key development objective for ZAMSIF.
Temporary nature of SWs. The notion that SIFs are temporary needs to be reexamined. The creation of
SRP as a temporary agency nine years ago, was based on assumptions that local governments would be
rapidly strengthened to prepare and implement programs and projects targeted to the poor, so that there
would be no long tern need for a social fund However, chronic poverty continues to be pervasive, a clear
decentralization policy defining roles and responsibilities of different players is not in place yet, and the
capacity to plan and manage development activities at the local level seems to be still very weak There is
clearly a tension between the long-term objective of building capacity in the permanent structures of local
government, and the immediate need for delivering services to the poor in the rriost efficient and
cost-effective way. The GRZ decision of using ZAMSIF with the objective of building capacity in the local
government structure, seems to go in the right direction of reconciling these two different sets of objectives.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
There are several indications of GRZ's commitment to this project: (i) the decision to house the project
management unit in MOFED, which would provide a strategic location, indispznsable for the coordination
of such a complex, multisector project; (ii) the large amount of resources that the Government will
contribute to the project costs; (iii) the decision to use ZAMSIF to coordinate community based
development, as expressed in the meeting (August 1999) with the international donor community to launch
ZAMSIF; (iv) GRZ is already implementing many of its conmmunity-based activities (even if financed by
other projects) through SRP [i.e. the community-based component of the Basic Education Subsector
Investment Fund (BESSIP); the pilot Enviromnent Fund; the feeder road comp onent of the Roads Sector
Investment Program Project (ROADSIP), etc.]; and (v) the decision to establish a SOPU in MOFED to
consolidate the information on poverty and social conditions and facilitate its use in policy making.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank will bring its experience of social funds in more than 30 countries, as well as expertise in
supporting decentralization processes, strengthening poverty monitoring and analysis systems, and using
community based development as a strategy to contribute to poverty alleviation and creation of a system of
efficient local governments Also, poverty alleviation is a sector where the Bank has traditionally played a
leadership role in Zambia through the support of specific projects and programs and analytical activities
The CAS and the development of the Comprehensive Development Framework., will provide a unique
opportunity for linking the objectives and activities of the project to the broader macro framework. Finally,
while there are several donors contributing to poverty alleviation through community development in the
country, the amount of resources that they can make available is not sufficient to respond to the increasing
needs of the Zambia population, and the Bank's contribution seems to be necessary to have a significant
impact.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
- 19-



Simple screening procedures to ensure targeting of benefits to poorer and more vulnerable groups.
ZAMSIF will refine the system used by SRP II to assess the economic viability and sustainability of
subprojects Guidelines and checklists to guide the appraisal of subproject proposals will be introduced in
the revised version of the Operational Manual (OM), based on the experiences made in other social fund
projects. Training in economic analysis, particularly of economic infrastructure such as water for
irrigation, feeder roads rehabilitation, or technically more complicated projects where choice of appropriate
technologies is critical for the sustainability of the facility built, such as rural water supply schemes, will be
provided to ZAMSIF team before effectiveness, and to district councils and administration staff during
project implementation.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
N PV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Financial accountability. The accounting and financial system used by SRP has been revised with the
assistance of an international consultant on the basis of tenns of reference agreed upon during the MTR,
and it is expected to be finalized before effectiveness. The current financial management arrangements
meet the minimum requirements to comply with the Operational Policies/Bank Procedures (OP/BP) 10.02
on Financial Management. A sound financial management and accounting system is already in place and
has proved adequate over the period of the two preceding projects; qualified accounting and supporting
staff are already in place; and adequate resources are available to ensure that the new project is
implementing smoothly. At this stage the financial management systems in place are not adequate enough
to provide reasonable, accurate and timely information as required by the Bank for PMR-based
disbursements. A financial management assessment was carried out by a World Bank financial
management specialist as part of project preparation, and its findings are detailed in Annex 14.
Fiscal Impact:
Several measures (traditionally built in social funds) will be built in the project design to ensure financial
sustainability of the facilities and activities financed by the project: (i) communities will be expected to
contribute a share of individual subproject costs (equivalent to 15% of the value of the subproject costs),
(ii) as a condition of subproject approval communities will need to submit a plan for maintenance of the
completed asset, (iii) subproject proposals will be reviewed to ensure that sectoral ministries will provide
for recurrent expenditures generated by the subproject and for which the sector has responsibility
3. Technical:
Quality. SRP has developed a good tradition of building quality infrastructure, which compares favorably
in terms of cost-effectiveness and implementation speed with other institutions and organizations
undertaking similar types of work. The SRP experience has been mainly in the education sector, but in
recent years has started to grow also in health, natural resources management (NRM), rural water supply
(RWS) and roads rehabilitation. During the MTR, a technical audit identified strengths and weaknesses in
the technical quality of the infrastructure built. A plan of action with specific mitigating measures for
different types of infrastructure was developed and is being implemented. ZAMSIF will continue using
national technical standards, where these are available and appropriate, and will assist to develop
appropriate standards for those type of projects for which these are not available, or considered not
appropriate Standards will have to be approved by the responsible sector ministry before being applied
ZAMSIF will continue promoting the use of simple, appropriate and environmentally sound technologies
(e g dry sanitation, solar electricity) corresponding to the needs and capabilities (in terms of construction,
operation and maintenance) of the beneficiary communities. Labor intensive work, creating employment
- 20 -



opportunities, will be preferred wherever proven to provide at least equal technical quality at the same cost
as for mechanized work.
Technical supervision and monitoring. As under SRP II, daily technical supervision will be provided by
means of community-hired, ZAMSIF-funded technical supervisors These supervisors have been or will be
recruited, whenever possible, from among those who have undergone SRP-organized training. Those, who
have not been exposed to relevant practical experience since their training twc years ago, will be attached
as apprentice to experienced technical supervisors In addition, pending the outcome of the oncoming
training need assessment, technical supervisors are expected to receive an upgrading training course, in
particular addressing the identified weaknesses in supervision
District Teams, comprising various disciplines and expertise fields, will continue to undertake the
monitoring of technical supervisors. The effectiveness of the technical monitoring will be improved by
raising the frequency (at least monthly) and timeliness of visits, with occasional backstopping by technical
ZAMSIF staff in case of complex technical issues. Wherever necessary, identified through a district
capacity assessment, shortcomings in expertise at district level will be addresscd by hiring consultancy
services. In preparation of the districts' role in implementation under DIF, District Administration and
Council staff will receive an implementation-oriented training, and relevant handbooks will be developed
District teams will continue to undertake the training and monitoring of technical supervisors. The
frequency of visits will be quarterly initially, and then become monthly as capacity increases
In preparation for the envisaged diversification of types of subprojects, the existing technical expertise at
the management unit level has been and will further be extended to cover specific fields such as. (i) roads
and bridges (ROADSIP); and (ii) water and sanitation Specialist expertise, such as required for solar
power installations, will be made available to ZAMSIF through ad-hoc consultancy contracts.
Subproject cost and procurement. The cost of subprojects will be based on the prevailing market unit
cost for materials, skilled and unskilled labor, tools, transport and administrative overhead, with
appropriate allowance for inflation and physical contingencies. Inproved field appraisal techniques will
allow moderate physical contingencies. Below follows a list of types of subprojects with indicative cost
levels (excluding 15% community contribution), based on recent contracts
| 0_      Type of Subproject             Indicative Cost (range) in US$
primary school (standard)                    75,000
primary school (community-type)              28,000
skills training center                       90,000
rural health center                          90,000
market                                      140,000
local court                                  15,000
community police station                     20,000
bus stop/terminal                            10,000 - 60,000
storage shed                                 60,000
road (spot improvement)                      10,000 - 15,000
bridge (timber/concrete deck)                25,000 - 90,000
borehole without/with tank stand              6,000 - 10,000
water and sanitation rehabilitation         100,000
solar lighting system (school)               18,000
solar system (health center)                 25,000
It is expected that the majority of subprojects will be procured through national shopping or direct
- 21 -



contracting, both for CIF and DIF. Special and larger subprojects will be procured through national
competitive bidding International competitive bidding for works is at this stage not foreseen under
ZAMSIF, but threshold rules are included for all procurement modalities For ZAMSIF in general, but in
particular for DIF, procurement regulations set by GRZ for national, provincial and district thresholds will
be harmonized with World Bank procurement guidelines in order to be able to utilize local
(provincial/district) construction capacity wherever possible and create maintenance capacity.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies
The project will be executed by the ZAMSIF management unit, a semi-autonomous unit established within
MOFED, under the direct supervision of the Budget and Economic Affairs Division. Before effectiveness,
the ZAMSIF MU will assume the existing characteristics of the closing Social Recovery Project MPU.
MOFEl) is currently being restructured, and within this ministry will also rest the responsibility for
implementing the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy. As part of the restructuring process, the
SOPU will be established
b. Project management:
The coordination of all activities financed by ZAMSIF will remain in a semi-autonomous MU housed in
MOFED, whose number of staff will be increased and composition will be expanded to respond to the new
challenges posed by the project. A critical part of ZAMSIF activities will be its efforts to gradually build
capacity and hand over responsibilities to local government authorities With this objective a plan for
building capacity and a system of benchmarks to monitor the progress achieved has been developed,
building upon similar experience being supported by other donors such as United Nations Capital
Development Fund (UNCDF) and Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ). Two
technical assistance activities have been carried out to support the design of the institutional arrangements
for ZAMSIF. (i) a management review of the present structure, which will assess the present level of
performance against the revised objectives for the next phase and suggest changes in staffing arrangements,
procedures, etc.; and (ii) a training needs assessment for district authorities, which will provide the baseline
information on the actual capacity of district councils and authorities, and the training requirement
necessary to improve performance
5. Social:
The strengthening of and closer coordination among poverty monitoring, poverty analysis and community
development components will ensure that the project resources reach those groups that are most in need. It
will also ensure that the forms of assistance provided to the communities respond to the traditional features
of the Zambian society, and build upon the system of safety nets already in place. The consistency of the
project strategy with culture and traditions will increase the level of community participation and will
include groups traditionally marginalized, and will guarantee a higher level of sustainability. An accurate
understanding of the socio-cultural features of the Zambian society is particularly critical now that the
project is expected to move into very sensitive areas such as HTlVAIDS, orphans and children and women.
SRP has already put in place a system of collecting qualitative data on the impact of project activities,
which over the years has been transformed into an efficient management tool This feature will be retained
and strengthened whenever necessary. At the same time, as part of project preparation, specific studies on
the challenges posed by individual vulnerable groups (children and orphans, women, HIV/AIDS affected)
and on how to more effectively reach them have been developed and their findings incorporated in the
project design and strategy.
- 22 -



6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category: F
Although the ZAMSIF is not expected to carry out a full Environmental Impact Assessment, as an
environmental assessment (EA) category F (Financial Intennediary) project, all ZAMSIF-funded
commuwity and district projects (under the Community and District Investment Fund components,
respectively) are required to undergo environmental review to determine potentially adverse impacts and
mitigation measures. The reason for this requirement is that although many projects are not expected to
have any negative environmental impacts, some community and district investments might result in adverse
impacts if appropriate mitigation measures are not implemented. In addition, the cumulative environmental
impact of many small investments supported by ZAMSIF across the country inay be significant The long
term success of these investments is also closely associated with sustainability and minimizing potentially
negative environmental impacts since the poorest and most vulnerable sectors of the population are often
the most dependent on renewable natural resources for income generation and risk aversion
In recognition of the above, the ZAMSIF is undertaking the following related activities: (i) mainstreaming
environmental appraisal and monitoring as part of the regular ZAMSIF project cycle; (ii) strengthening the
technical capacity of ZAMSIF staff, district teams and other local project partners and facilitators for
environmlental appraisal and monitoring; (iii) raising community and district authorities awareness about
the potential environmental impact of ZAMSIF-funded activities and actions to mitigate or avoid negative
effects; (iv) directly supporting improved community-based natural resource management as a core
ZAMSIF subproject area while strengthening the project's partnership with the- Pilot Environmental Fund
(PEF) of the IDA-funded Environmental Support Project and other similar efforts aimed at developing
participatory environmental action plans with communities; and (v) preparing a Natural Resources
Management Technical Handbook to help ZAMSIF staff, district teams and other project partners and
facilitators provide sound guidance to communities in the identification, planning and implementation of
natural resource mranagement microprojects
These activities are described in detail in Annex 13.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable)
a. Primaiy beneficiaries and other affected groups:
As discussed above, a permanent system of consultation with various groups of civil society (NGOs,
commun-ity groups, private consulting firms, local technical and social experts, private contractors, etc.)
has been put in place as part of SRP I and II. Over the past nine years SRP I and II have systematically
used beneficiary assessments to get feed back on the project activities, its impact, and the perception of
beneficiaries. The information collected has been used to refine the project strategy and make it more
responsive to people's needs. This feature will be retained in the next phase. Participatory assessments are
also carried out with each beneficiary community before financing subproject proposals, to make sure that
what proposed responds to a need genuinely expressed by the whole communily This feature will also be
retained as critical part of the subproject cycle.
b. Other key stakeholders
Several meetings with key government institutions, local governments authorities, and other donors
involved in the implementation of similar programs were also held as part of project preparation. The GRZ
has also defined a framework to coordinate activities financed by various development partners and
operating at the district and community level, in order to avoid inconsistency in the approach, or
duplications
- 23 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Several measures will be buailt in the project design to ensure the sustainability of sub-projects financed
through the CIF and DIF. Among them: (i) ZAMSIF and District staff will verify a high degree of
ownership by beneficiaries during the appraisal phase, also evidenced by the contribution to the sub-project
costs; (ii) high level of community participation in all phases of the project cycle, including commitment to
operation and maintenance of the facility built; (iii) a menu of technical design prototypes appropriate to
local conditions will be made available to local communities, particularly for rural water supply and road
rehabilitation sub-projects; (iv) approval of subproject proposals will require the submission of operational
and maintenance plan, (v) ZAMSIF and District staff will ensure that sub-projects financed are part of the
district development plan, (vi) ZAMSIF will ensure that representatives of relevant line ministries operating
at district level are involved in all phases of the project cycle; (vii) ZAMSIF and District staff will ensure at
desk appraisal that commitments are made by sector ministries for recurrent expenditures and that
appropriate contributions are available by communities; and (viii) District staff will train beneficiary
communities on how to maintain and operate the facilities built.
The addition of the DIF will help provide incentives for (v) and (vi) above and will gradually ensure that
districts can take over the management of community-based projects, thus ensuring the sustainability of the
approach itself. The gradual move to annual allocations under the DIF will ensure a gradual
learning-by-doing, which will ensure sufficient capacity is available for planning and implementation of
operations and maintenance.
The sustainability of the poverty monitoring and analysis component will be helped by: (i) close
coordination of the activities carried out through these two components with mainstream activities of
government institutions, (ii) establishment of a coordinating mechanism which approves the work program
for poverty monitoring and analysis and monitors the performance of the component; (iii) lowering the unit
costs of the household survey program; (iv) strategic rationalization of the household survey program; (v)
demonstration of Government commitment through gradual increases in the Government's share of survey
costs, and (vi) timely flow of information to policy-makers through dissemination activities.
However significant risks remain including:
* the overall fiscal situation of govemment,
* differences among budgeted amounts and amounts actually disbursed by the central government,
where non-basic services often get priority;
actions by central governments that negatively affects the districts' ability to manage low starting
level of capacity in districts.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
From Outputs to Objective
Economic or social instability                S         Overall monitoring of economic programn by
lnternational Financial Institutions (IFIs)
activities through the self-management by
communities means that this project will be less
affected by such instability -- this has been the
experience of SRP.
- 24 -



Faltering Government commitment to         S        Success of S RP means that there is substantial
local participation, local management of            demand fbr comnmunity-managed interventions
resources and pro-poor policies                     Under ZAMSIF the project will support
monitoring and dissemination of the positive
aspects of such programs, including with
parliamentarians.
The Governrment's poverty policy framework
has identified participation as a major emphasis,
the implementation of this policy will be
strengthened through the poverty monitoring
component.
Sound use of findings of poverty analysis
components will show to policy-makers the
economic andl social implications of lack of
commitment to reducing vulnerability.
Insufficient resources allocated to        H        Overall Bank-dialogue will focus on HIV/AIDS
mitigating the AIDS epidemic, causing the           Increased diadogue on the impacts of not
epidemic to overwhelm government                    addressing thLe HV/AIDS situation built into the
programs                                            poverty analysis component.
ZAMSIF to finance community-based
HIV/AIDS counselors
Allocations to social sectors in budget is  S       Conditions built into adjustment programs.
not maintained in real terms and                    Poverty analysis component has financed policy
improvements in safety nets not carried             relevant workc under SRP II and will continue to
out, resulting in limiting benefits of              do so under ZAMSIF.
community investments                                Establishmernt of poverty unit in MOFED will
help bring these issues to the highest levels of
Government.
Central government engages in actions      H        Parallel but coordinated activities to support
that negatively affect the councils'                decentralization under Bank-financed Public
abilities to raise and manage funds                 Sector Reforn Project.
Conditionality built into district support
component of this project.
Faltering government commitment to use     H        Support for unit in MOFED helps bring data
data and analysis generated by project to           closer to policy makers, building on successful
develop pro-poor policies                           data users group under SRP II, project will
continue to bring in users' perspective
From Components to Outputs
Project implementation not done            N        Experience has been good under SRP I and II,
according to operational manual,                    Bank support tied to this and operational manual
built into legal agreements.
- 25 -



ZAMSIF capacity to manage project           N         Very good performance in SRP I and II,
activities remains high over the life-span            continuity of key staff
of the project;
Limited capacity and lack of clarity of     M         Civil Service Reform Program under
policy framework will inhibit districts               preparation with World Bank support;
from improving                                        Decentralization Policy Document being
submitted to Cabinet.
Capacity building and gradual phasing-in of
responsibility based on lessons learned under
SRP II.
Close involvement of Government             H         Project design provides for the establishment of
institutions in approval, monitoring and              a coordinating committee and unit in MOFED.
dissemination of PMA findings.
Managerial capacity of LCMU not             S         Annual work programs and regular performance
improved                                              audits will identify key skills gaps.
Support for strategic planning provided under
project
jOverall Risk Rating                         S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
As districts become more and more involved in the management of local development programs, including
community-based projects there is an increased risk of resulting poorer governance, which may become
controversial. The building on existing Zambian experience, frequent audits, and gradual phasing of
involvement will help reduce this risk
The move towards an implicit sector-wide approach if implemented in a heavy-handed manner by
Government may pose an issue with the many small donor-driven programs that also support small-scale
projects. The experience with coordination with the EU's Microprojects Programme has shown that while
complicated it is possible to merge two quite different sets of procedures into one set so communities are
not overwhelmed with many different procedures
Finally, the project implementation period will span a general election year. In other countrieihe ruling
party has attempted to use the social fund for party-political gains. However, SRP I and II were
implemented through two electoral cycles and no evidence of political manipulation has been shown.
Continued reliance on the operational manual and its tie to the legal agreements with the Bank helps protect
project staff from undue influence.
- 26 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The Government will have
(i) adopted the project OM;
(ii) established a Project Account in the name of ZAMSIF and depositecl counterpart funds equivalent
to the Government's share for the first sixmonths of project costs equivalent to US$ 140,000; and
(iii) completed the Environmental Impact Assessment Study
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions for disbursement for the PMA component. The Government will have.
(i) appointed a manager for the PMA component selected in agreement with IDA,
(ii) signed the Memorandum of Understanding between ZAMSIF and CSO
Assurances have been obtained during negotiations on the following.
(i) the project will be implemented in accordance with the OM; and that any proposed change to the
OM would be subject to agreement with IDA,
(ii) GRZ and IDA will conduct an MTR of project implementation and iimpact;
(iii) ZAMSIF will maintain a unit cost data base to monitor costs of goods, works and services under
the project,
(iv) the project staff will at all times have qualifications commensurate with their duties,
(v) GRZ will make semi-annual deposits of amounts representing its share of project costs into the
account established for that purpose; and
(vi) GRZ will annually submit to IDA for review an assessment of the progress made in the work
program and planned for the following year.
H. Readiness for Implementation
LI 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable
3 2 The procurement documents for the firstyear's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G).
N/A
- 27 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
@ 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1 2 The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies
Laura lPrigenti v  v              Dzingai B Mutumbuka               M  had N Sarris
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           C untry ManagerlDirector
- 28 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ZAMBIA: Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF)
wa WES
-gW- 
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:              Sector/ country reports:      (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Increase income and living    Percentage of people below the   National household surveys and  Government commitment to local
standards for the vast majority of poverty line decreases   administrative system         participation & local management
Zambians who are poor         Improvement in human          Sector/country reports        of resources and pro-poor policies
development outcome indicators                              Sufficient additional resources
allocated to mitigate HIV/AIDS
epidemic
Program Purpose:              End-of-Program Indicators:  Program reports:                (from Purpose to Goal)
Improved, expanded and        Full devolution of CIF and DIF  Implementation Completion   As a result of the program of
sustainable use of services   activities to district authorities   Report (ICR) for each phase  structural reforms the macro
provided in a governance system  Increase in number of      Joint WB-Government evaluation situation will improve
where local govermnents and   community-driven activities and  Project statistics         The political and economic
communities are mutually      community-based organizations                               benefits of decentralized service
accountable                                                                               delivery will become clearer and
the Government will continue its
support to the decentralization
process
- 29 -



Project Development          Outcome / Impact              Project reports:              (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                   Indicators:
Improved, expanded and       Availability                  All key performance indicators  Political & macroeconomic
sustainable use of services  10% change in distance in time to will be compared to the national stability
provided in a governance system  facilities                average where possible, the   - Maintained allocations in real
where local governments and  10% change in distance to     beforelafter situation for each   terms to social sectors
communities are mutually     facilities for roads, water & new  sector and with/without in  - Improvements in social safety
accountable                  projects (before/after project    beneficiary & non-beneficiary    net programs
communities                  Government commitment to local
10% increase in year that    LCMS Ill and IMS I with       participation, local management
community is accessible      oversampling                  of resources & pro-poor policies
Use                          District health, education & water Project implementation according
1% p.a. (5% eop) increase    adinistrative data            to operational manual
attendance in beneficiary school
by sex/grade more than national  MMS using appraisal &     Sufficient additional resources
average (LCMS/IMS)           evaluation forms as data sources allocated to mitigate HIV/AIDS
1% p.a. (5% eop) increase in    Beneficiary assessments (BAs)  epidemic
MCH attendance in national   Case studies                  Absence of administrative and
average                                                    financial actions which inhibit
10% increase in orphans &    Appraisal & evaluation reports  local governance
vulnerable children attending                              Govermment commitment to
school, beneficiary communities                            implement pro-poor policies
(beforelafter)                                             guided by information on poverty
25% increase in numbers using                              and social conditions
safe water in rural areas
5% increase in numbers using
safe water in urban areas
(before/after)
5% increase in births attended by
trained personnel, before/after
Number of districts at each level BA participatory monitoring
of perfonnance of [IF
Year 1 - 50 level I
Year 2 - 40 level 1, 10 level 2
Year 3 - 30 level 1, 20 level 2, 15
level 3, 5 level 4
Year 4 - 20 level 1, 20 level 2, 15
level 3, 10 level 4, 5 level 5
Year 5 - 12 level 1, 20 level 2, 20
level 3, 15 level 4, 5 level 5
Improvement between
beneficiary/non-beneficiary at
MTR and eop
Satisfaction with:
- council administration
- local line agency representatives
- NGOs/CBOs
- traditional authorities
- Number of project committees
not completing community
sub-projects
- 30 -



Annual public consultation or   Annual poverty report
review of poverty and social
condifions                  District reports
Functioning SOPU in MOFED
managing Study Fund by eop
5 districts using information from
MMS in planning
- 31 -



Output from each             Output Indicators:           Project reports:             (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Community Investment Fund
(Cm
Community projects financed    500 projects financed, eop  MMS commitment ledger        Project implementation conducted
Community projects completed  400 projects completed, eop  MMS justification report     according to operational manual
Basic services improved      0.4 million beneficiaries    MMS appraisal & monitoring    Government increasing financial
OVCs assisted                80,000 OVCs assisted         forms, by type/gender         District Technical staff provide
Communities have access to    In 400 projects beneficiary  MMS evaluation form         adequate support to communities
improved H[V/AIDS information HIV/AIDS module delivered   BA                           to implement project
Communities have access to   50 beneficiary communities have MMS appraisal & evaluation    Government provides adequate
improved IV/AIDS counseling  improved counseling          forms                         staff/operating budget for social
CBOs enabled to manage own   500 project committees trained   MMS evaluation form survey    infrastructure, i e. schools, clinics
development                  20 urban residential development with/without              Government support for targeted
committees trained                                        social protection initiatives
400 commnunities have completed
projects
10% increase in community
driven activities, comparison
between beneficiary and
non-beneficiary communities
- 32-



District Investment Fund
Districts taking over from MU in Staff in 72 districts trained in    MMS regional reports  Project implementation conducted
management of CIF             various modules                District reports              according to Operational Manual
District staff trained as trainees ir Districts in Levels of CIF:  PAC assessment reports  Govemment non-interference in
various modules including     Year 1 60 level I                                            district financial and
participatory planning, project   Year 2 55 level 1, 10 level 2  MMS commitment ledger     administrative matters
management & maintenance,    Year 3 30 level 1, 20 level 2, 15  District reports vs plans
environment, EIV/AIDS, etc    level 3, 5 level 4
Districts able to develop a district Year 4 20 level 1, 20 level 2, 15  BA
stiategic development plan    level 3, 12 level 4, 5 level 5  District development and poverty
Disrics. aleto manage district Year 5 12 level 1, 20 level 2, 20  reduction strategy plans
projects                      level 20, 15 level 4, 5 level 5    MMS completed projects' report
40 training modules for district  DIF appraisal form
staff delivered (eop)
All districts develop situation
analysis
40 districts have completed
poverty assessments
20 districts have completed
district development and poverty
reduction strategy
15 districts implementing annual
investment plans
40 districts implemented DIF
projects
0 8 million beneficiaries
Joint DIF and CIF
Communities hold service      5% increase in successful project MMS application report     All donors follow tequired
providers accountable         applications, eop              BA                            uniform procedures to channel
Communities have confidence in 5% increase in communities                                  funds to districts
district officers             satisfied with district services    MMS benchmark
Monitoring report
BA/LCMS
BAILCMS
- 33 -



Poverty Monitoring and
Analysis (PMA)                Full cycle of household surveys  Annual progress reports    Component implemented
Cost-effective, coordinated  (LCMS & IMS) completed by en Annual assessment               according to Operational Manual
household survey program      of phase                                                    Conditions of MOU between
implemented                   -Year I preparation LCMS &    MMS social fund (SF) report    CSO and ZAMSIF MU followed
Annual report on poverty and    I-3S                        MMS SF commitment ledger    Data is available
social conditions prepared    - Year 2 LCMS implemented    MS SF commitment ledger             a        e
Improved quality for priority and - Year 3 Dissemination of LCMS,                         Demanl report
demand-led studies carried out  preparation of IMS          SF annual report
and disseminated and survey   - Year 4 Implementation of IMS  Evaluation report
results analyzed      - Year 5 Dissemination of IMS,
results analyzed             preparation of LCMS
Capacity built in SOPU       LCMS III report
Provincial reports
Poverty reports
IMS report
6 persons trained in following:
household survey design, data
entry, analysis & report writing
LCMS data available 4 months
after field work
LCMS report completed 6 months
after field work
IMS report available 6 months
after field work
HUS data available on CD-ROM
and WWW 2 months after report
4 Annual Poverty reports
years 2-5
40 demand-led studies, phase I
10 priority studies, phase I
15 capacity building workshops
At least 12 studies funded by
Study Fund use survey data
5 studies analyze impact of
HIV/AIDS
10% of study results used for
policy, eop
SOPU managed at least 5 studies,
eop
- 34 -



Communications Strategy
Improved information to remote  300 radios/year           MMS commitment ledger
comm-unities and marginalized   Regular radio programs    Radio programmer report
groups                       developed and broadcast in
Suppoit to and participation in   vernacular languages    Audience review in Year 3
African Social Investment Funds Regular publication of a
Network (ASIFNet)            newsletter and pamphlets
Website established
Maintain membership in ASIFNe
Sponsor workshop in ASIINet
ZAMSIF Institutional Support
Efficient implementation of  Commitments & disbursements  Disbursement records         ZAMSIF managed according to
ZAMSIF leading to realization of follow profiles, procurement    Quarterly & annual project  Operational Manual
ZAMSIF objectives            plans & AWPB                 reports
Efficient resources utilization    Administration costs less than
Coordination with stakeholders  20% of total ZAMS.F
Average 50% committee        annual audit
membership attendance        Implementation Complelion
Projects technically appropriate & Report
sustained operations &       District reports, PAC & SC
maintenance                  minutes
Reports produced on time     Technical reviews
Reports user friendly & accurate Evaluation forms
ZAMSIF achievements          Evaluation
mentioned in ministers brief    Miniseral briefs (budgets, etc.)
Key stakeholders have knowledge Evaluation
of ZAMSIF procedures &
performance
Project Components I         Inputs: (budget for each     Project reports:             (from Components to
Sub-components:              component)                                                 Outputs)
1. Community Investment      US$ 42.0 million (IDA 37 5   Disbursement record; quarterly  1. Socio-economic stability to
Fund (small community based   million)                    and annual project reports;  allow communities to concentrate
projects including social                                 project MMS and MTR review   on development activities as well
mobilization, infrastructure,                             reports; other technical reviews  as continued support for local
improved natural resources                                and audit; Implementation    management of resources through
management and service delivery                           Completion Report.            community participation
activities and capacity building
for communities)
- 35 -



2. District Investment Fund   US$ 13 0 million (IDA 10.0                              2. Government support for'
(larger projects benefiting more  million)                                            strengthening local government
than one community to be                                                              capacity for service delivery
managed and executed by district
authorities and capacity building
and training for local govermuent
and administration)
3. Poverty Monitoring and   US$ 3.5 million (IDA 3.0                                  3. Close involvement of
Analysis (data collection, training million)                                          Government institutions in
and capacity building on                                                              collection, monitoring and
financial, technical and                                                              dissemination of poverty data and
institutional issues, workshops                                                       analysis findings
and dissemination)
4. ZAMSIF Institutional     US$ 15.7 million (IDA 14 2
Support (administration and    million)
operating costs, beneficiary
assessment, poverty maps and
other targeting, training and
capacity building for ZAMSIF
staff)
- 36 -



Annex 2: Project Description
ZAMBIA: Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF)
By Component:
Project Component I - US$42.00 million
The Community Investment Fund (IDA funding US$ 37.5 million)
CIF will contribute to the improvement of the welfare of poor communities by increasing the access to
quality social and economic infrastructure. The subprojects will be identified, prepared, implemented,
managed and maintained by beneficiary communities The responsibility for operation and maintenance of
the subprojects will depend on the nature of the subproject, but is likely to be that of the conmnunity and
line ministry The target group of ZAMSIP will be poor communities but within those communities
ZAMSIF will ensure that the needs of the most vulnerable are addressed. The most vulnerable will be
identified by the communities themselves but might include orphans and vulnerable children, women,
female-headed households and families affected by HIV/AIDS
The CIF component will be based on the experiences of the Social Recovery Projects I and II There will,
however, be a significant change in the direction and dimension of the ZAMSIF approach. There will be
substantially increased decentralization of decision making and devolution of responsibilities to local levels.
There will be a change in emphasis from the community project as an infrastructure project to the
community project as a focus for the provision of opportunities for social development and increased
access to infornation. New types of projects will be proactively encouraged. These may be diverse and of
a multisector nature. An information campaign will aim to disseminate the information on all the
opportunities available to the poor and remote communities.
Activities of CIF
The CIF component will finance community projects which are a priority ne d for the community applying
for the project and which meet the eligibility criteria described in the Operational Manual These projects
may include, but are not limited to, social infrastructure such as primary health, basic education, rural
water and sanitation and initiatives for women and other vulnerable groups. Economic infrastructure such
as community roads, markets, bridges and natural resource management projects will also be supported.
CIF will also support training and training of trainers Small projects that aim to improve the productivity
and employment for vulnerable groups will be encouraged 'Modules' will be developed for a variety of
topics for facilitation and delivery at community level during the life of the project. These will include
discussions related to HIV/AIDS, environment, community-based strategies for orphans and vulnerable
children, etc.
Capacity building
ZAMSIF will also support community based capacity building and training programs. These will be aimed
at enhancing the capacity of communities to plan and manage their own development There will be three
aspects of capacity building.
'Learning by doing' as communities plan, implement and maintain their community based projects will
form a major part of management capacity building Manuals for project m.anagement will be developed
and available. District and ZAMSIF staff will also be available to give advice during implementation.
- 37 -



Training modules will be developed in the first year of ZAMSIF. The modules will be short discussion
sessions using various participatory techniques and adult learning methods and will be delivered by trained
facilitators. The modules will cover topics such as maintenance, HIV/AIDS, gender sensitization,
development of a community-based OVC strategy, environmental appraisal and management, procurement,
financial management and so on The modules will be facilitated during project implementation at different
stages of the project cycle.
Community training. Support will also be given to training of community members in, for example,
appropriate community based service delivery, such as home based care, counseling, business and
entrepreneurship skills, traditional birth attendants, community health workers and community vets. These
capacity building programs will be on a demand led basis and technically qualified persons will be hired.
New projects. In the first year of ZAMSIF, time and focus will be spent on exploring and designing 'new'
types of projects. These could be projects which support neighborhood watch associations as well as
improvements to local courts in both urban and rural areas, cattle clubs, community managed post offices
and communication centers and irrigation systems.
Targeting of CIF projects
Communities in every (72) district of Zambia will be eligible to apply for CIF Initially, ZAMSIF will
assist districts to manage the CIF until the district capacity is sufficient for them to take over the various
functions. The district capacity will be assessed in respect to a number of criteria related to (i) a council's
commitment to abide by the terms of the project; (ii) existence of a consultative planning and prioritizing
process for the use of the funds made available by the CIF, and (iii) sufficient financial, technical and
management capacity
ZAMSIF will use the following targeting mechanisms:
(i) Inter-district indicative planning.figures ZAMSIF will allocate funds to all districts for the CIF
according to an agreed formula. The formula for the calculation of the Indicative Planning Figures
(IPF) will be simple to apply and will be based on population, incidence of poverty and size of the
district. The IPF formula will be agreed in consultation with districts during the workshops
planned in the first year of ZAMSIF
Annual commitments, or the IPF, made to districts will be well publicized using the IEC,
newsletters and through the Provincial Assessment Committees (PACs), the DDCC and district
council. If these commitments are not taken up because of remoteness, district capacity and other
constraints, an annual district assessment will be facilitated by the PAC.
(ii) Intra-district planning. The capacity building component of the DIF activities will be available to
all districts on a demand led basis. Support will be given to districts to enable them to develop
targeting mechanisms, which will include district situation analysis, poverty assessment, District
Development and Poverty Reduction strategy and annual investment plan, depending on the level of
the district. The plans will guide the process of allocating resources to the poorest and most remote
communities and, in order to access more resources under the DIF, districts will be asked to
provide evidence that approved CIF projects comply with the District Development and Poverty
Reduction plan.
(iii) Type ofproject Only simple small projects, which meet the basic needs of the poor, will be
eligible for funding by the CIF, such as primary education, primary health care, latrines and water
supply. Rigorous screening criteria will be used during microproject appraisal, including a
- 38 -



mandatory field appraisal and social assessment of beneficiaries, to ensure that only poor
communities and beneficiaries are served and that the voice of the marginalized is heard. ZAMSIF
will continue to post an increasing number of staff to more difficult to reach and poorer areas.
Particular emphasis will be placed on targeting poor and vulnerable groups, such as orphans and
vulnerable children, female headed households, women, and persons living with HIV/AIDS, the
disabled and their caretakers.
CIF project cycle
Identification and application. Communities will be informed of the opportlnities made available by
ZAMSIF through district and sub-district staff, counselors, churches, NGOs and other communities. The
IEC strategy will also make information available to communities, especially regarding the more diverse
and multisector type projects. Projects will be identified following an examination of community problems
by communities themselves. The community should be prepared to provide a significant self-help
contribution and should have already started contributing before making an application.
Desk appraisal. A Planning Sub-Committee (PSC) meeting will be held to review the project proposals.
Members of the PSC, which is a subcommittee of the DDCC, might include senior district council and line
department staff, including District Planning Officers, Technical Officers, District Line Department staff
and District Council staff At the desk appraisal meeting, project applications are discussed and the best
proposals selected Applications are appraised according to the following agreed criteria:
*  The project proposal must comply with National, Sector and District Priorities Issues to be
considered would be the availability of recurrent costs and service delivery, the poverly focus and
the likelihood of impact on the environment
* There should be evidence that the project represents a community priority need, that the community
is committed to the projects, that they have contributed about 15% to the project and there is
existing self reliance.
* The benefits should accrue to the poor and vulnerable
*  The project costs and the likely size of the investment is reasonable in relation to the benefits, and
the size and complexity of the project should be within the capacity of the community.
* The community must be committed to maintenance and that the ope:rational and management costs
are ensured.
Field appraisal. Projects approved at desk appraisal are then subjected to a field appraisal The District
Planning Officer (DPO), district officer in charge of the sector, a technical officer and a member of staff
from the Regional Planning Section of Ministry of Local Government and Housing (MLGH) in the
province will attend. The ZAMSIF Regional Officer (RO) will also assist until districts show they are able
to facilitate the complete process on their own, (level 2 of CIF). The main objective of the field appraisal
will be to ensure that the project represents a priority for the majority of the community and that all
members of the community have participated in the decision making process. The community will also have
contributed to the project and demonstrate how it will continue to do so. Social, maintenance and simple
environmental appraisals will be facilitated anld relevant modules delivered. The community then agrees on
what they will do and how they are going to achieve their aims. A technical appraisal of the proposed
activities is also undertaken which collects all the information required to m,ake an accurate project design,
with schedules, bills of quantities and costs. Sector relevant infonuation is also collected to provide base
line or 'before' data for evaluation purposes. An appraisal form is filled in at the end of the field appraisal.
- 39 -



Costing and budgeting. The desk and field appraisal reports form the basis for the costing of the project.
Initially these will be submitted to ZAMSIF MU where recommendations by the appraisal team will be
checked by a committee of senior ZAMSIF MU. Budgets, plans, schedules will be prepared by the
Technical Section for those projects which are recommended Budgets are based on bills of quantities of
materials and details of labor, transport and furniture and equipment requirements Detailed budgets are
prepared for each individual project target based on the information obtained by the district team at field
appraisal The ZAMSIF will support this stage in the project cycle, until districts have the capacity to take
over the complete design and budget function, Oevel 3 below) .
Approval. Initially for those districts in levels I - 3, new project proposals will be submitted by ZAMSIF
MU to the members of the ZAMSIF Microproject Technical Committee (a subcommittee of the Steering
Committee) every month for consideration. A time period of 3 weeks will be given from the time of
submission for members to study the proposals. Projects will be deemed approved on "absence of
objection" at the expiry of this time period. For those districts in levels 4 and 5, CIF projects will be
recommended by the PSC to the Plans Works and Development Committee of the full Council. The DDCC
will be informed The Plans Works and Development Committee in turn will present the complete proposal
to the full District Council for approval. The District Council will inform ZAMSIF who will in turn report
to the Steering Committee for information only. At level 4, the District Council will approve projects up to
a limit of US$ 50,000 and at level 5, within the annual allocated budget. The approved projects will be
reported to the ZAMSIF Steering Committee for information only.
Project launch workshop. Following the formal approval of a project proposal, a financing agreement is
prepared between ZAMSIF and the community or between the District Council and the community. The
financing agreement includes a summary of the budget and an outline of the responsibilities of the various
parties involved in implementing the project It is accompanied by a detailed budget showing the quantity
and estimated price of materials, labor, transport and furniture and equipment for each project component.
Project Launch Workshops (PLW) will be conducted for every approved project at the project site by the
ZAMSIF RO and relevant members of the PSC. These will take place after the community has received its
Financing Agreement but before it is signed. Financial management, project planning, maintenance,
storage and procurement modules are facilitated. No funds will be released until a successful PLW has
been conducted and about 15% community contribution is available on site. Districts in levels 3-5 will
conduct the Project Launch Workshops without support from ZAMSIF.
Disbursement of funds. For those districts in levels 1- 4, the ZAMSIF will disburse funds directly to the
beneficiary community project bank account. For those districts which have reached level 5 of the CIF, the
district will disburse funds from their CIF allocation. The fimding will only commence once the Project
Committee has opened a bank account, solely for the project's use, and a copy of the relevant financing
agreement, signed by all parties concerned, has been received by the ZAMSIF or the district. In any event,
signed copies of all financing agreements should be submitted to ZAMSIF MU. The disbursement of funds
will normally be made in four installments.
Implementation. Communities may vary the mode of implementation They may either decide to
implement the project using direct labor, procuring materials themselves, or it may decide to employ a
contractor In any case, procurement guidelines will be available. The community will be responsible for
ensuring that their contribution is available on the project site. ZAMSIF will provide necessary available
manuals which will provide information on technical, management and maintenance issues. Project
management, maintenance, financial management and other project related modules will be delivered during
implementation.
- 40 -



Monitoring, reporting and supervision. Quarterly monitoring visits to each project will be conducted by
the ZAMSIF Regional Officers, Provincial Regional Planning of MLGH and relevant District Officers for
CIF projects in districts at level 1. For those districts in levels 2-5, monitoring of community-based projects
will be entirely their responsibility. ZAMSIF and the PAC will monitor projects on an ad hoc basis The
District Officers will be expected to visit the projects once a month or at any other times as and when it is
necessary. The monitoring team will check expenditure against physical progress, technical quality of the
project, compliance with environmental safeguards and community involvement and be available for
problem solving. The District Tearn members will report to their sector line ministry supervisors as well as
to ZAMSIF Regional Office and the PAC using standard monitoring forms.
Evaluation. An evaluation of the completed projects will be conducted 12 months after the project is
completed The team undertaking an evaluation will collect information from the completed project so as to
compare with the 'before' data collected at appraisal.
Levels
One of the major objectives of the ZAMSIF is to contribute to the building of capacity for improved local
govemance in the districts. The DIF component will support substantial capacity building so as to enhance
the capacity of district staff to facilitate the activities of the CIF project cycle described above, so that, in
the long term, districts will be able to undertake all the tasks including financing community projects.
Presently ZAMSIF is involved at every stage of the project cycle. But during the life of ZAMSIF, the
actors at each stage of the CIF project cycle will change, depending on the capacity of the district to
facilitate each activity. Some districts will move faster than others.
There will be five levels, moving from the current process, where ZAMSIF will be involved in all activities
to the final scenario, where ZAMSIF will act as a financing and monitoring agent A PAC will be
established in each Province. The PAC will have representatives from district officers (both Local
Government and Line Department) as well as Provincial Officers and ZAMSI F The progression of a
district from one level to the next will be based on an annual assessment made by PACThe Provincial
Assessment Committee will also make recommendations to the ZAMSIF Steering Committee The
assessment will be based on criteria set by the Steering Committee of the ZAMSIF and will be agreed in a
consultative process with districts.
Level 1. Level 1 reflects current practices for SRP Il. The communily will identify its highest
priority project and submits its proposal to the district PSC. The PSC will appraise the proposal
with the ZAMSIF RO. The DDCC recommends the subprojectto the ZAMSIF MU, the project
design and costing is completed and the project will be submitted to the ZAMSIF Steering
Committee for approval. The community will implement the project, with support provided by the
district with the ZAMSIF RO. ZAMSIF MU will disburse funds to the communities who will
account directly to the ZAMSIF MU.
Level 2. Districts in level 2 will have demonstrated their capacity and fulfill agreed criteria for the
appraisal of project proposals and support for the implementation with regular monitoring and
technical advice Districts will recommend subprojects to ZAMSIF MU for funding and the
ZAMSIF Steering Committee will then approve these.
Level 3 Districts in level 3 will have the capacity and fulfill agreed criteria for the complete
appraisal, budgeting and costing of the subproject and will support the implementation with regular
monitoring and technical advice. Districts will recommend subprojects to ZAMSIF MU
-41 -



Level 4. Districts in level 4 will have the capacity and fulfill the agreed criteria to support the
justification function. They will also be responsible for the approval of subprojects (up to US$
50,000) and will submit these for funding from ZAMSIF MU. The ZAMSIF MU will disburse
funds to communities but communities will account for funds to the district. The district will
submit a financial report to ZAMSIF and, based on this, will recommend (or not) subsequent
release of funds from the ZAMSIF MU to the communities
Level 5. Districts in level 5 will have shown adequate financial management capacity and
accountability to receive an annual commitment for CIF projects at the beginning of each financial
year from ZAMSIF which will be disbursed to districts in tranches The district will then cost and
approve community subprojects, disburse funds to communities, communities will account to the
district and the district supports implementation and evaluates the subprojects. It is proposed that
the annual allocation may be calculated on the basis of population size, prevalence of poverty and
size of district but a consultative process will determine this.
Project Component 2 - US$13.00 million
The District Investment Fund (IDA funding US$ 10.0 million)
The DIF aims to provide local governments with means to improve their strategic development planning,
technical, management and financial capacity and to apply these skills and thereby contribute to the
achievements of the three development objectives of ZAMSIF The DIF component will provide funds to
local governments (district councils) to finance economic and social infrastructure benefiting more than one
community such as district health facilities and market places. Funds will also be available for capacity
building and skills training for district officers on a demand led basis to enable them to facilitate the
activities of both CIF and DIF project cycles, training of trainers for cormmunity capacity building such as
home based care, HIV/AIDS counseling, participatory techniques, and so on The primary criteria to
enable districts to access the DIF funds is that they agree to the conditions described in the MOU. All
those districts which sign the MOU will then be eligible to access the DIF for capacity building. Districts
which have shown a minimum capability in facilitating certain functions of the CIF, have a functioning
DDCC and some financial management will be eligible to access DIF funds for district projects. The level
of funding to districts for DIF projects will depend on their capacity to facilitate CIF project cycle
activities.
There will be two main activities at the district level:
(i) Capacity building, which will improve the capacity of all districts to facilitate community-based
planning, implementation, management and maintenance of social and economic infrastructure and
training projects which will aim to improve the living conditions of the poorest communities.
Districts will also be able to access funds for capacity building on a demand led basis for planning,
financial management, design and costing of projects and training of trainers for facilitation of the
various 'modules'. In order for the districts to move up through the levels and for ZAMSIF to
achieve its objectives, there will be a substantial capacity building program. A capacity building
manager and two support staff will be recruited by ZAMSIF to organize and coordinate capacity
building under this component
(ii) DIFfor district projects will be accessible to those districts which qualify and are in levels 2 - 5.
These projects will be identified through a district planning process and implemented, managed and
maintained by the district administration. They will benefit more than one community and will
clearly be a district responsibility for operations, management and maintenance.
- 42 -



DIF and levels of access
The DIF component aims to facilitate the creation of capacity to devolve presenit ZAMSIF functions to
eligible districts. It is recognized that districts presently have varying capacities to undertake the activities
required of the CIF. The DIF will put in a mechanism whereby the process proceed according to district
capacity As capacity increases then the responsibilities increase. As the responsibilities increase, the
access to benefits to the district also increase.
At the start of ZAMSIF, it will be assumed that all districts are able to desk appraise CIF project
proposals, assist with some aspects of the project field appraisal and to adequately monitor community
projects At the start of ZAMSIF, then, the base-line will be 72 (all) districts in level I of both the CIF and
DIF. In the first year of ZAMSIF, a district assessment will determine the start level classification for all
districts. The assessment will be done by the PACs which will be set up in each Province Districts will be
asked whether they agree to the conditions described in the MOU. If the district signs the MOU and opens a
specific DIF bank account, it becomes eligible for the capacity building component of DIF
Districts will be assessed on an annual basis by PACs and the graduation or demotion from one level to the
next will depend on this assessment. The assessment will include the ability to effectively facilitate CIF
project cycle activities; technical capacity; financial management, and district planning and coordination.
Districts will be promoted or demoted to levels appropriate to the level of DIF intervention.
The Levels are as follows:
* Level 1. Districts in level 1 will be those which have signed the MOU and are able to adequately
sensitize communities and facilitate the access of communities to CIF, perform desk appraisals and
monitor community projects and be in level 1 of the CIF. These districts would not be able to
access DIF funds for DIF capital projects but will be able to demand training, technical assistance
and capacity building
B Level 2. Districts which have demonstrated capacity to facilitate CLF project cycle activities which
include participatory identification processes with communities, conduct desk appraisals regularly,
facilitate field appraisals, regularly monitor and evaluate community projects, but still need
assistance to complete an accurate project budget. The district will also have sufficient technical
capacity to implement a DIF project and account for the funds; have evidence that the DDCC
meets quarterly with good attendance; some sectoral coordination mechanisms in place, including
a District Planning Officer; and a district situation analysis developed and approved by the District
Council will reach level 2 of the DIF. Meeting these criteria will allow the district to access the
DIF for DIF projects worth up to total of US$ 30,000 for as long as the district remains at level 2
The DIF project must represent a priority investment and which would fit pre-agreed eligible
categories. At this level, ZAMSIF staff will assist the district to develop accurate and appropriate
project budgets for both the CIF and DIF projects
•  Level 3 Districts which have perfonned well at level 2, have proven financial management
capacity, have developed District Poverty Assessment (DPA) and District Development and
Poverty Reduction Strategy (DDPRS) approved by the District Council, show evidence that
approved CIF projects reach those targeted by the plan, have design, costing and budgeting skills
would then be eligible for resources to fund one or more DIF projects up to a cumulative amount of
US$ 75,000 for as long as they remain level 3. Districts in this category will be in level 3 of the
CIF.
- 43 -



*  Level 4. Districts which continue to perform satisfactorily on the pre agreed criteria and are in
level 4 of the CIF (the district performs all tasks of the CIF project cycle, except the disbursements
to community projects but including approval and accounting for funds by the communities
implementing projects) and which have an approved annual investment plan based on DDPRS will
be eligible for an annual DIF indicative planning figure based on criteria, which will include
population, poverty, performance of CIF as well as any previous DIF activities;
*  Level 5. Districts that show consistent good performance of councils for more than one year,
which have a basic poverty information system, evidence of some subdistrict planning would be
eligible for an annual allocation plus a premium.
ZAMSIF Minimum Access Conditions, Performance Criteria and Means of Verification
Level 1               Level 2                Level 3                Level 4                Level 5
ZAMSIF Support        ZAMSIF Support         ZAMSI1F Support        ZAMSIF Support         ZAMSIF Support
CIF (funded to        CIF (funded to       CIF (funded to           CIF (funded to        Annual allocation of CIF
communities from,     communities from     commmities from MU)      communities from      Annual allocation of DIF
MU)                   MU)                  DIF project up to US $   MU)                   + premium
Capacity-building    DIF proj ect up to    100,000                  Annual allocation of    Capacity-building
US$ 50,000           Capacity building        DIF
Capacity building                             Capacity building
District Role         District Role          District Role          District Role          District Role
CIF desk appraisals  Field appraise        Appraise, cost & budget    Appraise, cost &    All activities for CIF
Monitor projects     for CIF projects         budget for CIF        management
Appraise, cost, budget &    projects and DIF  All activities for DIF
implement DIF projects    projects            management
CIF Approvals
CIF justifications
Minimum Access        Minimum Access         Minimum Access         Minimum Access         Minimum Access
Conditions            Conditions             Conditions             Conditions             Conditions
* District signed MOU    * Technical capacity to    Technical capacity to  Capacity to approve  As previous tiers, plus
District signed       appraise but not cost   appraise, cost and budget   CIF projects and  Capacity to manage &
financing agreemnent  a CIF or DIF project   CIF & DIF projects     account for funds     allocate annual
for capacity building  Facilitation capacity    Proven capacity to  Capacity to manage    allocation of C1F
funds                 to facilitate field  implement DIF            & implement annual    Financing agreement
DIEF bank account     appraisal;          * Continued financial     allocation of DIF    signed
open for capacity     Financial capacity;  management capacity      Annual development
building funds        Relevant financing    Outline Poverty         Investment Plan
agreements signed    Reduction Strategy (PRS)   (estimates) approved
Council/DDCC         objectives drafted,      by Council
functioning          endorsed by DDCC &      Relevant Financing
DPO employed         approved by Council      agreement signed
Adequate district   * Strategic Development
situation analysis   Plan & Poverty
(DSA) & poverty      Reduction Strategy
assessment (PA)      drafted, endorsed by
* drafted, endorsed by    DDCC & approved by
DDCC & approved      Council
by Council           Relevant financing
agreements signed
- 44 -



Performance Criteria  Performance Criteria   Performance Criteria   Performance Criteria   Performance Criteria
Satisfactory desk &  As Level I plus:     As Level 2 plus:         As Level 3, plus:     As Level 4 , plus:
field appraisals      At least quarterly    Evidence of sectoral     Desk appraisals       District Planning
District team Where    meetings of DDCC    co-ordinationwithin       report/prioritize    Information System &
there is no           with senior officer   DDCC (planning           against Annual        Poverty Monitoring
fimctioning District  attendance. Minutes   information,             Development Plan &    operational
PSC, the District     reported to coiuncil  multisectoral projects)  PRS                   DSA + PA include
team will perform     PSC reporting to      Desk appraisals report   Projects reaching     mapped data
this function         DDCC after each      against PRS               targeted
completing reports to    desk and field     Projects reaching poor &    commuriities/sectors   Innovations & d ood
DDCC & Council on    appraisal              remote communities, and   DPU accommodation    Inactionsu& good
desk & field          Appraisal and        those targeted in PRS     & equipment in        practice such as:
appraisals            monitoring reports    DSA & PA reviewed &      operation             Sub-distinct planing &
DEI  DTT = District    submitted           updated Includes          Participatory M&E of   operational
Technical Team, inc.    Facilitation of    participatory assessment    CIF & 'DIF shows    operational
Director of Works,    community                                      public satisfaction   Rlannin docuents
Building Officers,    participation for CIF                                                panning doumen
PWD who will report   projects                                                            facilitation of CIF
to PSC regular
monitoring of CIF
projects and reporting
CHECKLIST:            CHECKLIST:            CHECKLIST:               CHECKLIST:            CHECKLIST:
Means of              District reports      District reports         Districtl reports     As previous levels
Verification: District    Minutes of DDCC &    Minutes of DDCC &     Adequacy of Minutes
reports (showing      Council               Council                  & Documentation
reference to ZAMSIF   -DSA & PA             DSA & PA documents       SDP, PRS & Annual
Operational           documents             PRS objectives           Develcpment Plan
requirements)         CIF / DIP Project     CIF / DIF Project files  documents
Signed MoU            files                 Beneficiary assessment    CIF I DIF Project
DDCC minutes          Council accounts     reports                   files
Council minutes                             DIF and Council          M & E reports
CIF I DIF Project                          acco-unts
files
District planning and poverty reduction
The minimum access conditions for a DIF project include capacity for some district planning especially
for poverty reduction and coordination. Skill gaps exist for participatory ancd district planning including
data collection, data analysis and policy development. There have been few district level attempts at
poverty analysis although significant amount of data are collected and maintained in the district by
sectors. The DIF will provide the incentive for districts to improve their capacity for district planning
as the targeting, identification, appraisal, and approval of projects will be oM the basis of an
increasingly comprehensive district planning process.
ZAMSIF will provide the incentive to achieve an increasingly comprehensive plan over time and as
districts move up the levels. The planning is phased and will be a gradual pirocess. Training and other
activities will be supported to allow districts to have the full planning capacity when they reach level 5
The type of plan expected is therefore different for every level of ZAMSIF, starting with a very simple
district situation analysis which would summarize the existing situation in the district but finishing at
level 5 with a comprehensive District Development Plan and annual investment plan. It is anticipated
that the process will take time and in the first five years of ZAMSIF few districts will have the full
- 45 -



planning capacity. It is also expected that planning capacity in some districts will be strengthened by
other interventions, such as UNCDF and GTZ and that the process and content of the planning process
will be developed in close co-operation with them and the districts.
Project Component 3 - US$ 3.50 million
Poverty Monitoring and Analysis (IDA funding US$ 3.0 million)
The overall objective of the PMA component is to strengthen the capacity to provide timely infonnation
on poverty and social conditions and facilitate its use in policy making.
The PMA component will finance a range of activities which are designed to strengthen the institutional,
technical and financial framework for sustainable monitoring and policy-use of poverty information These
activities will be (i) training and a pre-agreed cycle of household surveys, including the LCMS and IMS,
conducted by the Living Conditions Monitoring Unit of CSO, (ii) priority policy studies and analyses of
poverty using qualitative and quantitative data coordinated by the Study Fund; (iii) preparation and
dissemination of an Annual Poverty Review which provides a poverty update synthesizing different sources
of information on social conditions including from household surveys, administrative systems, participatory
assessments, etc. including findings from the studies to be facilitated by the Study Fund; (iv) training,
technical assistance, capacity-building and support to the establishment and operation of a Strategic and
Operational Planning Unit; (v) establishment of capacity for evaluation
Organizational framework of the PMA component
SOPU. Government has recognized the problem of coordination and has approved the establishment of a
SOPU in MOFED. The SOPU will coordinate and analyze the proposed implementation strategies of
various plans to ensure that they are consistent to the cross cutting issues of gender, poverty reduction,
population and environment
It is anticipated that the SOPU will manage the PMA component after 5 years, once capacity is built. In the
meantime, the PMA component manager will co-ordinate and manaage the relevant activities of the PMA
component of both the LCMU and Study Fund.
PMA component manager. The PMA component manager will report to the ZAMSIF Programme
Director on all financial management and procurement issues. Survey activities of LCMU will be
co-ordinated by the PMA component manager who will liaise with the Director of CSO and the designated
Assistant Director on the general development of the surveys, etc. according to the MOU signed between
ZAMSIF and CSO. The PMA component manager will manage the activities of the Study Fund until these
activities are taken over by the SOPU
An AWPB will also be prepared in advance of the relevant year by the CSO for agreement by ZAMSIF
and the World Bank which provides details for the year on each of the headings covered within the
Implementation Framework Agreement. The PMA component manager will facilitate the production of the
AWPBs. The PMA Steering Committee will approve annual work plans, survey methods, training
programs, research appraisal and selection, discuss the social and economic policy implications of survey
and research results and ensure that the relevant sector ministry will take policy and/or planning action.
- 46 -



PMA Steering Committee. The PMA component will also be guided by a series of committees led by a
Steering Committee. The PMA component manager and his or her team will initially act as secretary to the
Steering Committee but this function will be taken over by the SOPU after three years. The Chairperson
will be elected annually from within the membership. The PMA Steering Committee will be represented on
the ZAMSIF Steering Committee. The membership of the PMA Steering Committee may include
representatives from government, research institutions, the donor community, special task forces
(HIV/AIDS, OVC, Disaster Unit, etc.) and NGOs.
Technical subcommittees of 4-5 members will serve on the PMA Steering Committee. The technical
subcommittees will review survey methods and tools; agree indicators to be collected; approve data
analysis and presentation; study and research proposals; refer qualifying proposals to relevant peer
reviewers; recommend proposals for funding, ensure the technical quality ancl policy relevance of the
monitoring and analysis, advise on dissemination methods and so on.
Activities of the Living Conditions Monitoring Unit
The Living Conditions Monitoring Unit witiin the CSO will implement one frill cycle of two household
surveys in the first five years of ZAMSIF. The cycle will include both development, implementation and
dissemination of one Living Conditions Monitoring Survey, (LCMS Ill), which will include the household
budget survey, and preparation, implementation and dissemination of an IMS'.
The LCMS and IMS will continue with large sample sizes in order to provide data at the district level.
District level data is vital for district to plan for and monitor development activities The surveys will have
a minimum core list of indicators to be used for monitoring to be repeated in each survey but will also be
flexible enough so that topics may be added or expanded on Certain geographical areas may be over
sampled according to the demand of the users, to monitor specific programs (e.g. the CIF or DIF of
ZAMSIF)
Living Condifions Monitoring Survey. Activities in the first five year cycle will include.
*  The LCMS III (2001) will require 12 months of survey preparation, including user producer
meetings, questionnaire development, enumerator training and development of manuals, data
management training for provincial offices, refining the enumerator areas and samples.
*  An LCMS, which will incorporate a Household Budget Survey (HBS), will be conducted over the
second twelve month period and will cover all the 72 districts in Zambia. The total sample size is
expected to be about 18,000 households which will cover an average of 20households per
Standard Enumeration Areas (SEA) -- 15 households in rural SEAs, and 25 households in urban
SEAs. It is planned that 75 full time enumerators will sample about 1,500 households per month.
The final sample will be agreed at the time of survey preparation by CSO in consultation with
IDA
* The LCMU will produce a preliminary report after the first six mornths of data has been entered
and cleaned. Detailed analysis of the poverty and living conditions indicators and dissemination of
results will take place in the third year of the program The LCMS will aim to produce the final
report on the living conditions six months after the fieldwork ends This will be possible because
data entry and cleaning will be done concurrently.
- 47-



Indicator Monitoring Survey Following the dissemination of the LCMS III, an indicator monitoring
survey (IMS I) will be prepared and conducted covering all the 72 districts of Zambia on a sample basis.
The IMS I survey will have the same sample size as the LCMS III but it will be conducted at one point in
time preferably in September - October, before the onset of the rains. The IMS I will cover the same core
indicators as the LCMS UI but the expenditure and consumption data will not be as detailed. The sample
size will be agreed by CSO and IDA at the time of preparation
The IMS I is expected to take 6 months to prepare and 8 months to complete data collection and prepare a
report
The LCMS and IMS data will be made available on CD-ROM and the WWW (world wide web) two
months after the reports on the respective surveys are ready. Detailed documentation of the surveys will
also be made available two months after the data has been disseminated.
The survey cycle is summarized below
Year I         Preparation LCMS III
Year 2         Implementation LCMS III
Year 3         Analysis and Dissemination LCMS Ill
Preparation of IMS I
Year 4         Implementation of IMS I
Year 5         Analysis and Dissemination IMS I
Preparation LCMS IV
Year 6         LCMS IV
Year 7         Analysis and Dissemination LCMS IV
___________ <     Preparation of IMS II
Year 8         Implementation IMS II
Year 9         Analysis and Dissemination IMS II
Preparation of LCMS V
Year 10        Implementation of LCMS V
Year I I       Analysis and Dissemination of LCMS V
The deliverables that will be due in cycle 1 of the poverty monitoring component of ZAMSIF will also be
required in Phase 2 of the APL.
Management of the LCMU. The LCMS and IMS will be implemented by the Living Conditions
Monitoring Unit in the CSO The Living Conditions Monitoring Unit will consist of one Senior Statistician,
four statisticians and three support staff. The Head of LCMU (the Senior Statistician) reports to the
Assistant Director in charge of Economic Statistics, who in tum reports to the Director, and will liaise with
the PMA component manager The direct day-to-day assigmnents of the Unit related to the PMA
component will be based on a Memorandum of Understanding between ZAMSIF and CSO(Annex 14).
During fieldwork, statisticians from other branches will be incorpomted in order to provide the number of
personnel required to train field staff and supervise fieldwork
The PMA component may also support capacity building of LCMU staff in the Statistical Analysis System
(SAS) software, data entry, analysis and repoTt vwiting, survey design and sampling. The capacity building
will take place either on short courses for selected members of LCMU or on training courses in Zambia
using consultants.
- 48 -



Activities of the Study Fund
Scope of support. Poverty analysis will be implemented by the Study Fund, an independent and
autonomous entity, administered by a secretariat headed by the PMA component manager. The Study
Fund will support the analysis of poverty issues which identify the effects of social, economic and
environment policies on the poor and vulnerable. The capacity of Zambian institutions to undertake
research, to analyze existing data and to perfonn quality research and evaluations will also be enhanced.
The Study Fund will: i) provide government, donors and others the opportunity and capacity for poverty
research and analysis which is demand led in both social sectors and environment and which is made
available to policy makers; ii) create capacity in the Strategic and Operational Planning Unitin MOFED
to sustain its functions of policy fonnulation, analysis, inter-agency coordination and communication,
planning, monitoring and evaluation of poverty related activities; iii) provide annual report on poverty and
social conditions, iv) pilot the use of poverty related data at district level; and v) create conditions for an
establishment of an evaluation association.
It is intended that 10 commissioned priority studies and 40 demand led studies will be supported in the first
five years of ZAMSIF, as well as 5 capacity building workshops.
The Study Fund will continue to act as a resources center and will improve the process of the dissemination
of results by development of a web site and use of the proposed Information Education and communication
campaign under ZAMSIF.
Study cycle. Study proposals will be presented to the PMA secretariat which will make an initial
screening to ensure that the basic criteria are met. The proposal will then be presented to the relevant
subcommittee of the PMA The subcommittee must agree that the proposal mreets basic technical, financial
and policy criteria and assigns two peer reviewers, one of whom will review the technical aspects and the
other the policy relevance of the proposal. The peer reviewers make their recommendations to the relevant
technical subcommittee which either rejects or recommends the proposal The technical subcommittee
representative reports the outcome to the PMA Steering Committee. Once a study proposal is approved,
the PMA and researcher agree on a financing agreement or contract.
Guidelines, manuals and proposal forms will be made available to researchers The PMA component
manager will also be available for advice. The relevant subcommittee members are also available for
technical advice and input.
Dissemination workshops will also be supported by the PMA component and may include workshops,
seminars, conferences, report distribution, press releases, bulletins and newsletters
Project Component 4 - US$15.70 million
Institutional Support (IDA funding US$ 14.2 million)
This component will finance implementation support such as administration, operating costs, beneficiary
assessment, environmental impact assessment, poverty maps and other targeting, training and capacity
building for ZAMSIF staff.
- 49 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ZAMBIA: Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF)
Community Investment Fund                                32.70          0.80        33.50
District Investment Fund                                  8.80          1 50        10.30
Poverty Monitoring & Analysis                             2.00          0.80         2 80
Institutional Support / Operating Costs (OC)             11 00          1 60        12 60
Total Baseline Cost                                      54.50          4.70        59.20
Physical Contingencies                                   6.90          0.60         7.50
Price Contingencies                                      6.90          0.60         7 50
Total Project Costs             68 30          5.90        74.20
Total Financing Required              68.30         5 90        74.20
Grant - Community Investment Fund                          41.95          0 05        42.00
Grant - District Investment Fund                            9.35          0.05         9.40
Technical Assistance/Studies/Training - includes all       11 00          1.50         12.50
activities under Poverty Monitoring & Analysis, as well as
all Capacity Building Activities
EquipmentNVehicles - US$ I million taken out of OC for                    1.50          1 50
replacement of vehicleslequipment
Operating Costs                                             6.00          2.80          8.80
Total Project Costs    68.30           5.90        74.20
Total Financing Required     68.30          5.90         74.20
- 50 -



Annex 4
ZAMBIA: Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF)
Economic Analysis
Given the multisector nature of the interventions under each ZAMSIF component, and the fact that benefits
gained are longer term rather than short term, a cost-benefit analysis is not suitable for the project. Much
of the returns will be in the form of enhanced social capital and sustainability of community assets that will
be built through the ZAMSIF investments. Nonetheless, for each of the components, ZAMSIF will pursue
cost-effectiveness measures and simple screening procedures where applicable. For example
(i) Cost-effectiveness of subprojects will be ensured,inter alia, by provision to communities of
project menus, costed design options and encouragement of local competition in procurement of
goods and services.
(ii) ZAMSIF will refine the system currently used by SRP II to assess the economic viability and
technical sustainability of sub-pTojects. Guidelines and checklists to guide the appraisal of
sub-project proposals will be introduced in the revised version of the Operational Manual, based on
the experiences gained in other social fund projects.
(iii) Subprojects will be appraised by ZAMSIF in conjunction with relevant sectoral technical staff in
order to ensure that the technical specifications of sub-projects are consistent with sector technical
standards
(iv) Training in economic analysis will be provided to ZAMSIF staff before project effectiveness and
district staff during project implementation. The training will concentrate on economic
infrastructure projects (e.g. water for irrigation) and technically comp'Lex projects (e.g. rural water
supply schemes) where the choice of appropriate technologies is critical for the sustainability of the
facility built
(v) Under the CIF, community contributions as a share of sub-project cos0 will be taken as an indicator
of community ownership and commitment to maintain the productive life of the assets. An average
of 15 percent of total sub-project cost is to be contributed by commun ities Similarly, under the
DIF the district will be asked to contribute an average of 15 % of the total project cost as a means
of encouraging fiscally responsible investment decisions.
(vi) The household survey program of the CSO to be supported by the proiject under the PMA
component will be developed modified in sample size, composition and frequency to reflect
long-term financial viability. Any additions to the core survey program generated through demand
by users will be costed and recovered from the users. Efforts will also be made to improve data
access such that the collected data can be more fully utilized for analysis.
(vii) Beneficiary assessments and additional modules in the CSO's household surveys will be
implemented during the lifetime of the project to assess project impact on communities.
In addition to the simple screening methods described above to ensure pro-poor investments, it was
considered necessary to introduce some simple geographic targeting to ensure that project resources are
concentrated on the poorest regions. Indicative Planning Figures (IPFs) will be developed for each district
based on its rank in an index of poverty, population and accessibility. The fornula for the IPF will be
developed and applied by project effectiveness
- 51 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ZAMBIA: Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF)
Years Ending
Yearl     Year2      Year3      YeaYea      Year      Year 6  | Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            7.4       13.3       15.7       15.7       15 1        0.0       0 0
Recurrent Costs              1.4        1.4        1 4        1.4        1.4        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs           8.8       14,7       17.1       17 1       16.5        0.0        0 0
Total Financing               8.8       14.7       17 1       17.1       16 5        0.0        0 0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   7.5        13A4       14.8       14 8       14.2       0.0        0 0
Government                 0.4         0.4        1.4        1.4        1 4       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.4        0,4        04         0.4        04        00         0.0
Provincial                         0.0        1 0        1.0        1 0       0 0         0 0
Co-financiers                          0.0        0 0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0 9         0.9        0.9        0 9        0.9       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0 0
Total Project Financing      8.8       14.7       17.1       17.1       16.5        0.0        0.0
|Year 1e   arar2     Year 3 _   Year 4  | Year 5       Year       Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           7.4       13.3       15.7       15 7       15.1        0 0        0.0
Recurrent Costs            1.4        1.4        1.4        1 4        1.4        0 0        0.0
Total Project Costs          8.8       14.7       17,1        17.1       16.5       0- 0       0.0
Total Financing              8.8       14.7       17.1        17.1       16.5       0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   7,5       13.4       14.8       14.8       14.2       0.0         0.0
Government                 0.4        0.4        1.4        1 4        1.4       0.0         0.0
Central                0.4        0.4        0.4         0 4        0.4       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        1.0        1.0        1 0        0.0        0 0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0 0        0.0        0 0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0 9        0 9        0.9        0.9        0.9       0.0         0 0
Others                     0 0        0 0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0 0
Total Project Financing     8 8       14,7       17.1        17.1       16.5       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 52 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ZAMBIA: Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF)
Procurement
It is not possible to determine the exact mix of works and goods to be procured under the CIF and DIF due
to the demand-driven nature of ZAMSIF. Funding for these components will be in the form of grants
Therefore, the types of subprojects to be financed under the ZAMSIF and theilr procurement details will
depend on the needs identified by communities and districts. However, based on the implementation
experience of the Social Recovery Projects I and II trends have emerged with respect to the mix and size of
projects demanded by communities.
Procurement for all IDA financed activities will be carried out in accordance with the Bank'sGuidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and revised in January and August
1996, September 1997, and January 1999), in particular Section 3.15 Commumity Participation in
Procurement. Consulting services by firms or individuals financed by IDA w:ill be awarded in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
(January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999) TheAfrica Guidelines for Simplified
Procurement and Disbursement for Community-Based Investments has also informed in the design of
procurement under this project. All International Competitive Bidding (ICB) will utilize the Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents; bidding documents for National Competitive B.idding (NCB) will be
submitted to IDA for prior review, as appropriate. A General Procurement Notice will be published on an
annual basis.
Institutional arrangements These arrangements are outlined in Section 3 ofthe Operational Manual,
prepared by the Government and include guidelines for the procurement to be undertaken under the Credit.
The OM will be modified during implementation as necessary subject to agreement between the
Govemment of Zambia and IDA Procurement arrangements will be outlined in greater detail in Section 9
of the OM.
Procurement management Procurement of equipment vehicles, supplies and services for ZAMSIF will
be the responsibility of the ZAMSIF MU. The MU will also have responsibility for procurement related to
the Poverty Monitoring & Analysis component ZAMSIF is represented at the provincial level by Regional
Officers who are responsible for. (i) ensuring that communities and districts receive appropriate training,
documentation and guidance, (ii) ensuring that documentation is maintained by the communities and
districts; (iii) monitoring contracts entered into by the communities and districts at the local level, and (iv)
if necessary, providing clarification on the appropriate tendering process for works, goods and services.
Procurement under CIF will, for the most part, be the responsibility of the Project Committees, who will be
trained prior to and during the implementation of sub-projects. For the procLurement of furniture and
equipment for health and education facilities, the MU may procure, on behall of a group of communities, to
ensure quality, cost efficiency and durability. Procurement forms to be used by the communities are part of
the Financing Agreement (see Annex 7 of the Operational Manual) entered into with the communities by
ZAMSIF MU. All tender documentation related to a sub-project will be maintained by the community.
In addition to districts funding community sub-projects, districts will, based on their assessed capacity, be
responsible for implementing and carrying out procurement for activities funded under DIF. Prior to
districts undertaking procurement utilizing IDA funds, training will be provicled to ensure familiarity with
- 53 -



tlle guidelines and requirements. ZAMSIF MU, in consultation with the Zambia National Tender Board
will be responsible for developing a set of guidelines and certifying procurement worthiness of the districts
The draft guidelines will be submitted to IDA for review and comments. It is anticipated that, with
improved capacity of the PACs, these assessments will increasingly become the responsibility of the PACs.
Thresholds (determined in accordance with the agreed guidelines) for district level procurement would be
increased according to assessed competence Districts with lower assessed capacity will receive support
from ZAMSIF ROs in the tendering process. Those districts which have been assessed to have adequate
procurement capacity will be given the responsibility for the tendering processin line with the authority
levels defined in the above stated guidelines Once the districts are deemed eligible, they will maintain the
procurement documentation for DIF sub-projects
Unit cost database The ZAMSIF ROs will collect, and maintain on a monthly basis, the costs and rates of
15 of the most commonly used items from a random sample of at least three suppliers and employers. Unit
prices for other items will be collected by the ROs on a quarterly basis This information will be entered
into the MMS, replicated to the MMS at the ZAMSIF MU and made available to districts. The data will
be used for appraisal, monitoring, costing and reviewing project budgets, and used as a guide for
justification and procurement utilizing lump sum fixed contracts and National Shopping The ZAMSIF
MU will maintain and update quarterly a unit cost database for all items (building materials, labor, tools,
furniture, equipment and transport) commonly required for project implementation, based on regional
prices.
Procurement monitoring and evaluation. The ZAMSIF MU has provided a 5 year rolling procurement
plan, by quarter (see Annex 18 of the OM); a detailed plan for the first year has been submitted and will
subsequently be submitted on an annual basis. The ZAMSIF MU will also monitor all procurement related
information for project implementation. Such monitoring would provide information including the type of
contract, number and value of contracts awarded, procurement methods, cumulative value of aggregate
limits, number and amount of contracts subject to prior review by IDA, and number of suppliers and
contractors that have been directly contracted to execute works. IDA will undertake full supervision
missions semi-annually, and interim reviews will be undertaken every second quarter
Procurement audits. Procurement audits of a sample of community and district projects will be organized
by ZAMSIF and district staff, and will be undertaken on a periodic basis A procurement checklist will be
prepared by the MU for use by the ROs and districts. A sample of projects will be reviewed for
procurement practices in the annual external Financial Audit. Global audits will be undertaken by external
auditors prior to the mid-term review and prior to the end of the Project.
Subprojects. Activities anticipated to be carried out under ZAMSIF predominantly consist of social and
economic infrastructure identified by communities and districts. Their values, based on previous
experience, average US$ 75,000. Most subprojects are expected to consist of contracts for minor works
(MW) and goods. Procurement by communities for works equal to or below US$ 50,000 would be
undertaken utilizing shopping/MW following the Guidelines (as outlined in the Project Implementation
Manual and financing agreements - Technical Annex 7) Procurement by Districts for works equal to or
below US$ 50,000 is expected to consist of formal local shopping, where the contract is advertised,
prospective bidders who respond are invited to bid, and the bids are opened in public. Goods and services
equal to or below US$ 30,000 would be procured utilizing shopping procedures as set out in the
CGuidelines For subproject works contracts whose values are above US$ 50,000, but not exceeding US$
500,000 NCB would be used following the Guidelines No works contracts are expected to exceed US$
500,000 where they would be subject to ICB following the Guidelines. Contracts for goods and services
costing above US$ 30,000 but not exceeding US$ 100,000 will be procured utilizing NCB following the
- 54 -



Guidelines All goods contracts above US$ 100,000 will be procured utilizing ICB in accordance with the
Guidelines. Local shopping for CIF subprojects is estimated to amount to US$, 28.4 million, with NCB
anticipated to amount to US$ 7 5 million, and the remaining 1 6 million will be procured utilizing ICB.
DIF subprojects arnounting to approximately US$ 2 6 million will be procured utilizing local shopping,
with US$ 3.5 million procured under NCB guidelines, and the remaining US$ 0.3 million being procured
through ICB
Goods. In addition to the goods required under sub-projects, goods expected to be procured for vehicles,
computers and equipment for the MU and PMA component. Operation and maintenance of vehicles and
equipment, travel, and other operating costs will also be procured. Those contracts equal to or below US$
30,000 vmould be procured utilizing shopping procedures as set out in the Guidelines, and the aggregate for
these is estimated at US$ 0.1 million. Contracts for goods and services costing above US$ 30,000 but not
exceeding US$ 100,000 will be procured utilizing NCB following the Guidelines; the aggregate value for
NCB is expected to be US$ 0.5 million All contracts above US$ 100,000 will be procured utilizing ICB
in accordance with the Guidelines and these are expected to amount to US$ I I million.
Consultant services. Consultants, both international and national, will be engaged in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines: Selection andEmployment of consultants by WorldBank-Borrowers (Consultant
Guidelines), published in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999. Single-source
contracts with finrs or individuals may be awarded, on an exceptional basis, with IDA' s prior agreement,
in accordance with provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines, justifications
for single-source contracts may include prior experience in similar assignrnents, and assignment of a
specialized nature where the availability of capable consultants is limited The bulk of the consultants will
be hired utilizing quality and cost based selection method (see Section II, para. 2.1-2.28, of the Consultant
Guidelines), and is estimated to be approximately US$ 6 million The use of qcuality-based selection will be
used for priority sector studies and is estimated to amountto approximately US$ 800,000. Least cost
selection will be utilized for selecting consultants who will supervise works, and review/develop designs;
this is estimated to amount to approximately US$ 300,000. Approximately US$ 400,000 worth of
consultants will be selected based on the consultants' qualifications, and is expected to cover district
planning and environmental impact assessments. An amount of approximately US$ 500,000 might be
needed to sole source consultants who would undertake the capacity building of districts required under the
Project. They would be hired in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the
Consultant Guidelines The hiring of consultants selected utilizing selection of individual consultants is
estimated to amount to US$ 400,000 and will be in accordance with Section V, para. 5.1-5.3 of the
Consultants Guidelines.
Prior review. All works contracts estimated to cost US$ 250,000 and above will be subject to IDA's
prior review. For goods, contracts estimated to cost US$ 100,000 and above will be subject to IDA's prior
review, as well as the first three contracts undertaken utilizing NCB. It is anticipated that approximately
5% of suib-projects' contracts will be post reviewed. The terms of reference for allconsultant service
contracts will be subject to IDA's prior review. IDA's prior review and approval will also be required for
short list(s), budgets, selection procedures and criteria, letters of invitation, evaluation reports and contracts
for the following consultant service categories: (i) all contracts with firms estimated to cost US$ 100,000
equivalent per contract or above; (ii) all contracts with individuals estimated to cost US$ 50,000 equivalent
per contract or above; (iii) single source selection of consultant firms or individuals, regardless of contract
values; (iv) assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by IDA; and (v) amendments of
contracts raising the total contract value to US$ 100,000 or US$ 50,000 equivalent or above or firms and
individuals respectively. For routine consultant services, generic terms of reference can be prepared and
submitted to IDA for prior review, to avoid the need for systematic prior reviews of routine assignments
- 55 -



Overall procurement risk assessment. A procurement assessment was conducted in March of 2000,
observations have been taken into consideration in the design of the Project, and the risk was rated average.
The assessment is available in the project files
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed. IDA will undertake full supervision
missions semi-annually, and interim reviews will be undertaken every second quarter
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
~ V
1. Works                            0 00           0.00           0 00           0 00           0 00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (O 00)         (O 00)
2. Goods                            1 10            0 50          0.10           0.30           2.00
(1.10)         (0.50)         (0.10)         (0 00)         (170)
3. Services                         0.00            0 00           8.10           1.20          9 30
Technical Assistance/             (0.00)          (0 00)         (8.10)        (0.00)          (8 10)
Studies/ Training
4. Institutional Support            0 00            0.00          11.00          2.00           13.00
Operating Costs
(0.00)         (0.00)        (11.00)         (O 00)        (11 00)
5. Subprojects                       1.60           7.50          28.40           5 10          42 60
A. CIF                         (1.60)          (7 50)        (28 40)           ()          (37 50)
5. Subprojects                      0.30            3.50          2 60           0 90           7 30
B. DIF                          (0 30)         (3.50)         (2.60)         (0.00)         (6 40)
Total                            3 00           11 50          50.20           9.50          74.20
___________________________        (3  00)        (11 50)        (50  20)        (0.00)        (64.70)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting selvices, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 56 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services  QCBS        QBS        SFB        LCS         CQ        Other    Total Cost 1/
Expenditure Category
1. Finns               6.20                             0.60       0.50        0.20        7.50
(6.20)                           (0.60)   _(0.50       (0 20)      (7.50)
2 Individuals                                                       0.20       0.30        0 50
__ _20) _0.30          (0.50)
Total                  6.20       _                 _   0.60        0.70       0.50        8.00
__________ __     (6 20)                   (0.60)      (0.70)     (0.50)      (8.00)
I/ Including contingencies
2/ Note. QCBS = Quality and Cost-based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants' Guidelines), Conunercial
Practices, etc.
NBF = not Bank-financed
3/ Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be fimanced by the Bank loan.
- 57 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works                        >500                     ICB                      All
Subprojects                    50-500                   NCB                  Contracts >250
<50                   MW/LS                All Post-Review
2. Goods                        >100                     ICB                      All
Subprojects                     30-100                  NCB                1st Three Contracts
All others - Post Review
<30                     NS                   Post Review
3. Services(consultant)         >100                    QCBS                All (6.0 million)
Firms                           50-100             QCBS/LCS/Other       All contracts > $100,000
for firms
Individuals                      <50               QCBS/LCS/Other       All contracts>$50,000 for
individual consultants
Post Review
4. GOODS                        >100                     ICB                      All
30-100                  NCB               1st Three Contracts
All others - Post Review
<30                     NS                   Post Review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: (US$ 8 0 million for
consultants; US$ 3 0
million for goods)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 3 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
IThresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 58 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The project will be implemented over a five year period, starting July 1, 2000 The Project Completion
Date will be June 30, 2005, and the credit closing date will be December 31, 2005. The proposed
allocation of the credit is shown inTable C below.
The MU of ZAMSIF will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures
for the project meet Government and the World Bank standards. A Financial Management Action Plan has
been developed to lay out an essential institutional set-up and intemal contrcl mechanisms as well as to set
forth necessary actions for systems development for sound financial management, and incorporated in the
Operational Manual.
At this stage, ZAMSIF is not yet ready for disbursements based on Project Management Reports (PMR),
as discussed in the World Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative Ha:ndbook (LACI, September
1998) Therefore, in the short-term, the existing disbursement procedures, as outlined in the World Bank's
Disbursement Handbook, will be followed, i.e., Direct Payment, Reimburserment and Special Commitment.
Grants for the CIF will be paid in four tranches 36%, 24%, 24% and 16%. The ZAMSIF MU will
disburse funds for the first installment directly to communities after the Project Committee opens a bank
account for sub-project use and the Financing Agreement signed by all parties concemed. A copy of the
agreement will be submitted to ZAMSIF MU. Each successive installments will be made only after
justification of 75% of the previous installment and 100% of all installments before that
Districts will be assessed annually on their ability to effectively facilitate CIF project cycle activities,
technical capacity, financial management and district planning and coordination and placed in one of the 5
levels. Only those districts at level 3 and above would be eligible to receive grant funds for projects from
ZAMSIF.
To ensure that IDA does not finance taxes, only 90% of local expenditures on equipment and vehicles will
be financed by IDA. "Local expenditures" are defined as "expenditures in ihe currency of the Borrower or
for goods and services supplied from the territory of the Borrower".
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Grants - Community Investment Fund          33.70               100% of contracts disbursed
Grants - District Investment Fund           8 00                100% of contracts disbursed
Consultant Services/Studies/                10.00                        100%
Training/Workshops
Equipment/Vehicles                          1.50               100% of foreign expenditures
90% of local expenditures
Operating Costs                             5.00          _               100%
Unallocated                                 6.50
Total Project Costs                         64.70
Total                                       64.70          _
- 59 -



Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit will be fully documented, except for the following,
which may be claimed on the basis of certified SOEs (a) expenditures for works contracts with an
estimated value of US$ 250,000 or less; (b) goods and equipment less than US$ 100,000; (c) consulting
services with a value of US$ 100,000 or less per contract for finns and US$ 50,000 or less for individual
consultants; training, workshops, studies and study tours; and (d) all grants and operating costs.
Documentation supporting expenditures claimed against SOEs will be retained by ZAMSIF MU and/or
eligible Districts and will be available for post review when requested by IDA supervision missions and
project auditors. Disbursement and withdrawal procedures are detailed in the World Bank Disbursement
Handbook (1992 edition). All disbursements will be subject to the conditions of the Development Credit
Agreement and the procedures defined in the Disbursement Letter.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures, the Government will open one Special Account in a
commercial bank satisfactory to IDA, to be managed and administered by ZAMSIF MU, in order to cover
part of IDA's share of eligible expenditures under the project. Authorized allocation of the Special
Account will be US$ 5.0 million ZAMSIF MU will be responsible for submitting replenishment
applications regularly with appropriate supporting documentation for expenditures Applications could be
submitted monthly under normal circumstances, but not less than every three months. Withdrawal
applications for direct payment from the credit to suppliers/contractors may be submitted with adequate
documentation To the extent possible, all of IDA's share of expenditures should be paid through the
Special Account
- 60 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ZAMBIA: Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       6                             8
First Bank mission (identification)              06/15/99                      06/15/99
Appraisal mission departure                      03/13/2000                    03/13/2000
Negotiations                                     03/22/2000                    03/22/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    07/01/2000
Prepared by:
Laura Frigenti
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
'sNm<>                                  k     Slat4 .nK.J  '                         "  W: XP4 
Laura Frigenti                    Task Leader
Hope C. Phillips Volker            Operations Officer
Mirey Ovadiya                      Operations Analyst
Marianne Fay                      Economist (Decentralization)
Wendy Roseberry                    Senior Technical Specialist (Health)
Trina Haque                        Economist
John Ngwafon                      Economist / Statistician
Leendert J. Sinke                 Architect
Francisco Pichon                  Natural Resources Management Specialist
Steen Jorgensen                    (Quality Assurance Team) - Sector Manager, Social Protection
Jim Hicks                          (Quality Assurance Team) - Lead Specialist
Charles Magnus                    (Quality Assurance Team) - Senior Financial Analyst
Brighton Musungwa                  Financial Management Specialist
V.S Krishnakumar                   Senior Procurement Specialist
Steve Gaginis                      Senior Disbursement Officer
Aberra Zerabruk                    Senior Counsel
- 61 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ZAMBIA: Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF)
A. Project Implementation Plan
Operational Manual (Submitted January 2000)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Procurement Assessment
Financial Management Assessment
C. Other
*Including electronic files
- 62 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ZAMBIA: Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF)
Difference between expectei
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Borrower                       Purpose                               IBRO       IDA         Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P003218        1995 Zambia                       AGRICULTURESECTOR I                       0 00      60 00         0 00      22 51      2613       1 34
P003249        1999 Zambia                       BASIC ED SEC INV PRG                      000       4000          000       3491       1132       036
P044324        1997 Zambia                       ENTERPRISE DEVELPMNT                      0 00      4e 00         0 00      37 74      30 27      0 00
P040642        1996 Zambia                       ERIPTA                                    000       2E 00        000         483        475       000
P003253        1997 Zambia                       Environmental Seupport Program            000       12 80         000       1058        422       000
P003258        1994 Zambia                       FINANCIAL & LEGAL MATTERS                 0 00      18E 00        0 00       1 68       1 74      0 85
P003239        1995 Zambia                       HEALTH SECTOR                             0 00      56 00         0 00      27 89      2930       0 00
P003236        1998 Zambia                       NATIONAL ROAD                             0 00      7C 00         0 00      5215        060       0 00
P003252        1994 Zambia                       PETROLEUM REHAB                           000       3C 00         000       2358       2446       000
P035076        1998 Zambia                       POWER REHAB                               0 00      7E 00         0 00      70 46      53 61      000
P050400        2000 Zambia                       PUB SVC CAP (PSCAP)                       0 00      28 00         0 00      27 42       000       000
P003210        1995 Zambia                       SOCIALRECOVERYII                          000       3C00          000        101        484       000
P003241        1995 Zambia                       URBAN RESTRCT &WATER                      0 00      3E 00         0 00       7 42       1 83      .0 21
Total:       0 00      520 80        0 00      32218     192 67       2 34
- 63 -



ZAMBIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollats
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998               AEFAmaka Cotton                 1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.30    0.00     0.00    0 00
1994               AEF Big Five Car                0.52    0.00    0.00    0 00      0.52    0.00     0.00    0 00
1999               AEFDrilltech                    0 20    0.00    0.15     0.00    0.20    0.00      0 15    0 00
1999               AEF Esquire                     0.43    0 00    0.00    0 00    0.43    0.00       0.00    0 00
1997               AEF JY Estates                  0 89    0.00    0 00    0.00    0.89    0.00       0 00    0 00
1995               AEFKailaLodge                   0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0 10    0.00       0 00    0 00
1997               AEF Pentire                     0 57    0 00    0.00    0.00    0.57    0 00       0.00    0.00
1972/73            Bata Shoe ZA                    0.00    0 00    0.00    0 00    0.00    0.00       0 00    0 00
1997               Finance Bank                    401     0.00    000      0.00     1 51    0.00     000     0.00
1997               lMDHz                           0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00
1998               Nicozam                         0.00    0 30    0.00    0 00    0.00    0.30       0 00    000
1999               Zamcell                         4 50    0.60     0 00    0.00    4.50    0 60      0.00    0 00
TotalPortfolio.         1252      140     015      0.00    10.02    1.40    0,15    000
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
1999               AEF Kembe Estate               1300.00      0.00       0 00      0.00
1999               AEF Mpelembe                    700.00    300.00       0 00      0.00
2000               KCM                                0.00  22800 00   7200.00      0 00
2000               Lusaka InteiCon                 4600.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1997               Safari Intl.                   2000.00      0.00    750.00       0 00
Total Pending Commitment:      8600 00  23100.00   7950.00       0 00
- 64 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ZAMBIA: Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF)
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Saharan       Low-
Zambia      Africa   Income      Developmient dlamond*
1998
Population, mid-vear (millions)                          97        628     3,515                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                      330        480       520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                         3 2       304      1,844
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                           26        26         17
Labor force (%/)                                         3 0       2 6        1 9     GNP                               Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                                 per                            nprimnary
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)    68                                              ,
Urban population (% of total population)                 44         33        31
Life expectancv at birth (Years)                         43         51        63
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)               113         91        69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               24                                      Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                   53         47        74
Illiteracy (% of populatlion age 15+)                    25         42        32
Gross primary enrollment (% of sohool-age population)    89         77       108                 Zambla
Male                                                   91         84       113            --Low-income group
Female                                                 86  69 103 -
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
GDP (US$ billions)                             2 5       2 3       3 9        3 4      Economic ratios'
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                 24 7      127        14 5      14 3
Exports of poods and services/GDP             39 4     39 5       31 7       29 4                     Trade
Gross domestic savin4s/GDP                    22 1      16 5       93         5 3
Gross national savings/GOP                    13 5       0 4       3 3       -0 9
Current account balance/GDP                   -8 6     -15 3      -11 1     -15 2                      v
Interest Pavments/GDP                          3 0      3 2        1 5        2 7     Domestic                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                93 1    292 5      171 9      204 8     Savings
Total debt service/exports                    26 6      18 5      21 6       231
Present value of debt/GDP                                        128 2
Present value of debt/exports                                    385 8
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997       1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   0 5      0 7       3 4       -2 0       3 9             -- Zambia
GNP per capita                       -4 1     -1 2       1 4       -4 0       1 7             -- Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        -3 9      2 1      14 6       -7 5       6 4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment I%)
(% of GOPJ
Agriculture                                   181       120        186       194       45
Industry                                      416       455       346        296      30
Manufacturing                                19 6     285        135       128       is
Services                                      402       42 4       46 7      50 9
Private consumption                           51 5      63 1      79 4       83 8     -is     9     94   95   se  957   99
General government consumption                264       204        113       108                    GDI          e--DP
Imports of ooods and services                 41 9      35 7      37 0       38 4
(average annual growth)                    1977-87  1988498       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Aariculture                                     1 4     -5 2       -5 1      -61      6
Industry                                      -0 4      -3 5        8 7      -4 3     4e
Manufacturina                                 1 8    -11 4        7 4      -10
Services                                       0 4       81         3 2       4 4
Private consumption                            18        12         2 6      -14      23      ,      6                7-
General government consumption                 -2 1    -11 1        07       -9 6     2
Gross domestic investment                      -9 6     10 3       25 4      -3 5     40
Imports of goods and services                  -51      -0 7       192       -8 2             --Exports         e  Imports
Gross national product                         -1 1      1 6        3 9      -1 8     *
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country fin bold) compared with its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete
- 65 -



Zambia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                             1977    1987       1997      1998      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                        200
Consumer prices                              19 B     43 0      24 8      28.7    150
Implicit GDP deflator                         8 2     62.0      25 9      23 2     .o-
Government finance                                                                 50
(96 of GDP, Includes cu/rent grants)                                                o -                      I
Cumrent revenue                                       19.8      19 8      181              93   94   S6   go   97   96
Current budget balance                         ..    -7 3        1 4       1 4                   GDP deflator    *  CPI
Overall surplusideficit /a                     .      -5 8      -6 2      -9.5
Overall surplus/deficit lb                            -2 6      -1.9      -4 3
TRADE
1977    1987       1997     1998      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
(usS$ mililons)
Total exports (fob)                          897      867      1,119      874      1,600
Copper                                               736       623       442
Zinc                                                  51       185       143    1,200
Manufactures                                  .       42       180       186
Total imports (cifl                          683      669      1,056     1,022      80
Food                                                  11        12        11      40
Fuel and energy                                      67         87       59
Capital goods                                        250       665       687        a
92  93  94  959 t6 S7  95
Export price index (1995=100)                   .      75         84       70
Import price index (1995=100)                 42       74         91       84              etExports     [JImports
Termsoftrade (1995=100)                        .      101         93       83
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                              1977    1987       1997      1998      Current account balance toGDP ratio (0/)
Exports of goods and services                970      918      1,230      984       0
Imports ofgoods and services                 971      892      1,432     1,286
Resource balance                               -1      27       -202      -302  o5
Net income                                   -134    -344       -219     -190    -10
Net current transfers                        -        -30        -16       -17
Current account balance                     -217    -347        -438     -509
Financing items (net)                        179      611       470       348      20 -
Changes in net reserves                       38    -264         -32      161    -29
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)        94      111        238       69
Conversion rate (DEC, IocaYUS$)               0        98  5    1,314 5   1,862 1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997     1998
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        2,341    6,626     6,758     6,862
IBRD                                       293      555        62        42                   G- 374  A: 42
IDA                                          0      260      1,493    1,544              F: 122                 44
Total debt service                           259      171       282       244
IBRD                                        26       28        40        25
IDA                                          0        1         14       16
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                     105       378       240       E: 2,971
Official creditors                          70       99        87        74                                     c 1,138
Private creditors                           42      -38         9       -32
Foreign direct investment                             0        70       219
Portfolio equity                             0        0         0                                      D: 671
World Bank program /c
Commitments                                 60       43        156      145      A - lBRD                     E - ilateral
Disbursements                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Disbursements                               46       98       118       157      C - IMF                      G- Short-term
Principal repaVments                         6       26        49        31
Net flows                                   40       72        69       126
Interest payments                           20       34         18       16
Net transfers                               20       38         51      110
Development Economics                                                                                               9/21/99
- 66 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Structure of Local Governments
Organization
The country is divided into 72 Councils (recently expanded from 61), which are established, divided or
dissolved by statutory order of the Minister of Local Govermnent and Housing. Four City Councils
(Lusaka, Kitwe, Ndola, and Livingstone) and 15 Municipal Councils govern the urban areas, while rural
Zambia is divided in 53 District Councils.
Councilors are elected through universal suffrage for a period of 3 years. They elect a mayor (urban
Councils) or Council chairperson (rural Councils) from within their members, for a term of 1 year only,
renewable once. Mayors or chairpersons do not have individual powers, beyond that of chairing the
Council Members of Parliament whose parliamentary constituencies fall within the Council boundaries
and two representatives of local traditional chiefs are members ex officio of the Council. The chief
executive officer of a Council is the Town Clerk (urban Councils) or Council S3ecretary (rural Councils),
who is an employee of the Council. He/she applies the decisions of the Council, and has responsibility for
day to day operations and administration. Council employees report to him or her.
Powers of Councils
The Local Government Act empowers councils to establish by-laws, hire and fire their own employees,
raise revenues, borrow, dispose of, or acquire assets. However, most of these powers are subject to the
approval of the Minister of Local Government and Housing In particular, by-laws and budget estimates
are not valid until approved by the Minister. In addition, the Minister may suspend Councilors or Council
employees, and appoint a Local Government Administrator for the Council when he "considers it necessary
or expedient in the interest of local administration".
Responsibilities and performance of Councils
The Local Govemment Act enumerates 63 specific functions of Councils, which are the same for all
Councils regardless of size or nature (rural or urban) and cover the following: agriculture (storage, market
and preservation of agricultural produces, prevention of soil erosion, local forest . ), public health
(hospitals, clinics), education (schools), public order, sanitation and drainage; public amenities (public
transport, parks...); "community development" (street lights, roads, fire-fighting, building permits )
A few more responsibilities are delegated to City and Municipal Councils: the Roads and Road Traffic Act
makes th.em 'Highway Authorities' responsible for maintenance of trunk roads passing within their
boundaries, they are 'Planning Authorities' under the Town and Country Planaing Act and the Lands Act.
In the case of rural districts, these functions are undertaken at the provincial level (Provincial Road
Engineer; Town and Country Planning Office).
In practice, most local government responsibilities are still under the control of central ministries or have
been taken back given the poor performance of Councils. Council activities are generally limited to
traditional local services such as markets, bus stops, street lighting, grass cutting and road maintenance,
construction permits, water, sanitation and drainage, some public health (abattoirs, inspection, pest control,
refuse removal, etc.) and some low cost housing.
-67 -



Financial resources of Councils
Councils' resources represent less than 0.5% of the Gross Domestic Produce (GDP), and are collected from
a variety of sources Government grants represent about 30% of smaller Council resources, while in the
larger ones, grants have become a negligible source of revenues (less than 2% in Kitwe in 1996)
Government grants are unreliable and allocated on an ad-hoc basis In addition, they have decreased
steadily in real terms over the years Grants are channeled through the Ministry of Local Government and
disbursed as the Ministry accesses the funds in the course of the fiscal year.
Local revenues consists of*
(i) rates (property tax): about 30% of revenues in the larger Councils, about 10% elsewhere, difficult
and expensive to administer, requires formal assessment of properties which the Councils have to
finance themselves. Government is meantto pay grants in lieu of rates for its property, butpays
only a fraction of what rates would yield.
(ii) personal levy: a tax on assessable income, imposed by central government but collected and
retained by Councils; only applied on formal sector employees; about 2% of Council revenues.
(iii) levies on grain, birds, cattle charcoal etc. imposed by the Councils through Council by-laws
approved by the Minister. Approval of by-laws by the Minister has tended to be a long process
often leading to frustration.
(iv) rents: for use or lease of Council dwelling and office accommodation (see below)
(v) a variety of licenses which seldom add up to more than 5% of total revenues
(vi) revenue from services (water, waste disposal, etc.) and commercial undertakings
Councils' financial position has been seriously undermined by the sale at below market prices of Council
houses mandated by Central Government This has in effect deprived Councils of a substantial source of
cash flow (20% of resources on average). Most tenants used to pay water bills at the same time as their
rent, and are now effectively paying neither, taking advantage of orders from Central Government not to
evict anyone Sitting tenants have for the most part only paid a fraction of the value of their house, and
most remaining renters have stopped paying rent. Finally, many of the Councils' houses will have to be
valued and titled before they can be assessed for rates
Most worrisome is the new Rating Act that has multiplied the number of exemptions to such an extent that
Lusaka and the Copperbelt towns may no longer be able to draw any significant income from rates. This
has been brought to Government's attention and the Rating Act is reputedly being revised to decrease its
negative impact on Council's revenue base.
Some estimates [Bob Hawkins, LOGOSP, "Note on the financing of councils"; 1996] have been made of
the cost of Council services, net of those which should operate on a cost recovery basis ( water, sewerage,
refuse collection, markets, kiosks, housing, site and services...) By all calculation, the current revenue
base of Councils could finance a maximum of 21% of this cost. Even if Councils were to engage in full
cost recovery on those services that can be self financed, and fully collected the taxes that are due to them,
there would be a funding gap of about US$ 60 million or about 1.2% of GDP. Excluding the cost of local
road maintenance, which should be funded in part through the Road Fund, the funding gap is
approximately US$ 40 million.
- 68 -



Indebtedness of Councils
MLGH estimates total Council debtto add up to K 39 billion as of Dec. 31 1997, except for salary arrears
which were tabulated until 31 March 1998, equivalent to 0.7% of GDP and more than their total annual
budget They consist of: arrears on salaries and remittances to the Local Authorities Superannuating Fund
(LASF), Zambia National Provident Fund (ZNPF), and Workman's Compensation Fund (WCF) All these
are clearly implicit liabilities of central government, arrears to suppliers (including Zamtel and Zesco); and
cross debt with central government, notably to the Zambian Revenue Authority (ZRA) for taxes to be
collected on Council employees' wages Ndola and the other three City Councils (Kitwe, Lusaka and
Livingstone) account for almost half of total Council debt.
Human resources of Councils
Councils are chronically overstaffed. up to 60% of Council resources are absorbed by the approximately
18,000 staff they employ. Most Council employees are low skilled laborers. Local government service
remains a low prestige career path, and unreliable payment of Council employees' wages has not improved
its appeal Councils lack the resources needed to fund redundancy payments, although many have slowly
started shedding employees (either through attrition, or by financing a few redundancies at a time when
their cash position allows it)
Local administration
In addition to local Governments, most line ministries have representation at local level. In addition to
Health, Education and Agriculture, departments that feature prominently at district level are: Community
Development (organize women's clubs and conduct functional literacy programs); Forestry (develop and
maintain forest reserves); Roads (maintain feeder roads); Buildings (maintain government buildings),
Zambia Information Services; Police; Social Welfare (looks after the destitute and delinquent). In addition,
there are district offices of the Office of the President, Immigration; Customs; Prisons; National
Registration, and Census and Statistics
- 69 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
ZAMSIF Strategy on AIDS
The Magnitude of the epidemic
The HIV/AIDS epidemic in Zambia is one of the world's most severe. With 19 percent of the adults
estimated to be infected with HIV-- infant, child and adult mortality has increased to the extent that life
expectancy of Zambians has dropped from 54 years in the mid-eighties to an estimated 37 years in 1998.
The loss of one -- and often two adults -- to HIV/AIDS in a family causes catastrophic economic and social
conditions, in addition to personal grief. Medical and funeral expenses deplete household savings and place
severe stress on survivoTs.
More than 500,000 children in Zambia had lost their mothers or both their parents in 1996. Estimates of
orphans in the country by the end of 1999 vary from 660,000 to 1.6 million. About 72% of households in
the Copperbelt and Southern Provinces are caring for orphans, up from 37 percent in 1993.
With one out of five persons HV infected, and many more persons affected by the epidemic (caring for
sick family, friends and orphans, attending fimerals, covering related expenses) the country's productivity is
significantly reduced. The Ministry of Education has reported a loss of 1,331 teachers in 1998 due to
HIV/AIDS and an inability to train enough replacements. With HV/AIDS prevalence rates at 28% in the
urban areas and 15% in the rural areas, one can expect similar percentage levels of deaths among the urban
and rural workforce nationally. Data from the early 1990's showed HIV/AIDS prevalence levels highest
among the most educated and affluent.
Some businesses are beginning to monitor the impact of HIV/AIDS. The cost of medical care, salary
compensation for families of deceased employees and funeral grants at Indeni Petroleum, more than
doubled between 1991 and 1993, and had exceeded profits by 1996 The number of hours lost to illness
and funerals in the Chilanga Cement Company increased threefold from 13,380 hours in 1992/93 to 43,370
in 1994/95.
The Nation's response
During the last decade, Zambia adopted a number of interventions to reduce HIV transmission and mitigate
its adverse effects within the framework of Medium Term Plans (MTPs) I and II. These MTP
interventions (information, education and communication (IEC), condom promotion and distribution, and
life skills for students) made significant progress in increasing awareness. Since recent preliminary
findings suggest that HIV/AIDS prevalence among 15-19 years of age have decreased between 1994 and
1998, these interventions may have also increased safe sexual practices.
Interventions to reduce the impact of HIV/AIDS on those infected and affected grew from community
responses nationwide, the most well known being the Chikankata Hospital home-based care program. Also
well known is the organization by Project Concern International and the Ministry of Community
Development and Social Service of district OVC committees These committees use participatory learning
and action methodologies to mobilize persons around WV/AIDS-related issues OVC committees have
started community schools for orphans and successful income-generating projects. They also provide a
network for information exchange and coordination among public and private partners involved in
assistance programs for children
- 70 -



Zambia's most recent plan -- the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan (Strategic Plan) -- defines the
framework for the national response in terms of fundamental principles, broad strategies and institutional
settings, as well as the key intermediate steps needed for future initiatives to be results-based The
Strategic Plan was developed through several consultative meetings with a wide range of stakeholders.
NGOs, govemment agencies, district health management boards, donors, UN agencies, people living with
HIV/AIDS, church organizations and the business community. Pniority interventions supported by the
Strategic Plan incluLded the following:
Mobilization of multisectoral response, esp. at the district level
* Promotion of behavior change and reduction of high risk behaviors
*Increased and improved prevention and control of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs)
De-stigmatization of HV/AIDS
Increased voluntary counseling and testing
Reduced mother to child transmission
Improved home based care and support for people living with IV/AID)S
Community based support for orphans and vulnerable children
Improved drug supply for the treatment of STD, TB and HIV-positive clients
Improved hospital level care
The Strategic Plan differs from the previous plans in that it identifiespriority g,eographical areas
(Lusaka, Copperbelt, towns with frequent cross border traders, districts along trucking routes, with well
defined fishing areas and large numbers of refugees) andpriority populations (youth, commercial sex
workers, truck drivers, migrant seasonal workers, cross-border traders, fisherrmen and fish traders, orphans
etc.) These areas and populations are to benefit from catalytic projects to extend coverage and expand
best practices
Incorporating HIV/AIDS-related efforts into ZAMSIF
Several discussions during project preparation have focused on how best might ZAMSIF address
WIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation needs at district and community levels. 'rhese discussions included
representatives from the Social Recovery Project Team, National AIDS/STDfIB and Leprosy Control
Programme (NASTLP), CSO, UTNAIDS, UNICEF, USAID and the Bank. A draftZAAMSIF Strategyfor
HIVIAIDS paper written by the Social Recovery Project Team was used as guidance.
ZAMSIF will aim to support the new National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan and its guiding principles that
focus on a) people as center of the problem, b) respect for human rights and c) use of cultural norms,
values and practices within the response. As to implementation, ZAMSIF will build on the national
HIV/AIDS response experience and invest in both prevention and mitigation interventions. The project will
also explore how HIV/AIDS will impact on delivery of services and how ZANISIF might actually increase
vulnerability to HIV/AIDS or help to control the epidemic's spread.
Within the CIF project component, problems associated with HIV/AIDS will -be assessed. If an
HIV/AIDS-related subproject is identified by the community, training and teclnical assistance will be
available, to enhance skills in developing and evaluating multisectoral WHV/AIDS interventions
- 71 -



Within the DIF project component, the project, through training and technical assistance, will enhance
district leadership skills in: a) advocacy, b) mobilization of human resources, and c) development, planning,
implementing and evaluating multisectoral interventions related to HIWVAIDS. Because the DIF will work
with leaders from a large number of districts, the project will most likely need to contract out for technical
assistance. Assistance might be needed in the development of an HIV/AIDS module for training and its use
in training sessions, and guidance for factoring HIV/AIDS into district planning and operations. The
project will incorporate these HIV/AIDS-specific needs into the overall training and technical assistance
efforts required to build managerial, financial and technical capacity within the DIF project component
Within the Poverty Monitoring and Analysis project component, the project will integrate
HIV/AIDS-related questions into the Living Conditions Monitoring Surveys and conduct studies to assess
the impact of HIV/AIDS on the public sectors and budget. Because two other large population-based
surveys are planned in the near future -- the Census and the Demographic Health Survey -- and several
HIV/AIDS Impact studies have been perfonned to date or are planned to be performed by others, much
coordination between the involved actors (MOFED, Study Fund, CSO, MOH, the National AIDS Council
and donors/UN) will need to occur, as to what surveys will cover what aspects of HIV/AIDS impact and
prevention. The convening of the proposed Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Working Group for the
National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan, will help facilitate this coordination.
In addition to sitting on the above M&E Working Group, ZAMSIF project management will sit on two
other HIV/AIDS-related working groups- one on Resource Mobilization and another on IEC As to the
latter group, the project's Information Education Campaign will most likely support multi-channeled media
interventions on HIV/AIDS-related messages.
Issues to resolve
Several issues have to be resolved. First, because ZAMSIF will not support the procurement of drugs and
condoms, and these commodities and supplies play an important role in HIV/AIDS prevention and
mitigation, coordination efforts will be needed to ensure that these items are provided by others. The
ZAMSIF AIDS Programme will, however, include the provision of home-based care kits, like skill books
and training manuals and IEC materials.
Second, because implementation of most HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation efforts at the community
level are highly dependent upon volunteers, and community-based and non-governmental organizations,
scaling up of such efforts will require significant mobilization and training of human resources and the
development of formal and informal, private and public modalities (funds, contracts, networks, committees)
at the national and local levels A comprehensive implementation framework to the new National AIDS
Strategic Plan would provide the costing and set out these needed modalities. Lastly, the resolutions of the
above issues are highly dependent upon the proposed National AIDS Council. Until this Council is
operational and can direct the renewed response, scaling up of best practices in HlIV/AIDS interventions
nationwide will be hindered.
- 72 -



Additional
Annex No.: 13
Environmental Analysis
As an EA category F project, ZAMSIF will complete an environmental impact assessment study before
effectiveness. Moreover, all ZAMSIF-funded community and district projects are required to undergo
environmental review to determine potentially adverse impacts and mitigatiorL measures The reason for
this requirement is that although many projects are not expected to have any negative environmental
impact, some community and district investments might result in adverse impacts if appropriate mitigation
measures are not implemented. In addition, the cumulative environmental impact of many small
investments supported by ZAMSIF across the country may be significant. The long term success of these
investments is also closely associated with sustainability and minimizing potentially negative environmental
impact since the poorest and most vulnerable sectors of the population are often the most dependent on
renewable natural resources for income generation and risk aversion.
In recognition of the above, the ZAMSIF is undertaking the following related activities:
(i) Mainstreaming environmental appraisal and monitoring as part of the regular ZAMSIF
project cycle;
(ii) Strengthening the technical capacity of ZAMSIF staff, district teams and other local project
partners and facilitators for environmental appraisal and monitoring;
(iii) Raising community and district authorities awareness about the poterntial environmental impact of
ZAMSIF-funded activities and actions to mitigate or avoid negative effects;
(iv) Directly supporting improved community-based natural resource management as a core ZAMSIF
subproject area while strengthening the project's partnership with the PEF of the IDA-funded
Environmental Support Project and other similar efforts aimed at developing participatory
environmental action plans with communities; and
(v) Preparing a Natural Resource Management Technical Handbook to help ZAMSIF staff, district
teams and other project partners and facilitators provide sound guidance to communities in the
identification, planning and implementation of natural resource management microprojects.
These actions are described below
Mainstreaming environmental appraisal and monitoring as part of the reglular ZAMSIF project cycle
In compliance with the project's EA requirements and support the Government's newly developed
Environmental Impact Assessment policy and legislation, the ZAMSIF is carrying out an environmental
assessment impact study of the project. The study will provide clear and syslematic guidelines for the
effective assessment of any potential enviromhtental impact that may result from ZAMSIF-funded
microprojects. It will also result in the creation of an environmental screening, evaluating, and supervising
mechanism within the ZAMSIF Management Unit that ensures that funded projects are environmentally
sound and sustainable, and that any adverse environmental consequences are recognized early in the project
cycle. For every microproject proposal that is considered for funding under the program, ZAMSIF staff
and district teams will be aware of the major environmental issues and impacts of the particular investment,
the set of measures to avoid them or mitigate those which are unavoidable, and the estimated costs of those
measures. The cost of any necessary measure will be then incorporated in all microproject proposals
considered for funding.
- 73 -



The planned environmental appraisal and monitoring mechanism within the Management Unit will also
reduce the time and simplify the effort required for project-specific environmental assessments by in
advance identifying issues, proposing mitigative measures or changes in technology or construction
materials, and recommending methods for monitoring environmental indicators commonly affected by
ZAMSIF-funded projects. The recommendations emerging from the study are to be incorporated into the
Operational Manual and relevant technical handbooks to ensure that specific design criteria to safeguard
the environment or corrective measures are implemented and monitored at each stage of the ZAMSIF
project cycle. The study also identifies the types of projects and associated environmental impact that
might require separate environmental assessment in relation to location, project size, and other site-specific
factors. When a separate EA is required, the results of the EA, including mitigation measure,
design/contract specifications and supervision requirements will be reflected in the legal agreements with
the communities and districts
Supporting EA training and capacity building
ZAMSIF will strengthen the technical capacity of ZAMSIF staff, district teams and other local ZAMSIF
partners and facilitators for environmental appraisal and monitoring, including screening, scoping,
developing terms of reference, conducting and reviewing the results of environmental appraisals, and
monitoring project implementation. In conformity with GRZ's 1997 Environmental Impact Assessment
Policy, these actions are expected to strengthen the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources'
administrative and enforcement functions for environmental review, and result in greater EA sensitization
and training opportunities in collaboration with district teams, facilitators and communities. This is
planned in the interest of enhancing GRZ's existing institutional capacity for enforcing EA laws and
regulations in the country.
Increasing community and district awareness and education about the potential environmental impact
of microprojects
Through the proposed Information, Education and Communication activities, the project also plans to raise
community and district awareness about the potential enviromnental impact of microprojects, actions to
mitigate or avoid negative effects, and the types of investments and activities that communities can
undertake with ZAMSIF support to strengthen their stewardship capacity in natural resource management.
Supporting improved community natural resources management
While indirectly benefiting from improved natural resource management, poor communities may not
necessarily perceive environmental degradation to be more important than for example, construction of
infrastructure such as school buildings, health posts, boreholes, and other microprojects more frequently
supported under the former Social Recovery Projects I and II. Because poor communities often lack the
impetus and initial capital necessary to get staffed, environmental and natural resource management
investments have to be pro-actively targeted at the community level
To this end, ZAMSIF, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources' PEF and other project partners
intend to strengthen program synergies while improving operational collaboration to promote and support
microprojects aimed at improving communities' management of the natural resources. ZAMSIF will
greatly benefit from ongoing PEF mobilization efforts focusing on empowerment and awareness creation,
thus ensuring that communities understand the relation between their natural resources and their well-being,
the need to improve both together, and the need for action to grow out of this understanding and be based
on the community's own commitment.
- 74 -



Consistent with the Operational Manual of ZAMSIF, PEF has prepared Operational Guidelines to support
identification, planning and implementation of natural resource management projects. As with any other
type of microprojects, the review of natural resource management project proposals will seek to establish
that ZAMSIF eligibility criteria have been met, how well communities have participated in the planning
process, the appropriate level of community contribution, consistency with district and community
environmental action plans prepared under PEF where they exist, and any other conditions outlined in the
Operational Manual. Evaluation and impact assessment of microprojects wilL be consistent with
methodologies followed by PEF and other local-level environmental planning programs implemented in the
country,
An MOU exists between the Social Recovery ProjectJZAMSIF and PEF that formalizes collaboration
between the two programs. PEF has supported communities to undertake participatory environmental
needs appraisals, prioritize problems and prepare environmental action plans in two pilot districts. In these
and other districts, communities may seek financing from ZAMSIF, PEF and other fast-disbursing
community support programs to implement their priority investments. A strengthened partnership between
the two programs is critical to more cost-effectively respond to required natural resource management
investments within a framework of economic growth. Furthermore, with several donor-funded projects
active or scheduled to come on stream over the next few years, the situation is bound to place additional
strain on district councils, counterpart funds and recurrent budget unless coherence between programs and
a clear strategy for supporting community-based development is achieved.
As prioritized in the 1994-95 National Environmental Action Plan, microprojects are expected to address
the problems associated with five key environmental areas: (i) soil degradation, (ii) water pollution and
inadequate sanitation, (iii) deforestation, (iv) air pollution, and (v) wildlife depletion. In addition, ZAMSIF
will support other small-scale natural resource management and environmental improvement activities
considered critical for improving the sustainability of existing or new social and economic infrastructure
and investments.
Natural Resource Management Technical Handbook
Based on existing technical information and other available documentation from line agencies, ministries,
NGOs, etc., ZAMSIF is producing a technical handbook to help ZAMSIF staff, district teams and other
project partners and facilitators provide sound guidance to communities in the identification, planning and
implementation of natural resource management microprojects. Where such documentation lacks the
necessary detail to guide design and implementation of microprojects or fails to respond to new site-specific
physical, environmental, social, economic, and institutional circumstances faced by communities, ZAMSIF
is to suggest improvement of the documentation with the concurrence of relevant government departments
such as agricultural extension, forestry, natural resources, fisheries, water, etc. ZAMSIF plans to use the
Handbook together with the people in the communities, always respecting and incorporating their local
knowledge.
ZAMSIF recognizes that the long-term productivity and sustainability of community investments on land,
woodland, and other natural resources ultimately depends on the presence of' local institutions and social
structures that are consistent with community needs and values for the management of natural resources.
Thus, building on the experiences of the PEF, the Natural Resource Management Handbook promotesa
holistic approach that incorporates technical, economic and social considerations in the design of
sustainable community-based natural resource management investments. The handbook is therefore
supportive of the PEF participatory needs appraisal process and the work of other similar programs to
- 75 -



improve communities' understanding that the success of natural resource management depends not only on
passive participation but on community empowerment the ability of people to recognize and prioritize their
problems, evaluate their resources and formulate effective responses to those conditions
- 76 -



Additional
Annex No.: 14
Financial Management Arrangements
General
ZAMSIF will be managed by a semi-autonomous MU established within M;OFED. The MU will assume
the characteristics of the existing SRP Microprojects Unit. The SRP MPU is currently responsible for the
implementation of another Bank-financed project, Social Recovery Project 11. In addition, the it is involved
in supporting community-based initiatives in three other Bank-financed projects: ROADSIP; BESSIP, and
the PEF under the Environment Support Program. The use of an existing umit is justified because staff are
already in place and have gained experience over the years in the implementation of projects of such nature
as ZAMSIF, and also in the Bank's procurement, disbursement, accounting and auditing arrangements.
The ZAMSIF MU will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures will
be acceptable to the government, the Bank and any other cooperating partners.
ZAMSIF's financial management system will support management in their deployment of limited resources
with the purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of outputs required to
achieve desired outcomes. ZAMSIF's financial management system will be expected to produce timely,
understandable, relevant and reliable financial information that will enable management to plan, implement,
monitor and appraise the program's progress towards achievement of its stated goals.
ZAMSIF's current financial management arrangements meet the minimum requirements to comply with the
Bank's OPIBP 10.02. However, these will need to be strengthened furtier in accordance with the Financial
Management Action Plan noted below.
Financial Management Action Plan
Finance Committee
The role and composition of the current Steering Committee will be expanded to include the functions of a
Finance Committee This will include the review of the project's financial statements, progress reports and
procurement arrangements.
Staffing
Agreement has been obtained form the govemment to carry over all key personnel from the current Social
Recovery Project to ZAMSIF. This includes the Financial Controller already in place to direct and guide
the financial management operations of ZAMSIF.
To assist the Finance Manager in discharging responsibilities, additional qualified and experienced
accounting (including two professionally qualified accountants), administrative and support staff are also in
place.
Financial Procedures Manual/internal controls
The Financial Controller will document the intemal processing procedures and controls in a Financial
Procedures Manual.
- 77 -



Financial management system
An Infornation Technology consultancy has been commissioned to design a new computer system which
would build upon the successes of the current MMS An accounting package called Integral Accounting
Basic, has also been purchased which the consultants are integrating into the new system with
modifications to suit the requirements of ZAMSIF The system being developed would be integrated and
capable of producing the normal accounting and financial reports.
Information technology
This is adequate to commence the ZAMSIF project There is a separate department headed by an
Information Technology Manager, supported by adequate support staff. The Head Office and all Regional
Offices are fully equipped with adequate computer hardware and software to enable them to perform their
duties.
Planning and budgeting
Government counterpart funding will be approved in line with the government budgetary process. Budget
preparation and approval should be one of the responsibilities of the Steering Committee/ Finance
Committee in consultation with other cooperating partners
Government accounting
ZAMSIF is a government project and must therefore meet the Ministry of Finance requirements for cash
accounting This means therefore that IDA and related counterpart funds will be accounted for on a cash
basis
Procurement of goods, works and services
As a government Program, ZAMSIF will be required to comply with the provisions and regulations of the
Zambia Goveninent Central Tender Board. ZAMSIF will also be expected to observe World Bank
procurement procedures.
Flow of funds
Regarding IDA and Government of Zambia funding, ZAMSIF should maintain 3 bank accounts:
(i) Special Account with a commercial bank acceptable to IDA in US Dollars,
(ii) An account in Zambian Kwacha with a commercial bank to which drawdowns from the Special
Account should be credited for Project financing and administrative expenses
(iii) An account in Zambian Kwacha with a commercial bank to which counterpart funding by the
Government should be deposited in respect of any expenditure of ZAMSIF that may be provided
for in the loan agreement
All 3 bank accounts are reconciled with bank statements on a monthly basis. Furthermore, these
reconciliations should be verified/approved by the Financial Controller on a timely basis and intemal
control procedures documented in the Financial Procedures Manual.
Withdrawal/disbursement arrangements
ZAMSIF is not yet ready for PMR-based disbursements as provided in the World Bank's LACI Handbook
(September 1998). This means therefore that in the short tern, the existing disbursement procedures as
- 78 -



outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook will prevail. The upgrading of the ZAMSIF
financial management system should facilitate the introduction of PMR-based disbursements.
LACI/PMR integrates project/program accounting, procurement, contract management, disbursement and
audit with physical progress through Project Management Reports (PMR). The conversion to LACI/PMR
will enable the Project to move away from the time consuming voucher by voucher disbursernent methods
to a simplified system of disbursing funds by periodic advances to the Project's Special Account based on
PMR
Financial reporting
Reports produced on a quarterly basis to support requests for replenishment of'the Special Account should
include the following.
(i) Financial statements. These are to provide information on the sources and uses of funds by loan
category and by project activity, forecasts of expenditure, amount of d:isbursement requested and a
reconciliation of the Special Account.
(ii) Project progress reports. These are to provide information on project implementation progress in
physical and financial terms using monitoring indicators, including identifying deviations from plan
and explaining reasons for such variations.
(iii) Procurement Management Reports. These are to indicate the status of procurement and contract
commitments and expenditure including source of supply data for contracts subject to the Bank's
prior review, as well as post-review contracts above a certain threshold
Annual Financial Statements and Annexes for the project will include:
(i) A Summary of Funds Received, showing World Bank, funds from other donors if any, and
counterpart funds separately. Other income such as bank interest should also be disclosed
separately;
(ii) A Summary of Expenditures shown under the main headings and by main category of
expenditures, both for the current fiscal year and accumulated to date; and
(iii) A Balance Sheet showing accumulated funds of the project, bank balances, other assets of the
project, and liabilities, if any
(iv) Notes in respect of significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by
management when preparing the accounts, and any supplementary infDomation or explanations that
may be deemed appropriate by management in order to enhance the presentation of a"true and
fair view".
(v) A schedule listing individual Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) withdrawal applications by
specific reference number, date and amount,
(vi) A reconciliation between the amounts shown as "received by the project from the World Bank"
and that shown as disbursed by the Bank.
(vii) A Special Account Statement showing deposits and replenishments r eceived from the World
Bank, payments substantiated by withdrawal applications, interest that may be earned on the
account, and the remaining balance at the end of the fiscal year.
- 79-



As stated above, as an operating project within the government, the onus will be on the management of
ZAMSIF to operate within the legal framework of Zamnbia (i e. all Government accounting procedures,
regulations and instructions must be fully observed)
Fixed assets
A Fixed Assets Register will be prepared, regularly updated and checked for capital expenditures and
integrated with the accounting system.
Internal audit
Consideration must be given to the strengthening of internal control mechanism of ZAMSIF through
periodic reviews This may involve the creation of an Internal Audit Department This was one of the
recommendations arising from the consultancy work on the restructuring of ZAMSIF MU
External audit
In due course, ZAMSIF -- in consultation with the Office of the Auditor General and the World Bank --
will appoint independent auditors in compliance with the financial covenants that are expected to be
contained in the IDA Credit Agreement. In addition to the audit reports, the auditor will also prepare a
Management Letter giving comments and observations, and give recommendations for improvements on
accounting records, systems, controls, and compliance with financial covenants.
- 80 -



24                                                                                                           L bToogoo/Eo
2   Z A  M  B I A                                        / o,<    ' 0  Xv9    ~~~~~~~~~~~~T A N Z A N I A
Z   A   M                     BIA                                                                            MboOl. C MbTIM0
TRUNK AND MAIN ROADS     --   RIVERS
- RAILROADS                     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                  K       a6                     ,o, w,
o   SELECTED CITIES         -       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                    ||o-E?
o   PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                   KASAMA
*   NATIONAL CAPITAL
0~~~~~~ 
DEM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E.    REP. OF CONGO                                                                                                                       3 msA-'Z2M 
_ i oMWInxi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LU..t4 U A P UW p;k>2  
Mpik
~1l-   t   |   S   (   X    SOLWEZI  ;;;  \ tas   .-w%        >                  ' ./              X           2 g            /    / +
A   N              0    L   A 2    e     Ln  
Zob/ °O                                                                                                                                                   MALAWCHGetP    B2{ j,,,V' g OZA      
NAI                                                                                                                                    Z    A   M  B    I  A  L   T   ,Eooz   o  do,  i  do   oo  A oo    I,    p   of  2tP  O F Rook  O, SOJT H  AFRIC
X            44  t   E 5;¢ T @  Rt >b3      t      TeKoo                C E1N T R A L
_,~~  \,    \  X   KatabaO   $   Namwala ^2 Sagoyc Chirunt-ToHarcre / ANGOLA zAMBIA (t>92\ (~~~~~~~~GABONR'IAN
S   if  S O u T H E kX bSmbc    <                                                                           M           O         Z        X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COGOV  IR
X   +s   Mulobezi          >                  X                        Z & M  B A B W  E                        \NAMIBIA 2 BOT5WAN f4>24~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~if.Ul-~-U~,
~~ __< t , KalomoSnezonA O 50 100 150 200 250KILOMETERS A>NT}C .\\ yt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/i/ FD _~~~~
_                             Xm        )k 4to  h!j/           w             T e t~~~~~~~~~~~~~LUaKnAr oLo Ueom2ln 8 m all Kte ifra lnXewX'
Kl~~~~~~~~'              A  AI        -7 <LI   I      G SOE yF   shwOefmpooml,nhproTh eol Bn G o p E OT ARIC A  Dm  K.f
m   SWANAS  z*araccepRuno o suchbounderles ,N,~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
oz ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~Pb



