E-368
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STUDY AND GUIDELINES
FOR
THE ZAMBIA SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
6t July 2000
7~ ^a                  L
b                    - Cc
:M 63s 4 4C
CESDC                              Chalo Environment & Sustainable
-   ________   ______ Development Consultants
No. 13 Paseli Road, NorthMead
--    - ______                  -    Tel/Fax: 2384021753442
__-_ =____  -- ____   P.O. Box 35297
________________      - -            Lusaka, Zambia
_________   =____   _______  --    E-mail. cesdc@zamnet.zm
_~-    Z






ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS AND DISCLAIMER
In carrying out this study, we owe a very real debt of gratitude to many communities and
members of the District Appraisal Committees who gave up their time to share their
knowledge with us. The MPU Regional Officers from Western, Northern, Southern and
Lusaka Provinces assisted greatly not only in the selection of Communities and Projects
for auditing but also made logistical arrangements for the team's visit to the study
Districts.
While the report is prepared for the Zambia Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF) of the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development, the views and opinions expressed
therein are entirely those of the Consultants.
ii






TABLE OF CONTENTS
List of Acronyms and Abbreviations
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ...........................1
SUMMARY OF MAJOR FINDINGS ..........................                                                                                           a
1 INTRODUCTION ..........................                                                                                                     11
1.1        Background .........................................................                                                              11
1.3        Nexus of Poverty, Environment and  Infrastructure  Development ............................... 11
1.4        Purpose  and  Objectives of Study .........................................................                                       12
1.5        Approach  and  Methodology .........................................................                                              12
1.6        Key Concepts .........................................................                                                            13
2.    DESCRIPTION OF THE ZAMBIA SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND ............................. 14
2.1        Scope  of the Zambia  Social Investment Fund .........................................................  14
2.2.       The  Community  Investment Fund  (CIF) component .................................................. 14
2.3.       District Investment Fund   (DIF) .........................................................                                        1.5
2.4.       Poverty  Monitoring  and Analysis Component (PMA) ................................................. 15
2.5.       Institutional Support .........................................................                                                   16
3    ANALYSIS OF POTENTIAL SOURCES OF IMPACTS FROM ENVIRONMENTALLY
SIGNIFICANT PROJECTS AND POTENTIAL MITIGATION MEASURES ............... 17
3.1        Types of Projects .........................................................                                                       17
3.2        Community  Natural Resources projects .........................................................                                   17
3.3        Potential Environmental Impacts .........................................................                                         20
3.4        Sources of Environmental Impacts .........................................................                                        21
3.5        Consequences of Identified  Environmental Problems ................................................ 26
4    INSTITUTIONAL AND POLICY FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT OF ZAMSIF PROGRAMME .......................................  29
4.1   Policy Framework ......................................                                                                                29
4.2    Institutional Framework ......................................                                                                        29
4.4        Recommended Institutional Development Strategy ......................................                                             32
5.   GUIDELINES FOR MAINSTREAMING ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT ISSUES IN
ZAMSIF PROJECT CYCLE .37
5.1  Purpose and Outline of Guidelines .37
5.2 The Environmental Modules .41
5.3  Project Identification and Application .47
5.4 Desk Appraisal .47
5.5 Field Appraisal .52
5.6 Costing and Budgeting .53
iii



5.7    Approval Process ................................................. 53
5.8    Project Launch Workshop .................................................      54
5.9    Disbursement and Justification .................................................  54
5.10   Implementation, Monitoring and Supervision..................................................
5.11   Evaluation .................................................  56
6.      CAPACITY BUILDING  PROGRAMME FOR ZAMSIF STAFF ............................... 60
6.1   Sensitisation and Environmental Management Skills Needs .................................. 60
6.2   Environmental Awareness and Analysis for ZAMSIF MU Staff ............................... 60
6.3   District Training Programme ................................................  60
6.4   Environmental Awareness in Communities ................................................  61
6.5   Materials and Financial Support ................................................  65
6.6   Monitoring of the ZAMSIF Funded Selected Projects ............................................. 67
7.      COSTS OF MITIGATION MEASURES AND FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS OF
IMPLEMENTING THE ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY .58
7.1     Estimating Relative Costs of Environmental Mitigation Measures               58
7.2      Financial Requirements for Implementing the Environmental Strategy          59
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1       Summary of Technical Guidelines for MPU Funded Projects
Annex 2       List of Audited Projects
Annex 3       Profiles of Audited Community Based Projects
Annex 4       An Outline of an Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure
Annex 5       Schedules To EIA Regulations, Statutory Instrument No. 28 of 1997
Annex 6       Recommendations on Review of Existing MPU Documents
Annex 7       Districts Visited, Organisations and Individuals Talked to
Annex 8       Terms of Reference for the Study
Annex 9       Zambia Agro-Ecological Zones
Annex 10      Bibliography
LIST OF TABLES
Table 3.1     Possible Mix of Generic Investments to be financed under ZAMSIF with Potential
Environmental Impacts
Table 3.2     Sources of Environmental Concerns and Mitigation Measures
Table 3.3     Sources of Impacts from Construction / Implementation
Table 3.4     Sources of Impacts from Operation of the facility
Table 3.5     Consequences of Environmental Impacts
Table 3.6     Estimate Costs of Selected Environmental Mitigation Measures
Table 4.1    Institutional Concerns for Mainstreaming Environmental Concerns
Table 5.1     Mainstreaming Environmental Management In Community Investment Fund
Project Cycle
Table 5.2     Checklist for Community level Sensitisation and Assessment
Table 5.3    Institutional and Capacity Building Checklist
Table 5.4     Generic Projects Screening List
iv



Table 5.5    Example of Generic Review (Analysis) Checklist
Table 6.1    Summary of Proposed Environmental MANAGEMENT Training Programme
Table 6.2    Capacity Building: Training and Awareness
Table 7.1    Estimating Relative Costs of Selected Mitigation Measures
Table 7.2    Financial Requirements to Support ZAMSIF Environmental Strategy
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



List of Acronyms and Abbreviations
CBNRM       Community-Based Natural Resource Management
CBO         Community-Based Organization
CEMP        Community Environmental Management Programme (within ESP)
CSO         Central Statistical Office
DAC         District Appraisal Committee
DWA         Department of Water Affairs
DDCCs       District Development Coordinating Committees
DDSP        District Development Support Project
DEB         District Education Boards
DEO         District Education Officer
DHB         District Health Boards
ECZ         Environmental Council of Zambia
ED          Ministry of Education
EF          Environmental Facilitator
EIA          Environmental Impact Assessment
EPPCA       Environmental Protection and Pollution Control Act
ESP         Environmental Support Programme
FD          Forest Department
GRZ         Government of the Republic of Zambia
HQ          Headquarters
LA          Local Authorities
LIRDP       Luangwa Integrated Resource Development Project
MAFF        Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries
MCDSS       Ministry of Community Development and Social Services
MCTI        Ministry of Commerce, Trade & Industry
MoE         Ministry of Education
MENR        Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
MEWD        Ministry of Energy and Water Development
MLGH        Ministry of Local Government and Housing
MOFED       Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MOH         Ministry of Health
MOL         Ministry of Lands
MPU         Micro-Projects Unit
MWS         Ministry of Works and Supply
NEAP        National Environmental Action Plan
NESC        National Environmental Steering Committee
NGO         Non Governmental Organization
NHC         Neighbourhood Health Committees
NRDC        Natural Resources Development College
PRA         Participatory Rural Appraisal
PTA         Parents Teachers Association
RHC         Rural Health Centres
ROs         Regional Officers
SCAFE       Soil Conservation and Agroforestry Extension Programme
SRP         Social Recovery Project
WASHE       Water Sanitation Health Education
ZEEP        Zambia Environmental Education Programme
vi



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Background
The objective of the Zambia Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF) is to contribute to the
government's strategy for poverty reduction by improving the welfare and the living conditions of
many poor and vulnerable communities all over Zambia, with special attention to the needs of
women and children.
ZAMSIF will finance community grants for investment in social and economic infrastructure;
improved natural resources management; special programs targeting disadvantaged and more
vulnerable groups; and capacity building, basic skill training and other activities aimed at
stimulating local productivity. ZAMSIF will also finance larger infrastructure benefiting more than
one community, such as district health facilities, market places etc. District authorities are
expected to take the lead in the implementation of these projects.
While no ZAMSIF project is expected to generate significant adverse environmental effects,
some community and district investment may result in negative consequences if appropriate
mitigation measures are not implemented. In addition, the cumulative environmental impact of
many small investments supported by the project across the country may be significant. The long
term success of these investments is also closely associated with sustainability and minimising
potentially negative environmental impacts since the poor are often most directly dependent on
their natural resource base for supporting their economic livelihood. The purpose of this study is
thus to provide clear and systematic guidelines for the effective assessment of any potential
environmental impacts that may result from microprojects.
The scope of the study is set out in the TOR (Annex 10). Specifically, the study focused on the
following specific objectives:
(i).   Define the best way to mainstream environmental appraisal and monitoring as part of the
regular ZAMSIF project cycle - screening, scoping, developing terms of reference,
conducting and reviewing the results of environmental appraisals, and monitoring micro
projects implementation.
(ii)   Make proposals about how to increase the technical capacity of ZAMSIF staff, district
teams and other ZAMSIF partners and facilitators for environmental appraisal and
monitoring.
To achieve the above objectives the study team reviewed relevant document and conducted
environmental audits of 15 micro projects funded mainly under Micro Projects Unit. The study
also audited a rural health centre funded by the World Bank in Mpika with limited participation of
the community and a community based irrigation and water wells project inKaole Village, Mpika
to be supported by the Pilot Environmental Fund (PEF) under the Environmental Support
Programme (ESP). The study focused on 5 closely interrelated key areas of concern including:
key environmental and technical concerns of projects, institutions and other programmes
dealing with environmental issues, mainstreaming environmental issues in the ZAMSIF project
cycle, environmental awareness and technical capacity of those working with communities to
address environmental projects.
The following sections present summaries of key findings and recommendations
I






SUMMARY OF MAJOR FINDINGS
A)    Significance of Environmental Impacts
The analysis of the various components of ZAMSIF and the 17 audited micro projects indicate
that the overall impact of ZAMSIF over the life of its implementation will be minimal and
insignificant. Although individual microprojects under both the Community and District Investment
Funds may contribute to environmental degradation at local/site level, their aggregate and
regional adverse impact will be minimal and insignificant. For example, It is estimated that, to
burn pan bricks for the completion of a recommended 1 *3 classroom block, you would require
up to 2,535 kg dry weight wood (or about 8.4M3 which translates into an average of 0.002
hectares of woodlands. Multiplying this figure by a factor of 10,000 classroom blocks over a 5
year period would require only 20 hectares of forests. Zambia covers 75,261,400 ha (752,614
km2. Of this land, an estimated 30% (256,000 kin2) is covered by forests and woodlands. 20 ha
of land required for brick kilns (assuming use of brick burning) translates into 0.00078% of the
total forests and woodland areas in Zambia.
The report further demonstrates that if ZAMSIF implements the mitigation measures and
procedures proposed in this report, the programme will contribute to improving the quality of the
environment and add value to the natural resources surrounding the project site by eliminating or
minimising the environmental consequences associated with existing infrastructure.
The findings of the study distinguish between two broad environmental concerns: (i) those that
are associated with the existing infrastructure before Microprojects are conceived and
implemented and (ii) those that may result directly or indirectly from the implementation of and
use of new projects. Several factors have contributed to environmental concerns associated
with the existing infrastructure (before the projects) including: poor location of infrastructure, poor
technical designs of the existing structures and inappropriate utilisation of the infrastructure.
(B)   Major Environmental Concerns Associated with Existing Infrastructure
The key environmental issues related to existing community based social infrastructure can be
summarised as follows:
1.    Sheet and gully erosion of soils around infrastructure/project sites was the most
common problem on all project sites. 13 of the 15 MPU projects were recorded to have
this problem. Although the new projects (extensions and major rehabilitation) may
contribute to this problem, the significant part was associated with existing infrastructure
(prior project conception and implementation). This problem was attributed in most cases
to the practice of clearing all vegetation surrounding infrastructure. In some cases the
erosion wears the external base of the building structures' foundation leading to
weakening the stability of the structure and hence requiring high maintenance costs. The
problem was often associated with siting of the infrastructure on the foot of hills without
adequate mitigation measures.
2.    De-vegetation around Project Sites: Several project sites and their surrounding areas
were found to be devoid of vegetation. MPU has often funded projects (rehabilitation and
extension) on existing sites rather than new infrastructure. Discussion with project
beneficiaries revealed that in all cases, the de-vegetation observed on project sites was
2



not directly related to the MPU projects but to previous practices of clearing all vegetation
around existing infrastructure as a measure of environmental cleanness. Vegetation and
trees in particular act as wind breakers in places of strong winds, hence in de-vegetated
sites, roof covers of building structures are weakened and may be ripped off resulting in
high maintenance costs.
3     Termite infestation around project site: Several project sites were found to be infested
with termites. On the same site, the attack on infrastructure was severe on old
infrastructure than the new ones. This problem highlights the adverse impacts that
environmental factors may impose on infrastructure where environmental factors are not
taken into consideration in selection of sites. Although the problem of termites is
widespread in most areas, some sites are more heavily infested than others and
especially those near anthills and on certain types of soils. Termites eat the building
materials especially wooden roof support materials thus weakening the stability of the
structure and leading to high maintenance costs. (see photo gallery)
4     Poor siting/location of existing Infrastructure sitessuch as water points located near
toilets or on the down slopes of the toilets may result in underground water contamination
contributing to high and rampant incidences of diarrhea diseases especially in children.
Lack of consideration of local environmental factors that could have a negative effect on
both the existing and new infrastructure e.g strong prevailing winds, erosion prone areas
and mosquito infested areas; etcThis problem was observed in 3 projects of the projects
audited.
5     Shortage of land around project sites: Some extension building projects were being
implemented on sites with inadequate land. For example, Kabweza Primary School area
in Kafue is surrounded by a fast growing village which has no room for outward
expansion and hence the school has been left with no room for further extension of the
school grounds. The community encroachment into the school has led to conflicts within
a community and crowding of school buildings within the available small space;
Nansenga Primary School in Mazabuka has had to request the community to allocate it
more land for future expansion as the existing land is not adequate to cater for even the
present uses.
(C)   Major Environmental Concerns Associated with new Micro Projects
The key environmental issues that are directly related to the development of new community
based social infrastructure can be summarised as follows:
1.    Quarries for stones and sand mining are left untreated (uncovered) or rehabilitated by
communities. This problem was observed in all project sites where there was need to
mould blocks for construction or rehabilitation. These quarries become breeding places
for malaria parasite carrying mosquitoes and other vectors such as snakes. Some
quarries are sited near perennial streams leading to siltation of the streams; e.g. in
Kabale Primary School ,Mpika where the quarry was sited near the stream and had been
left uncovered.
2.    Off-site deforestation: The current practice of communities using burnt pan bricks for
construction of buildings entails use of wood fuel for making brick kilns. Often the
required wood is obtained from areas further away from the project sites contributing to
3



both shortages of fuel wood in the immediate neighbourhood and localised deforestation.
Women spoken to in 7 communities cited the distances of not less than 5 km to find
fuelwood for their domestic use and other uses. Although the current contribution of
kilning (due to micro-projects) to off-site deforestation may be insignificant at regional or
district level, it is recognised that localised effects may be significant especially where
there may be a concentration of new construction and major rehabilitation projects.
3     Lack of and inappropriate medical waste disposal facilitiesposes high risk of both
soil and water contamination which may lead to the likelihood of disease outbreaks. In
some cases disposal of medical waste in open pits has led to both human and animal
scavenging at dumpsites.
(D)   Institutional and Programme Aspects
1.    Except for the Department of Roads in the Ministry of Works and Supply, the other
Ministries that are involved in provision of social infrastructure do not have environmental
management frameworks that link infrastructure development to their impacts.
2.    The Environmental Council of Zambia which has the legal mandate for supervision and
enforcement of Environmental Assessments does not have adequate in house capacity
necessary to plan and conduct EAs. Therefore, this may undermine its capability to
supervise EA execution, evaluate the EA reports produced by project proponents
3.    There are few community based organisations with capacity to implement natural
resources management projects. CBOs and traditional institutions with potential to
formulate and enforce environmental bye-laws often lack technical and management
skills to implement and enforce environmentally friendly practices.
4.    There are few programmes working with communities on environmental management
projects. Pilot Environment Fund, Community Based Natural Resources Management
programme are only operating in a few pilot districts. Village WASHE Committees are, by
and large, only active in areas where some donors are funding water and sanitation
projects (this is especially true for rural areas). This in turn negatively affects the
sensitisation of comuunities to environmental issues.
(E)   Issues of Mainstreaming Environmental Concerns in Project Cycle
1.    Although, MPU project cycle begins with community initiatives and actions, there is little
or no sensitization of communities on environmental issues both before and after the
application forms are completed.
2.    The current MPU application forms and implementation manual are not adequate in
meeting the environmental objectives of integrating environmental sustanability concerns
into the ZAMSIF project cycle.
3     Most projects (including those that are implemented by cther organisations) do not
take environmental concerns into consideration through out the project cycle.
4



4     Lack of utilisation of, and compliance to MPU Project Implementationand Maintenance
Manuals, especially on issues dealing with environmental hygiene and conservation, like
good sanitation practices, the importance of tree planting and erosion control through
drainage systems.
(F)   Environmental Awareness
1.    Low awareness of environmental issues and hygiene by communities, especially
environmental conservation \ protection, use of clean water and safe sanitation
2.    Where communities were aware about environment issues associated with their projects,
they were generally ignorant of sources of technical information for addressing their
problems.
3.    There is generallly lack of motivation and commitment to integration of environmental
concerns into the project implemenetation activities of Project Committee members.
(G)   Technical Capacity
1.    District Teams lack the skills needed to integrate environmental issues into project
activities. This is however, exceptional for 2 districts (Mpika and Mufulira) where PEF and
CBNRM projects are being implemented. Several District Team members have been
exposed to some environmental sensitisation workshops.
2.    The lack of environmental knowledge and skills by communities to manage
environmental projects which is exacerbated by deeply-rooted cultural values and
practices promote insensitive attitudes to environmentally friendly practices. For example
chitemene systems is still being practiced in Kaole village of Mpika District (one of the
project sites visited).
5



SUMMARY OF MAJOR RECOMMENDATIONS
(A)   Key Environmental Issues of Concern
To address the key and common environmental problems found on most project sites, the study
team was careful in isolating the two major types of environmental concerns: those associated
with the existing infrastructure and those that are directly related to the new micro projects. To
eliminate or minimise environmental problems associated with existing infrastructure and to
prevent potential problems that may arise due to new microprojects, it is recommended that
mitigation measures need to be identified early and designed in the identification and application
stages of the project cycle and implemented during the implementation stage. One effective way
for ensuring mitigation measures are implemented is to include them in the financing agreement
which will require either the communities or the contractors engaged on sites on behalf of
communities to consider these measures as part of their implementation schedules. Proposed
guidelines specific to each type of project which may be used as contract clauses are suggested
in Annex 1
(B)   Major Environmental Concerns Associated with Existing Infrastructure
The mitigation measures to address key environmental issues related to existing community
based social infrastructure can be summarised as follows:
1.    Sheet and gully erosion of soils around project sites should be identified and assessed
by communities during the project identification stage. Communities should be assisted through
the process of sensitization to realise the effects of soil erosion if not addressed in their projects.
The District Teams should further assess the extent of sheet and gully erosion around proposed
project sites. Where its presence is verified, simple mitigation measures should be included in
the dsign of the projects. Examples of the mitigation measures may include:
- treatment or curing of gullies through planting of tree and grass around the gullies to
avoid further cutting back of the gully banks and to stabilise the soils. This could be
done by communities as part of community contribution.
* Provide and enforce implementation of drainage provisions in designs; The site plans
should indicate the positions and directions of the proposed drainage.
* Avoid drainage systems discharging into the project sites; settled and cultivated areas.
2.    De-vegetation around Project Sites: Where proposed project sites have been de-
vegetated extensively, the project design should include the following mitigation measures:
* Re-vegetation around proposed project sites with fast growing multipurpose trees
which may be used for both timber and other uses such as provision of wind break and
stabilisation of soils;
* Communities may be asisted with seeds and technical information on how to establish
tree nurseries.
* Employ selective clearance of vegetation on proposed project site. Clear only those
potions of the site where its necessary to do so.
6



Soil Conservation and Agroforestry Extension Programme (SCAFE) in the Ministry of Agriculture,
Food and Fisheries (MAFF) may be useful source of information on tree species which may be
useful for planting around project sites.
3     Termite infestation around project site:
* Ensure communities and contractors who may be assisting communities observe the
standard designs when projects are implemented;
* Ensure treatment of termites in new buildings continue to be budgeted for in projects.
* The requirement in MPU manuals on siting of the project must be enforced
4     Poor siting/location of existing Infrastructure sites
* Communities should be sensitised to the need for developing simple resource maps
and land use plans which show the existing location and use of existing infrastructure
and various land resources including water points, dambos, hills, grazing areas,
woodlands, etc
* Where projects may require new sites (in cases of extensions to existing buildings),
communities should be assisted to take into consideration all the environmental factors
into consideration such as existing water points, slopes, soil
types and locate new infrastructure on suitable sites.
5     Shortage of land around project sites:
* The communities and the district teams should appraise the impact of new projects on
existing settlement pattems
* Where a need to resettle the population may arise, compensation for displacement
should be considered (displacement of people has not happened so far in any PMU
projects)
• Use of land use plans should be encouraged
(C)   Major Environmental Concerns Associated with new Micro Projects
The mitigation measures to address key environmental issues that are directly related to the
development of new community based social infrastructure can be summarised as follows:
1.    Quarries for stones and sand mining
* Ensure that quarries are not left uncovered at the end of use to avoid water collection
in the quarry pit which may become a breeding place for malaria parasite carrying
mosquitoes and other vectors such as snakes;
* Ensure that quarries are not located near streams and rivers to avoid siltation. The
distance from the quarry to the nearest water source shall be not less than3Om;
* Ensure quarries are not located near human seKtlements. The distance from the quarry
site to the nearest settlement shall be not less than 300m.
* Ensure provision for adequate backfilling of quarries, where quarry pits are left
uncovered they could be used as landfills then rehabilitation is done afterwards once it
is filled up. Rehabilitation could be done through planting grass or trees on top of the
landfill;
7



2.    Off-site deforestation:
* Beneficiary communities should be sensitised to the effects of off-site deforestation
and be required to plant fast growing tree species where feasible.
* Use of concrete blocks rather than pan bricks in the current building where there is
adeqaute materials (river sand) and cement for production of blocks should be
encouraged by ZAMSIF.
3     Lack of and inappropriate medical waste disposal facilities
* Plan for specially designed systems for disposal of medical wastes; The project plans
must indicate the operational needs in terms of both equipment and disposal methods
and facilities
* Provide complete collection and disposal service; for example medical disposal sites
and waste carrying containers should be provided for in the planning and
implementation stages of the project;
* Separate disposal sites for medical or hazardous wastes from domestic waste;
* Where necessary, encourage community participation in preparing appropriate
disposal facilities;
- Consider adequate siting studies for waste disposal sites taking into account the
location of water points, seasonal and perenial streams, wetland areas, social
amenities such as children's playgrounds
* Sensitization of communities on risk of both soil and water contamination with medical
waste if not properly disposed off.
(D)   Institutional and Programme Aspects
i)    ZAMSIF should hire a recognised consultant firm to sensitise and trainZAMSIF staff in
environmental management aspects of ZAMSIF and especially in mainstreaming
environmental issues in the appraisal and monitoring stages of the micro projects. The
consultant should develop training modules for delivery to community projects and train
district staff in the delivery of these modules. The consultant should develop the Natural
Resources Management handbook, which should be based on the modules. The training
programme could be developed with input from the Environmental Support Programme
and the Pilot Environmental Fund.
ZAMSIF should consider strengthening linkages with the Environmental Support
Programme through various existing institutional arrangements and programmes
including the PEF unit and the CNBRM programme being implemented in pilot districts.
At the national level, the approach would be for ZAMSIF to draw on the technical
expertise and experience of the PEF Co-ordinator for environmental concerns of the
ZAMSIF funded projects. The Co-ordinator could be tasked with the responsibility of
raising awareness of environmental concerns of the various ZAMSIF stages of the project
cycle (presented in Section 5) through involvement in regular ZAMSIF MU Technical
Committee and Steering Committee meetings and provide input to the review of the
applications and the preparation of Terms of Reference for Environmental Impact
Assessments where there is need for such studies. The PEF Co-ordinator should liase
8



closely with the ZAMSIF Capacity Building Manager on delivery of environmental
management training discussed in Section 6.
(ii)   Further to the above arrangements, the Environmental Council of Zambia and the
Environmental Support Programme should be represented at the National Steering
Committee of ZAMSIF as well as the technical sub-committees to provide guidance on
lessons learnt about community based environmental and natural resources
management initiatives.
(iii)   At the district level learn from the PEF regardiing their experience with facilitating CEAPs
and PENAs. The partnership between PEF and ZAMSIF should be strengthened to allow
comparative advantages of both partners to support communities in the identification,
preparation and implementation of NRM projects. The relationship should be reviewed
periodically.
(iv)   Consult traditional leaders such as village headmen in Project Committees to provide
guidance on issues of bye-laws on natural resources use and management and
community mobilisation for implementation of mitigation measures.
(E)   Mainstreaming Environment in ZAMSIF Project Cycle
(i)   All projects will be categorised A, B, or C. District staff will be trained to facilitate the
environmental assessment during field appraisal for projects in category B. For those
projects which fall into category C, ZAMSIF should hire the services of a recognised
consultant to undertake the full EIA. The Terms of Reference and choice of consultant
should be approved by the Environmental Council of Zambia who should also be
responsible for the review of the outcome of the EIA of Category C projects and approve
or reject the project.
(ii)   Environmental sensitisation and analysis modules should be developed and
mainstreamed at various stages of the project cycle. It is recommended that at least 2-3
modules should be presented within the communities by the district staff; the first before
the community completes the application form; the second during the field appraisal
stage, third at project launch.
(iii)   To ensure in-house capacity building for mainstreaming environmental activities in project
cycle and expedition of environment reviews of projects funded under ZAMSIF, further
environmental modules should be developed and ZAMSIF staff and District Teams
trained in simple environmental assessments. The details of these modules are
presented in section 6 of this report;
(iv)   Natural Resource Management Handbook for use by communities and District
Facilitators should be developed. The handbook should give some realistic examples of
environmental problems and technical options of addressing the problems.
(v)   ZAMSIF will implement an environmental assessment (screening, appraisal and project
monitoring) system using checklists and format within the ZAMSIF supported project
cycle. The assessment may not necessarily result in a Natural Resource Management
project per se, but the process may facilitate discussion of environmental issues. The
discussion would in the first place identify mitigation measures, which will be
9



environmental in nature and in the second place begin the process of project
identification, that might result in a Natural Resource Management project. The screening
and appraisal mechanism proposed here ensures that any adverse environmental
consequences are recognised early in the project cycle.
(vi)  The ZAMSIF guidelines are integrated in the project cycle in such as way as to ensure
that an assessment of the possible environmental impacts of the project is routine.
Projects will only be approved if the environmental impact assessment recommendations
have been satisfactorily incorporated into the project design and that these are budgeted.
During project implementation, these will be monitored and any further required changes
or additions to the design will be recommended if necessary.
(vii)  It is strongly recommended that part of the community contribution should involve
environmental mitigation measures such construction of storm drains around project
grounds, planting trees around project sites, preparation of appropriate disposal waste
sites and facilities such as incinerators.
(F)  Environmental Awareness
(i)   Support environmental awareness programmes by sponsoring existing community based
organisations (such as Chongololo clubs in schools) and formation of new environmental
CBOs.
(ii)   Specifically awareness raising meetings should be conducted for Project Committees and
the general community by District Team members to emphasise the effects of projects on
the environment and to reinforce the importance of putting in place environmental
conservation measures during planning and implementation of projects.
(iii)   Use the IEC campaign presently being developed within ZAMSIF to inform communities
what NRM projects may be supported as well as how
(G)   Technical Capacity and Training
(i)   ZAMSIF in collaboration with Pilot Environmental Fund should undertake to develop and
test comprehensive environmental training materials and to benefit various stakeholders.
Proposed course content is outlined in Section 6 of this report and could contain but not
limited to the following broad issues; environmental sensitization and analysis;
environmental mitigation measures, mainstreaming environment in ZAMSIF Project
Cycles; communication for environmental management and institutional and policy
framework for environmental management.
(ii)   District Teams and ROs should maintain contact with communities during operation
phase in order for them to provide technical guidance to communities. The lessons learnt
from such interactions should form the basis for planning \ review \ refinement of similar
projects elsewhere.
10






1   INTRODUCTION
1.1   Background
The objective of the Zambia Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF) is to contribute to the
government's strategy for poverty reduction by improving the welfare and the living conditions of
many poor and vulnerable communities all over Zambia, with special attention to the needs of
women and children.
ZAMSIF will provide community grants for investment in social and economic infrastructure;
improved naturai resources management; special programs targeting disadvantaged and more
vulnerable groups; and capacity building, basic skill training and other activities aimed at
stimulating local productivity. ZAMSIF will also finance larger infrastructure benefiting more than
one community, such as district health facilities, market places etc. District authorities are
expected to take the lead in the implementation of these projects.
Efficient and sustainable management of natural resources is critical to the achievement of this
objective since the poorest and most vulnerable sectors of the population are often the most
dependent on renewable natural resources for income generation and risk aversion.
1.3   Nexus of Poverty, Environment and Infrastructure Development
Studies have shown a strong relationship between poverty, infrastructure development, and the
environment. In Zambia the poor have been associated with those who are unable to consume a
basic quantity of clean water and are exposed to unsanitary conditions with limited access to
proper health facilities and services. Poor communities are also associated with inadequate
access to education and transport and communication facilities, input and product market
infrastructure. Their production is very often dependent on the seasonal weather patterns and
have little or no irrigation facilities to buffer adverse weather variations.
Access to clean water and good sanitation has the most obvious and direct consumption benefits
in reducing mortality and morbidity and increases the productive capacity of the poor. Access to
transport and irrigation can contribute to higher and more stable incomes for the poor, enabling
the poor to manage risks.
The relationship between each development infrastructure and the environment is complex.
Development of certain infrastructure involves use of environmental resources and may lead to
certain activities and outputs which may lead to degradation of environmental resources and
impact negatively on human settlements . The most negative impacts of infrastructure
development on environment and human welfare concern those that create waste (liquid and
solid) where waste disposal facilities are not planned and executed. For example construction of
a district hospital will require considerable planning and execution of a waste disposal system to
take care of the hospital waste during the operation phase.
Construction of the improved pit latrines will require careful sitting of the facilities in relation to the
sources of water. Not doing so may lead to underground seepage of the waste to the sources of
drinking water leading to increased incidences of water borne diseases. Construction of
community education infrastructure using burnt bricks may lead to serious localised deforestation
which may lead to increased soil erosion on productive agriculture land. This may in turn lead to
11



reduced agricultural yields for a particular community. Improved feeder roads located near
wildlife areas may lead to increased access to wildlife resources resulting in unsustainable and
illegal exploitation of wildlife resources (due to easy access).
1.4   Purpose and Objectives of Study
While no ZAMSIF project is expected to generate significant adverse environmental effects,
some community and district investment may result in negative consequences if appropriate
mitigation measures are not implemented. In addition, the cumulative environmental impact of
many small investments supported by the project across the country may be significant. The long
term success of these investments is also closely associated with sustainability and minimising
potentially negative environmental impacts considering that the poor are often most directly
dependent on their natural resource base for supporting their economic livelihood. The purpose
of this study is thus to provide clear and systematic guidelines for the effective assessment of
any potential environmental impacts that may result from micro-projects.
The scope of the study is set out in the TOR (Annex 10). Specifically, the study will focus on the
following specific objectives:
(i).   Define the best way to mainstream environmental appraisal and monitoring as part of the
regular ZAMSIF project cycle - screening, scoping, developing terms of reference,
conducting and reviewing the results of environmental appraisals, and monitoring micro
projects implementation.
(ii)   Make proposals about how to increase the technical capacity of ZAMSIF staff, district
teams and other ZAMSIF partners and facilitators for environmental appraisal and
monitoring.
1.5   Approach and Methodology
The study was carried out by a specialist team consisting of an Institutional/organisation
Specialist, Technical Expert with buildings planning, design and civil engineering knowledge,
Environmental Management Expert with skills in environmental impact assessment and
PRA/Trainer equipped with participatory learning techniques.
Available documentation on the Social Recovery Projects and other relevant documents were
reviewed and an appraisal of sample guidelines was undertaken to determine their
appropriateness to the ZAMSIF Programme. The team reviewed the proposed activities of the
ZAMSIF Project Cycle and developed a checklist to standardise the assessment of the projects
and the information to be gathered during field visits to selected projects..
Field visits were conducted to 17 project sites during which visual inspection of the project
targets were made, salient observations recorded on each project site along with an on site
ratings of the state of the project with respect to environmental issues. Meetings wereheld with
beneficiary communities and participatory assessment and learning techniques were used to get
valuable insight into the state of the environment surrounding the projects.
The team developed a checklist (Annex 3 ) to be used for collecting and synthesising the
information. The check list will be used to collect information on both the project related activities
and also capacity building needs of the various stakeholders who will be involved in the ZAMSIF
programme.
12



A format for collecting and analysing capacity building needs of various stakeholders was also
developed and is presented in Annex 3
1.6   Key Concepts
Construction activities in this study refers to construction of new infrastructure on new or
existing sites. It could also mean demolition of old structures to put up new ones.
Rehabilitation and or replacement of damaged or below standard parts include ripping up the
broken or damaged parts of the structure, addition of new parts or layers including strengthening
and widening of structures. Generally, existing alignments are followed but could include
improvements to the vertical and horizontal alignments of isolated sections of a given structure.
Environmental Assessment as used in this report refers to a process of systematic review
conducted (using a variety of tools) for the purpose of integrating environmental considerations
into the programme, activity or project. In this context, it should not be seen as a single activity at
one point in the life of a programme, project or activity, but as an ongoing process which is
integrated throughout the project cycle.
Environmental Sustainability in the context of ZAMSIF programme refers to the ability of
environmental resources (land and soils, surface and ground water, forests, air, etc) being
utilised in the construction and rehabilitation of projects continuously without depleting them
either in terms of quantity or quality
Community Based Projects in this report refers to projects that are located within communities
and often initiated, implemented and managed by beneficiary members of a given community.
Sources of Impacts: Those features or elements of a project that typically cause environmental
impacts.
Receptors of Impacts: Those features or elements of a receiving environment that may be
impacted upon by a project.
Environmental Impacts: The nature magnitude and significance of the impacts that the project
causes to the receiving environment.
Mitigation Measures: Measures that may be taken to reduce, manage or compensate for
environmental impacts
13



2.    DESCRIPTION OF THE ZAMBIA SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
2.1   Scope of the Zambia Social Investment Fund
The Zambia Social Investment Fund Road (ZAMSIF) aims to: (i) achieve sustainable improved
availability of quality basic social services by beneficiary communities, (ii) build capacity for
improved local governance in the districts with worst social and poverty indicators and (iii)
strengthen the capacity to provide timely information on poverty and social conditions and facilitate
its use in policy making.
Objective (i) aims at empowering local communities through the financing of sub-projects identified,
implemented, managed and maintained by the communities. Objective (ii) will support the process
of strengthening the capacity of local government and administrations and their accountability to
local communities.
Objective (iii) provides a framework for monitoring and analysis of poverty and provides an
opportunity for linking this activity to policy making. The programme to be implemented over a 5
year period consists of three main components:
2.2.  The Community Investment Fund (CIF) component
The CIF will finance community managed projects following selection criteria detailed in the
operational manual. These will include basic social and economic infrastructure (indicated in
Table 3.1 of Section 3) in the following sectors: education, health, rural water supply and
sanitation, community roads and bridges; natural resource management; capacity building;
basic skills training, and other activities aiming at stimulating local productivity; and special
programs targeting the poor and vulnerable groups, such as orphans, persons affected by
HIV/AIDS, female headed households.
Communities will identify, implement, manage and maintain these projects. They will be assisted
by provision of 'on the job' training and manuals covering project implementation and
management, maintenance and other relevant issues. The implementing communities will also
be assisted by district officers who will be trained in facilitation and relevant technical skills under
the District Investment Fund (DIF). Communities will be assisted by specialist Non Govemmental
Organisations (NGO) or private sector for community based capacity in such areas as home
based care counselling, natural resource management, participatory planning techniques and
literacy.
The community project will become a focus for community development and information
resource base. 'Modules' of 'toolkits' will be developed, facilitators trained in their use and
delivered at different stages of the project cycle. This component will provide an opportunity for
mainstreaming environmental management aspects of the programme.
There will be various levels of district participation in the CIF project cycle, indicating various
levels of responsibility and involvement. ZAMSIF Regional Officers will assist the districts in most
of the project cycle activities. ZAMSIF MU will disburse funds to communities and the
communities will account for those funds to ZAMSIF MU. There will be a gradual handing over of
tasks to district staff according to their assessment capacity reduction plan and will be
responsible for all project cycle activities including the disbursement and accounting of all project
14



cycle activities including the disbursement and accounting of all CIF funds. Movement of a district
from one level to the next will be based on an annual assessment by a Provincial Assessment
Committee
2.3.  District Investment Fund (DIF)
The District Investment Fund (DIF) will provide the opportunity for districts to enhance their
capacity to facilitate community based development. An important and substantial capacity
building component will form a major component. The Capacity building Program will aim to
strengthen the planning, management, and implementation capacity of local authorities and
community members. Special attention will be given to planning, design and costing projects,
financial management and accountability, planning and improving the ability to respond to the
varied priority needs of different communities. The success of these districts in accessing funds
will depend on their being effective in managing and facilitating CIF activities.
The District Investment Fund (DIF) component will also finance infrastructure benefiting more
than one community, such as district health facilities, market places, etc. District authorities are
expected to take the lead in the implementation of these projects, initially by managing resources
allocated on a project by project basis, and eventually by managing a district allocation grant.
This component will further provide an opportunity for mainstreaming environmental
management aspects of the programme.
2.4.  Poverty Monitoring and Analysis Component (PMA)
The aim of this component is to strengthen the capacity to provide timely information on poverty,
social and environmental conditions and facilitate its use in policy making. The ZAMSIF PMA
component will improve the sustainability of data collection and analysis and will facilitate
improved linkages between policy formulation and available data. Specifically the project will:
*  Support the functioning of a unit within MOFED to co-ordinate poverty monitoring and
analysis;
*  Support the functioning of economic and social statistics at household level and qualitative
participatory information on poverty.
*  Mainstream the analysis of poverty data, including the production of an annual poverty and
social indicators monitoring report.
The PMA component will finance a range of activities which are designed to strengthen the
institutional, technical and financial framework for sustainable monitoring and policy - use of
poverty information. In the first five years, these activities will include:
(i)   training and a pre - agreed cycle of house hold surveys, including one Living Conditions
Monitoring Survey (LCMS) and one Indicators Monitoring Survey (IMS), conducted by
CSO;
(ii)   Priority Policy Studies and Analysis of poverty using qualitative and quantitative data;
(iii)   Preparation of an Annual Poverty Review which provides a poverty update synthesizing
different sources of information on social conditions including form household surveys,
administrative systems, participatory assessment etc., including findings form the studies,
15



(iv)   Annual dissemination and consultation workshops on the Annual Poverty Review; (v)
facilitation of and support to the preparation of a strategic plan and corporate plan for
CSO;
(vi)   Training, technical assistance, capacity -building and support to the operation of a
Strategic and Operational Planning Unit in MOFED;
(vii)  Piloting of a district Management Information System; and
(viii) Establishment of capacity for evaluation.
2.5.  Institutional Support
ZAMSIF will be managed by a semi autonomous Management Unit established within the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MOFED). The ZAMSIF MU will be headed by a
Program Director supported by the necessary departments and staff, which will include
Operational Management, (Technical Services, Field Operations, Capacity Building, Information
Management, Information and Education Campaign), Finance and Administration , Monitoring
and Evaluation and Poverty Monitoring and Analysis. ZAMSIF will be represented in the
Provinces by 13 Regional Officers and support staff.
Poverty monitoring will be implemented by the Living Conditions Monitoring Unit within CSO. The
ZAMSIF Program Director will retain financial management and procurement responsibilities, the
technical activities will be managed by the CSO Director, both supported by the PMA component
manager. Poverty Analysis will be implemented by the study fund which will remain autonomous.
It will co-ordinate its activities closely with the planning and Economic Management Department
in the Budget and Economic Affairs of MOFED. All activities will be led and co-ordinated by the
PMA component manager.
A series of committees will be established to overview, guide and monitor the project activities,
and to enhance the flow of information through all levels of Government. A national level Steering
committee (SC) will be chaired by the Permanent Secretary for Budget and Economic Affairs , as
the controlling officer for ZAMSIF, and include as members the Permanent Secretaries and/or
Chief planners from all the relevant ministries, representatives from various non Governmental
Institutions, and donors to ZAMSIF. The role of the SC will be: (I) to guide, develop, and
harmonize the program strategy; (ii) to review the efficiency and cost effectiveness of the
Management Strategy put in place by the MU; (iii) be informed of poverty issues and recommend
relevant policy change; (v) to advice on government policy and sector policy issues; and . (iv) to
endorse programme activities.
Provincial Assessment committees will be set up and trained to assess the district performance
and agree the indicative planning figures. District level is the hub of all activities and is the place
where co-ordination and information sharing is most important. There are several existing
committees at the district level, which will be in ZAMSIF activities; the District Development
Coordinating Committee (DDCC); the District Planning sub-committee of the DDCC; Full
Council; and the Plans, Works and Development sub-committee of the Council. Each of these
committees has its own terms of reference, and will have different responsibilities for ZAMSIF
activities.
The Poverty Monitoring and Analysis component will be directed by relevant technical sub
committees reporting to a PMA Steering Committee which in turn will report to the ZAMSIF
16



Steering Committee. Section 4 of this report provides discussion and suggestions on creating
environmental awareness and capacities for environmental management among the various
institutional arrangements highlighted in this Section.
3     ANALYSIS OF POTENTIAL SOURCES OF IMPACTS FROM ENVIRONMENTALLY
SIGNIFICANT PROJECTS AND POTENTIAL MITIGATION MEASURES
3.1   Types of Projects
The generic list of projects that have been funded by MPU and which may be funded under
ZAMSIF is presented in Table 3.1. Details of specific environmental problems associated with
each type of projects that were audited is presented in Annex 12 of the report. In this Section the
existing and potential generic environmental issues, their sources, impacts and mitigation
measures are discussed. Most of the projects listed in Table 3.1 are represented in the sample
of those audited as shown in Annex 2. ZAMSIF has potential to fund 40-45 different types of
micro projects ranging from construction of new structures to provision of equipment and
technical services in 10-12 different sectors including income generating projects such as
supporting agriculture production at community level and other natural resources management
projects
3.2   Community Natural Resources projects
3.2.1 Selection criteria of projects for funding
ZAMSIF will support community based natural resource and environmental projects based on
the following criteria:
i)    project must be a national priority and address one of the 5 priority areas identified
in the NEAP;
ii)   the project must also be a District priority and address a priority area identified by
the district plan;
iii)   project must be a community priority, the community must show evidence that it is
committed to the project and should have already contributed to the project;
iv)   For those districts where the District Environmental Facilitators (DEFs) are supported by
the PEF, it is expected that the communities will undergo a Participatory Environmental
Needs Appraisal (PENA). The PENA will enable communities to formulate their
Community Environmental Action Plan (CEAP) which will form the basis for some of the
project activities to be funded. Those districts which do not have PEF support, ZAMSIF
will support communities to implement environment and natural resource projects without
those communities necessarily having a CEAP. There must however be some evidence
that a community planning process has been undertaken;
v)   project must have tangible benefits which will benefit the poor and vulnerable.
vi)   project must be simple enough for the community to be able to implement and manage
the project. The proposal must show how the project will be maintained, operated and
managed by the community.
3.2.2  Indicative list of possible environment projects
17



a)    Support to production activities which use natural resources in an efficient,
sustainable and environmentally sound way; These may include;
*    activities to promote and improve bee keeping practices;
*    sustainable and improved exploitation of non timber forest products;
*    developing land use action plans;
*    conservation farming techniques;
*    establishment of orchards;
*    improved and sustainable charcoal production activities;
*    small scale community based wetlands, swamps, lakes and river
management activities for sustainable fisheries development and bio
diversity conservation;
*    small scale water resources management activities, small dams, small
scale irrigation for tree nurseries and horticulture activities;
b)    Support to community based projects which control soil degradation;
*    projects addressing water and soil conservation;
*    watershed management activities to control erosion and produce
benefits;
*    project which encourage the use of compost;
*    activities to control forest and bush fires;
a    community activities which increase drought preparedness;
*    improved management of communal grazing.
c)    Support to community based projects which address deforestation:
* establishment of community managed wood lots
* agroforestry activities;
* reforestation activities, such as tree planting for fodder trees, timber etc.
* establishment of tree nurseries;
* improved use of fuel resources e.g. fuel efficient stoves;
s community based forestry management;
* creation of green space in urban areas.
d)    Support to community based projects which control air and water pollution:
*    projects which improve sanitation;
*    community managed water supply systems;
*    solid or hazardous waste disposal;
*    garbage collection
*    waste recycling activities;
*    activities which improve drainage;
-0   environmental sanitation, including communal latrines and small scale
drainage works to improve sanitation;
*    improved environmental management activities which decrease the
incidence of diseases.
e)    Support to community based projects which aim to preserve wildlife:
* sustainable wildlife management and protection in combination with small
* scale eco-tourism development;
18



* communal game farming activities;
* small scale activities dealing with national heritage conservation.
19



Table 3.1     Possible Mix of Generic Investments to be Financed Under ZAMSIF with
Potential Environmental Impacts
Project Type                                             Potential Environmental Impacts
Education
* Construction of new buildings                 Potential environmental impacts associated with
* Major rehabilitation of structures            each of these projects may arse at different stages
* Minor rehabilitation structures               of the project: (i) siting, (ii) construction and
* Supply of equipment and furniture to the school    (iii) operation .For most new constructions and major
rehabilitation projects the impacts are similar but
Health                                          may differ in magnitude due to local conditions
* Construction of new Health Centres            The impacts on representative audited projects were
* Major rehabilitation                         identified and noted (See following sections and
* Minor rehabilitation                          Annex 3 of this report)
* Supply of medical equipment & utilities
Note also that the environment itself may impact
Transport                                       negatively on the project. For example, a new
* Construction of new bridges & rural roads     building sited in a termite infested area will be
* Major Rehabilitation of bridges and roads    impacted negatively by the termites if mitigation
* Minor Rehabilitation of bridges               measures are not considered in the design and
construction phase of the project
Supply of Rural and Urban Drinking Water**
* Sinking of new boreholes, water wells
* Rehabilitation of old boreholes
* Supply of equipment
Sanitation**
* Construction of ventilated Pit Latrines (VIP)
* Construction of medical waste disposal facilities
* Construction of rubbish pits
* Construction of small waste water treatments
Community Infrastructure
* Construction of Community structures (markets)
* Major rehabilitation of structures,
* Minor rehabilitation of infrastructure
Community Natural Resources Projects**
** Community Natural Resources projects -See detailed section above on Community Natural Resources Projects
which will be supported by ZAMSIF
3.3    Potential Environmental Impacts
This great variety of different project types under ZAMSIF pose a special challenge to those
responsible for assessment and evaluation of environmental impacts. Most challenges arise from
new constructions and major rehabilitation projects such as rual access roads, water supply
points, bridges, small irrigation systems, schools, clinics and hospitals. It is perceived that such
small construction projects will not cause significant impacts individually; however, they should
be screened for potential environmental considerations such as involuntary resettlement,
contamination from waste materials during construction, disturbances during construction (dust,
20



noise, etc.), and environmental contamination during operation of the facilities (caused, for
example, by inadequate sanitation facilities).
Environmental impacts from these community based projects were atttributed to various activities
and outputs associated with siting, construction, and operational/use phases. The findings from
the field study revealed that the most common environmental problems associated with project
sites/area were the following:
1. Erosion around premises/project site;
2. De-vegeted surroundings around project sites
3. Abandoned stone and sand quarries
4. Inadequate santation facilities
5. Inappropriate medical and other solid waste sites;
6. Unsafe water sources;
7. Inadequate land for future developments;
8. Shortage of firewood in selected communities.
9. Malaria prevalence in some project sites;
10. Termite infestation on both old and new project sites
The causes of these environmental problems were not confined to one stage of the project cycle
but rather spread out across the three broad stages; siting, construction and operational/use.
The problems and the consquences (if not addressed ) are presented in Table 3.2. Table 3.3
presents the possible mitigation measures to consider for implementation at appropriate stages
of the project cycle.
3.4   Sources of Environmental Impacts
3.4.1 Impacts associated with siting/preparation of projects
Site identification will largely determine the type and magnitude of environmental and social
impacts that will result from the project. For all construction projects that were audited,
environmental impacts of siting and preparation phase came primarily from quarrying, sand
mining, vegetation clearing and back filling.
The findings from the field study also revealed that in many the decision by the communities to
select the project site was based on factors other than land use plan and environmental factors.
As such this pose a danger of siting projects near ecologically sensitive areas such as the water
bodies, steep slopes, erosion prone soils, wetlands, sites of historical or cultural importance
which may impact negatively as a result of project activities. Similarly the environment also
impact negatively on the project which is not properly sited. Therefore decision on site
identification must be based on land suitability and resource use patterns of the sites proposed
for construction and should involve a wide range of line agencies and levels of organisations at
the district level.
Once the site for the project is chosen, care must be taken to avoid involuntary displacement of
local settlers from land occasioned by the construction of a project. Care must also be taken to
avoid constructing on steep slopes, unstable soils and places where runoff and drainage will be
problematic. An example of this case was during the field visits to Mpika District Hospital funded
by MPU where some new constructed blocks (extension) were sited on a steep slope which has
created erosion problems around the buildings. Kafue District hospital is also sited at the foot of
a steep hill which is cleared of vegetation by surrounding small scale farmers. Sheet and gully
21



erosion is evident around the project site. Where the selection of a particular site may not be
avoided appropriate mitigation measures must be put in p[ace to avoid the negative results that
may result. For example in case of Mpika and Kafue District Hospitals, proper drainage system
around the buildings should have been considered important mitigation factors in the whole
project design and construction processes. Typical environmental problems associated with
siting and preparation are presented in Table 3.2.
For extension to or rehabilitation of existing structures, it is imperative to take simple corrective
mitigation measures to stop the degradation that may have occurred due to previous design
oversight. In some cases, it may prove cheaper to locate the project in a new site from the
maintenance cost point of view. For example, where it is cbserved that a building has degraded
due to termite infestation, it may be better to completely abandon the structure and locate the
new structure on a different site.
Table 3.2:   Sources of Environmental Concerns and Mitigation Measures
Environmental Concern/Cause                 Mitigation Measure
Siting/Preparation Phase
I  In some instances, the design and siting  *  Integrated planning to incorporate all
phase of project does not take into         environmental aspects; eg slope, wind
consideration environmental factors such as  direction, ground water flow systems, etc.
slope of land, wind direction and speed,  *  Involvement of natural resource and planning
ground flow directions                      agencies in review of siting; for example
MoH , Department of Water Affeirs, Land
Use Planners from MAFF, Nat. Resources
2  Inappropriate selection of some project sites   *  Locate boreholes 50m away from toilets and
in relation to other structures/facilities; for  waste disposal facilities;
example, siting of boreholes close to toilets,   *  Consider preparing simple land use plans;
disposal of medical waste close to water  *  Ensure borehole is located away from
points                                      pollution sources;
3. Inadeqaute consideration of full service  *  Consider provision of full service delivery in
delivery; for example construction of hospital  the des5gn of the project. Aspects like
without a relatives shelter or waste disposal  provision of relatives shelter, waste disposal
facility and service delivery               facilities (waste site) must be included in the
design of projects.
4  Inadequate measures to mitigate against soil  *  Enforce implementation of spoon drains
erosion around the existing infrastructure  requirements provided in building designs;
*  Use of fast growing, intermediate tree crops;
*  In cases of new project sites, no clearing on
steep; unstable slopes or highly erosive soils;
*  Where clearing has been done, stabilization
of exposed soil with grasses or other ground
covering;
* Limitation of site preparation to dry season;
* Design terraces on hillside minimising
surface erosion;
* Proper design and layout of furrows;
* Levelling of land at project site;
* Control of grazing near project sites
22



5  Lack of integration of environmental concerns  *  Basin-wide integrated planning and
in the design phase of the projects         management of dam to avoid overuse,
misuse, and conflicting uses of water and
land resources;
6. Downstream effect of dam construction not    *  Equitable allocation of water between small
taken into consideration.                   and large holders;
Adequate consultation and participation of all
potentially affected communities
Note that these concerns are not only confined to the assessed MPU projects but are common to many
projects where environmental concerns are not considered in the project cycle.
Table 3.2    Common Environmental Concerns and Mitigation Measures (Cont'd)
Environmental Concern                       Mitigation Measure
Siting/Preparation Phase
11. No land use plans in all areas of project.  *  Assist communities to develop simple land-
use plans which must encompass suitability
of land and its alternative uses as part of the
appraisal process.
12. Poor technical designs/guidance which fail to   *  Develop environmenntal manuals
address specific environmental factors.
*  The existing MPU requirement of using ant
13. Lack of ant guards in buildings sited in a  guards in all buildings should be enforced
termite infested area
14. Constructing buildings without provision for    *  Conduct adequate siting studies;
wind vents in an area with high speed winds   *  Ensure use of MPU Technical Manuals on
building constructions;
*  Involve the relevant district building
department
15. Lack of consideration of future development   *  Assess future developments needs by
needs of an area                            applying integrated planning and
management
16. Scattering structures such as toilets on a  *  Project design to include use of double or
small project site                         triple latrines to maximise use of space.
17. Lack of comprehensive mitigation measures   *  Community should discuss and develop
of observed environmental problems such as  simple environmental mitigation plans during
soil erosion, deforestation; overgrazing    the identification and field appraisal stages
(CEAPs);
*  Environmental awareness campaign;
*  Control of cattle grazing; deforestation.
18. MPU is not involved in providing guidance on  *  MPU must get involved through out the
site selection but focus on technical aspect of  project cycle where applicable;
the design                               *  Assist communities to develop simple
community based land use plans.
19. Shortage of land for expansion is not   *  Integrated land use planning approach;
considered in planning of MPU project    *  Site selection must be based on land use
plan.
23



3.4.2 Impacts from Construction/Preparation Phase
Impacts from construction/preparation phase with a special suite of environmental considerations
is associated with material mobilisation which may involve sand mining, tree cutting,kilning. The
end products such as quarries left from the construction can pose a health hazard as they
become sources of breeding grounds for mosquitoes.
Construction of rural bridges can offer a host of benefits on the local populations which may
include improved access to markets; increased government services such as health services
and education evidenced by the proposed Sikaneta bridge/causeway sub project in Macha
Rural, Southern Province where the findings showed that presently some communities have
difficulties in accessing these services mentioned above during rain season becauseSikaneta
stream become flooded with storm water thus making it impassable due to non availability of a
proper bridge at the stream.
However many constructions which require the use of burnt bricks impact on the air quality,
water and forests due to cutting of trees. It was observed during the field visits to Schools such
as Kabweza, Namaanza, Siamakando and many more schools where burnt bricks were used in
the construction they had to cut down trees, mine sand in the area thus contributing to
deforestation and land degradation. Also the process of kilning bricks result in great amounts of
smoke gas containing carbon monoxide which may impact directly on the health of people
working closely around the kiln and air quality in the surrounding environment. It is estimated
that, on average, deforestation of 1 hectare of land contributes some 100 tons of carbon and
other pollutants to the atmosphere in a single year where the timber is burnt up. It has been
further estimated that, to burn pan bricks for the completion of a recommended 1 *3 classroom
block, you would require up to 2,535 kg dry weight wood (or about 8.4if which translates into an
average of 0.002 hectares of woodlands. Multiplying this figure by a factor of 10,000 classroom
blocks over a 5 year period would require only 20 hectares of forests. Zambia covers 75,261,400
ha (752,614 km2.) Of this land, an estimated 30% (256,000 krrf) is covered by forests and
woodlands. 20 ha of land required for brick kilns (assuming use of brick burning) translates into
0.00078% of the total forests and woodland areas in Zambia.
Typical findings are presented in the profiles in the annex12 and the possible mitigation
measures are presented in Table 4.3.
Table 3.3    Sources of Impacts from Construction/limplementation
Construction/lmplementation Phase
Environmental Concern                     Mitigation Measure
Building wastes/products are left unattended to    *  Provision for adequate filling of quarries, control of
after project, e.g quarries, kiln residues,  land clearing and disposal of spoil;
stones, sand and lack of alternative use of    .  Minimized use of borrow pits;
these products                         *  Clean up of construction sites;
Community participation in mitigation measures as
part of their contribution towards project.
2. Incomplete project planning implementation    *  Select materials and design criteria according to local
which affects operation phase; e.g.       conditions and availability of resources;
constructing a school with out adequate  *  Review capacity of local resources to provide for
water, constructing water borne toilets   project material;
without adequate water supply
24



3. Implementation of projects not following  *  Ensure and monitor implementation of appropriate
design for specific environments; eg      design and technologies that take into consideration
constructing a school without wind vents in a  environments factors;
place with strong winds.
4. Offsite effects are not fully taken into  *  Careful selection of building materials, and location of
consideration for example, quarrying of sand  borrow pits, quarries, spoil and disposal sites;
from Kafue to construct a school in    *  Rehabilitation of quarries;
Lusaka(Chitanda), kilning near a river bed  *  Community participation in mitigation measures as
5km away from school in Kabale/Mpika      part of their contribution to the project, e.g. tree
compound                                  planting;
* Consideration of alternative sites
5 Downstream impacts of small dams and    *  Ensure total catchment and hydrology studies are
irrigation for agriculture purposes eg, drying  done and communities are sensitised on the impacts
up of streams, downstream chemical        of their action on downstream populations.
pollution due use of agriculture chemicals
3.4.3 Impacts from Operation Phase
The types of end product and the size of the operation determine the type of quality and quantity
of waste produced. This in turn determines the necessary type of pollution control measures. The
measures used in pollution abatement cannot be specified for all possible projects. Generally
pollution problem arising from the operation/use phase would depend on the type of project.
While projects may have similar environmental problems at the siting and construction phase
their impacts at the operational and use phase would be significantly different and would largely
depend on the nature of the project.
In many MPU and non MPU projects that were surveyed during the study the potential
environmental problems at the operation and use phase were associated with management of
medical waste from hospital and health centres. The handling and disposal of medical waste at
the hospital and clinics need to be addressed during the design of the project and monitored
during operation of the facility. Solid and effluent discharges which may include among other
things infectious medical waste such as human body parts, blood, used needles, blades and
syringes from the treatment rooms and operating theatre need to be disposed of in a sanitary
and hygienic fashion using facilities such as waste disposal sites located further away from water
sources and away from dangers of scavenging by human beings and stray animals such as dogs
which may bring about disease outbreak. Waste disposal sites must be sited properly to avoid
smells which can severely affect people living in adjacent neighbourhoods.
The findings from the field visit to Mpika District Health Hospital by the study team revealed that
due to non availability of the incinerator at the hospital, medical waste which among other things
include human body parts from the theatre are disposed of in an open ditch giving chance to
stray dogs to exhume and scavenge at the dumpsite. The hospital project was funded under
MPU but this project failed to take into account aspects of medical waste disposal facility in the
management of medical waste such as an incinerator.
The findings from Mpika District Hospital were similar to Mpepo Rural Health Centre in Mpika
where the project was funded by World Bank but did not provide proper medical waste disposal
facilities. In this case needles, syringes and placentas are disposed off in a disused pit latrine
which is close to the borehole for the hospital thus posing a risk of groundwater contamination
and possible health problems. Details of the findings are contained in the profiles in the Annex 3.
25



Table 3.4    Sources of Impacts from Operation of the Facility
Operational/Use Phase
Environmental Concern                       Mitigation Measure
1. Improper waste disposal methods;       *  Specially selected sites for disposal of
e.g. using open pits or pit latrines for disposing  medical waste sites such as enclosed
of medical waste from hospitals and health  landfills located further away from water
centres                                   sources and possible scavangers;
.  Separate disposal system for medical wastes
and other non infectious waste;
*  Education in proper sanitation, health and
hygiene
2. Erosion resulting from access roads which  *  Provide drainage along the access roads
have been cleared off vegetation without
drainage
3.5   Consequences of Identified Environmental Problems
The consequences of environmental impacts from the observed common environmental
problems may have adverse effects on the local environment. Soil erosion which was found to be
one of the common environmental problem in the study areas has an effect on the fertility of the
soil and also on the stability of the structure. Where soil erosion has not been controlled
structures become exposed and weaken overtime thus posing danger of collapsing. InMpika at
Kabale Primary School the foundation of the school has been heavily eroded and this may
weaken the stability of the school.
It is recommended that the problem of undercutting of building foundations by erosion be
addressed at both design and implementation stage. Where the infrastructure is existing, the
technical staff together with the community should conduct an environmental appraisal and
suggest possible mitigation measures such as constructing storm drains around the existing
infrastructure and planting of trees. Where new buildings are being considered future
undercutting of building foundations may be minimised by avoiding location/siting of buildings on
steep slopes. Where projects involve extension or rehabilitation of existing projects, construction
of spoon drains should be implemented around buildings. If buildings are located at the foot of
steep slopes, storm drains should be constructed a distance away to drain water away from the
rehabilitated buildings.
Kaoma Cheshire Community Care Centre rehabilitation project serves has an example of an
exiting infrastructure located in an environmentally unsuitable area. At the time of initial
construction of the infrastructure, the developers did not pay attention to the environmental
factors such as the swampy conditions of the area and the prevalence of mosquitoes in the area
giving rise high incidences of malaria. This problem serves as an example to ZAMSIF the
importance of using simple land use plans for an area before siting the project. It is
recommended that where ZAMSIF will be required to support construction of new projects the
planning sections of district councils be consulted for existing land use plans. Where they do not
exist, the project beneficiaries should be encouraged to prepare one. The mitigation measures
26



for already existing infrastructure would be to consider including a spraying programme and
control of stagnant water around the project area following the rehabilitation programme.
Poor waste management and inadequate sanitation may impact on the quality of water by
making it unsafe for drinking. Pit latrines and disposal facilities located close to the main water
supply are likely to contaminate the water sources such as boreholes. This feature was common
in several projects visited during the study. Of the 16 MPU funded projects, 9 projects had toilet
construction components. Over 50% had questionable location related problems. At many
project sites it was found that the decision for selecting a site for the purpose of constructing a pit
latrine was based on wind direction (direction of smells from pit latrines) and not on the hydro-
geology of the site proposed hence posing a risk of groundwater contamination.
The table 3.5 below gives a summary of the environmental consequences and possible effects.
27



Table 3.5    Consequences of Selected Environmental Impacts
Environmental Impact                Significance of Impact Without
Mitigation Measures
1. Erosion of lands around project sites    Loss of soil fertility essential for vegetation
growth around the project site;
Building structures' foundation is eroded thus
weakening the stability of the structure;
High maintenance costs.
2. Infrastructure sited in areas prone to    High incidence of malaria disease;
Mosquito infestation               e.g. Kaoma Cheshire Community Care Centre
is sited in a swampy area prone to mosquitoes.
3. Quarries for stones and sand mining    Become breeding places for Mosquitoes;
left uncovered or rehabilited.     Likelihood of disease incidence;
Siltation of nearby streams e.g. in Mpika Kabale
Primary School sited a quarry near the stream
and left it uncovered.
4. Deforestation around infrastructure and  Trees act as wind breakers in places of strong
immediate area surrounding the project  winds, hence in deforested sites the roof cover
of the building structure is weakened and may
be ripped off resulting in high maintenance
costs;
Shortage of fuel wood for local community.
5.Poor management of medical waste    High likelihood of disease outbreaks;
Scavenging at dumpsites;
Huge budget for medical treatment costs;
Likelihood of high death rates.
6. Unsafe water sources               Rampant incidences of diarrhea diseases;
Shortage of safe drinking water;
High water treatment costs
7. Termite infestation around project site   Building material especially wood is eaten by
(an example of what environment can do   ants thus weakening the stability of the
to a project if measures are not take to    structure;
protect the building)                 High maitenance costs.
8. Shortage of land around project sites    Lead to encroachment of project sites by local
(Common in both rural and urban areas    people which may lead to:
where extensions are made on existing    conflicts within a community                     a
sites                                crowding of buildings with a small space
28



4     INSTITUTIONAL AND POLICY FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT OF ZAMSIF PROGRAMME
4.1   Policy Framework
Provision made under national policies and legislation could be used to address specific
environmental concerns that may arise from the construction and rehabilitation of social and
economic infrastructure. Notable policies and pieces of legislation with specific provisions on
environment include: - The National Environmental Pollution Plan (NEAP), Environmental
Guidelines for Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Work, Environmental Pollution and
Protection Control Act, Forest Act, National Parks and Wild life Act (Zambia Wild life Authority
Act), Water Act, National Heritage Conservation Commission Act, The Lands Act, Mines and
Minerals Development Act, Roads and Traffic Control Act, Factories Act, Petroleum Act and
Energy Regulation Act.
Specifically Statutory Instrument No 28 of 1997 - The Environmental Protection and Pollution
Control (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 1997, Regulation 3(2) (a) provides that
all major infrastructure development projects require an environmental impact assessment (
ElAs) to be conducted . This provision entails that construction and rehabilitation projects that
meet specified thresholds irrespective of the significance of anticipated interactions between
project activities and environmental components would require to be subjected to and EIA
process.
4.2  Institutional Framework
4.2.1 Institutional Framework for Infrastructure Development
The review undertaken by this study indicate that there are currently 7 major ministries who have
been involved in the development of social and economic infrastructure (either at policy planning
or implementation levels ) in Zambia with relevance to ZAMSIF Programme. They include:
1. Ministry of Local Government and Housing through the District Councils.
2. Ministry of Works and Supply through the Roads and the Buildings Department
3. Ministry of Health through the Department of Physical Planning
4. Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries through the Planning Division and the Rural
Investment Fund Programme
5. Ministry of Energy and Water Development through the Department of Water Affairs
6. Ministry of Health through the Department of Physical Planning
7. Ministry of Finance and Economic Development through the Micro Projects Unit provides both
funds and technical support to community initiated infrastructure development.
At regional and district level, the Water Supply and Sanitation Act (1997) gives theLocal
Authorities or District Councils) the responsibility water supply to its residents. It is further
recognised that being responsible does not necessarily mean they must physically do it
iemselves. Several organisations have been involved in water supply and sanitation to the rural
:eas. It is however, government's policy to have Rural Water Supply and Sanitation managed at
community level. Government through the Department of Water Affairs (DWA) in collaboration
with some donors has provided water points to the rural communities. While communities may
not be expected to pay for capital investments in water supply, they are expected to pay for
29



maintenance through water committees. The water committees are being supported through the
District WASHE committees which are intersectoral committees formed at District level for the
purpose of planning for rural water supply. The Micro Projects Unit (MPU) has funded and
facilitated the supply of water and sanitation facilities to communities especially the schools and
rural health centres.
The Ministry of Health (MoH) in collaboration with some donors through its Physical Planning
Section has been involved in construction of rural health centres including supply of water and
sanitation facilities. For example, the Rural Health Centre visited by the study team in chief
Mpepo's area was constructed by a contracted funded by the World Bank through the Ministry of
Health.
For ZAMSIF community managed is broad term which does not include classified roads. The
criteria is that the roads should lead to basic services such as schools, clinic, water points,
markets and local court. The road should improve access to productive areas and improve public
transport opportunities. Access improvement related infrastructure that may be supported under
ZAMSIF include; earth roads, drainage, footbridges, culverts, causeways, drifts and splashes.
The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries (MAFF) through the Rural Investment Fund have
been responsible for facilitating the construction of a variety of rural infrastructure including
community storage sheds, irrigation furrows and small dams, livestock dipping facilities.
Except for the Department of Roads in the Ministry of Works and Supply, the other institutions
both at national and regional levels do not have environmental management frameworks that link
infrastructure development to their impacts. Although the Ministry of Agriculture food and
Fisheries undertake provision of extension in soil and water conservation on productive
agricultural lands, the link to the impacts of the social economic structures being implemented
can not easily be determined and the programmes are oriented to mitigating against production
effects. For example, the team did not come across any MAFF programme in schools which
address soil erosion and gully formation around school premises in the districts visited.
The Buildings Department under the same Ministry (MWS) provides technical and advisory
services on various government infrastructure related maintenance, rehabilitation and
construction projects and there is no provision for environmental assessments in their
procedures and requirements.
4.2.2 National Institutional Framework for Environmental Management
The study revealed that there are currently 3 major ministries which are seriously involved with
environmental management issues in Zambia:
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MENP9: Established in 1991, the MENR
includes the Departments Forestry and has responsibility for the Environment Council of Zambia
(ECZ) which is responsible for regulation and enforcement of Environmental Impact
Assessments (ElAs). The ECZ is an autonomous statutory authority which reports to Cabinet
through the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources.
Other than staff allocated to the ECZ, the MENR has few technical environmental staff of its own.
Further, it has been observed that the ECZ which have the legal mandate for EAs, does not have
adequate in-house expertise necessary to plan and conduct EAs. This undermines its capability
30



to assist line agencies in scooping EAs and preparing Terms of Reference, its credibility in
supervising EA execution, and its capacity to evaluate the reports which may be produced by
project proponents. To go round the problem the ECZ has encouraged establishment of desk
offilces in institutions with activities which may lead to adverse environmental impacts.
%Iiinistry of Local Government and Housing (MLGH): The Department of Town and
Country Planning: The Department of Town and Country Planning, located at the Ministry of
Local Government and Housing, is responsible for the preparation and implementation of
physical land use plans for cities, towns and other major settlements in the country. The
Department also sets out standards for population distribution, land zoning, networks
development such as roads, water sewerage, traffic circulation, environmental hygienic systems
in the areas covered by the Town and Country Planning Act CAP 475 which the Department
administers. Most rural areas are however, not covered by this Act. It was observed that even in
urban settings covered by the Act, land use plans were not available to indicate the suitability of
the location of project sites
Ministry of Health (MoH): The Ministry of Health has the mandate of monitoring waste
management in health institutions through health boards. The environmental health technicians
under the Ministry of Health are supposed to assist in the supervision of the handling and
storage of medical waste. Radiation Protection Services of the Ministry of Health is responsible
for monitoring equipment that use radioactive material and how this is disposed of at the end of
life such as X-rays equipment in hospitals. The Ministry and its relevant institutions however,
have neither the system of controlling medical waste management generated in hospitals nor the
means to enforce it. The legislation that exists cover hospital/medical waste management in
general but does not adequately cover hospital/medical waste management in particular. The
MOH should consider establishment of a system of environmental assessment guidelines for
health infrastructure and disposal of medical health in both rural and urban health centres.
4.2.3 Local Institutional Framework for Environmental Management
Non Governmental Institutions and Private Sector
The field survey and audit of the 17 projects conducted revealed that there were few CBO and
NGO initiatives dealing with community-level environmental activities, such as land use planning,
reforestation, tree nurseries, environmental education, wildlife conservation, etc. The few existing
local NGOs mostly at district level need considerable support and training, to develop their skills
in environmental management and participatory planning and assessment techniques, as well as
their managerial, financial, project implementation, networking and co ordination skills. The
private sector capacity to undertake community-based environmental and natural resource
management is also relatively weak, but there is interest and potential for further development.
4.3   Ongoing Environmental Management Programmes
The Zambian government through the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources is
currently implementing an Environmental Support Programme (ESP), which was prepared to
address the issues identified in the National Environmental Action Plan. The ESP, Phase I
(1 998-2002) was designed to first address critical issues that are needed before other actions
can be undertaken. It focuses on building national-level capacity, by harmonising institutional,
policy and legal issues, building environmental information systems, strengthening environmental
education, and undertaking pilot activities to strengthen community-level environmental
management.
31



The ESP has several closely inter-linked investment components of which 2 components are
relevant to the facilitation of the implementation of community based environmental activities.
These include; the Pilot Environment Fund (PEF) and the Community Environmental
Management Programme (CEMP). The main aim of the PEF and the CEMP is to encourage and
support development, ownership and management of community based micro projects which
are oriented towards sustainable natural resources and environmental management. The CEMP
provides a framework for community involvement in identification preparation, implementation
and monitoring of projects while the PEF provides matching grants for community initiated
projects and for environmental studies which provide practical solutions to natural resources
management issues. It must however, be noted while ZAMSIF will be operational in almost all
the districts at the same time, ESP sub programmes is currently operating in only a few districts.
Even the expansion of the programme to other provinces will only mean incorporation of the
programme in one district per province. However, ZAMSIF should adapt the experiences and
lessons of these programmes to its natural resources management programmes in other non
PEF and CEMP supported districts where communities wish to initiate similar projects.
Other environmental and natural resource management programmes exist and include; the
Administration Management Design (ADMADE) programme for wildlife management in Game
Management Areas has been operating for twelve years. The Provincial Forestry Action
Programme (PFAP) is supporting community-based forestry management efforts in 2 provinces.
Community-based approaches to fisheries management are ongoing in Lake Tanganyika and
Lake Kariba. The Soil Conservation and Agroforestry Extension (SCAFE) Programme is
combating soil degradation and undertaking integrated (agriculture and forestry) extension
efforts with communities in 4 provinces.
Although the environmental problems facing urban communities may differ in some important
respects from those in rural communities, as will the patterns of socialorganization of these
communities, nonetheless it would be useful for ZAMSIF to learn from such approaches and
strategies. Widespread consensus exists that it is important to link such programmes with one
another, through means such as creation of networks and sharing of information through media
such as newsletters and study tours.
Coordination of environmental issues in different sector activities is very difficult, with numerous
stakeholders operating more or less independently. The Environmental Support Programme
National Steering Committee (NESC) has been formed to provide greater co ordination on
environmental issues. The MENR and ECZ are expected to play major roles in co ordination on
environmental issues but actual implementation will continue to involve a wide range of
government ministries, non-governmental organisations, the private sector, and local
communities
4.4   Recommended Institutional Development Strategy
The discussion of the existing institutional arrangements and framework and programmes both at
national and district levels point to the weak institutional linkages and capacities at both national
and district levels and the community level to handle speedily and adequately a very large
number of proposed micro projects that may be generated from the communities with respect to
environmental reviews. Therefore, it is recommended that the following strategic actions need to
be undertaken and promoted by ZAMSIF to address the imbalances in the interest of
mainstreaming environment in its programme activities;
32



4.4.1 Strengthening ZAMSIF linkages and co-ordination with existing environmental
management programmes and institutions.
The terms of Reference requires purpose options for the creation of an environmental screening,
evaluation and supervising mechanism within ZAMSIF's Management Unit which will ensure that
funded projects are environmentally sound and sustainable. The TORs also require formulation
of a mechanism for forging and strengthening programme synergies. One of the fundamental
steps towards achieving these objectives is to promote and strengthen the linkages with existing
relevant environmental management programmes and institutions operating at both national and
district level.
Its is recommended that selected pre-project preparations and sensitisation activities currently
carried out by the Pilot Environmental Fund (PEF) be adopted by the ZAMSIF District Teams.
The PEF Co-ordinator and the District Environmental Committee members be actively involved
in the ZAMSIF project cycle. In many cases, it was found that the members of theDECs and
those of the District Planning sub-Committee were the same. Therefore, it would make sense for
ZAMSIF to simply use the same personnel to facilitate community participatory environmental
reviews and sensitization prior application and assist the communities in completing the
environmental checklists. Where these members are not the same, Regional Officers and
District Planning Sub-Committee should be provided with the environmental training being given
to the DEC members
4.4.2 Encourage formation of ZAMSIF sub-Committees at Community Levels
At community level, the current practice is to form Project Committees which oversee the
implementation of the MPU. It was observed that in a number of projects visited these
committees consisted of various sub-committees. Common among these were finance
committee and maintenance committees. It is proposed that within each PC, a committee to
address natural resources and environmental issues be considered. This committee will ensure
all environmental issues are taken into consideration during the implementation of the project.
This committee would also be responsible for spearheading formulation of community bye-laws
regarding use of natural resources and other environmental resources. It is proposed that local
and traditional leadership within a community should form the core membership of such a sub-
committee of the PC.
4.4.3 Strengthen Linkages with the Environmental Council of Zambia
The Environmental Council does not have adequate capacity to review, assess, monitor and
enforce the Environmental Protection and Pollution Control Act. It currently encourages the line
departments implementing programmes and projects with potential adverse impacts to set up
desk offices using the existing officers within an organisation who then are oriented to
environmental issues through short term training, workshops and seminars. These then become
the link with the ECZ and are responsible for ensuring the ECZ requirements are not overlooked
during both the preparation and execution of the project. The PEF Co-ordinator may take up this
role on a daily basis. However, an ECZ representation at both the ZAMSIF MU Technical
Committee and Steering Committee should be considered essential to the ZAMSIF processes.
33






Table 4.1     INSTITUTIONALIORGANISATION CONCERNS FOR INTEGRATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT ISSUES IN ZAMSIF PROJECT CYCLE
INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS             MEASURES                              METHODS                               TARGET            INTERVENTIO
N STAGE
_ Most projects do not take     *  Project proposals       *  Joint meetings between all stakeholders to   *  MPU                   At Planning an,
environmental concerns into      should include an          discuss revision of project proposal forms to  *  Regional Officers  Implementatior
consideration                    analysis of the potential  include environmental concerns              *  DACs                   Stages
impacts of projects on    *  Community sensitisation meetings         *  Communities
the environment       *  Meetings between DTs and other NGOs (to      *  Other NGOs
*  Formation of              encourage them to revisit their project
Environmental            implementation strategies)
Committees to be sub-
committees of DACs
* Part of 25% community
contribution to include
environmental
mitigation measures
2.                                   Train Hospital Management  *  Facilitation techniques                      *  Hospital Administration
Failure to mobilise communities   and Project Committee in  *  Focus Group Discussion                   *  Health Committees
to implement identified project    facilitation and community    *  Problem/                                                      At
activities. eg. failure of    mobilisation                  Opportunity Matrix                                                   Identification
Community at Mpika District   *  Needs Identification   *  Problem Ranking                                                        Stage
Hospital to construct incinerator  and Assessment
3.     Weak linkages between         Establishing links between    Regular joint meetings between all stakeholders.  MPU, NGOs, DACs, R.Os,  At
institutions and natural resources  MPU, DTs, and other  Information sharing between all stakeholders.  DEFs                      implementatior
programmes Little or no       organisations. District                                                                             and operation
networking between MPU        Environmental Facilitators                                                                          stages
projects and other organisations  should be members of DTs.
working on environmental
issues.
4.     Lack of community bye-laws to    *  Facilitation of enacting    *  Workshop involving District Technical  *  DACs                 At Planning,
govem the use of environmental   bye-laws                   Committees                                  *  Communities            Implementatior
projects/resources. E.g. Dams,    *  Community          *  (DACs) and community to formulate bye-laws   *  Project Committees     and Operation;
furrows etc                       sensitisation         *  Regular consultative meetings between        *  Traditional Leaders    Stages
communities and DACs
Monitoring implementation of bye-laws
5.     Inadequate involvement of local   MPU to revisit policy on  Joint meetings between MPU, Regional Officers,  *  MPU                Before start of
communities in identification and  identification and selection    DACs and Project Committees          *  Regional Officers      ZAMSIF
selection of suppliers or     of suppliers of materals and                                              *  DACs
equipment and materials       equipment                                                                 *  Project Committees
35



Table 4.1 INSTITUTIONAL/ORGANISATION CONCERNS FOR INTEGRATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT ISSUES IN ZAMSIF PROJECT CYCLE
INSTITUTIONAL            MITIGATION MEASURES                                                              INTERVENTION
ASPECTS                                                   METHODS                 TARGET               PERIOD/ STAGE
6      Inconsistency of          Policy guidelines on uniformity of  Joint Meetings between   *  World Bank        Durng Identification but
approaches to community   approach to community contribution    Donors and ZAMSIF  *  ZAMSIF               before completion of the
contribution between                                                              *  Other Donors          application
different donors. E.G.
World Bank and ZAMSIF in
Mpepo (Mpika)
7.     Communities' ignorance of  *  Sensitisation of communities to    *  Focus  Group  *  Project Committees    At Project Planning Stage
alternative sources of       other sources of assistance       Discussion         *  CBOs
assistance               *  Regional Officers sharing      *  DACs Meetings       *  District Teams
information with DAC members                         *  Regional Officers
8.     V-WASHE Committees not  D-WASHES to be encouraged not to   Meetings between        Local NGOs, CBOs,        At planning,
widespread in rural areas   limit their activities to specific areas    DACs and D-WASHE  DACs, R.Os       implementation and
except where some Donors  only.                            Committees. Sensitising                         operational stages.
are funding Water and    NGOs and CBOs to be encouraged    CBOs through
Sanitation activities    to form V-WASHE committees        meetings. Community
MPU to encouraged to work with D-   awareness meetings.
WASHES
9.     Little or no involvement of   Traditional leaders to be ex-officios    Nomination of traditional  Project Committees.  At all stages.
traditional leaders in   on Project Committees. Sensitisation  leaders to Project  Traditional leaders.
management of projects.    of communities on role of traditional   Committees. Community
leaders in projects.              awareness meetings.
10.    No enforcement institution   Task District Planning Sub-    Meetings of all        DEFs, DACs, schools,    At all stages.
on environmental issues,    Committee with responsibility for  stakeholders.      Project Committees,
especially in rural areas.    enforcement of agreed mitigation  Sensitising school  CBOs, V-WASHE
measures.                         children and
communities about
Strengthen Linkages established   environmental issues.
between Project Committees, V-
WASHE, Environmental Committees
and other CBOs
11.    Communities' ignorance of  Training Project Committees in   Workshops              Project Committees. DACs  At planning stage
other sources of financial   proposal- writing. Training in                       CBOs
support                  resource mobilisation. Training in
management of income generating
projects.
36



5.    GUIDELINES FOR MAINSTREAMING ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
ISSUES IN ZAMSIF PROJECT CYCLE
5.1   Purpose and Outline of Guidelines
This Section of the guidelines is prepared for three types of users:
(i)   those concerned with the preparation, approval, monitoring and supervision of ZAMSIF
funded community based projects-ZAMSIF Regional Officers, District Teams-relevant
line departments;
(ii)  those directly involved in executing or implementing the projects and those involved in
facilitating community participation in project execution-community members, members
of project committees and other CBOs, district based NGOs working with communities
and
(iii)  those concerned with environmental impact assessments and evaluation of mitigation
plans of ZAMSIF funded projects-Environmental Council of Zambia and the ZAMSIF
Management Unit staff.
A major aim of this Section is to provide specific guidelines on how to create environmental
awareness at all levels and integrate environmental concerns associated with ZAMSIF funded
projects into the whole project cycle. It complements the general Environmental Impact
Assessments developed by the ECZ. It can guide the preparation of contracts with communities
and can be used for monitoring and supervision of major construction works such as
construction of District Hospitals and medium scale irrigation schemes such as dams and
irrigation furrows.
ZAMSIF project cycle begins with community initiatives and actions (project identification and
preliminary project preparation) and ends with community (when communities begin and
continue to use the facility). Other actors including ZAMSIF staff and District line staff facilitate
the preparation and supervise the implementation of the projects.
Mainstreaming environment in the project cycle entails use of Environmental Assessments FAs)
as being part of the project identification and design process and thus contributing directly to
creating awareness about environment; being used to identify potential adverse impacts and
assessing their significance; analyse and select mitigation alternatives (for example, in design,
technology or siting); recommend modifications in project design to avoid or minimise adverse
impacts and design mitigation, management, and monitoring plans to reduce or manage adverse
impacts or compensate for those that are unavoidable.
Therefore, EAs in the ZAMSIF cycle will neither be used independently of other design
processes nor be used to feed into the final stages of the project design only but will be
intimately linked to project identification and early preparation and hence will be used more as a
preventive tool. Figure 6.1, provides the overview of the ZAMSIF project cycle. Table 6.1
provides an outline of the stages of the ZAMSIF cycle and the detailed proposed activities to be
undertaken in each stage. It also provides an outline of environmental activities that may be
undertaken at each stage of the project cycle to ensure design of projects with minimal adverse
37



environmental impacts. The following sections describes the proposed process of conducting
environmental assessment activities indicated in Table 6.1.
38



Fig. 5.1        Mainstreaming Environmental Management in ZAMSIF Project Cycle
Community Environmental Sensitisatlon Module (ESA) by DT & NGOs
"MT5e7416§,',,3T7 T.6T, _ r1nmmunity assessments of resources by communities assisted by CBOs
vironmental impact assessments of proposed projects by communities
EVALUATION   ~::~  Assessment of effectiveness                                                       Use of environmental analysis checklists
~~,,EVALUATIONII'~ -1 _i ^ ..r
"C  ~~            of mitigation measures                                                        by communities (EMM-2)
Facilitate use of MEM                          .                             Identification of mitigation measures
Completion report by ZAMSIF
i*    l5!S; . ---  .       cogSUse environmental analysis checklist by
CIF                                                              Project screening by D.Teams
_                         PROJECT CYCLE
Monitoring implementation of mitigation measures                                                       Environmental Action Plans
Facilitate use of EMM and MEM                                                                         Facilitate ESA & EMM
module
-   ~         ~          Monitoring Impact of Implementation
Facilitate use of EMM and MEM
L -                                                                                                        p WF-z /                  Costing mitigation measures
.. ,;7 6I_b. &S-6t .-t.L.96  (Use EMM module)
Facilitate use of ESA and EMM                                    /
Community environmental awareness campaigns
L                -  - -         J                                                          /                            Contract to include agreement
on mitigation acUvities
Realise of funds for mitigation measures                                             Signing of contracts with communities
Mobilisation of community contribution
\--<.4t5}.   jS-6itil -.94 S-R-7;- <-*  + /  Facilltation of Environmental Smnsitisatlon Module (ESA)
Review of action plan & commitments by whole community
Note: The Environmental Modules and Detailed Content are presented on next page
39






5.2 The Environmental Modules
The following modules are proposed for drawing on by ZAMSIF technical staff and District
Teams for facilitating the various mainstreaming activities proposed in this Section. The
modules will form the core content of the proposed training course to be fully developed and
delivered to various ZAMSIF stakeholders including; ZAMSIF technical staff, District line
department staff, NGOs, CBOs (Project Committees) and the general community as part
capacity building programme proposed in Section 6 of this report. 5 modules are proposed and
each module is further divided into various sub-modules.
Each module is self standing and could be delivered separately or in clusters of modules
depending on objective and the type of participants. The proposed training programme in Section
6 suggests the target group for each module, duration and stage of the project cycle and
provides and indication of who may facilitate the implementation of the module.
Module 1:   Environmental Sensitization and Analysis (ESA)
The objective of this module is to expose participants to environmental issues that may be
associated with various project activities. It is intended to create appreciation of the linkages
between human induced activities and the environment. The various contents of the
modules will be arranged in sub-modules as follows:
M1.1 Understanding environmental components and their importance
M1.2  Overview of ZAMSIF supported projects,
M1.3 Identifying specific project inputs, activities and outputs
M1.4 Environmental problems associated with project inputs, activities and outputs
M1.5 Exploring significance of environmental adverse effects of projects
Module 2:   Environmental Mitigation Measures(EMM)
The objective of this module is to introduce participants to a range of measures or a tool box of
simple technical solutions which may be implemented to address the identified environmental
concerns. Each environmental concern resulting from use of specific inputs, activities and
outputs will be addressed. It is envisaged that a menu will be developed to suite different
situations. Trainers may select relevant project examples for their participants. The various
contents of the modules may be arranged in sub-modules as follows:
M2.1 Identifying project inputs, activities and outputs associated with specific projects
M2.2 Identifying technical solutions for addressing environmental problems
M2.3 Quantifying material and financial values of the technical solutions
M2.4 Selecting technical options for implementation of options (criteria for selection)
M2.5 Implementing the technical options in community initiated projects
Module 3:   Mainstreaming Environment Management In Project Cycles (MEM)
The objective of this module is to equip participants with techniques and procedures for
internalising environmental management considerations into ZAMSIF project cycles including the
Community Investment Fund cycle and the District Investment Fund cycle.
41



The module is intended to expose participants to a range of tools, forms and procedures which
may be used to ensure identification of environmental concerns and mitigation measures are
taken into consideration through out the project cycle. The various contents of the modules may
be arranged in sub-modules as follows:
M3.1  Overview of ZAMSIF supported projects
M3.2  Introduction to ZAMSIF projects cycles
M3.3  Basic concepts and essentials of mainstreaming environment
M3.4  Step by step mainstreaming activities and tools
M3.5  Reporting requirements for mainstreaming environmental activities
Module 4: Communication For Environmental Management (CEM)
This module is intended to equip participants with communication skills and participatory
techniques and methods for involving communities in identifying environmental issues, appraisal,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of projects. The various contents of the module may
be arranged in sub-modules as follows:
M4.1  Definitions and basic communication concepts
M4.2  Essential environmental information for communication
M4.3 Appropriate communication tools
M4.4  Using PRA/PLA for environmental education
M4.5  Planning and executing an environmental sensitisation meeting
Module 5:  Institutional and Policy Framework for Environmental Management (IPF)
The objective of this module is to expose participants to the existing institutional arrangements
and policy requirements for the management of environmental concerns at national level and at
within ZAMSIF programme. It is intended to be an overview of policy, legal and institutional
aspects of environmental management in Zambia. The focus however, is to apply the key
aspects to ZAMSIF. This module will also highlight contractual obligations of the communities
and will provide understanding of the basis for managing common properties such as community
infrastructure which may contribute to environmental degradation of communal resources such
as water, soil and forests. The various contents of the module may be arranged as follows:
M5.1  Historical perspectives of environmental policy and management in Zambia
M5.2  Overview of national and local Institutions for environmental management
M5.3  EIA guidelines for Zambia and ZAMSIF programme
M5.4  Building partnerships for mainstreaming environment in ZAMSIF
M5.5  Preparing and implementing project contracts for environmental'
management aspects
42



Table 5.1    Mainstreaming Environmental Management In Community Investment Fund Project Cycle
Stage of Project        Main Project Activities           Key Environment Activities to              Potential                Tools for
Cycle                                                       be Carried Out                  Actors/Facilitators        Mainstreaming
Environment
IDENTIFICATION    1. Inform communities about available  Create motivation and empower         District staff, Councillors,    Community meetings
& APPLICATION        opportunities through ZAMSIF.    communities with skills for sustainable use    Church
of community resources through          NGOs
environmental campaigns and training                              Drama performances
2. Situation analysis, identification  Actions:                            Communities, CBOs,         Cause-Effect Analysis
and preliminary formulation of    .  Sensitisation through use of PRA    NGOs                      Social mapping
projects.                            tools                                                         Institutional analysis
3. Identification and Prioritisation of  .  Community resource inventories and                       Priority ranking
needs                                - baseline resource surveys                                   Activity profile
.  Environmental assessments using                              Access & Control to
checklist                                                    resources & benefits
3. Mobilisation of community        *  Community identify projects and     CBOs, NGOs, Traditional   Community resources
contribution.                        environmental components of such    Leaders                   Inventory
projects                                                     Pyramid of
*  Community identify mitigation                                Action/Resources
measures and develop initial plan
4. Facilitation of decision making by  *  Community agree on contributions for  District Appraisal    Decision making matrix
communities on aspects of project     environmental management objective   Committee Members       Focus group discussion
cycle.                                                                   Regional Officers
*  Complete provided checklist
5. Preparation and submission of                                           Communities                Environmental Analysis
application forms.                                                                                 Checklist attached to
.                                     .                          Application Form
Use environmental
sensitisation module
.________________________________  ______________________________________  ________________________   Train   district staff
43



Stage of Project       Main Project Activities          Key Environment Activities to be            Potential                Tools for
Cycle                                                        Carried Out                   Actors/Facilitators        Mainstreaming
Environment
Objective is to ensure communities have  DAC members
DESK APPRAISAL  1. Review project proposals         considered environmental issues in the   Planning Sub-Committee of  Environmental Analysis
identifaction stage.                    DDCC                      Checklist to be added to
Actions:                                Line department & senior    the Desk Appraisal Form
* Ensure checklist is completed         council staff
(Forms EA I and EA 2)
* Screen the proposed project and
complete screening checklist (form EA3)
* Ensure environmental criteria has been
used for environmental projects
FIELD              1. Community priority project     The objective is ensure communities have    District Planning Officer  Environmental Analysis
APPRAISAL            assessment                      considered environmental issues in the                            Checklist to be added to
identifaction stage.                                              the Field Appraisal Form
2. Assessment of community       Actions:                                 District Officer in charge of   Deliver environmental
participation in project decision  * Review checklist with the communities    sector              Sensitistion and Analysis
making.                        * Conduct an Environmental Assessment   Technical Officer          Module
3. Social Assessments               using proposed checklist (form EA 4)  Officer from Planning
Section of MLGH
4. HIV/AIDs Assessment            * ER results form part of the appraisal  ZAMSIF Regional Officer
5. Community contribution           forms
assessment
* Mitigation measures identified, agreed
and costed
6. Future maintenance assessment   * Where necessary, TORs for EIA study
will be prepared
7. Community participation analysis
contract
8. Technical appraisal of proposed
activities & collection of relevant
sector & design data
| Stage of Project 1       Main Project Activities         Key Environmental Activities to be    Potential ActorslFacilitators   Tools for
Cycle                                                          Carried Out                                             Mainstreaming
Environment
44



1. Checking of appraisal forms      The objective is to encourage DTs and
COSTING AND                                            communities to consider cost implications  ZAMSIF MU              * Environmental
BUDGETTING                                             of proposed mitigation measures                                     Analysis Checklist
2. Preparation of budgets, plans and  Actions:                                                        * Budgets
schedules                         * Include costs of mitigation measures in
agreement
3. Preparation of Financing Agreement.  * Prepare budgets for environmental
components of the project
APPROVAL           1. Scrutiny of project proposals    The objective is to evaluate the validity  ZAMSIF Microproject Tech.    * Environmental
and feasibility of the proposed mitigation    Committee             Analysis Checklist
plans.
Actions:                             The Plans Works &           * Field Appraisal
2. Approval of project proposals     . Review the documents and provide   Development Committee          Form
report                             District Council
3 Send Financing Agreement to                                             Environmental Review
Community          -                                                      Committee
PROJECT            1. Conduct Project Launch Workshops    Objective is provide a further opportunity   ZAMSIF Microproject Tech.
LAUNCH                                                 for sensitization and get community   Committee
WORKSHOP                                               commitment to the implementation of   The Plans Works &
environmental targets                 Development
Actions:                             Committee/District Council
* Sensitise PC to environmental issues
* Conduct environmental sensitisation    ZAMSIF Regional Officer
activities/Modules for the community    Relevant members of
Planning Sub-Comm.
DISBURSEMENT    1. Community account opened            Objective is to ensure funds earmarked  Community                 Monitoring Form i
& JUSTIFICATION                                        for environmental activities are spent and                        Environmental
2. F.A sent to ZAMSIF MU            justified on those activities         Community                   Checklist
3. Disburse funds directly to community   Action                          ZAMSIF MU/District Council
* Conduct simple audits of project
4. Justification of previous instalments  accounts /Impact Monitoring     ZAMSIF MU/District Council
45



Stage of Project       Main Project Activities     Key Environmental Activities to be Carrie Out      Potential        Tools for Mainstream
Cycle                                                                                        Actors/Facilitators        Environment
The objective is to ensure environmental targets                    Facilitate the delivery o
IMPLEMENTATION   Implementation of project activities   are implemented.                         Community members       environmental mitigatio
module
Actions:                                    Trained members of
* Implement agreed targets                  CBOs, DACs              Implementation schedu
MONITORING,        1. Quarterly monitoring visits to  The objective is to ensure mitigation measures    ZAMSIF RO, Provincial   Facilitate the delivery o
REPORTING             projects                      outlined in contracts are being properly     Regional Planning of    environmental mitigatio
& SUPERVISION                                       implemented.                                 MLGH & relevant district  module
officers
Monitoring targets
1.  Monthly monitoring visits to  Actions:                                   Relevant DAC members
projects                    * Implement agreed targets
2.  Expenditure versus physical    . Take action if variance between plan & results
progress                       are significantly different
3.  Technical quality assessments  * Visit project sites by DACs
EVALUATION          1. Conduct participatory        The objective is to determine how well known
evaluation in project       environmental impacts were minimised and     Extemal Consultants     Environmental Impact
communities                 evaluate the significance of unsuspected or                          Audits
unexpected impacts
Actions                                     Communities
Conduct participatory evaluation exercises in                       Evaluation Forms
communities
Review annual and baseline reports
Analyse results before and after implementation
46



5.3   Project Identification and Application
Environmental activities in this stage will serve 2 principal purposes;
* To sensitise communities about the state of their environment and available resources in their
community;
* To assist communities in understanding how to do preliminary environmental assessments
(by themselves) of the proposed projects by use of simple checklists
The ZAMSIF application forms will be accompanied by a simple environmental checklist
presented in Table 5.2. The application form should encourage Communities to invite the
District Team to go and conduct an environmental sensitisation workshop for 1 day before they
complete an application form and environmental checklist.
The District Team will facilitate a participatory environmental awareness workshop using PRA
methods and will assist communities to understand the various aspects of the checklist as part of
the sensitisation activity. The team should not be involved in completing the checklist for the
community.
Community will complete the application and the environmental checklist and submit to ZAMSIF
through the District Team.
Information dissemination could be done, through the proposed Information, Education and
Communication activities to raise the general awareness of community members about the
potential environmental impacts of various activities that communities may undertake. Proposed
tools for sensitisation may include drama, group discussions, resource mapping, cause effect
analysis, institutional analysis. The expected output from this phase is a completed
environmental checklist and a short brief indicating the mitigation measures and plan for
addressing identified environmental concerns. These outputs will be used for conducting a
preliminary environmental assessment during the desk and field appraisals by the ZAMSIF staff
and members of the DAC.
5.4   Desk Appraisal
Environmental activities in this stage will serve 2 principal purposes
* To ensure communities have considered environmental aspects of their proposed projects
before detailed designs are considered;
* To provide initial screening by determining if the proposed project need
No environmental assessment             (Category A)
Environmental Assessment-EA             (Category B)
Full Environmental Impact Assessment -EIA  (Category C)
The DAC will review the environmental checklist and ensure all aspects of the project have been
addressed by the community. The team will make professional judgement on the potential
adverse impacts that may be caused by the project and recommend on whether an
environmental review will be required. A simple generic screening criteria is suggested for
determining if a project should be subjected to an environmental review during the field appraisal
stage. Most infrastructure development projects to be funded by ZAMSIF would qualify for
environmental reviews, category B.
47



48



Table 5.2 Checklist for Community Level Sensitization and Assessment
Checklist Questions                                               Additional
Data needs
PROJECT SITING
1. Who identified the project
2. Who selected the site of the project
Yes   No
3. Has the land use plan been prepared for the area in which the project is sited?
4  Is the project sited near conservation worthy ecosystems, flora or fauna (.g protected
areas, wetlands, forests, sites of historical or cultural importance
which may be impacted negatively as a result of project activities?                    _
5 Is the project sited near major water bodies (rivers, lake, lagoons, wetland, etc)?
6 Is the project sited near main domestic/commercial use such as borehole, water well,
spring etc?
7. Is the project sited in an area prone to soil erosion (see guideline No. 12)
8. Is the project site easily accessible to the majority of the potential beneficiaries?
9. Are there people who will be displaced/removed from the project site? (see G14
10. Will the project lead to migration into the area?
11. Who owns the land where the project is sited?
12. Does the siting require any legal permits/clearances from relevant institutions
PROJECT INPUTS
13. Will the project require large volumes of construction materials to be taken from local
sources (eg gravel, stones, water, timber, fire wood) See G20
14 Will project require use of heavy machinery and equipment ?
15 Require significant levels of service amenities to support the workforce?
16 Will any chemicals/oils be used in the project? G13
PROJECT ACTIVITIES
17. Will the construction/implementation activities lead to degradation or loss of quality of
any environmental component such as forests, air, soils, water, wildlife, fish, plain,
swamp/wetland, etc?
18. Will the project construction activities present dusV chemical/ smoke pollution risks or
lead to a significant increase in noise pollution in neighbourhood?
19. Will project Implementation activities lead to significant employment opportunities?
ANTICIPATED PROJECT OUTCOMES
20. Will the project result in significant quantities of wastes or eroded material? G21
21  Will the project lead to significant changes in land use pattems G22
22 Lead to unplanned/squatter settlements or access to conservation-worthy ecosystems
or over exploitation of natural resources (eg land, forests?
23 Be likely to require mitigation measures that result in the project being socially or
financially unacceptable
Table 5.3  INSTITUTIONAL AND CAPACITY BUILDING CHECKLIST
49



Checklist Questions
Community
Additional
Yes  No   Data Needs
1 Has the community been sensitized to environmental issues in the area before
project preparation/implementation? G22
2. Is the community aware of the major environmental issues in the area? G22    L1l    l 1      I
3. Does the community have any environmental management activities
incorporated in their daily/weekly/monthly/yearly programmes? G23
4. Is there any interactions between the community and District based line staff
post project completion and project hand over? G24                   LiIl           iII
5 Are there any other organisations working on environmental/natural resource
management projects/issues in the area? G24
Low   medium   High
6. Overall assessment of environmental awareness and capacity to manage
environmental aspects of projects/programmes
District
7  Have the District line staff been exposed to environmental awareness/training
workshops?   G24                                                    IZIZ           IIZ
8  Do the line staff have any environmental management activities incorporated
in their daily/weekly/monthly/yearly programmes? G25
9  Is there any interactions between the community and District based line staff
post project completion and project hand over? G24
10. What are the key environmental issues/problems in their area of operation?
Low   medium   High
11. Overall assessment of environmental awareness and capacity to manage
environmental aspects of projects/programmes
50



Table 5.4      Generic Project Screening  List
_______________________________ Detail of Environmental Assessment/Category
Project Type/Sector                              None (A)    Environmental      Environmental
Review (B)      Assessment (C)
Education
* Construction of new buildings
* Major rehabilitation of structures
*  Minor rehabilitation structures
*  Supply of equipment and furniture to the school
Health
* Construction of new Health Centres
*  Major rehabilitation
*  Minor rehabilitation
*  Supply of medical equipment & utilities                        *
Transport
* Construction of new bridges & rural roads
* Major Rehabilitation of bridges and roads
Minor Rehabilitation of bridges
Supply of Rural and Urban Drinking Water
*  Sinking of new boreholes, water wells
*  Rehabilitation of old boreholes
*  Supply of equipment
Sanitation
*  Construction of ventilated Pit Latrines (VIP)
*  Construction of medical waste disposal facilities
*  Construction of rubbish pits
*  Construction of small waste water treatments
Forestry
* Establishment of new woodlots
*  Reforestation of degraded and deforested areas
* Tree planting for wind breaks
Wildlife Areas/Protected Parks/Wetlands
*  Construction of new structures in these areas
*  Major rehabilitation of old structures
*  Minor rehabilitation of old structures
Agriculture
*  Construction of small scale irrigation canals
*  Rehabilitation of existing canals and dams
*  Construction of new small dams
*  Soil conservation and Agroforestry          _
*  Community Agro-products processing plants
*  Construction of small fish ponds
Flood Protection Barriers
*  Construction of new storm drains
*  Rehabilitation of flood control barriers
*  Vegetation planting for flood control
Community Infrastructure
*  Construction of Community structures (markets)
*  Major rehabilitation of structures,
*  Minor rehabilitation of infrastructure
Rural and Urban Settlement
* Resettlement of sizeable number of households
51



|   * Upgrading of human settlement   l          l
5.5   Field Appraisal
Environmental activities in this stage will serve 4 principal purposes;
*  To ensure communities have considered environmental aspects of their proposed projects
before detailed designs are considered and to collect required data for the project design;
*  To review and verify the contents of the environmental checklist and the feasibility of
implementing the proposed mitigation measures
*  To carry out an environmental review or limited environmental assessment for the projects in
category B.
*  To provide an opportunity for further environmental sensitisation
The District team will review the checklist and the mitigation plan with selected members of the
community during the field appraisal meetings. Where the results do not significantly differ from
the submitted checklist and the plan, the project will continue being considered in the category
recommended at the desk appraisal. A project may change the category based on the results of
field verification. For projects falling under category B, an environmental review should be
carried out during the field appraisal stage.
Environmental review is a simplest level of environmental assessment and does not generally
require sophisticated environmental expertise and may be completed in a participatory manner
by the district team with the beneficiary community. An ER will go beyond the screening stage by
requiring the use of a checklist to identify the sources of impacts being: type of inputs to be used;
activities to be undertaken ;and the expected outputs. It will further provide a description of
impacts associated with activity and provide mitigation measures. A sample analysis checklist
format is presented in Table 5.5
There are 2 broad benefits for conducting an environmental review or limited environmental
analysis by District Team;
(i)    ER verifies and highlights the potential environmental significance of projects at this
early stage in the project cycle; and
(ii)   Provides technical input to the design of an environmentally sound project at an early
stage;
(iii)   ER prevents financial and human resources from being applied to the full EA of the
project that is likely to have little environmental significance.
Only one generic checklist is proposed for all project types at this level of ER process. The
person conducting a review would, however, need to prepare supporting material that provides
an outline of typical impacts and mitigation measures of each type of the source of impacts
identified for the project.
5.5.1 Environmental Impact Assessment
During field appraisal the team will also confirm the results of the desk appraisal classification of
projects in category C. The environmental assessment at field appraisal may also lead to
upgrading of a project from category B to C which would require a full EIA. Such projects would
generally be subject to the EnvironmentaU Council of Zambia EIA requirements. Most ZAMSIF
projects will rarely need a full EIA. Projects requiring this kind of analysis will be very large both
52



in scope of activities and funding and may fail to meet the requirements of the ZAMSIF with
respect to community contributions. Examples of such projects would include construction of new
District and Rural Health Centres, medium scale water dams for irrigation purposes or
construction and rehabilitation of feeder and district roads or infrastructure in critical and
ecologically sensitive areas like natural parks and wetlands.
In the rare case that the project will require a full EIA, the team will recommend involvement of a
specialised team of experts including environmental specialists. Once commissioned, the study
may take anything from 4-6 weeks to complete. Several site visits will most likely be involved.
Detailed supervision and monitoring plan would need to be developed. The study may be
contracted out to an external consultant. Developing TORs for the study would be critical and
would require expertise of an environmental specialist (within or contracted outside ZAMSIF).A
detailed generic procedure of conducting a full Environmental Impact Assessment is presented
in Annex 10
5.6   Costing and Budgeting
Communities will be encouraged to cost their proposed mitigation measures and plan prior
application. The environmental review or EIA done during the field appraisal stage should
facilitate the collection of data on cost implications of the identified measures and discuss the
cost implications for community contribution. Its proposed that the cost of some simple
environmental mitigation measures be factored into community contribution. It is further
proposed that District based NGOs and existing CBOs must be assisted with training for them to
assist communities in identification and costing of environmental actions and benefits.
5.7   Approval Process
5.7.1 Evaluation of Appraisal Reports
The results of the ER (for category B) will be submitted to the District Planning Sub-Committee
for evaluation and approval. Initially, the Regional Officers will be responsible for this exercise
until adequate capacity has been built at District level. In the unlikely event of a full EIA, the
review will be conducted by ZAMSIF Technical Committee where ECZ will be represented for
evaluation . The objective of this exercise is to appraise the mitigation measures and the
mitigation plans. The Planning Sub-Committee at the District level will review the checklists and
ensure technical viability of the measures proposed and verify community commitment and
capacity and may undertake visits to randomly selected sites. In some cases accompanying
technical feasibility information may be required from other line department specialists, for
example hydrology of a catchment where a furrow irrigation system is being proposed.
In cases of a full EIA, ZAMSIF may facilitate contracting an external specialist to undertake a
detailed evaluation of the EIA report.
The typical ZAMSIF application for funding will admit three possible outcomes of the appraisal
stage: acceptance, request for reformulation, or refusal. The decision whether to approve the
project must be based on a broad range of criteria determined by ZAMSIF to allow it to best
accomplish its mandate as a poverty reduction financing mechanism. The idea of integrating
environmental assessment procedures into the cycle is not to stop projects but to enhance the
maximum benefits to the communities by minimising the adverse environmental effects which
may mitigate against poverty alleviation objectives.
53



Therefore, the criteria to approve or not to approve a project must include non technical elements
such as conformity with targeting guidelines and evaluation of community support and
commitment. Technically and financially the project must be sound and sustainable. Typically
there is little consideration of environmental feasibility at this stage, therefore it is important to
adequately address these issues during project formulation and appraisal. However, a mandate
at the approval stage to evaluate environmental aspects of the project creates an important
check on the quality of work of the project evaluation; therefore ZAMSIF should ensure a
minimum capacity for environmental review at the project approval stage. We recommend that
ZAMSIF include an explicit evaluation tasks by the District Planning -Sub-Committee, and a
sampling of projects at the level of an Environmental Review
Upon approval, arrangements regarding implementation of the mitigation plan should be part of
the legal contracts to be signed between ZAMSIF and the community. It is critical that the results
of the EA process (special mitigation measures, design specifications, supervision plans, and
monitoring arrangements) be duly incorporated into the legal contract.
5.8   Project Launch Workshop
Environmental mainstreaming objective of this stage should focus onsensitizing the community
on identified environmental concerns in their community, consequences if mitigation measures
are not implemented, obligation of the community based on signed contract and the community
in the selection of committee members who are sympathetic to the cause of environmental
management.
5.9   Disbursement and Justification
Environment mainstreaming objective of these activities will focus on ensuring funds and
resources earmarked for environmental activities are released, spent and justified on those
activities. Community contribution for environmental mitigation will be demonstrated before
subsequent fund releases are made for project implementation.
5.10 Implementation, Monitoring and Supervision
Although Figure 5.1 seem to separate Monitoring from Implementation, actually the monitoring
process begins with supervision of implementation. The bulk of the monitoring activities may take
place during the implementation stage of the cycle. The environmental objectives of these
activities are to ensure mitigation measures outlined in the contracts are being properly
implemented, that environmental contractual measures are being respected, construction is
going in accordance with the agreed design standards, and that no unforeseen negative impacts
are occurring as a result of project execution.
Environmental mitigation measures and specific monitoring requirements will be determined
during the project formulation/preparation stage and finalised during project appraisal. To avoid
deliberate creation of gaps between what is reflected in the mitigation plan and what actually gets
carried out on the ground, the contracts must spell out the sanctions for non compliance with
mitigation measures. Standardised form for monitoring mitigation measures should be completed
in parallel with the reporting ZAMSIF cycle (See proposed Environmental Monitoring parameters
in Fig. 5.1 which should be appended to the existing Monitoring form)
54



Monitoring will involve field visits by the DT members to selected project sites. It is proposed that
one of the following District Team members could be tasked with monitoring responsibilities;
District Environmental Facilitators (MENR); District Forestry Officer (MENR); District Land Use
Planning Officer (MAFF); District Water Engineer (DWA)
The community through the Project Committee should designate one or two people to be
responsible for monitoring implementation of environmental mitigation plan during project
execution. These people must be trained in environmental management aspects of projects.
Fig 5.1        ZAMSIF Environmental Monitoring Visit Summary Report
Example:
Identified Environmental Problem: Undercutting of building foundations by storm water
Agreed Mitigation Measure                       Activities to be carried out           Responsibility
1. Site the storm drain-pegging         Contractor / District Team
1. Develop a storm drain around project site    2. Dig a storm drain around building  Community
1. Construct spoon drain around buildings   Contractor
2. Ensure spoon drain in buildings                                                Community
Agreed mitigation measure                    Activity carried out                 Completion
progress_(%)
1; Site the storm drain-pegging                  100
1. Develop a storm drain around project site    2. Dig a storm drain around project site    0
1. Construct spoon drain around buildings         80
2. Ensure spoon drain in buildings
Agreed mitigation measure: 1. Develop a storm drain around project site
Activity not completed          Constraint (reasons for non completion)       Agreed Follow Up
1. Community not mobilised by PC/local leaders  |  _|
2. Dig a storm drain around project site  2. PC not advised where/when to start
Agreed mitigation measure: 2. Ensure spoon drain in buildings
Activity not completed          Constraint (reasons for non completion)       Agreed Follow Up
1. Stones and sand run out
1. Construct spoon drain around      2. Community not informed about additional
buildings                            requirements of material by contractor
Other observations and comments
55



This information is in addition to the basic project data incorporated in existing Monitoring Forms
5.11 Evaluation
In the context used here evaluation refers to the ex post review one year after the project to
determine if it has met the objectives of the project and to assess the extent (if any) of
environmental degradation due to project activities. Participatory community evaluation exercises
will be conducted to determine how well known environmental impacts were minimised and
evaluate the significance of unsuspected or unexpected impacts. If problems are identified, the
evaluation process should assist beneficiaries in identifying further mitigation measures that may
be used to resolve the problems.
The proposed participatory evaluations will be conducted on project sites. This exercises should
be done 2-3 times during the operation stage of the project. An external evaluation should also
be performed during the mid term review of the whole ZAMSIF programme.
The evaluation should also be concerned with measuring the level of environmental awareness
among the beneficiary community as a measure of capacity building. Fig 5.2 indicates the
various parameters to be addressed by an evaluation exercise.
Fig. 5.2     Issues for environmental Evaluation
Evaluation Issue             Evaluation question
I     Expected Environmental  1   What anticipated problems (at the time of project
Problems                     identification and appraisal) resulted from project
inputs/activities /outputs
2    To what extent were the identified and well known
problems minimised/reduced by mitigation measures?
3    Who has benefited/lost due to mitigation measures
implemented in the project?
4    What were the most effective mitigation measures in
addressing the problem/s?
2     Unexpected              5    What were the unexpected environmental problems
Environmental Problems       resulting from implementing the project.
6    What is the significance of the problem to the long
term sustainability of the benefits to the community?
7    What mitigation measures should be implemented to
address the problem?
8    How will the measures be implemented and by who?
3     Capacity Building       9    To what extent is the community aware of the
potential environmental problems associated with their
project?
10   How did the community participate in implementing
the environmental mitigation measures
56



11   What is the level of knowledge and skills acquired by
the PC and community for resolving a problem of
similar nature if it occurred in another project?
57



Table 5.5:    Example of a Generic Environmental Review (Analysis) Checklist
Source of Impacts
(Project input, activity, output) eg Quarrying sand near a river bank for construction of school
block
Receptor of Impacts                   Description of Impacts          Proposed mitigation
measures
BIO-PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT
SOILS
WATER
AIR
VEGETATION
WETLANDS
WILDLIFE/WILDLIFE HABITATS
SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
HUMAN SETTLEMENT &
COMMUNITY LIFE
CULTURAL HERITAGE
SITES
AESTHETICS &
LANDSCAPE
EMPLOYMENT &
PRODUCTIVITY
Notes:
1. Project inputs (with potential to give rise to significant impacts) refer to those materials and supplies that are
required for execution of the project. They may include, construction materials, machinery, chemicals, labor, energy,
social amenities
2. Project activities (with potential to give rise to significant impacts) refer to those actions required to implement the
project. They may include, siting, surveying, digging, clearing area, quarrying, machinery movement, construction,
cutting trees, dumping waste;
3. Project outcomes refers to the residues, materials and processes with potential to give rise to significant
environmental impacts. These may include excess construction material, medical waste, domestic refuse and
58



sewage waste, chemical spillages, de-vegetated areas, quarries, drainage systems, abandoned structures, improved
structures, new settlements
59



6.    CAPACITY BUILDING PROGRAMME FOR ZAMSIF STAFF
6.1   Sensitisation and Environmental Management Skills Needs
Issues related to training and awareness found in the study were as follows:
* Lack of pbst implementation technical support to communities by District staff which
leads to additional inappropriate structures.
* Low awareness of environmental issues and proper hygiene by communities,
especially use of clean water and safe sanitation
* Poor or lack of technical guidance on construction of structures.
* Lack of skills for management of environmental projects like dams and furrows.
* Lack of skills for integration of environmental issues into the project activities by
* Deeply-rooted cultural values and practices which promote insensitive attitudes to
environmentally friendly practices within communities
* Lack of commitment by Project Committees to implement conservation measures
* Indigenous knowledge systems (IKS) not being used in the management of resources
The institutional issues discussed in section 4 and the mainstreaming strategy and activities
proposed in Sections 5 and the above sensitisation and technical skills needs assessed point to
the need for a comprehensive capacity building programme targeted at various stakeholders
involved in the ZAMSIF Project Cycle. The challenge of the capacity building programme lies in
developing an effective mechanism for delivery of environmental managementknowledge,
skills and material resources to key stakeholders in ZAMSIF and especially the communities
and those who work with the communittes (DACs, NGOs and CBOs). The following Sections
highlight the various capacity building needs for different stakeholders.
6.2   Environmental Awareness and Analysis for ZAMSIF MU Staff
All ZAMSIF MU staff should be exposed to an environmental awareness appreciation course. An
environmental awareness module should be developed and should focus on highlighting the
various environmental impacts which may arise from various types of projects which will be
funded by ZAMSIF. The course should take place during a ZAMSIF staff orientation and briefing
workshop early in the life of ZAMSIF. The new members of staff who may join ZAMSIF will also
need to undergo this sensitization and appreciation course.
6.3   District Training Programme
The audits and site visits to 17 projects revealed that the problems of poor siting of projects,
inappropriate or environmentally unfriendly construction of projects (eg lack of wind vents in
buildings located on high wind sites, bore holes located near sanitation facilities) were often
attributed to poor technical guidance on siting and construction of structures. Personal interviews
with members of the District Teams and and CBOs revealed that they lacked environmental
management skills for integrating environmental concerns in their project implementation
facilitation work.
It is recommended that both the District Teams and those involved in facilitating project
implementation (RO), supervision and monitoring be equipped with technical and environmental
60



management information and skills for doing their work. To this end it is recommended that
ZAMSIF in collaboration with Pilot Environmental Fund undertake to develop and test a
comprehensive environmental training programme and materials to benefit various stakeholders.
Course content could contain but not limited to the broad issues indicated in Table 6.1. This
component of the sub programme should be managed by the ZAMSIF Capacity Building
Manager.
In addition to facilitating the transfer of knowledge and skills, there is need for ZAMSIF to include
substantive material and financial resources support for environmental management
components of the projects once mitigation measures have been identified and agreed. One
option is to identify what communities can provide and do to mitigate against environmental
adverse impacts and building into the project costs these aspects as part of community
contributions. For example, many communities can rehabilitate sand and stone quarries from
which they obtain building materials. The contracts could acknowledge the cost of either filling or
re-vegetating the quarry as part of the community contribution.
This training should be supported in liason with the ESP through the PEF and the CEMP
programmes. Members of the District Teams in existing PEF and CEMP project areas could
benefit from the training activities being offered by these programmes. However,
6.4   Environmental Awareness in Communities
A comprehensive training and awareness creation programme for communities requesting
forZAMSIF support needs to be developed to address the environmental issues. The
implementation of the programme will require ZAMSIF establishing close links with organisations
that are implementing environmental projects. This component of the capacity building
programme should aim to support the Identification and Application stages of the project cycle
by directly and more generally working with communities who intend to apply for financial and
material support from ZAMSIF and those who subsequently get funded. It will aim to increase the
consciousness of the beneficiaries from the project. Although this sub programme should be
managed by the Regional Officers, the communities should be encouraged to request for the
District Team to conduct the various sensitisation and training activities in the communities.
Table 6.1 and 6.2 show the main features of a proposed training programme. It gives an outline
of the modules, contents and potential beneficiaries, duration and timing and provide and
indication of problems being addressed by each module.
61






_ie 6.1.        'MARY OF PROPOSED ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROGRAMME
Module   Name/Description of              Proposed Content of Module        Target             Duration        When         Who should conduct
No.      Training Module                                                    Beneficiaries               I                   the modules
I        Environmental Sensitization &    *  Overview of projects funded by   ZAMSIF MU staff   2-3 days  Any time but most   Consultants
Analysis                            ZAMSIF                        Regional Officers             suitable at an early   DEFs
Objective: Understanding         *  Overview of project specific  District Teams                stage of ZAMSIF    Trained Ros
environmental problems associated  inputs, activities and outputs  PEF Coordinator              programme launch   District Teams
with ZAMSIF funded projects      *  Potential environmental effects    DEFs
associated with specific projects  PCs, Other CBOs
Communities
.2       Institutional & Policy \framework   *  Environmental policies in   ZAMSIF MU staff    2 days    Any time            ECZ staff
For Environmental Management        Zambia                        Regional Officers                                PEF Coordinator
in Zambia (IPF)                  *  Legislation and Legal framework  District Teams                                Consultants
Objective: Understanding the     *  Overview of institutions      DEFs
Institutional and Policy Framework    *  EIA guidelines for Zambia
of Environmental Planning &      *  Building ZAMSIF Partnerships
Management in Zambia               for environmental management
3        Mainstreaming Environmental      * Overview of ZAMSIF Project      ZAMSIF MU staff   2-3 days   At project         Trained Ros
Management in Project Cycles        cycles                        Regional Officers            identification but    District Teams
(MEM)                            *  Step by step mainstreaming of    District Teams             before application    DEFs
Objective: How to mainstream        environmental issues          DEFs                          forms are filled
environment in ZAMSIF funded CIF   *  Key stakeholders in ZAMSIF  PCs
and DIF Project Cycles              Project cycles                Other CBOs
4        Communication for                *  Exploring key environmental    Regional Officers   2-3 days   Any time but most   Consultants
Environmental Management            messages                      District Teams                suitable at an early   DEFs
(CEM)                            *  How to develop and deliver a  PCs                           stage of ZAMSIF    Trained ROs
Objective: Communicating            sensitisation campaign        Local Leaders                 programme launch
environmental management         *  Useful tools for communicating    Other CBOs
information in ZAMSIF funded        environmental messages
projects                         * How to involve communities in
environmental management
5        Environmental Mitgation          *  Inventory of technical solutions   Regional Officers   2-3 days  At project    Consultants
Measures (EMM)                      for selected projects          District Teams               identification but    ROs
Exploring Technical Solutions for  * How to select technical solutions  PCs                     before application    District Teams
Potential environment problems in    * Costing of technical solutions  Local Leaders            forms are filled   DEFs
Community initiated Projects                                     I                  I          I_I_I
A full course covering all the modules may take up to 1 0 to I11 full session days. Note however, that each module could be offered independent of others. Note also that new
members of ZAMSIF staff should be oriented to the relevant course modules.
63



rable 6.2:    SUMMARY OF PROPOSED ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROGRAMME
Module   NamelDescription of              Capacity building needs addressed by the module                    Anticipated Methods
No.      Training Module                                                                                       of Module Delivery
Environmental Sensitization &   *  Low awareness of environmental issues by communities,     *  Focus Group Discussions
Analysis                           especially environmental conservation, use of clean water and  *  Role-Plays
Objective: Understanding            safe sanitation, potential adverse impacts of projects and impacts   *  Drama
environmental problems associated  of environment on projects                                 *  Problem identification
with ZAMSIF funded projects                                                                   *  Cause-Effects Analysis
2        Institutional & Policy \framework   *  Lack of understanding of the existing policy and legal implications   *  Lecture methods
For Environmental Management       of implementing environmentally unfriendly project activities.  *  Group discussions
in Zambia (IPF)                                                                               * Case studies
Objective: Understanding the
Institutional and Policy Framework
of Environmental Planning &
Management in Zambia
3        Mainstreaming Environmental      *  Lack of knowledge and skills for integration of environmental  *  Focus Group Discussions
Management in Project Cycles       issues into the project activities by Communities         *  Role-Plays
(MEM)                           *  Indigenous knowledge systems (IKS) not being used in the   e  Drama
Objective: How to mainstream       management of resources                                   *  Problem identification
environment in ZAMSIF funded CIF                                                              * Cause-Effects Analysis
and DIF Project Cycles                                                                       *  Flow diagramming
4        Communication for                *  Poor/ lack of environmental information dissemination techniques   *  Lecture presentation
Environmental Management           and approaches                                            *  Focus Group Discussions
(CEM)                           *  Deeply-rooted cultural values and practices which promote  *  Role-Plays
Objective: Communicating           insensitive attitudes to environmentally friendly practices  *  Drama
environmental management        *                                                             *  Documentary videos
information in ZAMSIF funded
projects
5        Environmental Mitigation         *  Poor or lack of technical guidance and skills on construction of  *  Lecture presentation
Measures (EMM)                      structures: E.g. extemal waste disposal reticulation at Kaoma  *  Focus Group Discussions
Exploring Technical Solutions for  Cheshire Community Care Centre                             *  Slide shows
Potential environment problems in                                                             *  Field trips/site inspections
Community initiated Projects     *  Lack of post implementation technical support to communities by
District staff which leads communities to additional inappropriate
structures                                              I
64
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:



6.3    Materials and Financial Support
The study revealed that communities have little or no material and financial capacities for project
management. Many communities are always at a loss as to where to source material and
financial support. Sometimes this may be due to their inability to present their needs even if they
knew where to go. On the other hand they may wish to raise funds on their own by engaging in
some Income Generating Activities but may lack skills in managing these.
It would encourage communities, especially farming communities, if this financial support
reinforced their own agricultural activities such as farming so that they would gain in both
farming skills and promotion of environmental conservation on their farms.
The above then calls for concerted efforts to train in and expose the communities to methods of
accessing own financial and material resources. But where such materials are in the form of
large and expensive equipment which they cannot afford to obtain on their own, it should be
made easy for them to be able to access this support from the co-operating partners.
Table 6.3 indicates mitigation measures to address the above issues and outlines
methodologies for the mitigation measures, the target groups and the stage at which
interventions could be done.
TABLE 6.2:  Capacity Building - Material and Financial Support
CAPACITY          MEASURES TO SOLVE  METHODS           TARGET         INTERVENTION
BUILDING ISSUES   THE PROBLEM                                         PERIOD I STAGE
1     Communities'       *  Training Project                 *  Project     At Planning Stage
ignorance of other    Committees in     Workshops         Committee
sources of financial  proposal writing                    s
support            *  Training in resource             *  DACs
mobilisation                     *  CBOs
*  Training in
management of
Income Generating
Activities
2     Lack of financial and   *  MPU offering  *  Funding    *  MPU         At Planning and
material resources to    financial and  *  Provision of *  Project    Implementation
enable communities    material support to   materials     Committee  Stages
integrate             promote           *  Workshops      s
environmental         environmental                    *  CBOs
concerns into         conservation                     *  DACs
projects              around projects                  *  DEFs
sites
*  Promoting income
.____  _generating projects          I              I
65






6.4   Monitoring of the ZAMSIF Funded Projects for Impacts and Management Plans of
Selected Projects.
Monitoring environmental effects of selected projects
While it is important to carry out impact assessment, append environmental contract clauses to
Contract Documents, and have terms of reference for design ready for use, these will only be of
value if monitoring of project effects, is part of the implementation process. Monitoring effects
arising from project implementation should be a key activity during the whole ZAMSIF project
cycle.
It should be pointed out that the monitoring activity to be conducted may not entirely conform to
internationally accepted standards and norms due to initial capacity constraints and the larger
project potifolio expected to be funded under ZAMSIF. But a start must begin using the results of
this study. It should be a process that should aim at ensuring that all stakeholders learn the
various concerns arising from project implementation and how these could be minimised where
necessary. Initial monitoring activities should target selected number of projects to learn lessons
for evaluating performance or effectiveness of proposed mitigation measures and compliance by
communities, contractors and DAC members regarding implementation of the proposed
mitigation measures. To this end, its recommended that the proposed screening and review
checklists be immediately incorporated with other forms which are being prepared for the
implementation of the programme.
67



7.0   COSTS OF MITIGATION MEASURES AND FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS OF
IMPLEMENTING THE ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY
7.1.  Estimating Relative Costs of Environmental Mitigation Measures
The exercise of estimating the costs and budget for mitigating the adverse environmental effects
of micro projects and at this stage is difficult and could prove to be merely an academic exercise
because of the various factors that need consideration.
First, the type and size of mitigation measure selected will depend on the environmental
conditions of the area. The type and size of a storm drain to control water around a project site
will be determined by the amount of rainfall received in an area, thesteepness of the slope and
the vegetation cover in the area.
Second, the type of mitigation measure selected will determine the materials and the quantity of
the materials used. In turn, the quantity and the type of the material used will in turn determine
the cost of the measure which may also be influenced by the source of the material. It is
therefore, recommended that careful attention be given to the selection of mitigation measures
and to the selection and estimation of the bill of quantities. Although the study was not able to
estimate the actual financial ($) costs of the various proposed mitigation measures due to the
above reasons, it is possible to give an indication of the relative cost in terms of the extent (low
medium and high), that may be expected by implementing selected measures.
For the purpose of this report and based on project costs elsewhere, it is estimated that
environmental mitigation measures can take up an average cost of 4-6% of the total micro
project. Table 7.1 provides estimate of relative costs of selected measures.
Table 7.1    Estimate Cost of Selected Environmental Mitigation Measures
Indication of
Environmental Concern/Cause             Mitigation Measure             relative cost
Inadequate community based    Integrated planning to incorporate all
land use plans and siting of  environmental aspects; eg slope, wind direction,
projects                    ground water flow systems, etc.
Consider wide consultations of relevant      High
stakehoLders who may be affected
Consider appropriate project site surveys and
preparing simple land use plans
Inadequate waste disposal    Adequate planning for waste disposal systems  Low
systems
Provide specially designed systems for disposal  High
of medical waste
Soil erosion around the projects  Selective vegetation clearance on new sites  Low
sites.
Plant fast growing trees and grass around the  Medium
old project sites
Construct drainage systems around buildings  Medium
68



Control animal grazing around project sites     Low
Table 7.1    Estimate Cost of Selected Environmental Mitigation Measures
Indication of
Environmental Concern/Cause               Mitigation Measure             relative cost
Undercutting of building      Enforce implementation of spoon drains       Medium
foundations by soil erosion    requirements provided in building designs;  to High
Low awareness about           Conduct sensitisation workshops for          Medium
environmental issues          community    -
Provide information bulletins on environmental  Medium
issues relevant to microprojects.
Soil erosion on agriculture fields    Construction of drainage systems along the  Medium
due to water from access roads    roads
Abandoned building wastes     Use the abandoned waste to backfill the        Low
quarries
Use waste for landscaping around              Low
surroundings
Abandoned quarries             Provision for adequate filling of quaMes      Low
Plant quarries with vegetation              Medium
Termite infestation on buildings    Enforce MPU technical designs and      Medium
requirement of termite treatment in buildings
foundations and materials
Avoid siting of projects close to anthills    Low
7.2    Financial Requirements for Implementing the Environmental Strategy
Capacity building in environmental assessment and management of potential environmental
adverse effects of ZAMSIF activities should form the core of activities of the strategy to
mainstream environment in the project cycle of both the Community Investment Fund and the
District Investment Fund. Financial requirements should be directed to the following activities;
* development of training manuals, and a Natural Resources Handbook;
* development of sensitisation and environmental management skills building modules
* delivery of training modules to both ZAMSIF and District staff,
* facilitating community participation in environmental assessments of their projects,
* delivery modules to communities during different stages of the project cycle
69



* implementation of identified mitigation measures by communities and;
* monitoring of projects by district staff to ensure mitigation measures are implemented.
An indicative cost of implementing these activities including supporting community based
environmental and natural resources based projects is estimated at about $3,110,750 and
broken down as shown in Table 7.1
Table 7.1    Financial Requirements to Support ZAMSIF Environmental and Natural
Resources Strategy
Activity                   |         Indicative Input        Estimate    Planned
l                                Cost        Time
I      Capacity Building
1.1    ZAMSIF MU Orientation        Consultants, 2 day training for all    5,000  Y2000
Environmental assessment    staff
1.2    Develop manuals for          Consultants                      5,000       Y2000
Facilitators and community
1.3    Develop modules for facilitation   Consultants                5,000       Y 2000 -1
1.4    Develop training programme for  Consultants                   2,000       Y2000 - 1
Facilitators
1.5    Implement training programme   Consultants, accommodation,    100,000     Y2000 - 2
in all provinces             transport 9 provinces, 30 persons
per province for 5 days each
1.6    Delivery modules to 500      Visits per project for 500 projects, 3  300,000  Y2000 -6
communities                  district facilitators, per diems and
transport costs. US$ 150/visit
1.7    Delivery of manuals           Printing 1,000 @ 10 /manual     10,000      Y2001 -6
1.8    Environmental Sensitisation for  Consultants, 72 districts 2 days, 20   100,000  Y2002
local Leaders                per district, accomod. & transport
____________________________  ($30*20*72)
2      Mainstreaming Environment
in all Projects
2.1    Environmental Appraisal       District Facilitators, 600 projects @    22,500  Y2000 -6
$1 50/projects visit. 25% of total cost
District Facilitators 500 projects  18,750  Y2000-6
2.2     Design and costing
District Facilitators 500 projects  18,750  Y2000-6
2.3    Monitoring
District Facilitators 500 projects  18,750  Y2000-6
2.4    Evaluation                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _   _ _ _ _ _
Printing forms, 25% of total cost  50,000   Y2000 - 6
70



2.5    Develop Forms                         .
Total 15 projects @ US$ 5,000   75,000      Y2000 - 6
2.6    Full Environmental Impact
Assessment
3      Mitigation
*      3.1     Design mitigation measures   Consultant                      5,000       Y2000
3.2    Implement mitigation measures  Average 5% of average project  1,875,000   Y2000 -6
cost, (500 x 75,000 x 5%)
4.     Environmental Community    25 over 5 years at average        500,000     Y2000 -6
Based Projects              US$ 20,000
TOTAL                       3,110,750
71






Annex 1:    Summary of Technical Guidelines for MPU Funded Projects
|::chikl$am. d 'ira noitm Biuc idgs .
Siting / Preparation Stage:
* Choose an appropriate site for your project.
* Avoid dumpy or water logged sites
* Look at other alternatives and weigh the advantages against disadvantages of different sites
*   Avoid termite infested areas. Where there are no alternatives take measures against termites in the
designs and during construction.
* Consider other existing structures on site in relation to your new project
* Remember to clear only the affected site and not to cut trees when not necessary
* Ensure a holistic design approach, taking into account the operations of the existing building , buildings
to be added and support facilities like water supply, sanitation and the environment
* Base design criteria and selection of materials according to local conditions and availability of
resources
* Design for maximum efficiency in materials and energy use
* Incorporate indigenous customs and building techniques in project designs
* Consider adapting layouts to fit natural patterns on project sites
construction Stage:
* Ensure you have the MPU Project Implementation Manual volume 2
* Always take measures to attend to off site effects like quarries, debris, tree cutting
* Rank your projects according to the most pressing needs
* Ensure all your building waste is attended to - do not bury paint tins and plastics as they do not
decompose
* Incorporate permanent erosion control plans on the site - provide a drainage system in the areas close
to the school and always include dish drains around your buildings
* Ensure that the sand digging is done a good distance away from the school buildings and make sure
you bury the quarries regardless of distance and area affected
* M/ake sure you clear all the debris or broken bricks from the kilning site and use them in the construction
f'or back-filling (when crushed ), brick drains construction of paved walkways etc.
* Avoid massive disruption of top soils during construction
* Cover haulage trucks carrying cement or lime and avoid vegetation destruction to create temporary
access roads to the construction site
* Provide enclosed storage for cement, lime and oils
* Outline safety techniques and accident emergency measures during construction activities
* Collect only adequate wood for brick making (kilning) - consider altemative brick making technologies
e.g. Compressed earth blocks
* Use water to minimise the dust generation
* Remove excess materials of laterite, stone aggregate, concrete blocks, bricks, timber pieces
Operation Stage:
* Dig a pit for ordinary waste, do not through tins, glass and plastics in pits
* Plant trees and flowers around the school
* Do not cut and trees unnecessarily around the premises
* Do not allow animals to use the school premises for grazing
70



Siting / Preparation Stage:
* Choose an appropriate site for your project.
* Avoid dumpy or water logged sites
* Look at other alternatives and weigh the advantages against disadvantages of different sites
* Avoid termite infested areas. Where there are no alternatives take measures against termites in the
designs and during construction.
* Ensure the Incinerator is included among the targets and corsider an appropriate site for It
*  Ensure the relatives shelter is given due consideration and cater for the sleeping area, cooking and
laundry areas
* Make sure you consult experts on the equipment required for the full operations of the hospital / health
centre and if not among the project components, find out the cost and who will provide it upon
completion of the project
Construction Stage:
* Avoid chopping down trees if you can
* Remember that the activity of digging soils from any part of the land will result in quarries.
*  Dispose the paint tins and plastic containers properly
*  Ensure you dispose of the paint tins, plastic containers for oil based paints and kerosene properly. Do
not bury them nor throw them around, as they do not decompose, as they are an environmental and fire
hazards.
* Ensure you have the MPU Project Implementation Manual vo,ume 2
* Always take measures to attend to off site effects like quarries, debris, tree cutting
* Rank your projects according to the most pressing needs
* Ensure all your building waste is attended to - do not bury paint tins and plastics as they do not
decompose; consider recycling e.g flower pots etc.
*  Consider the drainage system in the areas close to the school and always include dish drains around
your buildings and ensure rain water is taken away from the buildings as much as possible.
*  Ensure that the sand digging is done a good distance awayfrom the school buildings and make sure you bury the
quarries regardless of distance and area affected
*  Make sure you clear all the debris or broken bricks from the kilning site and use them in the
construction for back-filling (when crushed ), brick drains construction of paved walkways etc.
* Clean construction sites daily and provide adequate building waste disposal methods
* Use water to minimise the dust generation
Operational Stage:
* Make sure the incinerator for medical waste is available and functional
* Consider and manage the relatives shelter as part and parcel of the overall facilities of the hospital /
health centre
* Planting another tree in the community for every tree cut is a good environmental practice.
* Separate disposal systems for medical or hazardous wastes; put in place safety procedures
* the trees should only be cut if other solutions to save the building are not viable. Trees should be
planted away from buildings
71



1.,  .   .   . .   .                        
Siting I Preparation stage
... I . . .  E e.l l.P..... ig.bWBt.:do6hill from the well and bore-hole to reduce the chances of ground water
* Incorporate into larger waste disposal systems where possible
* Select appropriate technology for waste water disposal
* Weigh siting alternatives with environmental considerations in mind
* Check the type of soils at the site - construction on of a VIP latrine in sandy soils shall require extra
care and expertise
* Design centralised systems to avoid leakage - do not scatter pit latrines around the site unnecessarily,
this spreads ground contamination on site
Construction Stage
* Make sure you read the MPU project Implementation technical manual and understand how a VIP
latrine works
* Study the VIP technical drawings carefully before starting to build
* Take measures to avoid the collapsing of the foundation walls while building, especially in sandy soils
* Make sure you have the technical drawing all the time on site
*  Incorporate permanent erosion control plans on the site
Operation Stage
* Ensure hygiene education on the uses of the facilities
* Do not through toxic or hazardous waste in pit latrines - as this could lead to ground water pollution
upon which most communities rely for domestic water supply
* Keep the pit latrine clean all the time
. .Sall . .         Supply . : ... . rrsati6  Pjro. j
Wells and Bore holes
Siting:
* Always site your wells or bole holes at a higher ground level compared to the pit latrines or septic tanks
and soak-aways.
* Weigh siting alternatives with environmental considerations in mind
* Select workable water extraction or booster systems
* Make efforts to have the water tested periodically
Construction stage
* Provide effective drainage for water spills at water pumping or collection points
* Install adequate pumping systems
* Confirm water yielding levels before implementation
* Dig wells only in the dry season
Operation Stage
* Provide adequate protection from livestock
* Regulate the use of water points through local bye laws e.g. no washing at water points, no water wastage, user
fee payments
* Keep adequate tools and learn how to maintain the water systems
Irrigation Water Furrows
72



Siting
* Site irrigation subprojects properly and seek a carefully designed and appropriate irrigation system
* Proper design of canals; monitor water quality; operation and put maintenance plans in place
* Select appropriate crops and agricultura[ technology
* Ensure adequate siting and hydrology information studies
* Consider alternative sites
* Ensure there is no or minimal dislocation of habitants
Construction
* Construction during dry season ; take measures to minimise erosion of river banks
* Minimise the disruption of natural streamflows
Operation Stage
* Control land uses, wastewater discharges, and agricultural chemical use in watershed to avoid
deterioration of water quality
* Limit retention time of water in reservoir to uphold water quality
* Planning and management of dam in context of carchment area
* Control resettlement to avoid surpassing carrying capacity of land
* Ensure the water is not stagnant nor moving too slowly - water stagnation can lead to water-borne
diseases
.,   ....- Mm,N.Res',rv'i,r....,.|
----.   -.-.  -. . . . .   -. .   -   . . . .
...... .....    -.......
* Ensure that the layout of the furrows or field is not too steep (gradient)
Ensure the siting of the project avoids or minimises encroachment on swamps and other ecologically
sensitive areas
* Avoid dislocation of populations and communities
Construction Stage
* Use lined canals or pipes to avoid disease vectors
* Provide access to canals for removal of weeds and sediments
* Use lined canals or pipes avoid seepage
Operational Stage
* Maintain furrow by periodic removal of weeds and sediments
* Take measures to avoid waterlogging or water stagnation
* Apply 'soft" engineering techniques to achieve soil stabilisation in the canals and avoid erosion
73



I . . . .cief . .   .;nlu:my ...va
Siting
* Select your road route such that there are no or less disturbances of human communities
* Consider alternative options
* Make adequate consultation and ensure participation of all potentially affected communities
* Pay particular attention to the drainage along the road
* Minimize loss of natural vegetation during construction
* Incorporate adequate and effective drainage works in the designs
* Ensure careful siting and management of construction camps to avoid environmental and social
disruption
Construction Stage
Carry out earth movements during the dry season
Protect drainage channels with berms
Consider a good number of drainage outlets
Avoid the use of heavy equipment and vehicles if you can during construction
Operation Stage
Provide for anti-littering or anti-dumping local bye-laws on roadsides
. . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. ............
. .    .. . . ..            . . .
Siting
* Consider alternative bridge sites
* Ensure that special attention is paid to the drainage system along the road leading to the bridge
* Regulate through local bye laws the transportation of materials though the bridge
* Ensure safety is considered in the design e.g. the provision of bridge side barriers
Construction
* Cleanup construction sites, recycle building waste materials
*  Construction during dry season; take measures to minimise erosion of river banks
Minimise the disruption
74






Annex 2:    List of Audited Projects
LOCATION OF       NAME OF PROJECT        LOCATION/       SECTOR       PROJECT
PROJECT                                SETTLEMENT                    CYCLE
STAGE
PROVINCE  DISTRICT
1     Lusaka      Lusaka   Chitanda Middle Basic      Urban       Education     On-going
School
2                  Kafue    Kafue District Hospital   Urban        Health       Approval
3                  Kafue    Kabweza Primary           Rural       Education    On-going
School
4     Northern   Mazabuka  Nansenga Primary           Rural       Edcation     Completed
School
5                 Choma   Namaanza Primary            Rural       Education    Completed
School
6                 Choma   Siamakando Primary          Rural       Education    Completed
School
7                 Choma   Sikaneta Bridge /           Rural         Road         Field
Causeway                                           Appraisal
8     Northern     Mpika    Kabale Primary            Urban       Education    On-going
School
9                  Mpika    Kaole Water Furrow &      Rural        Water         Filed
Wells                                              Appraisal
10.                Mpika    Mpepo Rural Health         Rural        Health      Completed
Centre
11                 Mpika    Mpika District Hospital   Urban        Health      Completed
12                 Mpika    Mundemwa Primary          Rural       Education    Completed
School
13    Western      Kaoma   Kashokoto Primary          Rural       Education    Completed
School
14                 Kaoma   Kaoma Cheshire             Urban      Community   Completed/
Community Care                                     On-going
Centre Orphanage
15                 Kaoma   Mahilo Primary School      Urban       Education    Completed
16                 Kaoma   Chilombo Bridge            Rural         Road       Completed
17                 Kaoma   Kalale Dam                 Rural        Water/       Approval
Agriculture
75






Annex 3:    Profiles of Audited Community Based Projects
The following checklists were used to generate information on the state of the environment surrounding the
projects and were useful for sensitization of the people who were interviewed. This checklist should be
used as a preliminary tool at community level. The results generated may also be used for screening and
classifying projects into categories A, B or C. Responses to the checklists are presented in the following
profiles.
Checklist Questions                                                       Additional
Data needs
PROJECT SITING
1. Who identified the project
2.  Who selected the site of the project
Yes    No
3. Has the land use plan been prepared for the area in which the project is sited?
4  Is the project sited near conservation worthy ecosystems, flora or fauna O.g protected areas,
wetlands, forests, sites of historical or cultural importance
which may be impacted negatively as a result of project activities?
5  Is the project sited near major water bodies (rivers, lake, lagoons, wetland, etc)?
6 Is the project sited near main domestic/commercial use such as borehole, water well, spring etc?
7. Is the project sited in an area prone to soil erosion (see guideline No. 12)
8. Is the project site easily accessible to the majority of the potential beneficiaries?
9. Are there people who will be displaced/removed from the project site? (see G14
10. Will the project lead to migration into the area?
11. Who owns the land where the project is sited?
12. Does the siting require any legal permits/clearances from relevant institutions
PROJECT INPUTS
13. Will the project require large volumes of construction materials to be taken from local sources
(eg gravel, stones, water, timber, fire wood) See G20
14 Will project require use of heavy machinery and equipment ?
15 Require significant levels of service amenities to support the workforce?
16 Will any chemicals/oils be used in the project? G13
PROJECT ACTIVITIES
17. Will the construction/implementation activities lead to degradation or loss of quality of any
environmental component such as forests, air, soils, water, wildlife, fish, plain, swamp/wetland,
etc?
18. Will the project construction activities present dust/ chemical/ smoke pollution risks or lead to a
significant increase in noise pollution in neighbourhood?
19. Will project Implementation activities lead to significant employment opportunities?
ANTICIPATED PROJECT OUTCOMES
20. Will the project result in significant quantities of wastes or eroded material? G21
21  Will the project lead to significant changes in land use pattems G22
76



22 Lead to unplanned/squatter settlements or access to conservation-worthy ecosystems or over  _
exploitation of natural resources (eg land, forests?
23 Be likely to require mitigation measures that result in the project being socially or financially
unacceptable
INSTITUTIONAL AND CAPACITY BUILDING CHECKLIST
Checklist Questions
Community
Additional
Yes   No   Data Needs
I Has the community been sensitized to environmental issues in the area before project
preparation/implementation? G22
2. Is the community aware of the major environmental issues in the area? G22           l     ljjj=
3. Does the community have any environmental management activities incorporated in
their daily/weekly/monthly/yearly programmes? G23
4. Is there any interactions between the community and District based line staff post
project completion and project hand over? G24
5 Are there any other organisations working on environmental/natural resource
management projects/issues in the area? G24                                   D        Zl 
l.ow    medium    High
6. Overall assessment of environmental awareness and capacity to manage environmental
aspects of projects/programmes
District
7  Have the District line staff been exposed to environmental awareness/training
workshops? G24                                                              |IJZl_
8  Do the line staff have any environmental management activities incorporated in their
daily/weekly/monthly/yearly programmes? G25
9 Is there any interactions between the community and District based line staff post
project completion and project hand over? G24                                  W        i| |]
10. What are the key environmental issues/problems in their area of operation?
Low   medium    High
11. Overall assessment of environmental awareness and capacity to manage environmental
aspects of projects/programmes
77



PROJECT PROFILE I
1.    PROJECT:   Mahilo Primary School
2.    SECTOR:       Education
3.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
The earlier existing 2no. class room blocks were poorly built and they needed improvement especially to
the roof and mending of developed cracks on the walls. The targets under the MPU project were:
*  Rehabilitation - 2No. classroom blocks
*  Rehabilitation of 5No. staff houses
*  Construction of 5No. staff houses
*  Construction of 8 VIP toilets
*  Provision of furniture
*  Water improvement - supplying water to the school and
*  Staff houses by connecting to the district main water supply system.
Most of the materials like sand, stones and timber are from local sources. The completed buildings are of
good technical quality as compared to the earlier buildings.
4      LOCATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES
Agro zone    2
Soils:       sandy
Vegetation:
5     PROJECT BENEFITS
*  Increased school places
*  Better school infrastructure
*  Better accommodation for teachers
*  Better learning environment
*  Availability of portable and clean water within easy reach
*  Improvement of sanitation
6      ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES/CONCERNS
*  Extensive sand mining leading to quarries
*  Inadequate sanitation leading to use of open spaces
*  Uncontrolled cattle grazing leading to soil erosion
*  Unprotected water well around the school
*  Siting of project not based on environmental technical features
*  Access road to school is in a bad state; it is impassable especially during rainy seasons
7.    INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS/CAPACITY
*  PTA
*  Community Based Natural Resources Management (CBNRM) Program
*  BESSIP which also has Health and Nutrition components in Schools which includes tree
planting and school gardening.
However, it was noted that
*  There was little or no coordination between the organisations working on environment
management issues
*  Most programmes are operating on pilot basis- hence only a small number of areas or people
benefiting from the project
78



8.     KEY FINDINGS:
*  Sand mined quarries have been left unattended to, becoming potential breeding ground for
mosquitoes and snakes
*  Inadequate sanitation facilities leading to use of open spaces which become sources of diffuse
pollution and sporadic outbreak of diarrihoea diseases.
*  Formation of WASHE Committees are only restricted to water points funded by NORAD.
*  Uncontrolled cattle grazing has led to erosion around school premises
*  Low sensitisation on environmental issues by Community Based Natural Resources
Management (CBNRM) Program
*  CBNRM Program started sensitisation activities in the school.
9.           CHECKLIST: RESPONSES TO CHECKLIST
C/No.            DATA                                COMMUNITY
C/No                    DATA
1    PTA/Administration             1    No
2    Based on old existing site    2    Yes
3    No Land Use Plan (LUP)         3     No
4    No                             4     No
5    No                            5    Yes
6    Yes                            6     Low
7    Yes                                            DISTRICT
8    Yes                            7     No
9    No                             8    Yes
10    No                            9     No
11    Traditional Chief             10    Water
Sanitation
Soil erosion
Deforestation
(Refer to Kaoma Cheshire Community Care
______   _____ ______ ______ ______C entre)
12    No                                  _
13   Yes, soils
14    No                                  _
15    No
16   Yes, tins, plastics, wood
preservatives
17   Yes
18    No
19    No
20    Yes
21    No                         _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _
22    No
23    No                                      _
79



PROJECT PROFILE 2
1  PROJECT:         Chilombo Bridge
2  SECTOR:          Road
3 LOCATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES
Agro zone: 2
Soils:          Sandy soils
Vegetation?
4 PROJECT DESCRIPTION
This bridge is on the Luena river Kasempa Road in Chilombo area which falls under chief Mutondo. The old
bridge was destroyed by the river current and collapsed in 1997 creating problems of access to the sides of
the river in the communities living in the area. The bridge reconstruction project was funded by the District
Development Support Programme ( DDSP) financed by the Netherlands government. The works consisted
the following:
* Reconstruction of bridge on the Luena River
* Improvement of the road embankments
The construction involves the positioning and fixing of huge timber poles which serve as structural
beams across the river supported at intervals by already existing huge concrete pillars whose
foundations go through the river base. On the timber beams rests other big timber pieces closely tied
and the gaps filled with concrete and gravel. The community participated in the preparation of the
necessary building materials like timber, sand and stones for the works. However, this bridge is on a
trunk road that links the districts of Kaoma and Kasempa . For this reason the responsibility for
maintenance is not clear and is assumed to fall under the Roads Department
5. PROJECT BENEFITS
* Chilombo community and Kwalumwange Settlement linked to town by the bridge
* Road shortcut to Kasempa
* Access to school
* Easy access of inputs to markets
5. ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES/CONCERNS
* Sand mining around the Bridge
* Gully sheet erosion on sides of the bridge
* Animals trampling around the area as they get to the river
* Lack of dredging by the Bridge side as measure for flood control
* Poor bridge construction not allowing free flow of water
* Lack of maintenance of the Bridge environment to facilitate water flow
* Presence of weed in the river near the Bridge
5. INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
Responsibility for the management and maintenance of the Bridge is not clear
Council claims it's Road Department responsibility. However, Roads Department have not has not
taken the responsibility to maintain the bridge.
6. KEY FINDINGS:
* Poor drainage around the bridge leading to soil erosion, hence threatening stability of the bridge
* Quarries left unattended to leading to weakening the stability of the area around the project site
* Quarries may present potential breeding ground for mosquitoes
* There is no program to control gullies
* No institution has responsibility for the maintenance of the bridge.
80



9.     CHECKLIST: RESPONSES TO CHECKLIST
C/No.              DATA                                  COMMUNITY
C/No                      DATA
1    DDCC and Community               1      No
2     Based on old existing site      2      Yes
3    No Land Use Plan (LUP)           3      No
4     No                              4      No
5    Yes, Luena River                 5      Yes
6    Yes                              6      Low
7    Yes                                                DISTRICT
8    Yes                              7      No
9    No                               8     Yes
10    No                               9     No
11    State land                      10    Same as Cheshire Community Care Centre
and presence of weeds
12    Yes
13    Yes (timber, sand, stones)
14    No
15    No
16    No
17    Yes, (soils)
18    No                                     __l
19    No
20    Yes
21    No
22    Yes, exploitation of timber
and increased use of other
resources
23    No
81



PROJECT PROFILE 3
1  PROJECT:   Sikaneta Bridge/Causeway
2  SECTOR:    Road
3  LOCATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES
Agro-zone: 2
Soils:          sandy
Vegetation:
4  PROJECT DESCRIPTION
This Bridge construction project is at Field Appraisal stage and is located in Choma rural within chief
Chikanta's area. The bridge shall be located on the Sikaneta River and is intended to link a total of 60
villages some of which need to cross to the other side for school, health facilities, markets and hammer
meals. The community has already collected stones, river and building sand for the bridge. The technical
drawings for the bridge have been prepared although they have not yet been handed over to the
community. It is expected that concrete pillars, blocks and timber beams shall be used in the construction
of the bridge.
1. 1.  PROJECT BENEFITS
* Improved accessibility to hospital, markets, hammer mill and schools for 60 villages in Chief
Chikanta's area
* Enhanced social interaction and exposure to other communities
5. ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES/CONCERNS
* Erosion of the road/path to the project site on Sikaneta River
* Scooping of sand and stones from the river bed
* Extensive clearance of vegetation on the upper catchment area of the project
5. INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
Project and Maintenance Committees exist
Awareness
6. KEY FINDINGS:
* Appraisal did not address the other issues which may affect the bridge. For instance, state of
drainage along the road where the bridge was sited (upper catchment area)
* Lack of knowledge on requirements in terms of technical specifications, quantities of materials,
drawings not available
* No efforts made to control erosion
* The Bridge is sited at a point of the river which is prone to flooding (lower point)
* No consideration of alternative site. Site is based on traditional practice.
82



CHECKLIST: RESPONSES TO CHECKLIST
C/No.             DATA                                  COMMUNITY
C/No                      DATA
1    Community                        1     No
2    Based on old existing site (no   2     Yes
analysis)                    _
3    No Land Use Plan (LUP)           3     No
4     No                              4     N/A
5    Yes, Sikaneta River              5     No
6    No                               6     Low
7    Yes.                                               DISTRICT
8    Yes                              7     Yes
9    No                               8     No
10    No                              9      N/A
11    Traditional land                10     *  Soil erosion
* Incidents of malaria
* Unsafe drinking water
12    No
13    Yes (timber, sand, stones)
14    No
15    No
16    No                                                         _
17    Yes
18    No__                                      _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _  _  _
19    No
20    No                          l_       l
21    No        __l__
22    No                           ____-
23    No
83



PROJECT PROFILE 4
1. PROJECT: Kalale Dam, Kaoma
2. SECTOR:   Water
3. LOCATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES
Agro-zone: 2
Soils:          sandy soils
Vegetation:
4. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The project is on approval stage technical designs have been done.
The construction of earth dam site is on the Kalale stream near tobacco Board of Zambia
settlement scheme about 61 km from Kaoma district and about a kilometer from the Mongu Lusaka
road in chief Kahale's area. The dam will be 3.5 m in height and more than 207m crest length and
a reservoir capacity of 46 x 103m3. Although the catchment area is reasonably large, the dam
would not contain large reservoir capacity due to the shallow basin at the project site. This project
shall be funded under the Rural Investment Fund being managed by the Ministry of Agriculture.
The spillway width shall be 45m and shall be lined with concrete over a length of 25m to avoid
excess erosion. The intake structure will measure 2mx 2m and will be constructed of concrete while
the foundation will be layed with stones to avoid cracks at the base. Only clay soils from the anthills
will be used in the construction while chimney drains will be done with sand and rocks or star grass
shall be planted to avoid erosion.
5. PROJECT BENEFITS
The area has little potential for water availability in the streams and rivers. Therefore the
construction of a dam will
* support both livestock and domestic water use.
* irrigated agriculture especially vegetable gardening.
6. ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES/CONCERNS
* Downstream effects of Dam: Drying up, pollution from animal feacal
* Clearing of vegetation
* Siltation
* Soil destabilization by animals
* Overgrazing around the site
* Eutrification from animal waste as site is in the depression water
* Soil erosion from farming on slope
1.    INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
Project Committee in place but may require skills/knowledge on Dam management during operation
phase
2.     KEY FINDINGS:
* Unwillingness of community to use safe sanitation and clean water sources
* Lack of understanding of how the dam will affect people downstream. Hydrology information
although available is not disseminated to wider communities
* Despite the lack of clean water sources for domestic use, the project has focused on supply of
water for animals indicating low priority placed on safe domestic water.
9.    CHECKLIST: RESPONSES TO CHECKLIST
I C/No. I          DATA            I                   COMMUNITY
C/No                    DATA
84



I    Community                        1     No
2    Community selected site          2      No
3    No Land Use Plan (LUP)           3      No
4    Yes, wetland                     4      N/A
5    Yes, Kalale River                5      No
6    No                               6      Very Low
7    Yes                                                DISTRICT
8    Yes                              7      No
9    No                               8      Yes
10    Yes                              9     No
11    Chief/Traditional land          10     .  Unwillingness to use pit latrines and safe
water
12    Yes- abstraction of water     11       Very low
13    Yes
14    Yes - bulldozer
15    No
16    No
17    Yes
18    No
19    No                                   _
20    No
21    Yes
22    Yes                           _
23    No
85



PROJECT PROFILE 5
1. PROJECT: Mpika District Hospital
1  SECTOR: Health          Stage: Completed and operational
2 LOCATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES
Agro-zone: 1
Soils:           Loamy clay, sited on a slope
Vegetation
3 PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The Mpika hospital has always depended on the Chilonga Mission Hospital for the surgical facilities. This is
due to inadequate facilities and qualified staff. It was therefore very important to extend the facilities of the
hospital. The project targets funded by the micro projects unit were as follows:
*  Construction of a theatre block
*  Construction of X-Ray Block/room
*  Construction of surgical ward - male and female
*  Provision of overhead water tank
*  Rehabilitation of some existing structures
The construction of the hospital was done by a contractor while the designs were commissioned to
consultants. Despite the efforts made to improve water supply, the hospital is still experiencing water
problems. This is mainly due to the overall district low water supply on which the hospital relies. The
hospital is also still depending on Chilonga mission hospital despite the completion of the buildings as the
ministry of health has not fully equipped the hospital and there is no adequate staff.
The hospital has no incinerator for medical waste and the existing patients' relatives' shelter is in a
deplorable state. The community intends to build an incinerator but currently are concentrating on the
construction of the relatives' shelter.
1. PROJECT BENEFITS
* Improved medical facilities i.e. X-Ray and theatre facilities
* Reduced distance to nearest hospital
* Conducive working environment for hospital staff leading to efficiency and effectiveness.
1. ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES/CONCERNS
*  Lack of incinerator and other medical equipment
*  Inadequate water supply
*  Soil erosion on project due to slope
*  Dumping of rubbish in the drainage
* Unsatisfactory conditions in mothers' shelter
*  Improper and Inadequate medical waste disposal facilities
*  Inadequate/no water sources in the area
2. 2. INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
*  Project Committee not operational
*  Inadequate capacity by management to organise/mobilise the community
*  Community members participated in donating money to the project.
1. KEY FINDINGS:
* Hospital not operating at full capacity as there is no equipment
* Lack of waste disposal equipment (incinerators and facilities) has led to disposal of medical waste
in open pits leading to scavenging of dangerous and infectious waste
* Siting of medical waste disposal close to both the clinic and the water points
86



+  Improper medical waste disposal methods / using old p t latrines
*  Lack of planning for disposal facilities / methods in the preparation and implementation stage
*  Failure of mobilisation of community to construct incinerators for the clinic by neighbourhood
committee
*  Community not aware of other organisation that may help them
*  Unresolved water problem - dry bore-holes (2).
*  Inappropriate water extraction technology (use of windmill)
*  District staff not going back to assist communities post project implementaion
*  Wasted effort by communities in building additional buildings which are technically unsound and
difficult to improve.
*  Lack of political / local authority representation
*  Low awareness of environmental issues
*  Mothers' shelter have always been an after-thought/ past project implementation and usually left to
the community
*  Quarries left unattended to within the clinic premises
* Environmental health aspects are not taken seriously in mothers'/relatives shelters. The shelters
are considered as not being part of the health centre
* People's needs are not incorporated into the design, e.g. in the case of relatives' shelters:
activities like cooking and laundry are not taken into account, leading to pressure on hospital
facilities
*  The toilets were designed to discharge waste by pouring water in the pit latrine hole and the toilets
are not operating with poor sanitation due to lack of sufficient water.
9.    CHECKLIST: RESPONSES TO CHECKLIST
C/No.            DATA                               COMMUNITY
C/No                   DATA
1    Community                      1    No
2    Old site                       2     No
3    No Land Use Plan (LUP)         3    No
4    No                             4     No
5    No                             5    Yes - PEF and others
6    No                             6     Low
7    Yes - (soil) slope                            DISTRICT
8    Yes-urban                      7    Yes
9    No                             8    Yes
10   Yes                            9    No
11    State                         10    *  Water,
* erosion
*  waste disposal
12   Yes- Local Council           11      Medium
13   Yes
14    Yes
1 5   Yes                         ___
16    Yes
17   Yes
18   yes
19   Yes__                            __
20    Yes
21 No                            _-
22    No                          _______ ________  ________ _________87
23    No                          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _
87



PROJECT PROFILE 6
I  PROJECT:  Mundemwa Primary School
2  SECTOR:   Education    Stage: on-going, almost complete, operational phase
3  LOCATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES
Agrozone: 1
Soils:           Sandy/clay
Vegetation:
4  PROJECT DESCRIPTION
*  Major rehabilitation
* Construction of VIPs
*  Construction of workshops
*  Bore-hole drilling not yet done
5. PROJECT BENEFITS
*  Improved sanitation
*  Provision of potable water to the school and the surrounding community
*  Skills training e.g. woodwork
*  Improved school infrastructure thus making the learning and teaching environment conducive.
*  More children given an opportunity to go to school
5. ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES/CONCERNS
*  Erosion around premises/ground as evidenced around trees
*  Abandoned quarry
*  Abandoned burnt bricks/ residue
*  Scattering of pit latrines / spread underground contamination
3. 3. INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
5. KEY FINDINGS:
*  Toilets scattered - lack of technical guidance on siting of projects
*  Scattering of ground pollution
*  Does not take into consideration future developments
*  Sheet erosion is not taken seriously as no measures taken
*  Absence of tree planting around school premises
*  No alternative use for the quarries resulting out of the sand digging
*  Low environmental awareness and lack of training in environmental management
*  Lack of consideration of specific environmental factors and adapting of technical standard drawings
- under the assumption that all sites are the same
88



9. CHECKLIST: RESPONSES TO CHECKLIST
C/No.              DATA                                 COMMUNITY
C/No                      DATA
1    PTA                              1      No
2     Existing/Old site               2      No
3    No                               3      No
4     No                              4      No
5    No                               5      Yes- PEF
6    Yes                              6      Low
7    Yes                                                DISTRICT
8    Yes                              7      Yes
9    No                               8      No
10    Data required?                   9     No
11    Chief Chikwanda/ Mission        10    Deforestation
land
12    No                            11       Medium
13    Yes
14    No
15    No
16    Yes, paint
17    Yes, soil quarrying
18    No
19    No
20    Yes-brick at project site
21    Yes-sanitation
22    No                                           =-
23    No                            ___ ___  ___  ___ ___  ____  ___ ___  ___ ___89
89



PROJECT PROFILE 7
1. PROJECT: Kaole Community Water Wells and Furrow
2. SECTOR:          Water Supply / Irrigation
3. LOCATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES
Agro-zone: 1
Soils
Vegetation:
4. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
MPU shall fund the following works:
* Construction of furrow
* Construction of wells
* Construction of weir
*  Construction of road
5. PROJECT BENEFITS
*  Increased food production for benefit of the 6,000 people in the area.
* Increased environmental awareness as the people will be involved in an environmental project.
* Availability of potable and clean water for the people
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES/CONCERNS
*  Vegetation clearing / deforestation
*  Quarrying
*  Resettlement: intensive agriculture
Firewood
*  Improved accessibility to resources
+  Downstream cutting off population
*  Change in the habitat
5. INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
* Use of concrete on side and base
*  Poor sequencing of projects
*  Design not (done?) by villagers
*  Hydrology not known
5. KEY FINDINGS:
*  Massive clearance of vegetation to create access road
*  No community bye-laws to govern management of the furrow (Natural resources etc.)
*  No land use plan in place
*  Little or no consideration of downstream effects
*  Little or no understanding of the Hydrology of the larger catchment area
*  Full implementation of the project and settlement patterns not fully understood by the community.
90



9.     CHECKLIST: RESPONSES TO CHECKLIST
C/No.             DATA                                  COMMUNITY
___       _                    C/No                      DATA
1    Community                        1     Yes
2    Existing/Old site?               2     Yes
3    No land Use Plan                 3     Not yet
4    Yes                              4     Yes? ? not completed
5    Yes                              5     Yes - PEF /DEC
6    Yes                              6     Yes
7    Yes                                               DISTRICT
8    Yes                              7
9    Yes (one x 3 family)             8
10    Yes                             9 g
11    Traditional land                10
12    yes                             11
13 Yes                             _-
14    N o_ _                           _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _   _  _
15    No                           ___
16    No
17    Yes
18    No
19    N o                          _  _  _    _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _
20    Yes
21    Y es__                                    _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _
22    Y es__                           _ _   __ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _
23    ???? need more data             =      __
91



PROJECT PROFILE 8
1. PROJECT:    Mpepo Rural Health Centre  Stage:        operational
2. SECTOR:        Health
3. LOCATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES
Agro zone: 1
Soils;           sandy / clay
Vegetation
4. PROJECT DESCRIPTION Initially the site only had one block which was a health centre. The
community used to travel to other areas for medical attention. The world bank funded the following:
*  Construction of new buildings
*  Construction of road
* Construction of staff houses, toilets, windmill and raised water tank
There was no community contribution to the project as all the works were done by a contractor engaged
through the Ministry of Health's Physical Planning Unit.
Special:   World Bank funded project through Physical Planning Unit of MOH
5. PROJECT BENEFITS
* Provision of potable water
* Improved medical services within easy reach of the community
* Increased staff accommodation
* Access to safe sanitation
5. ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES/CONCERNS
*  Improper disposal of medical waste
*  Abandoned quarry used for block molding
*  Inadequate water on the project
*  Lack of drainage along the road
*  Vegetation clearance along the road and on site
5. INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
6. KEY FINDINGS:
*  Discrepancy and inconsistency in approaches between MOH and MPU although both are funded
by same donor (World Bank)
*  Siting of medical waste disposal close to both the clinic and the water points
*  Improper medical waste disposal methods / using old pit latrines
*  Lack of planning for disposal facilities / methods in the preparation and implementation stage
*  No plans to construct incinerators for the clinic by neighbourhood committee
*  Unresolved water problem - dry bore-holes (2).
*  Inappropriate water extraction technology (use of windmill)
*  District staff not going back to assist communities post project implementation
*  Wasted effort by communities by making extra/ additional buildings which are faulty and may have
to be demolished
*  Lack of political / local authority representation
*  Low awareness of environmental issues
*  Mothers' shelter have always been an after-thought/ past project implementation and usually left to
the community
*  Quarries left unattended to near within clinic the premises
*  Environmental health aspects are not taken seriously in mothers/relatives shelters. The shelters
are considered as not being part of the health centre
92



+  People's needs are not incorporated into the designs e.g. Mothers' activities like cooking, laundry,
are not taken into account in their shelter leading to pressure on the hospital facilities
*  Due to inadequate water operations at the hospital are lacking hygiene
9.      RESPONSES TO CHECKLIST
C/No.             DATA                                COMMUNITY
C/No                     DATA
I    MOH and Community through      1     No
the Chief
2    Existing small centre          2      No
3    No                             3      Not
4    No                             4      No
5    No                             5      No
6    Yes                            6      Low
7    Yes                                              DISTRICT
8    Yes                            7     Yes
9    No                             8      No
10   Yes?? Data not fully            9     No
operational
11    Chief                         10    Waste/erosion
Waste disposal
12    No                            11    Low
13    Yes
14    Yes
15    Yes
16    Yes
17    Yes / soils
18    No
19    Yes - not community
contribution
20    No
21    No
22    Yes, to firewood, forests for
mothers' shelter
23    ???? need more data
93



PROJECT PROFILE 9
1. PROJECT:   Kabale Primary School
2. SECTOR:       Education
3. LOCATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES
Agro zone: 1
Soils;
Vegetation
4. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The school had a 1x3 class room block which was in a very poor state of repair and a 1x4 CRB
which was started by the PTA but had not been completed. There was also 7 existing teachers
houses . MPU funded the following works:
* completion of 1x4 CRB
* construction of 1x2 CRB
* construction of type a Ablution block
* rehabilitation of 2no. 1 x3CRB
* bore hole drilling and equipping with hand pump - to be done
1. PROJECT BENEFITS
* Improved school infrastructure
* Provision of potable and clean water
* Safe sanitation
* Conducive learning environment.
1. ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES/CONCERNS
* Erosion around building and school premises
* Generally lacks trees around the school
* Erosion on kiln sites and river banks
* Poor kiln sites
* Clearance of vegetation to access kiln site
Left debris, quarries
1. INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
Poor structure design - spoon lacking
Lack of knowledge on sequencing of components: ablution block or Bore-hole? Which first?
Lack of land use plan for the school area, no site plans
2. KEY FINDINGS:
* Problem of soil erosion is not adequately addressed
* Siting the projects (sequencing) has not been adequately taken into consideration
* The drainage around the buildings is not being taken into consideration at the design phase
* The environmental aspects of the site are not fully recognised/ taken into consideration at the
design and implementation stage for a termite infested area will require antiguards to be
incorporated in the structure. But this is not the case for this project.
* Siting of the project near anthills
* The negative effects of offsite project activities are given little consideration for example quarrying
and kilning
94



95



9.      RESPONSES TO CHECKLIST
C/No.             DATA                                  COMMUNITY
C/No                      DATA
1    PTA members                      1     No
2    Existing site- natural selection 2     No
3    No land use plan                 3     Yes - tree planting
4    No                               4     Yes ??
5    Yes-kilns and brick making       5     Yes - PEF/ DEC
near a perenial river
6    No                               6     Low
7    Yes                                               DISTRICT
8    Yes                              7     Yes - PEF/ ESP
9    No
10    Not sure?
11    Government
12    No
13    Yes                            .
14    No
15    No
16    Yes, paint
17    Yes - kilns/ river/ water
18    Yes
19    Yes__                            _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _   _ _
20    Yes
21    No
22    No                                                                _
23    No
96






PROJECT PROFILE 10
1  PROJECT:   Nansenga Middle Basic Sshool
2  SECTOR:    Education
3  LOCATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES
Agro zone        3
Soils;           Sandy
Vegetation       Sparse
4  PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The following are the targets under MPU funding:
* Rehabilitation of 5 class rooms
*  Building of 18 new toilets
*  Building of 5 teachers' houses
5. PROJECT BENEFITS
*  Provision of better accommodation for teachers leading to improved morale
*  Improved sanitation
*  Improved school infrastructure
*  Equipping of classroom furniture
5. ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES/CONCERNS
- Soil erosion
*  Deforestation
*  Overgrazing
*  Sand mining
5. INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
*  For environmental education to be effective, there is need for a core group to act as a catalyst or
motivator
*  Need to involve traditional leaders in influencing community
*  Teachers should integrate environmental education into the child to child program
5. KEY FINDINGS:
*  Environmental Indigenous knowledge systems (IKS) not being used for this particular area
*  Motivation to conserve is low/absent.
*  Sense of hopelessness
*  Environmental management knowledge lacking in the community and the PTA committee
*  Toilets wrongly sited in relation to water source/stream which is occasionally used as source of
domestic water
*  Other organisations such as DAPP have been working in the area on sensitisation on
environmental issues
*  Foundation trenches dug before approval and left open for long periods- environmental hazard
97



98



9     RESPONSES TO CHECKLIST
DATA                                 COMMUNITY
C/No.
C/No                     DATA
1    PTA and Headmistress            1      No
2    Headmistress                    2      No
3    Land Use Plan not               3      No
done/available
4    Near Kafue tributary            4      No
5    Yes                             5      Yes -
DAPP and D-WASHE)
6    Yes                             6      Low
7    Yes                                               DISTRICT
8    Yes                             7      No
9    No                              8      No
10    No/ Yes More information        9     No
11    Government but located on      10    Lack of water
traditional land                      Land degradation
Grazing
Deforestation
12    Yes                            11    Low
13    Yes
14    No
15    No
16    No
17    Yes / soils were mined
18    Yes, Dust
19    Yes/No - no information
available
20    Yes
21    No
22    Changes- human settlement:
______ |house from agriculture      l          l
23    Yes/No                       _        I_.
99






PROJECT PROFILE 11
1  PROJECT:       Kaoma Cheshire Community Care Centre
2  SECTOR:       Community Facility; Stage: Partially completed
3  LOCATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES
Agro-zone: 2
Soils;
Vegetation
4  PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The orphanage has been in operation for some time and has had the necessary facilities which include
accommodation for the children, cooking and laundry rooms and 2no. ablution blocks. The addition under
MPU targets were as follows:
*  Construction of a boundary wall
*  Construction of a semi detached staff house
*  Erection of an elevated water tank including booster pump
The boundary wall, the water tank stand and the semi-detached house have been done while the
water tank and booster pump are yet to be installed. The timber, sand and stones used in the
construction were all fetched from local sources by the community. The semi-detached house has
been converted into a guest house in order to raise income for the operations of the centre.
5.    PROJECT BENEFITS
*  Care for orphans
*  Provision of Home Based Care
*  Affording an opportunity to the older children to attend Pre-School
*  Provision of staff accommodation
*  Provision for safe and potable water.
6.     ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES/CONCERNS
*  Located near swampy area leading to collapsing of walls
*  Poor drainage of waste water (poor design)
*  Mosquito infested area
7.    INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
*  Existing Management and Maintenance Committee have some awareness of environmental issues.
*  Appears to be no link between the Management Committee and the District
* Orphanage has turned a semi-detached house into a Guest House as an income generating source
*  Orphanage does some small-scale gardening and relies on community and other well wishers
contributions
8.     KEY FINDINGS:
*  Poor technical guidance on construction of external waste disposal reticulation
*  No mitigation measures against soil erosion around the premises
*  Project sited in an area prone to mosquito infestation-high incidence of malaria
*  Lack of holistic approach to integration of environmental concern at identification and preparation of
the project (no consideration of existing structures)
*  Untimely supply of equipment leading to inadequate environmental facilities
*  Field appraisal confined to existing MPU requirements and not taking into consideration other
environmental issues
*  Inappropriate procedures for identification and selection of project equipment suppliers
100



9.     RESPONSES TO CHECKLIST
ClNo.             DATA                                 COMMUNITY
C/No                     DATA
1    Management Committee             1     No
2    Built on existing site           2     Yes- spraying of breeding grounds for
mosquitoes
3    No Land Use Plan (LUP)           3     Yes
4    Yes                              4     No
5    No                               5     Yes
6    no                               6     Low
7    Yes                                               DISTRICT
8    No                               7     No
9    No                               8     Yes
10    No                              9      No
11    Orphanage                       10    Inadequate safe water
Inadequate sanitation
Soil erosion and deforestation
Sand mining
12    Yes - Council                   11    Medium
(Local Authority)
13    Yes
14    No
15    No                           ___
16    Yes (oils and paint)
17    Yes- sand mining
18    yes
19    No
20    Yes
21    No__                              __
22    No
23    No         X                          _ _ _ _ _ __=-
101



PROJECT PROFILE 12
1. PROJECT: Kashokoto Primary School (Kaoma)
2. SECTOR:  Education      Stage: completed/ operational
3. LOCATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES
Agro-zone: 2
Soils: Sandy (Kalahari sand)
Vegetation
4. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The school has been operating before the MPU project was initiated. The existing buildings were all build
out of mud bricks and grass thatched roofs. The targets under MPU funding were as follows:
*  Construction of 1 x 3 classroom block
*  Construction of 2 x RED14 staff houses
*  Construction of 10 VIPs toilets
*  Construction of a well
*  Provision of furniture
The construction is mainly with concrete blocks implying the use of river sand and cement. The sandy soils
in the area make the option of clay bricks not viable. The community contributed stones, river and building
sand. The community how ever took about 6 years to meet the MPU requirements of 25% contribution. The
school is still facing water problems despite the presence of a well, funded by MPU and a bore hole and
hand pump close to the school funded under the Constituency Development Fund (CDF) which is also used
by the village population.
5.    PROJECT BENEFITS
- Children's access to improved sanitation
* Provision of improved staff accomodation thus increasing staff morale
- Improved school infrastructure leading to increased enrolment
* Provision of potable water
6.    ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES/CONCERNS
*  Soil erosion due to complete clearance of vegetation
*  Quarry close to school buildings
*  Unsafe water because the well is left open
*  Poor drainage system around the school
7.    INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
*  Strengthening of legal framework for management of resources or resources by communities
*  Environmental awareness and publicity
*  Inventory/ information gathering on resources
*  Creation of natural Resources committee in villages
Organisational/ Institutional Framework
District Environmental Facilitator
Co-ordinates:    Sub-committee of DDCCs
District Natural Resources Committee
Sub-District Development Co-ordinating Committee
Village Natural Resources Committee (being formed)
8  KEY FINDINGS:
Quarries left uncovered - no mitigation measures to deal with the quarry
Lack of initiative on the part of school to mobilize the community
The siting of the quarry (sand source) was inappropriate
102



Extensive clearance of vegetation around the project site without provision of compensating measures
such as tree planting
Water well which is the main/ key water source is unprotected
Concept of community participation/ contribution not appreciated
Inadequate sensitisation on MPU requirements and objectives
Project imposed by DEO as reflected by reluctant or low community contribution; it took six years to
take off.
9.     RESPONSES TO CHECKLIST
C/No.            DATA                                COMMUNITY
C/No                    DATA
1    DEO and Headmaster             1    No
2    On old existing site           2    Yes- grazing, soil erosion
3    No LUP                         3     No
4    No                             4     No
5    No                             5    Yes CBNR Management Programme, DEF
6    Yes                            6     Low
7    Yes                                             DISTRICT
8    Yes                            7     No
9    No                             8    Yes- DN R Committee
10    No                            9     No
II   Traditional land/chief         10    Inadequate safe water
Inadequate sanitation
Soil erosion
Deforestation (charcoal/timber
_  Sand mining:
12    No                            11    Medium
13   Yes                          _
14    No
15    No
16    Yes, paints/ wood
preservatives
17   Yes
18    No
19    No
20    Yes
21    No                        .
22    no
23    No
103



PROJECT PROFILE 13
1  PROJECT:       Namaanza Primary School
2  SECTOR:        Education
3  LOCATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES
Agro-zone: 3
Soils;           Loamy clay
Vegetation
4  PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The school had an existing 1x3 CRB and 3No staff houses funded by FINNIDA. The community also built
the staff house. Existing was also a World Vision funded borehole.
Micro projects Unit project targets were as follows:
* Rehabilitation of a 1 x 3 class room block (by FINNIDA)
* Construction of 2No 1 x 2 classroom block
* Construction of 2No. staff houses
* Construction of 2 pit latrines
* Construction of 4 pit latrines and 1 staff VIP latrine
* Construction of bore-hole and hand pump
* Provision of furniture (60 desks, 7 tables, and office cabinets)
The community moulded clay bricks which were burnt in kilns. Stones, building and river sand were fecthed
within the surrounding areas. The clay soils were obtained from the ant hills. Fresh or wet wood is used for
the burning of bricks. All the targets were met though the recently done borehole and hand pump has been
damaged and needs repair.
5.  PROJECT BENEFITS
* More pupils having access to school due to its proximity
* Enabling school and community have access to potable water
* Provision of improved accomodation for teachers
* Improved school infrastructure
5. ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES/CONCERNS
Inadequate sanitation leading to occurrence of diarrhoeal diseases and other
Soil erosion
Lack of technical guidance on the siting of pit latrines
Lack of seriousness about maintenance of bore-hole and hand pump. No effort to obtain tools
Low environmental awareness- clearing indigenous trees
6. INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
Village committees operate separately
No representative body covering all villages
P.T.A. at school
7. KEY FINDINGS:
* Lack of environmental awareness and deeply routed in practices that ignore hygiene.
+ Recently funded bore-hole not working and community unaware who to approach for tools to repair
the same. User fees not realistic (K1,000 per year)
* Inadequate attempts made to control soil erosion; e.g. planting trees and hedges and digging
shallow storm drains
* Other donor funded projects in the area did not consider environmental issues and problems in the
area, and lacked sound technical input.
104



*  Siting of pit latrines was based on wind direction ignoring other factors such as the location and
level of the water points
+  The village development committee unconcerned about environmental matters affecting the school.
*  Indigenous trees uprooted because they were considered valueless as compared to mango fruit
trees planted in their place.
9.     RESPONSES TO CHECKLIST
C/No.             DATA                                  COMMUNITY
C/No                     DATA
1    Community                        1     No
2    Existing site                    2     No
3    No LUP                           3     No
4    No                               4     No
5    Yes                              5     No
6    Yes ( 2 bore-holes)              6     Low
7    Yes                                               DISTRICT
8    Yes                              7     Yes
9    No                               8     No
10    Yes                             9     No
11    Traditional land                10    Soil erosion
Inadequate water
Poor sanitation
deforestation
12    No                              11    Low
13    Yes
14    No                           _
15    No                           _        ___=
16    Yes                          _         _
17    Yes                 X       T_I_                                          _
18    yes                          _        l_l
19    No                            _        _ _   _  _  _  _   _ _   __l_l
20    Yes                           _        _   _     _    _     __         _    _
2 1   N o                           _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _
22 Yes                           T           T
23    N o                           _______   ________  _________  ________105
105



PROJECT PROFILE 14
1. PROJECT:    Siamakando Primary School (Choma)
2 SECTOR:         Education
3 LOCATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES
Agro-zone: 3
Soils;           Loamy soil
Vegetation
4. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The existing classroom block on site was constructed out of mud bricks and gum pole trusses in 1981.
It is currently heavily damaged due to termite attack and is totally unsuitable for a classroom as the
roof could collapse any time. The Micro Projects Targets were initiated in 1997 and completed in 1998
consisting of the following:
*  Construction of 1 x 3 class room block
*  Construction of 2 staff houses and corresponding 2No. pit latrines
*  Provision of furniture
*  Construction of 4No. pit latrines for the pupils
The site has a borehole and a hand pump installed through the Constituency Development Fund
CDF). The clay bricks were moulded and burnt in kilns using wood fuel while the stones, building and
river sand were also obtained within the area.
4. PROJECT BENEFITS
*  Improved sanitation for the children and teachers
* Creating an improved learning and teaching environment through the improvement of school
infrastructure
*  Creating more school places
4. ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES/CONCERNS
*  No environmental hygiene - poor sanitation/unclean domestic water
*  Soil erosion/ no tree planting
*  Low environmental awareness
*  Heavy termite infestation
*  Poor siting of pit latrines - no consideration of environmental and technical factors
4. INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
PTA preventive maintenance
CDF Committee
5. KEY FINDINGS:
*  Lack of awareness on environmental hygiene, poor sanitation and unsafe drinking water
*  Soil erosion is evident though the school has no plans to arrest it. No tree planting in the area
*  There is a serious termite infestation in the area such that the old class room building of mud brick
wall and timber poles has been heavily attacked to dilapidation
*  Lack of knowledge and consideration of environmental and technical factors in the siting of pit
latrines.
9.     RESPONSES TO CHECKLIST
106



C/No.              DATA                                    COMMUNITY
C/No                       DATA
1     PTA                               1     No
2     Existing site                     2     No
3     No                                3     Not
4     No                                4     No
5     Yes, (small stream)               5     No
6     Yes (bore-hole)                   6     Low
7     Yes                                                 DISTRICT
8     Yes                               7     Yes
9     No                                8     No
10    Yes                               9      No
11    Traditional land                  10     Soil erosion, poor water quality; poor
sanitation; deforestation
12    No                                11     Low
13    Yes
14    No
15    No
16    Yes
17    Yes
18    Yes
19    No
20    Yes
21    No
22    Yes                            ___
23    No
107



PROJECT PROFILE 15
1 PROJECT: Kafue District Hospital
2  SECTOR:          Health
3 LOCATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES
Agro-zone: 2     (urban)
Soils:           Loamy / clay soil
Vegetation
4 PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The project site has various projects funded by different agencies. The different building facilities are
intended to constitute a functional District Hospital. The following is the status of the developments on
the site:
* Mortuary and site offices existing
* water supply from the district main supply system including a bore-hole and an elevated water tank
existing
* Children's ward (roofed) but not completed - funded by JICA
* Male ward (roofed) but not completed - funded by JICA
* Female ward at foundation level - expected to be funded by DFID (British)
* Surgical ward at foundation level being funded by the community
MPU is expected to finance the following: completion of Administration and Out-Patient Department
(OPD) currently at concrete floor slab level; Theatre and X-Ray buildings currently at wall plate level.
and Service Block -currently at concrete floor slab level
The community has resolved to engage a contractor on a labour contract. The tender process will be
managed by the Project Committee while Buildings Department has been approached to offer
technical guidance, supervision and revision of the drawings.
5     PROJECT BENEFITS
* Reduce dependence on UTH which is over 30 kilometres away
* Improved access to health services
* Improved medical services
* More qualified medical staff in the District
* More employment opportunities for locals
6.     ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES/CONCERNS
* Sited at the foot of a steep hill
* Prone to soil erosion
* Deforestation on the slopes of the hill
* Expanding human settlement close to the project area
* Lack of proper storm water drainage around the site
+ Lack of provisions for medical waste disposal in the plans.
7.    INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
* Strong project Committee with capacity to mobilize people and raise funds
* Committee requires strengthening in environmental awareness
* The Committee has initiated a tree planting program and made attempts to construct storm drains
around the site.
8.    KEY FINDINGS:
* No use of Land Use Plans for siting of projects
* MPU is not involved in siting of projects
108



*  The sites of projects are identified in isolation to other land use type-limited focus in relation to
other uses
*  Siting of project must be given consideration.
*  More focus by MPU on technical aspects rather than the siting of the project which has more
environmental relevance
*  No institution to enforce the technical/environmental requirements in rural setting
*  MPU does not focus on the operational/ equipment requirements and their impacts on the
operational stage cost of the Hospital. The cost of the equipment may be too high to be easily
obtained by the Ministry of Health or the beneficiary community.
*  Lack of provision and commitment in planning for operational requirements (such as medical waste
disposal facilities and other equipment) between the project implementation committees and
facilitating institutions
*  Lack of community commitment to participate in the tree planting activities initiated by the project
committee
*  Low awareness among the general community on environmental issues
9.     RESPONSES TO CHECKLIST
C/No.            DATA                                COMMUNITY
C/No                    DATA
1    Community                      1    No
2    GRZ (historical site)          2     No
3    No                             3     Not
4    No                             4     N/A
5    No                             5     No
6    Yes(bore-hole)                 6     Low
7    Yes                                             DISTRICT
8    Yes                            7     No
9    No                             8    No
10   Yes                            9     N/A
11    GRZ                           10    Soil erosion, deforestation on the hill slopes,
waste disposal
12   Yes                            11    Low
13   Yes
14    No
15    No
16   Yes
17   Yes (soils, forests)          .
18   Yes
19   Yes
20    Yes
21    Yes .
22    No                          23      No
109



PROJECT PROFILE 16
I  PROJECT: Kabweza Primary School (Kafue District)
2  SECTOR: Education (Completed and on-going)
3  LOCATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES
Agro-zone: 2
Soils:           Sandy loam soil; on a gentle slope
Vegetation
4  PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The school initially( 1995) had a 1x2 classroom block and 4 staff houses funded by FINIDA including 5 pit
latrines.A borehole and hand pump funded by JICA were also installed .The microprojects unit funded the
following works:
* Rehabilitation of an existing 1 x 2 class room block
* Completion of lx 2 class room blocks
* Construction of 4 VIP toilets
* Construction of 2 staff houses
The additional components were intended to upgrade the school to a basic school by catering for the
grades 8 and 9 whose admission was only possible in Kafue urban. The community contributed stones,
building and river sand and moulded and burnt bricks. Kilns were located near the river for easy access to
water for moulding. Wet wood is used for Kilning.
The community intends to put up a laboratory and a Home Economics Unit inorder to fully cover the
facilities for the subjects in grades 8 and 9. The foundation for the lab and home economics have been
done and they aim to solicit more funds.
5. PROJECT BENEFITS
*  Teachers provided with decent accomodation thus creating a conducive work environment
*  Improved teaching of Science and Home Economics subjects
*  More children will not have to walk long distances as the school has increased its enrolment
levels.
6.     ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES/CONCERNS
* Deforestation in the area
* Abandoned quarries near school
* Improper siting of toilets in relation to the bore-hole
* Sheet erosion
7.    INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY ISSUES
Maintenance                      P.T.A.
Micro Project                  VILLAGE ZONE               Boundary Committee
Committee                       COMMITTEE
Maintena ce
Committee
110



8     KEY FINDINGS:
*  The area has been cleared of forests. Hence community collect firewood from a nearby farmer to
meet energy demand
*  Area is not large enough to enable community develop their own wood lots
*  Community is involved in ad hoc tree planting for wind-breaks around their homesteads
*  Widespread construction of storm drains around the village and the school
*  Quarries have been left unattended to, making them breeding grounds for snakes and mosquitoes
*  Community has worked on feeder road construction - hence were exposed to drainage
constructions.
9.     RESPONSES TO CHECKLIST
C/No.            DATA                                COMMUNITY
C/No                    DATA
1    P.T.A.                         1    No
2    Existing school site           2    Yes
3    No LUP                         3    Yes- storm drain const.Tree planting
4    No                             4     Yes
5    No                            5      No
6    Yes, near bore-hole            6     Medium
7    Yes                                            DISTRICT
8    Yes                            7     No
9    No                             8     No
10   Yes                            9    Yes
11    Traditional land              10    Deforestation, erosion
12    No                            11    Medium
13   Yes
14    No
15    No
16   Yes: paints + wood
18___  preservatives
17   Yes
1 8   No__                                    _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _   _ _
1 9   No__                                    _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _   _ _
20    Yes
21    No                                    --
22    No__                           _ _  __ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _  _
23    No__                           _ _  __ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _
111



PROJECT PROFILE 17
1 PROJECT: Chitanda Primary School
2 SECTOR: Education (on-going, affecting operations)
3 LOCATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES
Agro-zone: 2
Soils:           Loamy and sandy; slope and stone
Vegetation
4 PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The school was totally dilapidated due to vandalism . The community contributed by erecting a boundary
wall. MPU funded the following:
* Rehabilitation of entire school
* Construction of a security wall around the school
* Erection of an elevated water tank
* Sinking of bore-hole
The project is on going and it is expected that the water problems that the school has been experiencing
will come to an end upon completion of the project.
5. PROJECT BENEFITS
* Reduced distances
* Increased enrolments
* Improved school infrastructure
* Reduced vandalism as a result of improved security
* Provision of potable water
6      ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES/CONCERNS
* Soil erosion
* Water is a problem
* Exposed water reservoir
* Vegetation clearance
7  INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
Administration                                 MPU Committee
Preventive Maintenance
* Committees are well co-ordinated
* Low environmental awareness and management capacity
* If trained they could have higher potential for mobilising community on environmental awareness
+ No other organisations working on environmental management issues in the area.
8      KEY FINDINGS:
112



*  No Land Use Plan
*  Prone to soil erosion
*  No sensitisation carried during the planning phase of project
*  Project site located in a place vulnerable to vandalism
*  Attempts have been made to control erosion by constructing storm drains
*  Waste disposal sites are being recycled before waste has completely decomposed/ degraded
indicating shortage of land for waste disposal
9.     RESPONSES TO CHECKLIST
S/No.             DATA                                COMMUNITY
S/No                     DATA
I    School & Community             I     No
2    Existing old site              2      No
3    No LUP                         3      Not
4    No                             4      N/A
5    No                             5      No
6    Yes, near bore-hole            6      Low
7    Yes                                             DISTRICT
8    Yes (urban)                    7      No
9    No                             8      No
10    Yes/ No                        9     N/A
11    State/ Urban Council          10    Erosion
Inadequate water
12    Yes                           11    Low
13    Yes
14    No
15    No                                   _ _  _ _ _  _  _  _ _ _  _  _ _  __I
16    Yes, oils and paints
17    Yes: externalities,
.______ downstream
18    yes
19    Yes
20    No
21    No
22    No
23    No
113



Annex 4      An Outline of an Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure
The over all process of environmental impact assessment aims to integrate environmental considerations
into the planning and implementation of road improvement projects. In practical terms, Environmental
Analysis or an EIA study predicts the likely environmental impacts of a project, finds ways of mitigating
unacceptable impacts, and presents the predictions and most appropriate mitigation options to decision
makers. It should also involve public consultation with interested parties and the affected population.
Environmental Assessment involves six basic tasks:
* Identification of project activities and alternatives
* Scooping
* Prediction of Impacts
* Evaluation of Impacts
* Identification of mitigation measures
* Presentation of results
Identification of alternatives
Identifying project activities and alternatives and comparing their environmental impacts is a key aspect of
undertaking an Environmental Assessment. What alternatives are to be considered depends upon which
stage of the project cycle the project has reached and should be made explicit during the scoping phase.
For example, fields assessments may be concerned with alternatives for site selection, transport routing,
etc. Further into the project cycle, for example at the improvement plan preparation, there is more emphasis
on identifying project component altematives in the light of specific design requirements such as routing
through human settlements, wildlife habitats, etc.
An Environmental Analysis or EIA study should therefore report on the environmental implications of
choosing between these alternatives, including those choices made prior to the study. Through out this
alternative process each alternative should at a minimum be contrasted with the 'do-nothing' scenario and
the environmental consequences of the baseline situation.
Scoping
Scoping involves the identification and narrowing down of potential environmental impacts so that the
Environmental Assessment focuses only on those that are likely to be significant. There are a number of
methods that can be applied to identify impacts. One such method is the use of checklists or questionnaires
to identify all the project's potential 'sources' of environmental impacts, e.g. smoke emissions, water
pollution's, construction material etc., and then list possible 'reporters' in the environment, e.g. crops,
communities or water bodies. This is done by surveying the existing environment and consulting, with
interested parties.
Prediction of Impacts
Once identified, the potential magnitude (size and nature) of the environmental impacts must be predicted.
To prevent unnecessary expense, the sophistication of the predictive methods used should be kept in
proportion to the scope of the Environmental Assessment or the EIA and the importance of the particular
impact.
Evaluation of Impacts
Early in the project cycle, altemative project sites, routes or project types may undergo an evaluation to
identify and compare how each is likely to affect the environment. It is also important to appreciate to that
decisions stemming from the examination of alternatives prior to the environmental assessment are likely to
be influenced just as much, if not more, by economic, social of political concerns as they are by
environmental factors.
114



Even when the environmental implications of alternatives have been given full consideration form the
earliest stages, the final project may still have adverse environmental effects. The significance and
acceptability, of these impacts may be determined by evaluating the predicted effects against criteria for
environmental standards, public preferences, expert opinion etc. Where an impact is evaluated as being
unacceptable against these criteria, ways should be sought to mitigate the impact through changes design
or methods of construction or operation.
Identification of Mitigation Measures
Where the results of an evaluation show that certain impacts are likely to be environmentally unacceptable,
mitigation measures need to be identified so as to reduce impacts to within acceptable levels..
Presentation of Results
The final task in an Environmental Analysis or EIA study is the presentation of results in such a way that
decision -maker can be informed of what needs to be done
Many technically first rate studies fail to be useful because of poor documentation. The environmental
Analysis or EIA can achieve its purpose only if its findings are well communicated to decision makers. For
an EIA Study of a road project, the recommended report layout should be as shown in Annex 3.
In Zambia the results of an EIA are compiled in a report called An 'Environmental Impact Statement'. The
results of a review are compiled in a report called 'brief'
Monitoring and supervision
Once a project has begun, its activities will virtually always have some environmental consequences.
Positive or negative. These need to be assessed as part of the usual monitoring process. The focus of
environmental monitoring is three-fold:
1.   Evaluation of the environmental impact of projects, and of the effectiveness of the environmental
mitigation measures as originally agreed.
2.   Advance waming of adverse changes in the baseline environment resulting from implementing a
project.
3.   Assessment and evaluation of any unforeseen environmental impacts
The monitoring report should therefore, demonstrate the success or failure, of the environmental protection
measures, and identify and evaluate any unforeseen environmental impacts.
Relevant Road Highway Authorities in Collaboration with the Environmental Council of Zambia will take the
monitoring responsibility.
Project Evaluation
Incorporating environmental factors into the evaluation process establishes whether a project has achieved
its overall environmental objectives. Evaluation should present the principal environmental lessons that
have been leamed. Secondly, it should determine whether the procedures and methodology associated
with the system of environmental appraisal were being implemented effectively. If environmental issues are
particularly prominent in the project, it may be appropriate to commission an Environmental Adult as a
specific study within the evaluation.
Relevant Road Highway Authorities in collaboration with the Environmental Council of Zambia will take
evaluation responsibility.
115



Annex 5:    Schedules To EIA Regulations, Statutory Instrument No. 28 of 1997
FIRST SCHEDULE:   PROJECTS THAT REQUIRE PROJECT BRIEFS
Projects:
1. Urban area rehabilitation
2. Water Transport
3. Flood control schemes
4. Exploration for and production of hydrocarbons including refining and transport
5. Timber harvesting and processing in forestry
6. Land consolidation schemes
7. Mining and mineral processing, reduction of ores, minerals, cement and lime kilns
8. Smelting and refining of ores and minerals
9. Foundries
10. Brick and earthen manufacture
11. Glass works
12. Brewing and malting plants
13. Plants for manufacture of coal briquettes
14. Pumped storage schemes
15. Bulk grain processing plants
16. Hydro power schemes and manufacturing
Others
1. Resettlement schemes
2. Storage of hydrocarbons
3. Hospitals, clinics and health centres
4. Cemetery designation
5. Touring and recreational development in national parks or similar reserves
6. Projects located in or near environmental sensitive areas such as:
a)           indigenous forests;
b)           wetlands;
c)           zones of high biological diversity;
d)            areas supporting populations of rare and endangered species;
e)           zones prone to erosion or desertification;
f)            areas of historical and archeological interest;
g)            areas prone to flooding and natural hazards; .
h)           water catchment concerning major sources for public, industrial or agricultural uses
and;
i)           areas of human settlements (particularly those with schools and hospitals).
116



PROCEDURE FOR PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
STATEMENTS
ECZ advises the Developer that an
Environmental Impact Statement is required
under the EPPC Act (EIA) Regulations
Public Meeting to gather input from
The Developer, with assistance from ECZ,                 community for scoping study
Step 3        conducts a scoping study
The Developer submits Draft Terms of Reference
tp4             f the EIS to ECZ
117               l         TORinadequate
ECZ advises the Developer as to the
~~~~adequacy/requirements of the ToR
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O _                                          adequatel
|    {    .   ~The Developer submits names and qualifications             Tmuacpal
of the EIS Team to ECZ for approval 
.     |        ~~~Team acceptablel
The Developer conducts the EIS                PULCMEETING TO GATHER|
E0}                                          _   INPUT ~~~~~~~FROM THE COMMIIY
The Developer submits 12 copies of the EIS
Ptep            Stdy Report to ECZ
_                                             PROJECT ~~~~~~~APPROVED
117



SECOND SCHEDULE: PROJECTS THAT REQUIRE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENTS
Urban Development
1. Designing of new townships which are 5 Ha or more or sites covering 700 dwellings and above.
2. Establishments of industrial estates.
3. Establishment or expansion of recreational areas such as golf course, which would attract 200 or
more vehicles.
4. Shopping centres and complexes - 10,000m2 and above, floor area.
Transportation
1. All major roads outside urban areas, the construction of new roads and major improvements over
1 OKm in length or over 1 Km in length if the road passes through a National Park or Game
Management Area.
2. Railway lines 1 OKm away from built up area.
3. Airport and airfields whose runaway is 1,800m or more.
4. Pipelines: for water, diameter 0.5m and above and length 1 OKm outside built area; for oil, 15Km or
more of which 5Km or more of their length will be situated in a protected area, a seriously polluted or
a water abstraction area.
5. Establishment of or expansion of harbours or pontoon areas.
Dams, Rivers, and Water Resources
1. Dams and barrages covering a total of 25 Ha or more;
2. Exploration for, and use of, ground water resources including production of geothermal energy: water
to be extracted to be more than 2 million cumecs (m3/s);
3. Water supply - reservior surface area 5om2or more.
Mining: Including Quarrying and Open Cast Extraction
1. Copper mining, coal site;
2. Limestone, sand, dolomite, phosphate and clay extraction's of 2 Ha or more;
3. Precious metals (silver, zinc, cobalt, nickel);
4. Industrial metals;
5. Radioactive metals.
Forestry Related Activities
1.  Clearance of forestry in sensitive areas such as watershed areas for industrial use 50 Ha or more;
2. Reforestation and afforestation;
3. Wood processing plants -1,000 tonnes or more per year.
Agriculture
1. Land clearance for large scale agriculture;
2.  Introduction and use of agrochemicals new to Zambia;
3. Irrigation schemes covering an area of 50 Ha or more;
4.  Fish farms of which production is 1000 tonnes or more a year;
5.  Aerial and ground spraying -industrial scale.
Processing and Manufacturing Industry
1. Cement works and lime processing - 1,000 tonnes or more a year;
2. Fertilizer manufacturing or processing - 1,000 tonnes or more a year;
3. Tanning and dressing of hides and skins - 1,000 skins a week;
4.  Abattoirs and meat processing plants - 20,000 carcasses and above a month;
118



5.  Fish processing plant- more than 100 tonnes a year;
6. Pulp and paper mills - daily out put 50 air dried tonnes and above a day;
7. Food processing plants - 400 tonnes or more out put a year.
Electrical Infrastructure
1. Electricity generation station;
2. 'Electrical transmission lines - 220 kv and more than 1 km long;
3. Surface roads for electrical and transmission lines for more than 1 Km long.
Waste Disposal
1. Sites for solid disposal: construction of permanent disposal site with 1,000 tonnes and above a day;
2.  Sites for hazardous disposal of 100 tonnes or more a year;
3. Sewage disposal works - with a capacity of 15,000 litres or more a day.
Nature Conservation Areas
1. Creation of national parks, game management areas and buffer zones;
2. Commercial exploitation of natural fauna and flora;
3. Introduction of alien species of flora and fauna to local ecosystems.
Stakeholders Participation And Consultations In A Eia Study
Environmental Assessment Requirements
Zambia's EIA Policy (1997) requires that public consultation be an integral part of carrying out EA Studies.
Minimum requirement: At minimum, the proponent must meet with the principal stakeholders to inform
them about the proposed road works and to solicit their views about it.
Purpose of Consultation
During the different phases of implementing road rehabilitation and maintenance works, individuals,
communities, business sector and the general public will be affected differently. For example,
implementation of road works may provide employment opportunities, may displace them from their'
homes, may introduce new social and cultural values or create noise and pollution which will affect their
health, (Section 5). If they are consulted about the project,
their anxieties and concerns may be reduced and the proposals may readily be accepted;
they are better able to appreciate the opportunities the project may bring
they can point out issues of concern to them and what they value most in the environment;
they may provide useful suggestions which may improve the design and implementation of the works and
they may cooperate with the contractors.
Stages of Consultation
Consultation with the relevant stakeholders shall be conducted throughout the project cycle.
However, consultation should be timed to coincide with significant planning and decision making activities
in the project cycle. Table 4 indicates the critical periods when public consultation could be undertaken.
Forms of Consultation
Various methods of public consultation may be used. For the purpose of road works, several are listed
and include;
119



Individual/personal interviews
Community meetings
Advisory committees
Public hearings
Information notices brochures
Press conference
Questionnaires
No one method is usually sufficient by itself to achieve an effective public consultation. Therefore, it is
recommended that:
The proponent/s should incorporate at least 2-3 or more methods which complement each other in
ensuring adequate public consultation.
120






Annex 6: Example of Contract Clauses to be Included in Community Contract
121






Annex 7       Recommendations on Review of Existing MPU Documents
DOCUMENT 1.         FACILITATORS' MANUAL FOR MAINTENANCE OF COMMUNITY BASED
INFRASTRUCTURE
SUGGESTED ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES TO BE INCLUDED IN THE MANUAL
MODULE 1:  Introduction to Sustainable Development
Suggested definition of: 'Sustainable Development'
A course of development that can be maintained over a long period of time  without negative effects on
the environment.
KEY POINTS OF MODULE:
To add:
1.    There can be no future without proper management of the environment affected by our projects.
MODULE 2:   Organising a Maintenance Committee
Step 1:      What are the Characteristics of a good Committee?
To add:
1.    To ensure proper management of the environment
Step 2:       Functions of the Maintenance Committee
To add:
1.    Create environmental awareness
2.     On Major Tasks, to add as follows:
FUNCTION                     ITASK
Ensure Building to Last       Hold regular environmental awareness meetings
MODULE 3:   Creating Community Awareness
To add as follows:
Time and Steps
Step                      Porcedures                   Time
Background
Step 1 etc                Creating Responsibilty       30 mins
Materials                 Visuals: Parents protecting
and caring for the structures
and the environment
122



BACKGROUND TO MODULE
To add:
Make the community aware who is responsible for community assets and the environment
Step 1: Creating Responsibility
To add:
A picture of a river with trees along it and a parent cutting a tree
Questions to be asked:
1.    What can you see happening in the picture?
2.    What is the parent doing?
3.    If he cuts down all the trees, what would be the outcome?
4.    Is this development? In what way?
MODULE 4: Creating a Routine Preventive Maintenance Schedule
Step 1:
To add to:    Steps to Create a Routine Preventive Schedule...
2....
3.
4.
5.    Decide what should be done to the area around the structures
6.    Decide who will do which activities
MODULE 8:  Building to Last
Step 2:
To add:      Divide the participants into five groups:
Group 5 takes "Siting for a Project"
GROUP 5:    SITING FOR A PROJECT
CRITICAL STAGE                        WHAT TO CHECK FOR
1          Siting in relation to existing infrastructure
2.          Siting in relation to bore-hole, VIP latrine
3.          Siting in relation to a river or a stream
4           Siting in a sandy area
5           Siting in a swampy area
Document 2: Project Implementation Manual Volume I
After reviewing the MPU Project Implementation Manuals, Volumes 1 and 2, and the MPU Maintenance
Manual, the following additions are proposed in order to address some environmental concerns:
Chapter: Planning Project Implementation
Page 90: under"The meaning of planning":
Add:
WHERE to do it (the site)
Page 91: under 'Planning the project"
123



Add: subtitle: 'Project Sites", right before the Work Programme summary for Zinindi. The points under
"Project Site" are:
Choose an appropriate site for your project.
Avoid dumpy or water logged sites
Look at other altematives and weigh the advantages against disadvantages of different sites
Avoid termite infested areas. Where there are no alternatives take measures against termites in the
designs and during construction.
2. Project Implementation Manual Volume 2
Chapter: The site
Page 62: under "Selecting the Site"
Point 3; should read:
Try not to cut down any trees when siting your buildings. Trees are very important for our environment,
they provide shade, and act as windbreakers against heavy winds that cause soil erosion. Their roofs also
stop the soil being washed away in the rains.
Add point 5, under "Other Important Factors":
Choose an appropriate site for your project.
Avoid dumpy or water logged sites
Look at other alternatives and weigh the advantages against disadvantages of different sites
Avoid termite infested areas. Where there are no altematives take measures against termites in the
designs and during construction.
Chapter: The Site
Page 64: Under 'Clearing the Site"
Add
- Remember to clear only the affected site and not to cut trees when not necessary.
Key points. Page 66
Second point should read: 'Avoid chopping down trees if you can" instead of: "Try to chop down as few
trees as possible"
Chapter: Brick making:
Page 20: Under 'Choosing the right soil for your bricks"
The chapter on brick making does not recognise the environmental effects associated with sand and clay
soil digging or brick making. There is no mention on how to deal with the resultant quarries. No mention of
the effects of cutting down tries for kilning.
The following points could therefore be added as a continuation on page 21 under uChoosing The Right
Soil For Your Bricks" and on page 28 under "Wood For The Kiln":
Page 21:
Add:
Caution
Remember that the activity of digging soils from any part of the land will result in quarries. Therefore
ensure that the digging is done a good distance away from the school buildings and make sure you bury
the quarries, as they are an environmental hazard.
Page 28:
Add:
Remember that the fresh wood you use in the kilns could eventually contribute to deforestation and soil
erosion. It is advisable not to cut trees indiscriminately. Planting another tree in the community for every
tree cut is a good environmental practice.
Page 31 under "Checking Your Results"
Add:
Make sure you clear all the debris or broken bricks from the kilning site and use them in the construction
for back-filling (when crushed ), brick drains construction of paved walkways etc.
124






Chapter VIP latrines
Page 52: under "How to Build a V.I.P Latrine" (Siting the VIP)
Add:
Important: Ensure the V.I.P is built downhill from the well and bore-hole to reduce the chances of ground
water pollution.
Page 59:
Under "Key points"
Add:
Make sure your V.I.P is at a lower ground level in relation to wells and bore holes.
Chapter :Plastering, Painting and Finishing.
Page 137: 'How much Paint"
Add:
Caution:
Ensure you dispose of the paint tins, plastic containers for oil based paints and kerosene properly. Do not
bury them nor throw them around, as they do not decompose, as they are an environmental and fire
hazards.
Page 141:
Under "Key points"
Add:
Dispose the paint tins and plastic containers properly
Chapter: Rehabilitation
Page 159: under 'Environment"
Add:
Chapter: Wells
Page 170:
Under "Key points"
Add:
Always site your wells at a higher ground level compared to the pit latrines or septic tanks and soak-
aways.
Chapter Roads
Page 172; last sentence to be reviewed.
Reads 'All tall vegetation should be cleared back 5m on each side of the road'.???
3.     Maintenance Manual for use by Communities
hapter Three : Maintenance of Buildings
Page 61: under "Trees and Roots" (solution)
Should be changed to read:
The roofs should be located by digging a trench 1.5 deep between the building and the tree and the roots
cut back. The trees should only be cut if other solutions to save the building are not viable. Trees should
be planted awayfrom buildings.
125






Annex 8:    Zambian Agro-Ecological Zones
(See Map)
Characteristics of the Agro-Ecological Zones
Zone I                         Zone 2                         Zone 3
Semi-arid area                 Rainfall 800-1000 (medium rains)  High rainfall area (1000-
High temperatures              Small scale cultivation         1400mm)
Evaporative losses             Kalahari woodland, grassland    Vigorous growing forests/
Short growing seasons          Forests, vegetation             vegetation
Salty and shallow soils/ loamy  Cattle rearing major part      Poor soils leading to shifting
and sandy                      Swamps and flood plains         cultivation (chitemene)
Low and poor rainfall (less than    Kalahari sands             Timber trees
800mm)                         Low water holding capacity      Natural woodland
Concentration on drought tolerant  Low nutrient retention      Grassland
crops                          Low roofing depth               Strong acidity
Woodlands, grasslands                                          Coarse textured top soils
Low nutrient retention
126






Annex 9     Districts Visited, Institutions / Organizations and Individuals Talked To
Southern Province- Choma District:
Mr H. Mwinga - Buildings Officer, Ministry of Education
Mr G. Tembo - Clerk of Works , Choma District Council
Mr. G. Siyachaya - Education Officer
Head Teachers, Teachers and PTA members - Namaanza and Siamakando Primary schools
Project Committee members
Community representatives
Mazabuka District:
PTA members - Nansenga Primary School
MPU Project Committee members - Nansenga Primary school
Northern Province-Mpika District:
Bernard Ntembula - DEC Vice Chairman
Oscar Kumwenda  DEC member
Charles Mutale - Environmental Support Programme (ESP) Administration
Francesca Mwanza - (ESP)
Lusaka Province- Lusaka District:
Kafue District:
Mr Partson muyendeka Manager Administration Kafue District Health Management Team (
KDHMT)
Mrs Mumba MPU District Dest Officer / Kafue Council Employee
Mr Luis Mwila MPU Project committee secretary / KDHMT Employee
Community Workers - Kafue District Hospital Project
Deputy Head Teacher, Teachers and PTA members - Kabweza Primary School
MPU Project Committee members - Kabweza Primary School
Western Province- Kaoma District:
Mrs Tumbila - Principal ,Kaoma Cheshire Community Care Centre (KCCCC)
Sister Mary Waloney, KCCCC.
Mr Richard Mate DCAO
Mr Michael M. Mkozomba DPO
Ms Albertina Simakando CM, KCCCC.
Mr Francis L. Yopama - District Buildings Officer
Head and Deputy Head Teachers - Mahilo Primary School
PTA Members and Community members
127






Annex 10    Terms of Reference for an Environmental Impact Study of the Planned
Zambia Social Investment Fund.
Project Background
The objective of the Zambia Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF) is to contribute to the government's
strategy for poverty reduction by improving the welfare and the living conditions of many poor and
vulnerable communities all over Zambia, with special attention to the needs of women and children.
ZAMSIF will finance community grants for investment in social and economic infrastructure; improved
natural resources management; special programs targeting disadvantaged and more vulnerable groups;
and capacity building, basic skill training and other activities aimed at stimulating local productivity.
Efficient and sustainable management of natural resources is critical to the achievement of this objective
since the poorest and most vulnerable sectors of the population are often the most dependent on
renewable natural resources for income generation and risk aversion. ZAMSIF will also finance larger
infrastructure benefiting more than one community, such as district health facilities, market places etc.
District authorities are expected to take the lead in the implementation of these projects.
ZAMSIF will build upon the experiences gained through the implementation of the Social Recovery
Projects (SRP) Study Fun I and 11 which have been providing support to poor rural communities for the
last seven years, and will adopt improved targeting mechanisms building upon the knowledge and
experience gained through poverty monitoring. (Living Conditions Monitoring Survey) and poverty
analysis (Study Fund). The government of Zambia sees ZAMSIF also as a major instrument to support
the decentralization policy and strengthen the capacity of district governments, including their role in
enforcing environmental appraisal and monitoring of all proposed community development projects.
Purpose of Study
While no ZAMSIF project is expected to generate significant adverse environmental effects, some
community and district investment might result in negative consequences in appropriate mitigation
measures are not implemented. In addition, the cumulative environmental impact of many small
investments supported by the project across the country may be significant. The long term success of
these investments is also closely associated with sustainability and minimizing potentially negative
environmental impacts since the poor are often most directly dependent on their natural resource base for
supporting their economic livelihood. The purpose of this study is thus to provide clear and systematic
guidelines for the effective assessment of any potential environmental impacts that may result from
microprojects. The study will define the best way to mainstream environmental appraisal and monitoring
as part of the regular ZAMSIF project cycle - screening, scooping, developing terms of reference,
conducting and reviewing the results of environmental appraisals, and monitoring micro projects
implementation. The study will also make proposals about how to increase the technical capacity of
ZAMSIF staff, district teams and other ZAMSIF partners and facilitators for environmental appraisal and
monitoring.
Scope of Study
The activity that will need to be carried out to meet the above objectives include, but are not limited to, the
following:
1.    Describe the possible mixture of generic investments to be financed under the ZAMSIF and
assess/predict by project typologies their potential individual and cumulative environmental
impacts. For each type of projects that the ZAMSIF is expected to finance, the Study shall
describe the major environmental issues and impacts resulting from such investments, the set of
measures to avoid them or mitigate those which are un avoidable, and the estimated costs of
those measures. The study is to base predictions on field findings from microprojects already
implemented or under implementation, findings from beneficially assessments conducted to be
conducted under the Social Recovery Projects I and 11, and any other available sources e.g.
128



Government of Zambia's EIA Guidelines, World Bank EIA Source book Jan/99 update on EIA for
Social Fund Projects, USAID Environmental Guidelines for Small- Scale Activities in Africa,
Canadian CIDA Environmental Assessment Manual for Community Development Projects, etc.).
11.    Purpose options for the creation of an environmental screening, evaluating, and supervising
mechanism within ZAMSIF's Management Unit which ensures that funded projects are
environmentally sound and sustainable and that any adverse environmental consequences are
recognized early in the projects cycle. The Study is expected to develop an environmental
screening and reporting section using a simple environmental criteria checklist format to be
included in the microproject appraisal report. Environmental review as part of the ZAMSIF project
cycle will facilitate discussion with communities, district teams and facilitators of project design
alternatives that avoid or minimize adverse effects and enhance environmental quality of
microprojects.. Environmental appraisal and monitoring thus need to be seen as an aid and not an
obstacle to microproject design. In addition, such environmental appraisal and monitoring
mechanism will reduce the time and simplify the effort required for project specific environmental
assessments by in advance identifying issues, proposing mitigation measures or changes in
technology or construction materiaLs, and recommending methods for monitoring environmental
indicators commonly affected by ZAMSIF - funded projects.
Ill.    Based on the study's recommendations, propose and prepare amendments to the ZAMSIF
Operational Manual and relevant technical handbooks to ensure that specific design criteria to
safeguard the environment or corrective measures are incorporated and monitored in project
planning and implementation. This can include proposing measures or changes in technologies,
construction materials and methods or standard contract specifications for environmental
safeguards to avoid or minimize negative impacts. The Study shall propose project-specific
environmental planning guidelines, resource appraisal, and supervision requirements for
treatment of environmentally sensitive areas and resources, and site/project-specific measures to
mitigate likely adverse impacts of ZAMSIF investments.
IV.    Identify specific types of projects and associated environmental impacts that might require
separate environmental assessment in relation to location, project size, and other site specific
factors ( e.g. access road construction or improvement, bridge construction, micro-dam
construction or rehabilitation, water supply and sanitation, irrigation schemes, etc.). When a
separate EA is required, it is critical that the results of the EA, including mitigation measures,
design/contract specifications and supervision requirements be reflected in the legal agreements
with the communities and districts.
VI.    Based on the Study's recommendations, describe how ZAMSIF sensitization meetings and
launching workshops can bring out environmental issues and considerations of the proposed
projects; develop an EA training program for ZAMSIF staff, district teams and other government
and non-governmental partners and facilitators to ensure adequate inspections, monitoring and
enforcement of environmental standards; and clarify their roles in highlighting these issues as part
of the project cycle.
VII.   Formulate proposals to raise community and district authorities awareness about the potential
environmental impact of microproject activities, actions to mitigate or avoid negative effects, and
the type of investments and activities that communities and districts can undertake with ZAMSIF
support to strengthen their stewardship capacity in natural resources management. Such
information and messages can be dissinated through the planned Information, Education and
Communication activities.
VilI.   Advise ZAMSIF, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources' Pilot Environmental Fund
(PEF), district teams and other project partners and facilitators on how to strengthen program
synergies while improving operational collaboration to promote and finance natural resources
management projects. A MOU exists between the Social Recovery ProjecttZAMSIF and PEF that
formalizes collaboration between the two programs. The PEF has supported communities to
undertake participatory environmental needs appraisals, priotize problems and prepare
129



environmental action plans in two pilot districts. In these and other districts, communities may
seek financing from ZAMSIF, PEF and other fast-disbursing community support programs to
implement their priority investments.
Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations
The execution of the Study shall be governed by all relevant Government of Zambia laws and regulations
on environmental review and impact assessment, including the Ministry of Environment and Natural
Resources' Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations published in October, 1997
130






Annex 11    Bibliography:
1. CIDA, 1997, Handbook on Environmental Assessment of Non-Govemmental Organisations and
lnstitutioons programs and project.
2. CIDA. 1999. Training Manual. Environmental Impact Assessment Review. Dessau Soprin, Canada.
3. Directorate-General for Development, Commission of the European Communities, 1993,
'Environmental Manual" ,Users Guide - Environmental procedures and methodology governing Lome
IV development co-operation projects
4. Gagliardi, R. and Alfthan T., 1994, Environmental Training: Policy and Practice for Sustainable
Development.
5. GRZ. 1990. Environmental Protection and Pollution Control Act No. 12 of 1990, Cap 204 of the Laws
of Zambia.
6. GRZ.1997. Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations, Statutory Instrument No. 28 of 1997.
7. Louis Berger International ICN, 1994 -for the Ministry of Works and Housing, "Multi-State Roads
Project" Lagos, Nigeria.
8. Micro Projects Unit Publication , 1994, 'Projects Implementation Manuals" - for use by communities,
Volumes I and 11, Lusaka, Zambia.
9. Micro Projects Unit Publication ,1997 'Technical Officers Manual for Sustainable Community Based
Developmento- for use by communities, Volumes I and 11, Lusaka, Zambia.
10. Micro Projects Unit Publication,1997, "Maintenance Manual" - for use by communities, Lusaka,
Zambia.
11. Micro Projects Unit Publication, 2000, 'Draft ZAMSIF Operations Manual", Lusaka, Zambia.
12. Ministry of Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare - "Natural Resources Management Handbook"
- The Community Action Plan, Zimbabwe.
13. MPU, Facilitating A District Workshop: Facilitator's Guide.
14. MPU, 1999, Facilitators'Manual for Maintenance of Community Based Infrastructure.
15. National Roads Board Publication, 1997 'Environmental Guidelines for Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Works", Lusaka, Zambia.
16. National Soil Conservation Unit (Department of Agriculture), 1989, 'National Soil Conservation and
Agro Forestry Needs Assessment, Lusaka Zambia.
17. Pilot Environmental Fund, 1998, Environmental Study Fund (ESF) Guidelines.
18. Word Bank Publication - Technical Paper No. 115, 1990 - a Dam Safety and the Environmenr,
Washington D.C. 20433, U.S.A.
19. Word Bank Publication - Technical Papers 1991- "Environmental Assessment Sourcebook";
Volumes 1,2 and 3 - Policies, Procedures, and Cross-Sectoral Issues, Washington D.C. 20433,
U.S.A.
20. World Bank Publication - Technical Paper No. 246, 1994- 'Modem Water Control in Irrigation" -
Concepts, Issues and Application, Washington D.C. 20433, U.S.A.
131



21. World Bank Publication, 1994, World Bank Group and the Environment- "Making Development
Sustainable", Washington D.C. 20433, U.S.A.
World Bank. 1997. Pollution Prevention and Abatement Handbook, Towards Cleaner Production
132



