Report No. PID8282
Project Name                     Zambia-Social Investment Fund (@+) ...
Project (ZAMSIF)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Social Funds & Social Assistance
Project ID                       ZMPE63584
Borrower(s)                      Government Of Zambia
Implementing Agency
Address Zamsif Mangement At Ministry of
Finance & Economic Dev
Social Recovery Project
Address: P.O. Box 50268, Lusaka, Zambia
Contact Person: Mr. Cosmas Mambo
Tel: 260 1 252519
Fax: 260 1 252522
Email: cosmas@srp.org.zm
Environment Category             F
Date PID Prepared                March 17, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         March 13-17, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 22, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
The majority of Zambians are poor with a national poverty prevalence in
1996 equal to 69%.    Poverty increased during the 1980s and '90s, although
a small improvement is observed since the reform program began. A very
large share of the population continues not to have access to basic social
services or the capacity to provide for their basic needs. Rural poverty
is more prevalent (82%) and deeper and is closely associated with
geographic isolation. New factors and dimensions of poverty are emerging.
HIV/AIDS has reached epidemic proportions, with an inicidence of over 19
percent. It is the major factor behind increasing rates of infance and
maternal mortality, as well as declining life expectancy. By the year
1998, some 17 percent of children were orphaned. AIDS has become more
than just a health issue. It is now a multisectoral development issue in
need of urgent attention. AIDS is also among the reasons for the increase
in the number of female-headed households. These are more likely to be
among the poor, since customary law still inhibits women's equitable
access to economic resources, particuarly land and inheritance. Finally,
another emerging social problem is the recent increase in refugees fleeing
war in Angola and the Congo, currently estimated to be over 150,000.The
Government has committed itself to a number of policy measures to improve
the welfare of the population, outlined in a draft National Poverty
Reduction Strategic Framework and Action Plan for 1999-2004. The document
is based on four main observations: (i) that the levels of poverty in the
country are extremely high; (ii) that these are more prevalent, deep and
severe in rural areas; (iii) that poverty afflicts the informal sector
more than the formal sector; and (iv) that poverty hits more those with
lower education levels. The strategy for reducing poverty outlined in the
Plan involves: (i) achieving broad-based economic growth through



agriculture and rural development; (ii) providing the public with adequate
and necessary infrastructure through labor intensive techniques; (iii)
increasing productivity of micro-enterprises especially in the informal
and rural sectors; (iv) developing human resources; and (v) constantly
coordinating, monitoring and evaluating poverty reduction programs and
activities. The Government has recognized that poverty is detrimental to
good governance and is committed to work towards increasing the capacity
of the poor to participate fully in the fulfillment of their own needs.
The Government is also aware that while economic growth is essential for
poverty alleviation, it is not sufficient, and that there is need for
allocating adequate resources to carefully targeted social interventions
and capacity building among the various players.
2. Objectives
The project development objectives are to: (i) achieve sustainable
improved availability and use of quality basic social services by
beneficiary communities and specific vulnerable groups; (ii) contribute to
the building of capacity for improved local governance in the districts
with the worst social and poverty indicators; and (iii) strengthen the
capacity to provide timely information on poverty and social conditions
and facilitate its use in policy making. The project will build upon the
positive experiences gained through the implementation of the Social
Recovery Project I and II which have been providing support to poor rural
communities for the last seven years, as well as strengthening capacity
for poverty monitoring (Living Conditions Monitoring Survey) and poverty
analysis (Study Fund) through the Poverty Monitoring and Analysis
component.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank will bring its experience of social funds in more than 30
countries, as well as expertise in supporting decentralization processes,
strengthening poverty monitoring and analysis systems, and using
community-based development as a strategy to contribute to poverty
alleviation and creation of a system of efficient local governments.
Also, poverty alleviation is a sector where the Bank has traditionally
played a leadership role in Zambia through the support of specific
projects and programs and analytical activities. The CAS and the
development of the Comprehensive Development Framework will provide a
unique opportunity for linking the objectives and activities of the
project to the broader macro framework. Finally, while there are several
donors contributing to poverty alleviation through community development
in the country, the amount of resources that they can make available is
not sufficient to respond to the increasing needs of the Zambian
population, and the Bank's contribution seems to be necessary to have a
significant impact.
4. Description
ZAMSIF will have three components. The Community Investment Fund
component, will finance community-based small projects following the
selection criteria detailed in the project Operational Manual. These will
include basic social and economic infrastructure (education, health, rural
water supply and sanitation, rehabilitation of community roads); natural
resources management projects; capacity building, basic skills training,
and other activities aiming at stimulating local productivity; and special
programs targeting poor and vulnerable groups (such as orphans, those
- 2-



affected by HIV/AIDS, etc.). Communities are expected to contribute about
15% of the total cost of each project in cash, kind labor and/or a
combination of them. There will be five levels of district participation
in the project cycle, indicating various levels of responsibility and
involvement. At the final stage, districts are expected to be able to
perform all steps of the project cycle. The District Investment Fund
component will finance larger infrastructure benefiting more than one
community, such as district health facilities, market places, etc.
District authorities are expected to gradually take the lead in the
implementation of these projects, initially by managing resources
allocated on a project by project basis, and eventually by managing a
district allocation grant. Both components will also include training and
other related activities aiming at strengthening the planning, management
and implementation capacity of local authorities and community members.
Special attention will be given to financial management and
accountability. Districts may also require leadership skills in the
management of multisectoral interventions related to AIDS. The Poverty
Monitoring and Analysis component will continue the activities carried out
under SRP I and II related to data collection, analysis and assessing the
impact of poverty reduction programs and government policies on poverty.
The component will also finance a range of activities which are designed
to strengthen the institutional, technical and financial framework for
sustainable monitoring and policy use of poverty information. This will
include support to strengthen a coordinating Strategic and Operational
Planning Unit (SOPU) in MOFED and the development of pilot District Data
Banks. Finally, some resources will be allocated to finance the
Implementation Support   for ZAMSIF.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               9.5
IDA                      64.7
Total Project Cost       74.2
6. Implementation
Implementation Period.   10 Years (Adjustable Program Lending -
APL)Institutional Arrangements. ZAMSIF will be managed by a
semi-autonomous Management Unit established within the Ministry of Finance
and Economic Development (MOFED). The MU will assume the existing legal
characteristics of the SRP MU and will be headed by a program director
supported by the necessary sections and staff, including Monitoring and
Evaluation; Technical Services; Field Operations; Finance and
Administration; and Information and Communication Technology, each of
them headed by a section head. The Management Unit will be supported by
the existing network of SRP Regional Offices, headed by Regional Officers,
who will continue to operate at the Provincial level. Adjustments in the
staff mix and an increase in the number of staff will be agreed during
implementation, consistent with the volume and nature of the activities to
be carried out. With further increased capacity built at the district
level, it is expected that direct responsibility for planning, approval
and supervision activities will be gradually taken over by district
authorities. Changes in the present design will be reflected in the
Operational Manual.Funds will continue to flow between the ZAMSIF MU and
communities for projects financed through the CIF. Once a district reaches
level 4 for CIF, an annual allocation will be made directly from ZAMSIF to
- 3 -



the district authorities, who will then be responsible for financing CIF
activities in their district. Regarding the DIF, funds will be allocated
directly from ZAMSIF to individual district authorities initially on a
project by project basis, and once the district reaches level 3 on an
annual basis. A series of committees will be established to overview,
guide and monitor the project activities, and to enhance the flow of
information through all levels of government. A National Level Steering
Committee will be chaired by the Permanent Secretary for Budget and
Economic Affairs, as the controlling officer for ZAMSIF. It will include
as members the Permanent Secretaries, Directors and/or Chief Planners from
the Ministries of Health, Education, Community Development and Social
Welfare, Local Government and Housing, Works and Supply, Environment and
Natural Resources, and Communication and Transport, together with the
Directors of the Departments of Water Affairs and of Roads,
representatives from various non-governmental institutions and the
Director of SOPU. ZAMSIF MU will be the secretariat to this committee.
Representatives from co-financing donors will also be invited to attend
the SC meetings. The role of the SC will be: (i) to guide, develop and
harmonize the project strategy; (ii) to review the efficiency and cost
effectiveness of the management strategy put in place by MU; (iii) to
advise on government policy and sector policy issues; and (iv) to endorse
projects on a no objection basis. The SC will meet semi-annually.The
Poverty Monitoring and Analysis (PMA) component will be managed by a
component manager located within the ZAMSIF MU and who reports to the
ZAMSIF Program Director. Once SOPU in MOFED is established, the component
manager will work in close collaboration with the management of this unit
gradually transferring responsibilities to it. It is expected that by the
end of Phase I of the APL, the Poverty Monitoring and Analysis (PMA)
Component Manager and the Study Fund Administrator will have migrated to
SOPU. A Memorandum of Understanding which lays out the deliverables for
Phase 1 of the APL, has been signed between ZAMSIF and the Central
Statistics Office (CSO), who will remain responsible for conducting the
large household survey program.
7. Sustainability
Several measures will be built in the project design to ensure the
sustainability of sub-projects financed through the CDF and DIF. Among
them: (i) ZAMSIF and District staff will verify a high degree of ownership
by beneficiaries during the appraisal phase, also evidenced by the
contribution to the sub-project costs; (ii) high level of community
participation in all phases of the project cycle, including commitment to
operation and maintenance of the facility built; (iii) a menu of technical
design prototypes appropriate to local conditions will be made available
to local communities, particularly for rural water supply and road
rehabilitation sub-projects; (iv) approval of sub-project proposals will
require the submission of an operational and maintenance plan; (v) ZAMSIF
and District staff will ensure that subprojects financed are part of the
district development plan; (vi) ZAMSIF will ensure that representatives of
relevant line ministries operating at District level are involved in all
phases of the project cycle; (vii) ZAMSIF and District staff will ensure
at desk appraisal that commitments are made by sector ministries for
recurrent expenditures and that appropriate contributions are available by
communities; and (viii) District staff will train the beneficiary
communities on how to maintain and operate the facilities built.The
addition of the DIF will help provide incentives for (v) and (vi) above
- 4 -



and will gradually ensure that districts can take over the management of
community-based projects, thus ensuring the sustainability of the approach
itself. The gradual move to annual allocations under the DIF will ensure
a gradual learning-by-doing, which will ensure that sufficient capacity is
available for planning and implementation of operations and
maintenance.The sustainability of the Poverty Monitoring and Analysis
component will be helped by: (i) close coordination of the activities
carried out through these two components with mainstream activities of
government institutions; (ii) establishment of a coordinating mechanism
which approves the work program for poverty monitoring and analysis and
monitors the performance of the component; (iii) lowering the unit costs
of the household survey program; (iv) strategic rationalization of the
household survey program; (v) demonstration of Government commitment
through gradual increases in the Government's share of survey costs; and
(vi) timely flow of information to policy-makers through dissemination
activities.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project design reflects lessons learned from international experience
with SIFs, as well as from IDA's experience with SRP I and II (Mid-Term
Review for SRP II, Implementation Completion Report for SRP I). The
following are among the most relevant lessons learned:Clear Objectives and
Consistency with National Development Strategies.    ZAMSIF, like all SIFs,
needs to maintain clear and limited objectives. Efficiency of operational
policies and procedures, as well as overall program effectiveness, depend
upon clear understanding of ZAMSIF's role in an overall development
strategy framework. When objectives are unclear, efficiency and
effectiveness can become compromised. It is particularly important for
governments to clarify SIFs' roles in the context of national policies for
social development, poverty alleviation and decentralization.
Furthermore, it is important to remember that SIFs are designed to finance
and oversee implementation of subprojects and not to make policies; and
that while SIF managers and staff may bring important perspectives to
inform policy discussions on the above-mentioned topics, participation and
coordination of all actors relevant to such discussions (including from
the public, private, and NGO sectors) should be assured. Key Institutional
Characteristics. The project would place due emphasis on the
institutional characteristics that are considered most critical for
success of SIFs: (i) operational efficiency; (ii) transparency and
accountability, which are bolstered by clear resource allocation criteria
and operational guidelines, reliable independent audits and evaluations,
an effective management information system, and vigilant supervision by
external financing agencies; (iii) clear and simple procurement and
disbursement procedures; (iv) competitive salaries and freedom from
standard government personnel restrictions, in order to permit
recruitment/retainment of a highly qualified staff; (v) proper targeting
mechanisms; (vi) integration of the environmental viewpoint into
operations; and (vii) improved attention to monitoring and evaluation
activities, including beneficiary assessments.Sustainability. Subproject
sustainability requires a participatory process that seeks open
consultation with communities on their needs and priorities and an
involvement of communities throughout the project cycle to secure their
commitment to subproject operation and maintenance. However, community
support alone cannot assure subproject sustainability. To be fully
successful, subproject sustainability requires the coordinated support of
- 5 -



both the central and local governments, with clearly defined roles and
responsibilities for each.Role of Local Government. Local (district and
provincial) governments need to play an important role in ensuring
participatory priority-setting, and in contributing financial resources
for subprojects. This can in turn lead to more efficient and equitable
distribution of resources within districts, and can improve prospects for
subproject sustainability. GRZ stressed that strengthening local
governments' capacities to carry out these functions should be seen as a
key development objective for ZAMSIF.Temporary Nature of SIFs. The notion
that SIFs are temporary needs to be re-examined. SRP creation seven years
ago as a temporary agency was based on assumptions that local governments
would be rapidly strengthened to prepare and implement programs and
projects targeted to the poor, so that there would be no long term need
for a social fund. However, chronic poverty continues to be pervasive, a
clear decentralization policy defining roles and responsibilities of
different players is not in place yet, and the capacity to plan and manage
development activities at the local level seems to be still very weak.
There is clearly a tension between the long-term objective of building
capacity in the permanent structures of local government, and the
immediate need for delivering services to the poor in the most efficient
and cost-effective way. The GRZ decision of using ZAMSIF with the
objective of building capacity in the local government structure, seems to
go in the right direction of reconciling these two different sets of
objectives.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The activities financed by the project are not
supposed to have any negative impact on the environment. Guidelines to
support the appraisal of proposals (environmental Impact Assessment) will
be detailed in the operational Manual, including a checklist to be used by
the project officer for the most frequently financed types of projects.
The Operational Manual also will include features and measures that should
be built into individual sub-projects to make their design more
environmentally friendly, or to mitigate possible risks. Environmental
impact assessment will be mandatory for those facilities which resent more
serious risks, such as micro-dams, rehabilitation of roads in ecologically
sensitive areas, and larger natural resources management subprojects.
Training on environmental related issues will be offered to beneficiary
community as part of the training related to the project cycle.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Laura Frigenti
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:  (202) 458-7229
Fax:  (202) 473-8107
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
-6-



1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 24, 2000.
- 7 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-8-



