                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0000565




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IDA-33550 IDA-3355A)




                                    ON A

                                   CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 48.3 MILLION
                        (US$64.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA

                       IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE

                                    OF A


                     SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND (ZAMSIF)


                                 March 26, 2008




Human Development 1
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Regional Office

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2005

                     Currency Unit = Zambian Kwacha
                   US$ 1.00 = [Zambia Kwacha 3,379.98]
                            XDR 1.00 = US$ 1.00

                               FISCAL YEAR
                               July 1 to June 30


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL      : Adaptable Program Lending
BESSIP   : Basic Education Sub-Sector Investment Program
CAS      : Country Assistance Strategy
CBO      : Community Based Organization
CDD      : Community Driven Development
CIF      : Community Investment Fund
CRAIDS   : Community Response to HIVAIDS
CSO      : Central Statistical Office
DCA      : Development Credit Agreement
DIF      : District Investment Fund
DO       : Development Objective
DSA      : District Situational Analysis
GRZ      : Government of the Republic of Zambia
EDRP     : Emergency Recovery Project
ESP      : Pilot Environment Fund
HIV/AIDS : Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immunodeficiency
          Syndrome
IAPSO    : International Agency for Procurement Services Organization
IEC      : Information, Education and Communication
IMS      : Indicator Monitoring Survey
IPF      : Indicative Planning Figures
KPI      : Key Performance Indicators
LCMS     : Living Conditions Monitoring Survey
MASAF    : Malawi Social Action Fund
MMS      : Monitoring Management System
MOFED    : Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MOU      : Memorandum of Understanding
MTR      : Mid-Term Review
MU       : Management Unit
NDP      : National Decentralization Policy
O&M      : Operation and Maintenance
OVC      : Orphans and Vulnerable Children

PAD      : Project Development Document
PDO      : Project Development Objective
PMA      : Poverty Monitoring and Analysis
PRA      : Participatory Rural Appraisal
PRSP     : Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QAG      : Quality Assessment Group
ROADSIP  : Road Sector Investment Project
SRP I    : Social Recovery Project
SRP II   : Second Social Recovery Project
SOPU     : Strategic and Operational Planning Unit
ZAMSIF   : Zambia Social Investment Fund



                       Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
                      Country Director: Michael Baxter
                      Sector Manager: Christopher J. Thomas
                  Project Team Leader: Wim Alberts
                     ICR Team Leader: Ida Manjolo

                                               ZAMBIA
                            SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND




                                              CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 8
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 15
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 22
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 24
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 25
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 26
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 32
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 33
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 35
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 36
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 37
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 49
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 50
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Social Investment Fund
Country:                Zambia                  Project Name:
                                                                       (ZAMSIF)
Project ID:             P063584                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-33550,IDA-3355A
ICR Date:               03/31/2008              ICR Type:              Intensive Learning ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                       ZAMBIA
Original Total
                        XDR 48.3M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 48.3M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
ZAMSIF
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/05/1999    Effectiveness:          07/11/2000        07/11/2000
Appraisal:             03/13/2000    Restructuring(s):                         03/26/2004
Approval:              05/25/2000    Mid-term Review:                          08/25/2003
                                     Closing:                12/31/2005        12/31/2005


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                   Quality at Entry     None


                                               i

at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                          Yes                                         Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General education sector                                         19                 21
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector            18                 19
Health                                                           18                 20
Roads and highways                                               18                 16
Sub-national government administration                           27                 24


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
HIV/AIDS                                                       Primary            Primary
Improving labor markets                                        Primary            Primary
Participation and civic engagement                             Primary            Primary
Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring                      Primary            Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                              Primary            Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili         Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Michael Baxter                     Michael N. Sarris
Sector Manager:           Christopher J. Thomas              Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
Project Team Leader:      Ida Manjolo                        Laura Frigenti
ICR Team Leader:          Ida Manjolo
ICR Primary Author:       Ida Manjolo



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Zambia Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF) is part of a two phase Program (over 10
years) intended to support two of the objectives outlined in the Government of Zambia's
(GRZ) National Poverty Reduction Strategic Framework & Action Plan (1999-2004).
The Development Objective (DO) for Phase 1 of the ZAMSIF Project is to achieve




                                                ii

improved, expanded and sustainable use of services, provided in a governance system
whereby local governments and communities are mutually accountable.

  The Program's main strategic objectives are: (a) to decentralize and empower local
authorities to improve governance and efficiency in service delivery; and (b) to increase
access to basic social services through direct poverty interventions. The Program will
help to achieve these objectives also (c) by strengthening GRZ's capacity for poverty
monitoring (through the Living Conditions Monitoring Unit, LCMU) and analysis
(through the use of the Study Fund).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Zambia Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF) is part of a two phase Program (over 10
years) intended to support two of the objectives outlined in the Government of Zambia's
(GRZ) National Poverty Reduction Strategic Framework & Action Plan (1999-2004).
The Development Objective (DO) for Phase 1 of the ZAMSIF Project is to achieve
improved, expanded and sustainable use of services, provided in a governance system
whereby local governments and communities would become mutually accountable.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target        Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from          Revised          Achieved at
                                                approval             Target        Completion or
                                              documents)             Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Achieve sustainable improved availability and use of quality basic social
                services by beneficiaries (CIF)
Value
quantitative or                            10%                                  10%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                              06/20/2000                           12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %        76% of beneficiaries are accessing facilities within an average of five kilometers

achievement)    which also translates into reduction in time it takes to access facilities.

Indicator 2 :    Contribute to the building of capacity for improved local governance (DIF)
                                                                 i).Full
                                                                 devolution in 2
                                                                 districts by
                                                                 2005

Value                                       Full devolution of ii)5 Districts

quantitative or                            CIF & DIF             using          i). 4 districts

Qualitative)                               activities to districtinformation    ii). 8 districts
                                           authorities           from
                                                                 Monitoring
                                                                 Mgmt System
                                                                 (MMS) in
                                                                 planning
Date achieved                              06/20/2000            05/26/2004     12/30/2005
Comments        Full devolution was expected for all districts by end of Phase II of APL (2010).



                                                iii

(incl. %       Beneficiaries have expresed satisfaction with the district staff on service delivery
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value            Values (from                         Achieved at
                                                 approval           Revised      Completion or
                                               documents)        Target Values    Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Strengthen capacity to provide timely information on poverty and social
               conditions and facilitate its use in policy
                                           (i) Annual public
                                           consultation or
                                           review of poverty
                                           & social                           (i) 3 Consultations

Value                                      conditions                         (ii) No SOPU

(quantitative                              (ii) Functioning                   established

or Qualitative)                            SOPU                               (iii) 8 districts
                                           (iii) 5 districts                  using MMS
                                           using information
                                           from Monitoring
                                           Management
                                           Systems (MMS
Date achieved                              06/20/2000                         12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %       There were 8 districts using the MMS which was three districts over the set

achievement)   target. Three Consultations were held during the course of the project.

Indicator 2 :
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                             IP              Disbursements
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     06/20/2000           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     08/03/2000           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     11/22/2000           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      2.37
  4     06/01/2001           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      6.36
  5     06/14/2001           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      6.36
  6     10/03/2001           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      8.20
  7     04/23/2002           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     11.00


                                                 iv

  8   11/27/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 15.84
  9   05/30/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 19.78
  10  12/17/2003       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                26.35
  11  05/20/2004       Unsatisfactory          Satisfactory                 41.31
  12  06/28/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 42.54
  13  12/29/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 57.45
  14  05/16/2005        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 64.48
  15  12/27/2005   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                 68.73



H. Restructuring (if any)

                          ISR Ratings at    Amount

Restructuring    Board     Restructuring Disbursed at    Reason for Restructuring &
    Date(s)    Approved                   Restructuring
              PDO Change                                    Key Changes Made
                             DO      IP     in USD
                                            millions
  03/26/2004        N         U      U         34.86




I. Disbursement Profile




                                          v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
The Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ) in its National Poverty Reduction
Strategic Framework and Action Plan for 1999-2004 committed itself to policy measures
that would lead to improvement in the welfare of its population. With a large share of the
population having no access to basic social services, and having weak capacity to meet
their basic needs; and with rural poverty being more prevalent (82%) due to geographical
isolation, GRZ strategy for reducing poverty focused on achieving broad based economic
growth through agriculture and rural development; providing the public with adequate
and necessary infrastructure through labor intensive techniques; developing human
resources, promoting good governance and increasing the capacity of the poor to
participate fully in their own development.

The GRZ in 1999 also outlined the future of the Social Recovery Program (SRP)
activities, and requested for the Bank's support. The SRP funded by the Bank, was one of
the most successful poverty reduction instruments the GRZ had put in place. The GRZ
indicated that even though during the preparation of the SRP II it had not envisioned an
additional phase of the project, the following compelling forces made it to request for
support for continuation of the SRP II activities:

     · Real decrease in social indicators;
     · Acute economic crisis;
     · Increase in poverty both in rural and urban areas; and
     · Increase of the HIV/AIDS pandemic and other epidemic diseases.

The Zambia Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF) was a follow-on project after the Second
Social Recovery Project (SRP II) which ended in 2000. Both the SRP I and SRP II had
provided support to poor rural communities for nine years, and strengthened capacity for
poverty monitoring and analysis. ZAMSIF was the first part of a two phase APL (over 10
years). The Program was intended to support the Government of Zambia's (GRZ)
National Poverty Reduction Strategic Framework & Action Plan (1999-2004) in two of
its objectives: (i) decentralization and empowering local authorities to improve
governance and efficiency in service delivery; and ii) increasing access to basic social
services through direct poverty interventions.

1.2 Original Project Development Objective (PDO) and Key Indicators
The project's development objective was the same as the program development objective.
The Development Objective (DO) was to achieve improved, expanded and sustainable
use of services, provided in a governance system whereby local governments and
communities are mutually accountable. The overall program outcome indicators and the
project outcome indicators are as indicated in Tables I and II below:




                                             1

(i)      Overall Program Outcomes:

Table I
Indicator                   End of Program               Revised End of Program      Achievement by
                            Indicator Targets (by        Indicator Targets           end of Project
                            eop)
Full devolution of CIF &    400 CIF and 80 DIF           500 CIF and 30 DIF          549 CIF and 67 DIF
DIF activities to district  subprojects meeting the      projects meeting the
authorities                 program objectives           program objectives
                            complete and operational     completed and operational

Increase in number of       10% increase in                                          10%
Community-driven            community driven
activities                  activities, comparison
& Community-based           between beneficiary and
Organizations (CBOs);       non beneficiary
                            communities



(ii)     Specific Project Outcomes

 Table II
Outcome Indicator         Indicator Targets                  Revised            Achievement by end of
                                                             Indicator          Project
                                                             Targets
Achieve sustainable       10 % change in distance in time                       10%
improved availability     to facilities
and use of quality
basic social services by
beneficiaries
(Availability and Use)
(CIF
                          10% in distance to facility for                       The ZAMSIF Evaluation
                          roads, water, and new projects                        (2008) recorded 76% of
                          before and after the project                          beneficiaries accessing
                                                                                facilities within an
                                                                                average of five
                                                                                kilometers
                          10% increase of the year           25% increase in    The ZAMSIF
                          community is accessible to roads   the year that      Evaluation (2008) states
                          projects, before and after.        community is       that there was improved
                                                             accessible         access because of the
                                                                                bridge and road projects
                          1% p.a.{5% end of project (eop)                       Proxy Indicators :Data
                          increase in school attendance in                      from Ministry of
                          beneficiary primary schools by                        Education shows that
                          sex/grade more than national                          there was decrease in
                          average (LCMS/IMS)                                    dropout rate in ZAMSIF
                                                                                impact areas from 1.8 in
                                                                                2002 to 1.5 in 2005,
                                                                                signifying attendance
                                                                                (ZAMSIF Evaluation
                                                                                2008)


                                                      2

                          1% p.a. (5% eop) increase in         28%
                          maternal and child health
                          (MCH) attendance in health
                          projects more than the national
                          average
                          5% increase in births attended       138% - these were
                          by trained personnel                 mostly Traditional Birth
                                                               Attendants trained during
                                                               the life of the project
                          10% in increase in orphans and       As a proxy indicator,
                          vulnerable children (OVCs)           based on the number of
                          attending school                     OVC reached according
                                                               to the output targets, and
                                                               the number of schools
                                                               built an inference is
                                                               drawn that this indicator
                                                               was achieved, although it
                                                               is not known how many
                                                               of the OVC are of school
                                                               going age

                          25% increase in numbers using        2%
                          safe water, in rural areas
                          5% increase in numbers using         4%
                          safe water, in urban areas
Contribute to the         Number of districts at each level    Year 5:
building of capacity      of performance of DIF:               Level 1: 18; Level 2: 26
for improved local        Year 5 - 12 level 1; 20 level 2;     Level 3: 21; Level 4: 3
governance (DIF)          20 level 3; 15 level 4; 5 level 5    Level 5: 4
                          Improvement between                  High satisfaction was
                          beneficiary/non beneficiary at       registered in ZAMSIF
                          MTR and at eop in Satisfaction       impact areas where
                          with (i) Council administration;     subprojects were
                          (ii) local line agency               completed (ZAMSIF
                          representations; (iii)               Evaluation 2008)
                          NGOs/CBOs; (iv) traditional
                          authorities; (v) number of
                          project committees not
                          completing community
                          subprojects
Strengthen Capacity       Annual public consultation or        3 were conducted during
to provide timely         review of poverty and social         the project period
information on poverty    conditions
and social conditions
and facilitate its use in
policy making
                          Functioning SOPU in MOFED            Not Achieved
                          managing Study Fund by end of
                          project
                          5 districts using information        8 districts
                          from Monitoring management
                          Systems (MMS) in planning




                                                      3

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
The revised DO for the Project was to achieve improved, expanded and sustainable use of
services, provided in a governance system whereby local governments and communities
would become mutually accountable. During the Mid-Term Review (MTR) preparation
process in 2003, it had become apparent that the project needed restructuring as it had
been lagging behind in its implementation performance. The modification of the DO was
part of the corrective restructuring in 2004.

The restructuring entailed: (i) rewording of the PDO, which was necessary in order to
rationalize the scope of the stated objective with the investment activities under the
project and to adjust it to the realities on the ground; (ii) rationalizing the scope of the
objective with the investment activities under the project, which included a reduction in
some of the outcome and output indicator targets, in order to lower expectations; and (iii)
adjusting the implementation modalities of the project.

Following the restructuring, the scope of the project activities became more limited and
the expectations regarding the outputs were scaled down. The modified activities and the
expected outputs could no longer have the impact that was anticipated at design stage.
The modification was reflected in the adjustments in: (i) the changes in targets for the
overall program outcome by increasing the number of completed and functional projects
under the CIF, and reducing the number under the DIF (Table I); (ii) the key performance
output indicators (Refer to Annex 2); (iii) and the triggers for moving from APL I to APL
II. The output triggers for both the CIF and the DIF were adjusted downwards following
the amendments in the output indicators (refer to Table III below). These modifications
did not change the purpose of the project but were intended to ensure that the ZAMSIF
activities and outputs could realistically achieve the desired, but more limited impact.
However, the downward adjustment of the impact was not reflected in the outcome
indicators, instead, the outcome indicator target measuring the `percentage increase a
community becomes accessible through road project before and after' was increased from
10% to 25% (refer to Table II above).

Table III: Triggers for moving from APL phase I to phase II

Program               Original Triggers to Move       Revised Triggers to   Achievement at end
Development          from Phase 1 to Phase 2          Move from Phase 1 to  of Phase I
Objective                                             Phase 2
Improved, expanded   1.1. 400 CIF and 80 DIF          500 CIF and 30 DIF    549 CIF and 62 DIF
and sustainable use  subproject meeting the
of services provided program objectives completed
in a governance      and operational.
system where local                                    -
government and       2. Improved level of                                   Achieved: Improved
communities are      satisfaction of beneficiary                            level of satisfaction in
mutually             communities with (i) council                           beneficiary
accountable          administration; (ii) local line                        communities following
                     agency representatives; (iii)                          completion and
                     NGOs and CBOs                                          operational subprojects
                                                                            has been recorded by



                                                    4

                                                                             the ZAMSIF
                                                                             Evaluation (2008)

                    Output Triggers
                    For DIF at year 5:
                    12 districts at level 1;       12districts at level 1;   18 districts at level 1;
                    20 at level 2; 20 at level 3;  40 Level 2; 16 level 3;   26 level 2; 21 level 3;
                    15 at level 4; 5 at level 5    2 level 4; 2 level 5      3 level 4; 4 level 5

                    For CIF at year 5:
                    12 districts at level 1;        12districts at level 1:   18 districts at level 1;
                    20 at level 2; 20 at level 3;  40 Level 2; 16 level 3;   26 level 2; 21 level 3;
                    15 at level 4; 5 at level 5    2 level 4; 2 level 5      3 level 4; 4 level 5

                    3. Strategic and Planning Unit -                         Not achieved
                    (SOPU) in the Ministry of
                    Finance and Economic
                    Development (MOFED)
                    established and functioning


1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
The main beneficiaries of the project were poor communities in rural and mostly located
in remote areas of the country. The project was to give special attention to vulnerable and
disadvantaged groups such as children, orphans, the HIV/AIDS affected and the elderly.
The districts and local authorities were the other beneficiary category as they were to
benefit through capacity building in development planning, management and
implementation skills.

1.5 Original Components
According to the PAD, ZAMSIF consisted of three components: the Community
Investment Fund; the District Investment Fund (DIF); and the Poverty Monitoring and
Analysis. Some resources were allocated under ZAMSIF Institutional Support for
implementation support; this was treated as the fourth component in both the resource
allocation framework and the Key Performance Indicators table.

Community Investment Fund (CIF) (US$45.8 million: IDA US$38.6 million; GRZ
1.27; Communities US$5.995): The component would finance community based small
subprojects selected through participatory processes. The subproject menu included
social and economic infrastructure; natural resources management subprojects; capacity
building and basic skills training for stimulating local productivity. The component's
special program would target poor and vulnerable groups such as orphans the HIV/AIDS
affected, among others. Communities were expected to contribute 15% of the total
subproject cost in cash or in kind. It was expected that through this component,
communities would have increased access to basic services and information.

District Investment Fund (DIF) (US$6.148 million : IDA US$5.94 million GRZ
US$.203 million): The component sought to finance larger district level infrastructure
covering more than one community, and these included district health facilities and
markets places. District authorities were expected to lead the implementation of these



                                                 5

projects by managing resources allocated on a project by project basis and eventually
manage the district's allocation grant. The component was also to support training and
activities aimed at strengthening the planning, management, and implementation skills of
local authorities and community members. Through this component it was expected that
the districts' capacities would be enhanced in strategic development planning and
management; and that accountability and trust would be engendered between the
communities and service providers.

Poverty Monitoring and Analysis (PMA) (US$3.616 million; IDA US$3.543 million;
GRZ US$0.073 million): The component was to support activities carried out under SRP
I and SRP II related to data collection, analysis, and assessing the impact of poverty
reduction programs and government policy on poverty. The component was also to
support activities aimed at strengthening the institutional, technical and financial
framework for sustainable monitoring and policy use of information on poverty. Included
in this was support to strengthen a coordinating Strategic and Operational Planning Unit
(SOPU) in Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MOFED); and the
development of pilot District Data Banks.

ZAMSIF Institutional Support (US$21.83 million: IDA US$19.83 million GRZ
US$1.968 million): The component was meant for supporting administration and
operating costs, beneficiary assessment, environmental impact assessment, poverty maps
and other targeting, training and capacity building for ZAMSIF staff.

As a follow-on project, ZAMSIF continued to support the creation of community level
social infrastructure to improve access to services by the poor and by stimulating the
capacities at both the district and community levels. The design of the components took
into consideration the ability of the Management Unit, including its administrative and
financial capacities. The project's components were reasonably linked to achieve the
development objective, this notwithstanding, the project implementation arrangements
were novel, and this contributed to slow startup of the project both at the district and at
the level of the implementing agency, leading to restructuring of the project.

1.6 Revised Components
At design stage it was anticipated that there would be progressive transfer of
responsibilities from ZAMSIF to district administrations for planning, priority setting,
and facilitation of the community sub-project cycle, implementation support and
monitoring processes. The lack of implementation of the National Decentralization
Policy (NDP) had a strong negative impact on ZAMSIF's ability to progress towards
reaching its Development Objective. The objective of the decentralization policy was to
devolve fiscal, political and administrative responsibilities to district administrations.
Although the implementation of the National Decentralization Policy (NDP) was not
considered as an indispensable condition to achieving the project development objectives,
it was considered a critical assumption for the project activities and outputs to have the
desired impact. The Government of Zambia's commitment to local participation and
local management of resources, as expressed in the policy, did not effectively materialize.
Through out the life of the project, district administrations operated in an environment



                                               6

which was not supported by the effective decentralization of fiscal, financial,
administrative and political responsibilities.

The initial design of ZAMSIF was to progressively transfer responsibilities to the local
authorities, however two years into implementation this proved to be overly ambitious.
Districts continued to have dual set up of distinct line ministry departments and the local
authorities because GRZ had not implemented the NDP. The restructuring of the project
led to (i) re-focusing of the implementation of the CIF; (ii) realigning the DIF with the
realities on the ground; (iii) relocating and integration of the PMA effectively in the
MOFNP; and (iv) re-focusing the institutional strengthening It also involved increased
support of ZAMSIF staff for the implementation of the community sub-projects. The
overall project implementation arrangements were adjusted in order to get ZAMSIF staff
more involved in implementation in the absence of the NDP.

1.7 Other significant changes

The design of ZAMSIF did away with the zonal offices of the implementing agency,
expecting that the districts would take the lead; this did not materialize as the NDP was
not implemented (as discussed in section 1.6). The districts continued to have dual
arrangements of having the council and the sector ministry staff. As a result of the change
in the delivery mechanism from that of SRP II, there were few subprojects under
implementation and the project had a disbursement lag of 37%, two years after
Effectiveness. Implementation arrangements were enhanced by bringing back the
involvement of the ZAMSIF staff to backstop the regions, handholding the districts and
the communities; this meant that ZAMSIF design reverted to that of the SRPII. Following
increased involvement in implementation disbursement rates improved such that by
December 31, 2005, the Credit was fully disbursed; and subproject completion targets
under both the CIF and the DIF were surpassed.

Institutionally, approval of subprojects was the responsibility of the Steering Committee
comprising senior government officials. However, recognizing the delays brought about
by the Steering Committee, a subcommittee of the Steering Committee was put in place
to facilitate the subproject approval processes, which, coupled with the effective support
ZAMSIF provided to the districts, the project's output targets were surpassed (Annex 2
KPI).

ZAMSIF had robust systems in place and as such it was able to respond effectively to the
difficult situation in the project environment by implementing a Public Works Program in
38 drought-stricken districts as part of the GRZ drought recovery efforts. Despite staff
involvement in the drought recovery program, implementation of the ZAMSIF was not
negatively affected as the project completed on time.

The total Credit for ZAMSIF was estimated at US$74.2 million, with IDA providing
US$64.7, GRZ US$5.0 million and communities contributing US$4.5 million. The actual
estimates indicate that IDA provided US$68.73 million representing 6.2% over the
estimate; this was due to the exchange rate gains between the SDR and the US Dollar.
The GRZ provided US$1.714 million indicating under-provision of 65.7% according to


                                               7

the PAD. However, during implementation it had been agreed that the GRZ was to
provide US$2.673 million following a real forecast done by the Management Unit and
agreed to by the Bank. Government thus made available US$2.504 million, having a
shortfall of 6%. During implementation, ZAMSIF experienced delays in receiving
counter-part funding from GRZ; however, towards the end of the project the arrears were
cleared. The communities contributed US$5.795 million, which was 28.8% over the PAD
estimate, signifying ownership and participation. In responding to implementation
demands, amendments were made to resource allocations for the components as indicated
in table IV below. These changes were part of the changes to DCA as discussed in
Section 2.2.

A Project Preparation Facility TF025764 in the amount of US$400,000 was approved in
April 1999, of which US$389,423 was utilized for all the planned activities. An amount
of US$10,577 was cancelled.

Table IV: Credit Resource Allocation by Component (Expressed in Millions SDR)
       Component                                     Original       Revised Amount
                                                     Amount

       Community Investment Fund ­ CIF                 25.2                27.7
       District Investment Fund ­ DIF                   6.0                 3.0
       Poverty Monitoring & Analysis ­ PMA              2.2                 2.7
       Institutional Strengthening                     14.9                14.9
       Total                                           48.3                48.3



ZAMSIF APL II will not be implemented although the triggers were met except for the
one on establishing SOPU (Refer to Table III above). Non implementation of APL Phase
II resulted in an abrupt change of the operating environment at the district level in terms
of resource availability for the districts to continue with the comprehensive capacity
development program; sustainability of existing basic social and economic infrastructure;
and new capital investments.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The project preparation was sound and it called for adoption of the Operational Manual
and conducting an environmental impact assessment as conditions of Effectiveness which
were timely met by the Borrower. The project had in place a financial management plan,
and revised accounting and financial systems. An overall procurement risk assessment
was carried out and the observations were taken into consideration in the design.

The PDO was consistent with the CAS (Document Number 19582-ZA of October 7,
1999) which supported the GRZ's PRSP strategic objectives which were: (i)
decentralization and empowering local authorities to improve governance and efficiency
in service delivery, and (ii) increasing access to basic social services through direct
poverty interventions. The PDO was clear but overly ambitious as it was premised on a


                                                8

national decentralization policy that was not yet in place at the design but was
subsequently adopted in 2002. This was one of the factors that negatively affected the
project's uptake in the early years, leading to its restructuring afterwards. At the time of
design, however, there was a clear commitment of GRZ, that the Decentralization Policy
would be implemented as an integral part of the Public Sector Reform Program adopted
in 2004, which had decentralization as one of its pillars. On the whole, the project design
was comprehensive as it was countrywide, involving many institutions and stakeholders
at national, regional, and district levels.

The design process was participatory with wide consultations with stakeholders, and it
effectively reflected lessons learned from international experiences of social funds and
also from the implementation of the SRP I and II. Most notable lessons included the need
for: (i) clear objectives and having consistency with the national development strategies;
(ii) key institutional characteristics such as operational efficiency, transparency and
accountability; (iii) improved attention to monitoring and evaluation activities; (iv)
sustainability; (v) role of local governments; and (vi) recognition of the temporary nature
of the Social Investment Fund. And, in recognition of the continued negative impacts of
the HIV/AIDS pandemic on Government's efforts towards poverty reduction, the design
incorporated support to HIV/AIDS related initiatives. ZAMSIF was also the first SIF in
the Africa region which included an explicit exit-strategy for the SIF as a semi-
autonomous institution. The project was build on the premise of gradually transferring
and integrating the substantial institutional, organizational and delivery capacity of the
SIF into the public sector, and by doing so making its impact more sustainable.

Critical risks were mapped and minimization measures were considered, this
notwithstanding, the design assumption that the National Decentralization Policy would
be implemented did not materialize; at the time of closing the project the NDP has still
not been implemented, in hindsight, this should have been included as a major risk to
achieving the PDO.

2.2 Implementation
The CIF component's performance was Satisfactory. The component surpassed its
outputs targets in number of subprojects financed, completed, and number of beneficiaries
reached (Refer to Key Performance Indicators Annex 2). The over achievement in the
indicators was a result of (i) prudent shopping by project committees (further discussed in
Section 3.3 paragraph 2) which resulted in savings that were used to fund additional
subprojects; (ii) the positive effect of more resources being available to ZAMSIF as a result
from the exchange rate gains between the Special Drawing Rights and the Dollar. The over
achievement is also attributable to the effective capacity building provided by the project.
The completed subprojects were all reported as being operational and providing access to
services by project closing time in December 2005. The total number of potential
beneficiaries under CIF is 2.53 million representing 69% over achievement. Through
support to vulnerable persons' initiatives, the CIF reached 3,040 direct beneficiaries against
the planned 1,000. The number of indirect beneficiaries reached was 66,460 out of the
planned 80,000. ZAMSIF recognized the need for synergies thus worked with the private
sector and STARZ/DFID in reaching out to people affected by the HIV/AIDS pandemic.



                                               9

In a demand driven operation, the sector distribution of subprojects denote the
communities' choices, with regard to where they see fit to invest their resources. An
analysis of the ZAMSIF subproject distribution shows education having the highest
percentage share at 44.5%, seconded by health at 22%, with water and sanitation at 11%,
roads 8.8%, with the rest distributed among food security, environment, HIV/AIDS
community welfare, and the vulnerable. Environment at 2% is one of the lowest priorities
despite the broad sensitization on environmental issues (Refer to Section 2.4).

Implementation of the IEC strategy increased communities' voice by providing increased
access to information, improved community sensitization and improved PRA processes,
with the result that there was change in focus of subprojects from the traditional
infrastructure to include provision of other opportunities for development. The positive
change in focus was evidenced by the fall in the percentage share of the education sector
from 80% during SRP II to 44% by the end of ZAMSIF, as per the figure below.

The CIF component achievements also contributed to institutional development through
the training provided to the 5,550 subproject management committee members. Through
the hands-on training the committee members the project transferred skills which are now
available for use by other community development initiatives; the process has enhanced
the quality of community skills and community cohesion. Some of the community
members have been able to find jobs afterwards (ZAMSIFEvaluation Report 2008). The
performance of the community was satisfactory evidenced by the average community
contribution being 16%, one percentage point above the planned figure of 15%, denoting
community ownership.




                                             10

                                        Trend in the distribution of projects among sectors
                                               2000 to 2005
    140



    120



    100

  Number of Projects

     80



     60



     40



     20



      0
                 2000                2001           2002                2003               2004            2005

                                                     Year of Project Approval


                     Community Training             Community Welfare Infrastructure  Education
                     Environment                    Health                            HIV/AIDS
                     Markets & food security        Road                              Vulnerable Groups
                     Water & Sanitation



The DIF component's performance was Satisfactory. It surpassed its outputs target
having financed and completed 62 subprojects against the set target of 30. The
component provided access to services to 3.0 million beneficiaries against the set target
of 0.4million. Under capacity building, 8 districts were in higher levels against set target
of 4; 72 districts trained in 11 modules; with 67districts having in place revised situation
analysis; 28 districts against the target of 20 districts had conducted the poverty
assessments (Refer to Annex 2). Two reasons contributed to the over achievement: (i) a
large number of subprojects were funded as a result of the ZAMSIF capacity
development efforts at the district level through delivery of the various training modules
in development management; and (ii) the incentive provided by the supply driven
subprojects at district level which provided councils' offices and staff houses.

The component sector distribution by end of project the funded subprojects was highest
for health at 60%, second for water and sanitation 12.9%, third at 11.3% food security
and markets, 9.7% community welfare and 4.8% roads. With the 60% investment in
health, ZAMSIF contributed to the health sector by increasing the stock of multi-
community level health facilities and consequently increased potential community access
to services. Provision of staff houses in particular, created a work environment conducive
for staff and thus contributed to the councils' ability to deploy staff and get the facilities
operational.




                                                         11

Twenty-eight (28) districts against a target of 20, had improved their levels of
responsibility and involvement as they were able to facilitate community development
management demonstrated by the high completion rate of projects under the CIF. Five of
the twenty-eight districts had reached the top level and three of which had maintained
that position for two consecutive years, an indication of maturity. While the handholding
strategy by ZAMSIF enabled 50 districts to attain Level 2 by Year 4, six dropped to level
1 by Year 5, denoting that without ZAMSIF APL II, sustainability in public sector
management is less likely where capacity had not taken root. This notwithstanding all 72
districts developed district situational analysis which guided effective intra-district
resource allocations.

The PMA component's performance was Satisfactory. The component achieved 95% of
the set output indicator targets (Refer to Annex 2). The planned Living Conditions
Monitoring Surveys (LCMS), the Indictor Monitoring Surveys and other planned surveys
were carried out and discriminated, although dissemination was done within the set time
period. To ensure utilization of the results of the studies, the studies were institutionalized
in the relevant key ministries; this led to at least 54% use of the study results for policy.
According to records, some of the activities were not carried due to lack of prioritization
and commitment to PMA activities. The indicator requiring that survey data be put on
CD-ROM was not met due to lack of expertise at the Central Statistical Office, following
the departure from service of two members of CSO staff who were trained by the project
for the work. This notwithstanding, the results of the surveys and studies were
disseminated, although not timely, and thus missed opportunities of effectively making
an input to policies.

ZAMSIF Institutional Support performance was Satisfactory, having met all the set
output targets. ZAMSIF Management Unit operated efficiently recording administrative
costs at 16% against the target of 20%. The Management Unit produced reports on time,
a number of studies were undertaken in order to improve quality, efficiency and
effectiveness of the Project. In recognition of the quality performance, the Management
Unit was requested to implement other GRZ projects' components such as the BESSIP,
ROADSIP, CRAIDS, EDRP and the ESP- Pilot Environment Fund. ZAMSIF acted as a
facilitator by producing manuals guiding subproject cycle management and ensuring the
use of norms and standards by districts and communities which led to production of
quality assets at community and district level. A result based project monitoring system
produced satisfactory indicator monitoring reports on Key performance indicators,
however, lack of baseline and actual data on DO indicators persisted.

Midterm Review (MTR)
A two staged MTR was carried out in August 2003; the out come was the corrective
restructuring of the project (discussed in Section 1.3). With the effective implementation
of the revised operational plans derived during the MTR and the restructuring of the
program in March 2004, ZAMSIF significantly improved its chances of reaching its
objectives (Refer to sections 2.2 and 3 below). The QAG had pointed out that the
restructuring was delayed; an early restructuring would have brought much better results.




                                               12

Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA).               Implementation of
ZAMSIF was positively characterized by a number of remedial actions undertaken to
keep the project on track, in the process the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was
amended three times as follows in:

  i.    May 2003, to provide for procurement from IAPSO; increase procurement
        threshold under Shopping procedure; and inclusion of a new arrangement
        providing for processing subprojects through a technical subcommittee of the
        Steering Committee;
  ii.   July 2004, to restructure the project which included modification of the wording
        of the development objective; to reallocation among expenditure categories, an
        increase in the Special Account from US$3.0 million to US$8.0 million; to reflect
        changes in the definition of the operating costs and some changes in key
        performance indicators; and
 iii.   November 2005, to reallocate resources among the categories.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The monitoring and evaluation design was too detailed making it cumbersome to manage.
The detail might have been necessary due to the novel nature of the project design.
Despite the detailed output indicators, the MU performed well in tracking the Key
Performance Indicators. This performance was not matched on following up on processes
for collecting data on outcome indicators. The M&E design did not consider baseline data
on the outcome indicators, as such the Impact Evaluation carried out after the project
used the `with and without the project situation" to make assessments. The results of the
ZAMSIF Evaluation Study have informed the ICR on some outcome indicators but not
all, most of the information has been qualitative.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

At Appraisal the project was Environment Category F. Environmental and social aspects
were mainstreamed in the subproject management cycle. During implementation there
was (i) extensive training on environmental and social issues for the ZAMSIF and district
staff, and the subproject committees members; (ii) extensive sensitization of the
communities; and (iii) sufficient monitoring of the subprojects by the districts. Records
indicate that two subprojects were disallowed at appraisal for not having met the
environmental requirements.

As a CDD project, the bulk of procurement was carried out satisfactorily at community
level by project management committees (discussed under Section 3.3 paragraph 2).
Records on file indicate that at the centre, procurement was generally satisfactory, except
for the delay at the end of the project in procuring the Impact Evaluation consultants
which negatively affected the delivery of this ICR. The management of the consultant
during the implementation of the impact Evaluation was yet another challenge as it took
place after the ZAMSIF MU had closed and so all processes had to be carried out through
the MOFNP administrative system.




                                              13

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Under the CIF the project supported community demand driven subprojects in a number
of sectors accounting for 58% of the project resources. While the maintenance of the
assets created is the responsibility of the sectors in health and education, all the
subprojects had maintenance committees and maintenance plans in place, including bank
accounts for operation and maintenance (O&M) activities. Seventy five percent of the
O&M committees were found to be functional in 2005 just before the project closed
((Implementation Risk Management and Sustainability Report, July 2005). The
subprojects were of good quality, and for most of them it is too early after completion to
start experiencing extensive or frequent maintenance. Principles of community
participation, contribution and procedures to be followed in planning, design and
implementation of subprojects were emphasized as sustainability elements.

Community ownership was high demonstrated by the average of community contribution
at 16%; and vandalism of assets was reported minimal as evidenced by the Beneficiary
Assessment (2003). The assets created under the ZAMSIF were reported to be of better
quality than under the SRP, the predecessor program to ZAMSIF (Implementation Risk
Management and Sustainability Strategy Report 2005).

The project through the DIF carried out capacity development of the districts by taking
them through the various training modules. The capacity created is benefiting other
development projects and development agents working through the districts as there is
increased coordination at district level planning and service delivery; positive change in
attitude and behavior with regard to community involvement and ownership of
communal facilities; and enhanced work ethics among the staff as confirmed by the
Impact Evaluation (2007). This notwithstanding, there is considerable risk to the
sustainability of the capacity created due to staff attrition and inadequate resources to
maintain the achievement at the desired levels as ZAMSIF support is no longer available.
For the districts to retain the capacity, future financing should ensure that the districts are
supported, since the second phase of ZAMSIF APL will not be implemented.

In lieu of the APL phase II, and on request by the MOFNP, the Bank embarked on the
preparation of a follow-on program- Support to Decentralization Implementation
Program (SUDIP) ­ whose preparation is currently suspended due to political uncertainty
surrounding decentralization and unwillingness to commit to fiscal decentralization and
further Government decision not to borrow from the Bank. In addition, the Bank and
other development partners through two Sector Wide Approaches are supporting two
pillars of the PRSP: (i) Public Service Management; and (ii) Public Expenditure
Management and Financial Accountability.

As part of the transitional arrangements a recommendation was made by the Bank that
the PMA activities be wholly mainstreamed in the Ministry of Finance and National
Planning; and that these activities should continue so as to enhance the monitoring of the
National Development Plan.




                                               14

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The PDO continued to be consistent with the CAS of March 2004 (Report No.27654-ZA)
and was still relevant in terms of the Government's PRSP May 2002, which was
extended to 2006. The Project was in line with the following CAS objectives: (i)
improved lives and protection of the vulnerable, which will improve the quality of life of
citizens and facilitate the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals, through
better service delivery; and (ii) an efficiently and effectively managed public sector, to
improve governance, public sector management, and overall effectiveness of public
expenditure programs. By working through the district structures, ZAMSIF paved the
way and prepared the requisite capacities of the institutions in public sector management
for the implementation of the decentralization policy approved in October 2002 and yet
to be implemented.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.
The PDO rating is also based on efficacy of the project performance on the specific
objectives which were to (i) achieve sustainable improved availability and use of quality
basic social services by beneficiary communities and specific vulnerable groups; (ii)
contribute to the building of capacity for improved local governance; and (iii) strengthen
the capacity to provide timely information on poverty and social conditions and facilitate
its use in policy making. In general, the assessment of the outcomes has been constrained
by the lack of baseline data and unavailability of quantitative data on the outcome
indicators.

(i) Achieve sustainable improved availability and use of quality basic social services by
beneficiaries and specific vulnerable groups:

The project contributed to the increase in the stock of community assets, improved access
and use by the beneficiary communities (refer to Table II). In the project impact areas,
increased use of facilities has been in education where the dropout rates have reduced,
from 1.8 in 2002 to 1.5 in 2005 signifying increase in school attendance; in health, there
has been 28% increase in attendance to maternal and child health clinics and 138%
increase in number of trained personnel attending to births; and access to clean water has
been recorded in both rural and urban areas (data from Ministries of Health and
Education used in the Evaluation Report2008). Through high coverage of OVC supported
under HIV/AIDS initiatives, this translated into increase in number of orphans attending
schools.

Internal Monitoring Records indicate that by the project closing time in December 2005,
all completed community facilities under ZAMSIF were operational and that 4.4 million
beneficiaries (2.5 million under CIF and 1.9 million under DIF) had potential access and
use of the social services. The rehabilitated facilities reinstated access to services to 11%
of the beneficiaries. The MTR Beneficiary Assessment (February 2003) recorded
community observations that rehabilitated schools under ZAMSIF were attracting pupils
who had left for better schools because better learning environments were on average


                                               15

within five kilometers. The ZAMSIF Impact Evaluation Report (2008) indicates that the
82% of households in the project impact areas are now within 5 kilometers of a basic
school; and 76% of households in ZAMSIF impact areas are within 5 kilometers of a
health facility, this reduction in distance also translates to reduced time to reach a facility.

Through construction of schools, health facilities and roads, 47% of households in
sampled areas expressed that the project had "extremely changed" their livelihoods in as
far as access and use is concerned (Evaluation 2008). Other changes to beneficiaries'
lives include community cohesion and increased voice. The Beneficiary Assessment
(2003) and the Impact Evaluation (2008) both recorded high communities' satisfaction
with services from completed subprojects, leading to improved community perception of
council staff, local line agency representatives, and traditional authorities. The high
outputs under the CIF and DIF for have improved availability and use and also have
demonstrated positive performance towards the program outcome indicator.

According to the case study of Social Funds Experience in Africa "Scaling up of Poverty
Reduction in Malawi and Zambia" (World Bank, 2004), the impact on the respective
beneficiary communities by both projects was rated positive thereby confirming that the
project benefited the targeted communities. Output targets for both the CIF and the DIF
were substantially met and in addition, the sheer numbers of functional facilities
translated to service availability to the project beneficiaries. The Implementation and
Risk Management Strategy Report (July 2005) found ZAMSIF supported infrastructures
to be of good quality, denoting likelihood of sustainability.

ii) Contribute to the building of capacity for improved local governance and service
delivery: With regard to contributing to capacity building for improved local governance,
ZAMSIF by providing the requisite resources and facilitating the training, managed to
develop community and district capacities leading to full devolution in CIF and DIF
being attained in four districts by close of the project in December 2005. The capacities
developed translated into accountability at the community levels as the committee
members accounted for resources, and submitted reports and delivered completed
subprojects to the constituents. At district level, there is increased coordination in
planning and service delivery, including positive change in attitude and behavior towards
communities (Impact Evaluation 2008). The same report has confirmed community
satisfaction with the district administration, particularly in areas where the subprojects
were completed.

Assessments conducted at district level by the regional level personnel led to sustained
improved performance of 29 districts in public sector management, with 8 coming out as
best performers at levels 4 and 5. The outcome was a healthy environment for
implementation of the national decentralization policy in future as awareness had been
created.

District staff developed skills in use of pro-poor targeting and planning instruments and
other poverty mapping tools ­ districts in levels 3-5 were exposed to the use of Indicative
Planning Figures (IPFs) for inter-district resource targeting, all districts put in place



                                               16

district situational Analysis (DSA) documents for intra-district resource allocation, while
others had District Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy, District Development
Plans and annual investment plans. This planning and targeting process at the district
level dove-tailed with the self targeting participatory processes used by the communities,
and it led to efficient intra-district resource allocation; such as demonstrated by the sector
distribution of subprojects where for education the percentage share dropped from around
80% in SRP to 44% in ZAMSIF.

iii) Strengthen capacity to provide timely information on poverty and social conditions
and facilitate its use in policy making. Performance under the three outcome indicators
was varied: (i) three consultations were held with regards to the annual public
consultations or review of poverty and social conditions, (ii) eight districts against a set
target of five, were using information from the Monitoring Management System in
planning; and (iii) functioning Strategic and Operating Planning Unit (SOPU) in MOFED
managing the Study Fund was not been achieved by close of project. Although the first
two indicators were met, there is no evidence to demonstrate the impacts in influencing
policy. Failure to establish SOPU, and integrate the PMA activities in the Ministry of
Finance is a lost opportunity which would have provided a sustainable platform for
continuation of the PMA activities.

3.3 Efficiency
An economic rate of return was not calculated at appraisal. However much of the returns
under ZAMSIF were in the form of social capital and sustainability of community
investments. An assumption was made that communities are rational economic actors and
that their choices reflect the greatest return for their time, labor and materials. Thus
through ZAMSIF, communities have demonstrated willingness and commitment to make
contributions towards interventions averaging 16%, which is above the Appraisal
estimate of 15% for community contribution, this reflected their analyzed priorities as
evidenced by the MTR Beneficiary Assessment Report (February 2003). As projects
were selected through the Participatory Rural Appraisal process, the sector distribution of
sub-projects reflected community priorities (as discussed in section 3.2 (ii) paragraph 3
above).

Cost-effectiveness was ensured by the provision to communities of subproject menus,
costed standard design options and specifications, and use of local competitive
procurement. Communities produced quality assets in a cost-effective manner as
confirmed by the (Implementation Risk and Sustainability study Report, July 2005).
Through adherence to procedures and prudent shopping, savings in the amount of US$3.3
million were realized. The savings were used to finance additional community initiatives.

ZAMSIF ensured efficient pro-poor investments by introducing the use of indicative
planning figures (IPF) for inter-district resource allocation. The IPF used a formula which
was based on a composite index of poverty, population and accessibility for
geographically targeting resources to districts.




                                                17

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.
On the basis of relevance and achievements in two of the major DO objectives (major in
terms of resources), the DO could be rated satisfactory but for the lack of quantitative
data on some outcome indicators, and the under achievement on the third outcome, the
DO is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(i) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The Indicator Monitoring Survey (2005) recorded that 68% of the 10.9 million Zambians
were poor compared to 73% in 1998 in a similar survey. Poverty levels in rural areas
remained high at 78% against 83% in 1998, and 53% against 56% in urban areas. The
IMS (2005) results also indicate that after the Government, ZAMSIF was the next largest
sponsor for community investments in construction and/or rehabilitation of schools and
health facilities. ZAMSIF contributed 14% to construction of new schools and 16% to
rehabilitation while GRZ registered 33% and 37% respectively.

The beneficiary figures captured in ZAMSIF internal monitoring system were not
disaggregated by gender beyond the composition of the subproject committee
membership, however, the project through its use of focus group discussions during the
PRAs processes, gender aspects were thoroughly addressed.

ZAMSIF interacted effectively with other development partners like GTZ, SNV and Kfw
and DCI, who worked in different regions of the country, however the project did not
involve the private sector in project processes except as traders in supplying subproject
materials.

(ii) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The CIF component contributed to institutional development through the training
provided to the 5,550 subproject management committee members. Through the hands-
on training the committee members the project transferred skills which are now available
for use by other community development initiatives; the process has enhanced the quality
of community skills. The Project developed the capacity of districts demonstrated by all
72 districts having district situational analysis in place which guided the intra-district
resource allocations.

At the regional level, ZAMSIF has paved the way for the NDP implementation in that
there is a structure for assessing districts performance and the process is one way of
ensuring public sector accountability. At the time of the ICR mission, the districts visited
indicated that the regions were still assessing districts way after closure of ZAMSIF. The
capacity built in ZAMSIF staff was recognized hence the added responsibility to
implement other components of community projects which included BESIP and CTI, this
notwithstanding the capacity built as not been integrated in the existing system as staff
have left for the private sector. Overall, useful lessons have been drawn for
implementation of the project and were used in the preparation of the Support to
Decentralization Implementation Project.


                                               18

Implementation of ZAMSIF engendered accountability by putting in the public domain
information regarding IPFs and District use of funds. The involvement of the private
sector in the project also led to the development of businesses and skills of people in the
private sector, trading and seeking opportunities through the many subprojects that were
implemented.

(iii) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The positive unintended outcome of the project was that the robust systems and capacity
built in the ZAMSIF staff was available to support GRZ in the implementation of the
drought recovery efforts (during the 2001/2002 farming season) and fight against
HIV/AIDS. ZAMSIF strengthened the understanding and confidence in community based
interventions. The community window of the HIV/AIDS project which followed the
same principles was successful. The malaria program also is using similar procedures to
support a community component.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not Applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High.

i) Under the CIF the project supported community demand driven subprojects in a
number of sectors accounting for 58% of the project's resources. While the maintenance
of the assets created is the responsibility of the sectors, the risk is that if the
sectors/district are not sufficiently resourced maintenance of the assets created will not be
given due priority. The ZAMSIF Evaluation (2008) reported that only two thirds of the
completed subprojects were operational, raising concerns about sustainability.

ii) While community ownership of assets created and the willingness to contribute
towards maintenance was high during implementation, their ability could be constrained
when major repairs are needed; and in times of major shocks to the community, such as
drought which negatively affects their livelihoods, consequently, their ability to
contribute towards O&M for sustainability will be affected and could lead to decline in
access to services.

iii) ZAMSIF through the DIF carried out extensive capacity development for the
development planning and management this notwithstanding, there is risk to the
sustainability of the capacity at the district due to staff attrition and inadequate resources
available at the districts to sustain the achievements at the desired levels as ZAMSIF
support is no longer available.

(iv) Political uncertainty around the decentralization implementation and inadequate
resources committed as transfers for recurrent and capital expenditures.

(v) A well-organized and comprehensive capacity development and human resource
management plan for district councils does not exist.


                                               19

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance

(i) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

The Bank quickly responded to the Borrower's request for a follow on project to the
SRPII, preparation was participatory, incorporating valuable lessons from the previous
projects within the county and internationally, and from studies and capacity assessments
that were conducted. The Project design was coherent, in line with the CAS, and took
into account the country's National Poverty Reduction Strategy­itself based on a
participatory approach to addressing poverty issues. The Project was identified in July
1999 and appraised in October 1999. A total of three missions were undertaken by Bank
teams with a good skills mix. The Project was approved by the Board in May 2000, and
became effective in July 2000. The Bank granted the Government's request for a PPF in
the amount of US$400,000 to undertake preparatory activities which included studies that
informed the design.

As part of the preparatory activities, the Bank also consulted widely with communities,
stakeholders, and donors. A financial management analysis and procurement assessment
of the implementing agency was carried out, risks were identified and appropriate
mitigation measures were put in place. An environmental analysis was undertaken and
recommendations included mainstreaming environmental appraisal and monitoring as
part of the subproject cycle, developing staff and implementers capacity and preparation
of a natural resources management handbook. This good performance at preparation
notwithstanding, the design of the project was premised on a decentralization policy that
was not yet in place, a situation that led to some of the operational constraints at
implementation.

(ii) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

Between effectiveness and the closing date, five implementation reviews were
undertaken, and the sixth was the ICR mission. All reviews received input from
procurement and financial management staff. The reviews included the requisite skill
mix except for the environmental and social safeguard specialists who were not included.
Involvement of Country Office staff was strong throughout the implementation
particularly in social, financial and procurement aspects. The reviews were sufficiently
resourced; field visits were well balanced and documentation through out the supervision
phase was comprehensive.

The Bank team maintained good relationship with the key ministries involved in the
implementation; and appropriate guidance was provided to the client. Examples include:
a) recognizing the need to restructure the project and facilitating the process, which
included revision of the KPI; (b) encouraging ZAMSIF to collaborate more closely with
existing service deliverers and to move towards harmonization with partners, and to


                                               20

ensure that communities have a voice in DIF projects; and (c) advising to improve
targeting by diversifying sector coverage of DIF and CIF. The bank guided
implementation and ensured that the DCA was complied with.

Generally the Bank was quick in responding to issues including those that required
amending the DCA. During implementation there were no deviations from the Bank's
policies and procedures. The supervision was rated Satisfactory by the QAG having
narrowly missed the Highly Satisfactory rating on account of delay by the team to realize
that the project was off course, and needing restructuring. The team however, did not
provide timely guidance to the management unit to take a leading role on the processes
for collecting data on outcome indicators. There were delays also in providing guidance
on procurement leading to serious delays in procurement and managing consultants
towards the end of the project.

(iii) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: The overall Bank performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory on the basis that
the Bank provided valuable support but did not guide the processes on data collection on
outcome indicators, in addition to the issues raised on quality at entry.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(i) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

The Government took the lead and participated in all the steps of project preparation;
produced the required documentation for appraisal and approval; and in a timely manner
met all the set conditions of Effectiveness and Disbursement.

The Government demonstrated its commitment to the poverty alleviation agenda as
articulated in its PRS. Its commitment was further demonstrated through the provision of
required counterpart funding, although the funding was made available towards the end
of the project. ZAMSIF was an autonomous body under the policy guidance and
oversight of a committed National Steering Committee (NSC) (refer to KPI). The NSC
comprised of senior Government representatives. The implementation of project
operations at the district level was supported by the District Development and
Coordination Committee bringing together the sectors and the councils thereby
engendering mainstreaming of the project's operations. Districts also provided
contributions for the DIF sub-projects. The Borrower submitted audit reports on time.
This level of support not withstanding, failure by the Government to implement the NDP,
and failure to fully mainstream the PMA activities negatively affected the project
implementation and consequently the development outcome.

(ii) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

Throughout the project implementation period, the ZAMSIF Management Unit (MU)
was sufficiently staffed with qualified personnel. The systems and procedures in place
ensured transparency and accountability at all levels (Management Evaluation, 2003).


                                              21

The MU's financial management was satisfactory; consistently over the life of the project
financial reports were produced in a timely manner, and received audit reports with
unqualified external auditors' opinion. However, during the final year of the project,
ZAMSIF had cash flow problems; the reasons given indicate that there was inadequate
financial monitoring and budgeting. As a CDD project, the bulk of procurement was
carried out satisfactorily at community level by project management committees. At the
centre, procurement implementation was generally satisfactory. Despite the good
performance, the MU did not pay much attention to processes that would have helped the
end of project assessment on outcomes.

(iii) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The overall performance of the borrower is
moderately satisfactory due to lack of commitment to implementing the National
Decentralization Policy and failure to mainstream the PMA and establish SOPU, and
issues of baseline data on outcome indicators.

6. Lessons Learned
   i.    The implementation of the Decentralization policy was a pre-requisite for the
         project activities to have its intended impact. The ZAMSIF implementation
         experience demonstrates that failure in public sector management can pose a
         serious constraint to achievement of intended project outcomes.

  ii.    Decentralization is by its very nature a political process of sharing administrative,
         financial and political decision-making authority with lower levels of government.
         Sustainability of local governance and other institutional outcomes of in social
         investment funds depend critically on political commitment at the highest levels
         of government to operationalize the decentralization policy and continue to invest
         in local authorities in a predictable manner to improve their capacity to fulfill
         their mandates.

 iii.    Establishing baseline data on selected project outcome/output indicators is vital.
         Equally important is having in place effective arrangements for implementing the
         M&E that focuses on both outputs and outcome. A major lesson is that even if the
         management of the data collection on outcome indicators is left to other entities
         outside the project such as the Central Statistical Office, project management
         units should always take an active role to ensure that the necessary information is
         being collected on the outcome indicators.

 iv.     District capacity assessments based on the capacity building ladder were a good
         entry point for ZAMSIF's capacity development interventions. It allowed for a
         tailor-made approach for district capacity development which could deal with
         different types and levels of capacity gaps (as against overly prescriptive support
         designed as one size fit all). In the case of ZAMSIF, it improved targeting of
         resources to needy areas. The capacity building ladder provided an objective
         guide for assessing district performance and laid foundation for capacity
         development in the future. However, longer time was needed for the capacity



                                                22

      developed to take root. In the original plan for the ZAMSIF program, phase two
      of the APL could have provided the time required.

  v.  Use of the Formula Based Block Grant Mechanism for resources allocation: the
      Indicative Planning Figure (IPF) is a transparent and objective system for inter-
      district resource allocation by the centre to the districts. The IPF minimizes
      political influence stimulates ownership, enhances transparency and resource
      predictability. It is also an effective way of targeting resources to poorer districts
      based on poverty indicators. Through the IPF, districts were informed of the
      available resource envelop in advance which facilitated their planning processes
      and enabled them to respond to community demands. The practice should be
      continued by any program channeling resources to local authorities

 vi.  Diversification of subproject portfolio achieved through improved facilitation for
      PRA processes and implementation of the IEC strategy leads to improvement in
      the sector spread of subproject portfolio from the traditional dominant sectors
      such as education and health to non-traditional sectors of roads, HIV/AIDS and
      income enhancement in order to improve beneficiaries' livelihoods.

vii.  A well-defined communication strategy is key for building social accountability
      within communities and with district authorities. An effective IEC strategy
      facilitates the efficient implementation of the project cycle activities by
      communities as it levels the play field. It helps to improve mutual accountability
      among stakeholders and contributes to an improved governance structure which is
      key to community empowerment. An IEC strategy, like M&E, needs to be part of
      the project design and not an add-on.

viii. Clear guidelines and procedures are a prerequisite for facilitating community
      development and ensuring accountability of resources. Adherence to guidelines
      and processes ensures that subprojects supported meet the standards and sector
      norms and are addressing community priority needs.

 ix.  Capacity building: The capacity building ladder provided an objective guide for
      assessing district performance and laid foundation for capacity development in the
      future, however, longer time was needed for the capacity developed to take root.
      In the original plan for ZAMSIF, phase two of the APL could have provided the
      required time period.

  x.  Value of partnerships in pursuit of improving local governance and supporting
      local development: Overall partnerships with key GRZ sector ministries,
      provincial administrations, district administrations, NGOs and Cooperating
      Partners such as DCI, SNV and GTZ provided a unique opportunity for sharing
      mutual experiences and minimized duplications in processes, procedures and
      resource allocation. Equally important was the need to partner with the private
      sector in delivery of training modules or facilitating planning processes at




                                              23

         community level; this was one of the lost opportunities in ZAMSIF
         implementation.

 xi.     Design of project to be based on existing policy environment: Experience during
         implementation of ZAMSIF showed that it is critical to design projects on the
         basis of existing policy framework.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(i) Borrower/implementing agencies
          The GRZ did not provide any comments.

(ii) Cofinanciers: Not Applicable

(iii) Other partners and stakeholders

Views from the donor and NGO community working in the field alongside ZAMSIF
indicated that there was evidence of improved capacity at local government level
(compared to the pre-ZAMSIF situation) as illustrated in the case of GTZ where it was
observed that:

     (i)    Local Government now had well attended planning meetings;
     (ii)   there were greater calls from Districts in Southern province to be backstopped
            by GTZ advisors (which worked well for GTZ as demand for their services
            increased);
     (iii)  greater participation in development programs at District level;
     (iv)   an increased planning knowledge base at District level compared to the
            Provincial level in terms of, for instance: procurement procedures and
            experience; and project cycle related issues including project implementation.

One of the reasons for greater participation was attributed to use of the ZAMSIF ladder.
The view was that in spite of its limitations, this motivated Districts to apply themselves
more effectively as they were then assured of more resources once they met the
benchmarks.




                                              24

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

    (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                    Percentage of
                                 (USD millions)     Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)         Appraisal

COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
FUND                                   42.00              45.80              9

DISTRICT INVESTMENT
FUND                                   13.00                6.148            8

POVERTY MONITORING
AND ANALYSIS                             3.50               3.616            -3

ZAMSIF INSTITUTIONAL
SUPPORT                                15.70              21.831             31


            Total Baseline Cost        74.20               76.395            2

Physical Contingencies                   0.00               0.00            0.00

Price Contingencies                      0.00               0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs       74.20               76.395
Project Preparation Fund                 0.00               0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00               0.00            .00
      Total Financing Required         74.20               76.395




(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds             Type of     Estimate      Estimate   Percentage
                                   Cofinancing      (USD         (USD      of Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
Borrower                                        0.00          1.71.       171.
Local Communities                               4.50         5. 80        28
International Development
Association (IDA)                               64.70        68.73         6




                                           25

Annex 2 Outputs by Component



Target at Start of Project   MTR         (2003)     Revised
                             Target at EOP                     Achieved at EOP         Comments

1. ZAMSIF INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT

                             Commitments & disbursements       Profiles, procurement

                             follow profiles , procurement     plans followed, a total

                             plans & AWPB                      of     US$68,730,355
                                                               disbursed


                             Administration costs less than
                             20% of total ZAMSIF costs         16%




                             Average 50% National Steering     More      than   90%
                             committee            membership   attendance        was   90% was a requirement for a minimum

                             attendance                        achieved                attendance to meet the quorum




                             Average 50% PMA Steering
                             Committee            membership                           90%     was   achieved   as  this  was   a
                             attendance    National   Steering More      than   90%    requirement for a minimum attendance to
                             committee            membership   attendance              meet the quorum
                             attendance




                             100%      projects    technically                         All operational with requisite staff (under
                             appropriate, operations sustained   100%                  Health & Education), all projects have
                             and maintained                                            maintenance committees




                                                               1 x biannual report for
                                                               2000, 2 x biannual      The biannual reports for 2005 were not
                                                               reports for each year   tabled before the NSC. Due to the fluid

                             Reports to the National Steering  (2001     to    2004)   situation of the follow on program to

                             Committee produced on time,       submitted    to    the  ZAMSIF, the NSC Chairperson advised that

                             user friendly and accurate        National      Steering  it would not be prudent to hold NSC
                                                               Committee (NSC). 2 x    meetings more so that there were no
                                                               biannual reports for    substantial issues requiring the NSCs
                                                               2005 prepared but not   attention.
                                                               submitted to NSC




                                                      26

                                                                      National       Steering
                                                                      Committee      meetings
                                                                      held    &    informed,
                                                                      ZAMSIF news letters
                                                                      produced            and
                                    Key      stakeholders       have  circulated,    quarterly
                                    knowledge       of      ZAMSIF    PDCC meetings (and
                                    procedures and performance        DDCC as ex-officio)
                                                                      attended and informed
                                                                      by the RFs, print and
                                                                      electronic        media
                                                                      announcements, radio
                                                                      drama



CIF

                                                                                               Savings were made as funded projects
500 projects financed               500 financed, EOP                                   555    completed below budget. Funds saved
                                                                                               recommitted to new projects.


400 projects completed              500 projects completed EOP                                 More completed due to the increased

                                    (Dec 2005)                                          549    number      of   projects    financed     and
                                                                                               implemented.


0.4 million beneficiaries           1.5million beneficiaries                      2,532,500    More projects were funded arising from
                                                                                               savings thus an increase in beneficiaries.

                                                                                               Though a lot more OVCs have benefited,
80,000 OVCs assisted                80,000 OVC indirectly assisted                   66,460    poor data capturing resulted in under
                                                                                               achievement


                                    1,000 OVC directly assisted                       3,034    More projects were funded arising from
                                                                                               savings thus an increase in beneficiaries.


                                                                                               More projects funded and each project
In   400    projects    beneficiary In  400    projects   beneficiary In      555      project

HIV/AIDS module delivered           HIV/AIDS module delivered         beneficiaries trained in included delivery of modules on HIV/AIDS

                                                                      HIV/AIDS                 from    identification  and    through    the
                                                                                               implementation period.


50 beneficiary communities have     20 beneficiary communities have   20          beneficiary

improved counseling                 improved counseling               communities        with
                                                                      improved counseling

                                                                                               More projects were funded and each project
                                                                                               included delivery of modules on project
                                                                                                                                HIV/AIDS,
500 project committees trained                                        555              project management,      environment,

                                                                      committees trained       gender,     procurement,    and     financial
                                                                                               management,          management         from
                                                                                               identification      and     through       the
                                                                                               implementation period.


                                                                      5 ADCs were trained      The equivalent of RDC is ADCs in rural

20 urban residential development                                      in various modules e.g.  areas. Training was provided to selected

committees trained                                                    communication skills,    areas in the districts that attained level 5
                                                                      use   of   participatory statuses on the capacity building ladder and
                                                                      methodologies etc        most of them were from "rural provinces".


400 communities have completed                                        549 communities have     More     projects     were    funded      and
projects                                                              completed projects       implemented




                                                             27

10%     increase    in   community 10% increase in community
driven     activities,  comparison driven   activities, comparison
between beneficiary and non-       between beneficiary and non-     Refer to comments     Not assessed by the ZAMSIF Evaluation

beneficiary      communities    at beneficiary    communities    at                       Study 2008

national level                     national level

DIF
                                                                                          There were 10 modules, the additional
                                                                    Staff in 72 districts module (1 No.) delivered was District
Staff in 72 districts trained in   Staff in 72 districts trained in trained in 11 modules Planning Information System (ZAMSED/
various modules                    various modules                  (i.e.  a   total  792 Development       Information).    This   was
                                                                    modules delivered)    necessary for the designed planning process
                                                                                          to be functional
Districts in levels of CIF

           Level 1: 60             Level 1: 50                      Level 1: 58
                                                                                          At the end of year 1, 8 districts had not yet
           Level 2: -              Level 2: -                       Level 2: 6
Year 1                                                                                    signed MoUs with ZAMSIF which was the

(2001)     Level 3: -              Level 3: -                       Level 3:              entry requirement for capacity building &

           Level 4: -              Level 4: -                       Level 4:              ZAMSIF support. The total number of
                                                                                          district in levels 1 & 2 was 64
           Level 5: -              Level 5: -                       Level 5:

           Level 1: 55             Level 1: 58                      Level 1: 32
                                                                                          The number of districts attaining level 2
           Level 2:10              Level 2:14                       Level 2: 40           was higher due to the training that was
Year 2     Level 3: -              Level 3: -                       Level 3: 0            provided      i.e.   District  Planning    for
(2002)                                                                                    Development & Poverty Reduction; at this
           Level 4: -              Level 4: -                       Level 4: 0            stage most districts had employed District

           Level 5:                Level 5:                         Level 5: 0            planning officers (DPOs).

           Level 1: 30             Level 1: 25                      Level 1: 12

           Level 2: 20             Level 2: 47                      Level 2: 47           The progression of districts on the ladder

Year 3                                                                                    improved due to the "handholding strategy"
           Level 3: 15             Level 3: -                       Level 3: 13
(2003)                                                                                    that was adopted after the MTR. The
           Level 4: 5              Level 4: -                       Level 4: 0            strategy focused on capacity building
                                                                                          interventions specific to the identified gaps.
           Level 5: -              Level 5: -                       Level 5: 0

           Level 1: 20             Level 1: 12                      Level 1: 6
                                                                                          More districts than anticipated reached
           Level 2: 20             Level 2: 40                      Level 2: 50
Year 4                                                                                    higher levels (Level 5) on ladder due to

(2004)     Level 3: 15             Level 3: 16                      Level 3: 9            application of "handholding strategy." The

           Level 4: 12             Level 4: 4                       Level 4: 4            incentive ladder was also better appreciated
                                                                                          by the districts at this time.
           Level 5: 5              Level 5: -                       Level 5: 3

                                                                                          Staff attrition and perception that "ZAMSIF
                                                                                          was closing" and therefore "no more

           Level 1: 12             Level 1: 12                      Level 1: 18           incentive available" led to "laxity" and
                                                                                          deterioration of performance in some
                                                                                          districts resulting in the relegation of 12
                                                                                          districts from the other levels to level 1

Year 5     Level 2: 20             Level 2: 40                      Level 2: 26
(2005)     Level 3: 20             Level 3: 16                      Level 3: 21

           Level 4: 15             Level 4: 2                       Level 4: 3

                                                                                          Districts on higher levels of ladder had seen
                                                                                          the benefits (funds for projects & capacity
           Level 5: 5              Level 5: 2                       Level 5: 4            development) of progressing on ladder and
                                                                                          therefore      endeavored      to     maintain
                                                                                          consistence in performance




                                                            28

                                                                   14     Modules      were Modules were only developed in 14

40 training modules for district                                   developed ­ See notes    thematic areas that were deemed relevant to

staff developed                                                    below on the listing of  capacity development i.e. provide support

                                                                   the modules              that will enable districts acquire requisite
                                                                                            capacities and progress on ladder


                                                                                            All 72 districts have developed DSA during

All districts develop situation                                    67 districts had DSA     the life of the ZAMSIF project. The

analysis                                                           prepared    using    the achieved at EOP was based on the number
                                                                   revised manuals.         of districts with DSAs prepared using the
                                                                                            revised manuals


                                                                                            40 districts had developed the PA during
                                                                                            the life of the ZAMSIF project. The
40    districts have    completed 40   districts  have   completed 28     districts     had

poverty assessment                poverty assessment               conducted the poverty    achievement by EOP was based on the

                                                                   assessments              number      of    districts  with     Poverty
                                                                                            Assessments      conducted     using     DSAs
                                                                                            prepared following the revised manuals


20    districts have    completed 20   districts  have   completed 28 districts had the     Training provided in district planning led to
district development and poverty  district development and poverty DDPRS prepared and       more districts understanding the planning
reduction strategy                reduction strategy               approved      by    both
                                                                   DDCC and the Council     process and being able to develop DDPRS


                                                                                            In line with the revised targets of districts to
                                                                   8     districts     were be in levels 4 & 5 (i.e. 4 in total) the

15 districts implementing annual                                   implementing         the number expected to implement the Annual

investment plans                                                   annual investment plan   Investment Plan were 4. Training provided
                                                                   financed     from    the in district planning led to more districts
                                                                   annual allocation        being able to develop Annual Investment
                                                                                            Plans



                                                                                            The number of DIF project was higher due
                                                                                            to the decision to support construction of
                                                                   62    district  projects office blocks for councils (No. 17) on

40 districts implementing DIF     30 district projects completed,  completed (of these, 17  "supply basis" based on MTR. In addition,

projects                          EOP                              are District Council     the district that progressed to higher levels
                                                                   Office Block & Staff     on ladder (i.e. levels 3, 4 and 5) had
                                                                   Housing construction).   acquired capacity for project management
                                                                                            with some implementing more than one DIF
                                                                                            project.



                                  40 district projects financed,   62     district    (DIF)

                                  EOP                              projects financed and    As above.
                                                                   implemented

                                                                                            The DPIS ­ ZAMSED/DevInfor training
                                  2 districts using information    8 districts were trained was provided to all 8 districts that passed
                                  from       management       and  in the District Planning through level 4 at one time or the other as
                                  information    system (MIS) in   Information      System  opposed to the target of 2 districts. This was
                                  planning                         (DPIS)    - ZAMSED/
                                                                   DevInfor                 necessary for the planning process to be
                                                                                            functional


                                                                                            More projects were implemented and
                                                                                            completed in relation to what was planed. A
0.8million beneficiaries          0.4 million beneficiaries        3 million                total of 62 DIF projects have been
                                                                                            completed against the planned 40 therefore
                                                                                            reaching a lot more beneficiaries.


5% increase in successful project
applications by EOP                                                                         Not assessed by the Evaluation study




                                                           29

5%     increase   in    communities                                                           The     Evaluation     Report   states    that

satisfied with district services                                                              satisfaction with district services was high
                                                                                              except in projects that were not functional.

PMA


Full cycle of household surveys       Full cycle of household surveys
Living    Conditions     Monitoring   Living Conditions Monitoring    LCMS III and IMS
Survey     (LCMS)      &    Indicator Survey (LCMS) & Indicator       (LCMS      IV)    were
Monitoring       Survey        (IMS)  Monitoring      Survey   (IMS)  conducted
completed by end of phase             completed by end of phase



Year 1      Preparation LCMS and                                      LCMS      III  design,
                                                                      HBS included as a       CSO and its stakeholders spent a lot of time

(2001)      Household         Budget  Preparation for the LCMS                                to debate the methodology and budget. This
            Survey (HBS)                                              module    within   the
                                                                      LCMS                    process continued to last quarter of year 2



Year 2                                                                Preparation completed

(2002)      LCMS implemented          Preparation of LCMS             and    implementation   Field work commenced in November, 2002
                                                                      started


                                                                                              Field work was completed in October, 2003

Year 3      Dissemination          of                                 Implementation          as it was designed to collect data over 12

(2003)      LCMS & preparation of     LCMS implemented                                        months. Dissemination of results for LCMS
            IMS                                                       completed               III and preparations of IMS were done in
                                                                                              year 4


                                                                      LCMS      III   results
                                                                      disseminated       and
Year 4                                Dissemination     of    LCMS,   report produced. IMS    Start funds (K4 billion) were sourced from

(2004)      Implementation of IMS     preparation of IMS              was    conducted     in the GRZ while the Bank took long to

                                                                      December/January        approve the finish up funds.

                                                                      2004/2005


Year 5      Dissemination of IMS      Implementation             and  IMS             results

(2005)      & preparation of LCMS     dissemination IMS, preparation  disseminated       and
                                      of LCMS                         report produced

LCMS III report                                                       LCMS       III   report The information from the report has been
                                                                      available               by many documents in the country
                                                                                              LCMS III sample design did not allow for
Provincial reports                                                    Completed          and
                                                                      printed                 district estimates, it was thus unrealistic to
                                                                                              produce provincial reports.


                                                                      Report completed but    The poverty report had to be based on the
Poverty reports                                                       not    printed.    The
                                                                      informal sector report  IMS report for purposes of capturing the

                                                                      completed and printed.  poverty trend. The manuscript available.


IMS report                                                            IMS report ready.

                                                                      The 6 were trained in
6 persons trained in the following:                                   Washington,     Ghana
household survey design, data                                         and Angola through
entry, analysis and report writing                                    hands on approach and
                                                                      workshops.


                                                                                              The staffing levels in the Living Conditions
                                                                                              Monitoring Branch (LCMB) not adequate

LCMS data available 4 months          LCMS data available 4 months    Data     available    8 to cope with the demand for reports. The

after field work                      after field work                months    after   field matter is worsened by the fact that this lean
                                                                      work                    staff is also tasked to undertake other
                                                                                              activities in CSO other than just those under
                                                                                              LCMB




                                                              30

LCMS report completed 6 months       LCMS      report  completed    6   Report available 12

after field work                     months after field work            months     after  field  As above.
                                                                        work

IMS report available 6 months        IMS report available 6 months      Report    available  8

after field work                     after field work                   months     after  field  As above.
                                                                        work.

HHS data available on CD-ROM         HHS data available on CD-ROM                                CSO has no expertise to undertake the task.

and WWW 2 months after report        and WWW 2 months after report      Not done                 The two officers who were trained under
                                                                                                 SRP have since left LCMB/CSO


                                     Annual public consultation or                               The     fourth   annual     poverty   review
                                     review of poverty and social       3    Annual     Poverty  conference was not held because the bulk of
                                     conditions, EOP                    Conferences were held    the funds were not released by MoFNP.


                                                                                                 As part of transfer of PMA functions into
4 annual poverty reports years 2-    4 annual poverty reports years 2   2    annual     poverty  PEMD/MoFNP the 3rd annual poverty
5                                    ­ 5                                reports ready            review report was to be produced by
                                                                                                 PEMD.


                                                                                                 Though all studies were funded only 33
40 demand led studies, phase 1       34 demand led small studies        33 demand led studies
                                                                        completed                were completed because one was cancelled
                                                                                                 on account of misconduct by the researcher.


10 priority studies                  6 priority studies                 6    priority   studies
                                                                        undertaken


15 capacity building workshops       17 capacity building workshops     16 capacity building
                                                                        workshops conducted


                                                                                                 Being demand led only 5 fundable study
At least 12 studies funded by the                                       5 studies funded using   proposals were received partly attributed to
Study Fund use survey data                                              survey data              delayed availability of the LCMS III data
                                                                                                 and results.


5   studies   analyze  impact   of                                      3 HIV/AIDS impact        One study by Ministry of Home Affairs

HIV/AIDS                             4 HIV/AIDS impact studies          studies completed        could not be completed due to inadequate
                                                                                                 capacity in the ministry.


                                                                                                 To ensure utilization of study results in

10% of study results used for        8% of study results used for                                policy the studies were institutionalized in

policy, EOP                          policy, EOP                        At least 54%             relevant key ministries or sectors and
                                                                                                 dissemination was done to policy related
                                                                                                 institution and other key stakeholders.


                                                                                                 Initially three (3) studies were given to
                                                                                                 PEMD whose staff could not find time to
Strategic & operational Planning                                                                 see them completed. Although there was
Unit (SOPU) managed at least 5       Functioning SOPU in MoFNP          nil                      sufficient budgetary allocation of funds for
studies, EOP.                        managing Study Fund, EOP                                    the Study Fund this could not be utilized
                                                                                                 because of inadequate staff to operate the
                                                                                                 Fund.


NOTES 1. The details of the modules developed include : Gender Mainstreaming, Environment mainstreaming, District Planning for poverty
reduction, Facilitation for Social Development, HIV/AIDS advocacy, Technical Skills training, Financial Management, District Planning
Information System ­ ZAMSED (DevInfor), Costing and Budgeting, Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation, Strengthening and Establishment
of ADCs, Training in the District Assessment process & tools, Maintenance and Project Implementation




                                                              31

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
See section 3.3.




                                    32

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


    (a) Task Team members

           Names                        Title                  Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Laura Frigenti           Task Team Leader                    AFTH1
Hope C. Phillips Volker  Operations Officer                  AFTH1
Mirey Ovadiya            Operations Analyst                  AFTH1
Marian Fay               Economist (Decentralization)
Wendy Roseberry          Senior Technical Specialist (Health)
Trina Haque              Economist
John Ngwafon             Economist /Staistcian
Leendert J. Sinke        Architect

Francisco Pichon         Natural Resources Management
                         Specialist
Steen L. Jorgensen       Sector Manager ­ Social Protection           Quality Assurance
Jim Hicks                Lead Specialist                              Quality Assurance
Charles Magnus           Senior Financial Analyst                     Quality Assurance
Brightson Musungwa       Financial Management Specialist
V. S. Krishnakumar       Senior Procurement Specialist
Steve Gaginis            Senior Disbursement Officer
Aberra Zerabruk          Senior Counsel

Supervision/ICR

Wim H. Alberts           Senior Social Protection Specialist AFTH1
Fenwick M. Chitalu       Financial Management Specialist     AFTFM
Helen Mbao-Chilupe       Sr Social Protection Specialist     AFTH1
Mirey Ovadiya            Senior Operations Officer           AFTH2
Randa El Rashid          Operations Officer                  HDNSP
Ida T. W. Manjolo        Social Protection Specialist        AFTH1
Neta Mulenga Walima      Program Assistant                   AFMZM



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                     No. of staff weeks      USD Thousands (including
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                      39                          139.78
  FY01                                                                    0.00
  FY02                                                                    0.00
  FY03                                                                    0.00



                                          33

 FY04                                 0.00
 FY05                                 0.00
 FY06                                 0.00
 FY07                                 0.00
                   Total:     39    139.78
Supervision/ICR
 FY00                                 7.50
 FY01                         19     59.58
 FY02                         32    138.12
 FY03                         46    147.34
 FY04                         40    132.70
 FY05                         39    127.75
 FY06                         28     90.29
 FY07                                 0.94
                   Total:    204    704.22




                            34

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A




                                    35

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                  36

Annex 7. Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Section 1       Background
Zambia Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF) was one of the Government of the Republic
of Zambia's (GRZ) poverty reduction programs. The Project was approved in June 2000
following the signing of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) between GRZ and
the International Development Association (IDA) of the World Bank for a sum of SDR
48.3 million (US$ 64.7 million). The Project was designed within the framework of the
World Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS 2000-2003and 2004-2007) which was in
support of the broader poverty reduction strategy for Zambia. The ZAMSIF was to be an
Adaptable Program Loan (APL) to be administered in two phases over a period of 10
years. The first phase became effective in July 2000 and closed in December 2005. This
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) assesses the achievement of outcomes and
impacts of the first phase.

ZAMSIF was a follow on Project to the Social Recovery Projects (SRPI & II) which
were implemented concurrently over a period of 10 years (1991-2000) and also
supported by IDA. Whilst the objectives of SRP I & II were to finance community
initiatives and build capacity to help protect the poor against economic shocks during the
structural adjustment period, the aim of ZAMSIF was to contribute to GRZ poverty
reduction program through investment in community initiatives and capacity building for
local governance and for poverty monitoring and analysis. The Project supported two
strategic objectives of the GRZ namely i) decentralization and empowerment of local
authorities to improve governance and efficiency in service delivery and ii) increasing
access to basic social services through direct poverty interventions in communities.

Section 2       ZAMSIF Development Objective

The strategic goal of ZAMSIF was to contribute to the GRZ's strategy for poverty
reduction by improving the welfare and the living conditions of many poor and
vulnerable communities all over Zambia. The overall development objective of the
project was to achieve improved, expanded and sustainable use of services provided in a
governance system where local governments and communities are mutually accountable.
The specific objectives were to:
    · achieve sustainable improved availability and use of quality basic social services
        by beneficiary communities and specific vulnerable groups
    · contribute to the building of capacity for improved local governance and
    · strengthen the capacity to provide timely information on poverty and social
        conditions and facilitate its use in policy making.

Section 3 ZAMSIF Institutional Arrangements and Components

3.1 Institutional Arrangements

ZAMSIF was managed by a semi-autonomous Management Unit based in the Ministry
of Finance and National Planning (MoFNP) and reporting to the Permanent Secretary,



                                              37

Budget and Economic Affairs Department through the Programme Director. The
Programme Director was supported by a management team comprising of Operations,
Technical Services and Finance and Administration. The operations of ZAMSIF were
decentralized to all nine provinces of Zambia through a network of Regional Offices
which supported and facilitated district and community level activities.

Committees at every level facilitated policy guidance and decision making for the
allocation of resources and ensured upward and downward information flows to
stakeholders. At the national level the National Steering Committee (NSC) provided
oversight, policy guidance and monitored the performance of the Project.

At the provincial level the Provincial Development Coordinating Committee (PDCC)
provided the necessary coordination at that level. In particular the Provincial Assessment
Team (PAT), a sub-committee of the PDCC was a key organ for assessing district
performance and recommending and undertaking appropriate capacity building
interventions.

At the district level the District Development Coordinating Committee (DDCC) was the
key coordinating body and a subordinate organ of the full Council. It was responsible for
planning and coordinating development activities at the district level and was supported
by several specialized sub-committees. The Full Council provided final authority in
approving community subprojects and various planning documents.

3.2 ZAMSIF Components

3.2.1 Community Investment Fund (CIF). This component accounted for expenditure
of US$ 38.630 million representing 56.2% of IDA funding. The CIF supported sub-
projects for basic social and economic infrastructure in education, health rural water and
sanitation, community transport infrastructure, income enhancement, natural resource
management and initiatives dealing with cross-cutting issues of HIV/AIDS, Gender,
Environment and Orphans and Vulnerable Children (OVC). The initiatives under this
component were aimed at stimulating local participation and productivity.

3.2.2 District Investment Fund (DIF).                 This component accounted for
expenditure of US$14.111 million representing 20.5% of IDA funding. The DIF
component had two sub-components:

(i) The capacity building sub-component provided funds to local governments and
administrations for capacity building and skills training for district officers and members
of communities on a demand led basis to enable them facilitate the activities of both CIF
and DIF project cycles, training of trainers for community capacity building such as
home based care, HIV/AIDS counselling and participatory techniques. The component
also supported the process of strengthening the capacity of local governments and
administrations in order to improve their strategic development planning, technical and
financial management capacity and thereby contribute to improved local governance.




                                             38

(ii) The district projects sub-component was available to district Councils to finance
capital projects in economic and social infrastructure benefiting more than one
community such as district health facilities, market places and bus stations.

In anticipation of gradual devolution of project cycle activities to local governments, a
major innovation in the whole capacity building framework was the introduction of
district assessments to assess district performance based on the capacity building ladder.
The graduation of districts on the ladder rewarded districts with more responsibilities,
resources and decision making powers according to the capacity attained. The ladder also
enabled dysfunctional districts to address their weaknesses.

3.2.3 Poverty Monitoring and Analysis (PMA).           This component accounted for
expenditure of US$ 3.569 million representing 5.2% of IDA funding. The variance of
US$ 0.569 between the PAD allocation and actual expenditure is insignificant and may
be due to price escalations during the implementation of the Project and exchange gain.
The component provided a framework for poverty monitoring and analysis activities and
enhanced the linkages of these activities to policy making. The overall objective of the
PMA component was to strengthen the capacity of national and district level institutions
to provide timely information on poverty levels and social conditions and facilitate its use
in policy making. The PMA had two sub-components:

(i) The poverty monitoring sub-component which was aimed at financing capacity
building and data collection through the LMCS; and
(ii) the poverty analysis sub-component which was aimed at financing research studies on
poverty and social issues in a demand driven framework.

For purposes of sustainability, the survey part was implemented by the Living Conditions
Monitoring Branch (LCMB) of the Central Statistical Office (CSO) while the studies part
was expected to be gradually integrated into the Strategic Operations Planning Unit
(SOPU) of the MoFNP where its role would be to mainstream study findings into policy
formulation and the planning process.

The PMA component financed a range of activities that were designed to strengthen the
institutional, technical and financial framework for sustainable monitoring and policy-use
of poverty information. The component supported the establishment of a district
management information system to strengthen district capacity for data collection and
analysis.

3.2.4 Institutional Support.            This component accounted for expenditure of
US$20.586 million representing 30% of IDA funding. Of this 16.2% supported
administration costs while 13.8% supported training and capacity building. The variation
of US$6.385 between PAD allocation (US$ 14.200) and actual expenditure was due to (i)
increased capacity building in districts, communities (handholding) and staff of the
Project, (ii) general price escalation during Project implementation, and (iii) cost of office
accommodation not budgeted for from November 2001 to end of the Project. In addition,
other expenditure items under this component included Information, Education and



                                              39

Communication (IEC) campaign strategy, fiduciary requirements of independent audit,
administration and operating costs such as purchase of motor vehicles and office
equipment.

Section 4       Assessment of the Project. ZAMSIF activities closed on 31st December
2005. The project closed at a time when GRZ had completed the IMS (2004) which
shows improvements in some poverty and social indicators. Poverty levels dropped from
73% in 1998 to 68% in 2004 with rural poverty recorded at 78% compared to 83% in
1998 while urban poverty stood at 53% from 56% in 1998. There was a reduction in the
number of people living below the poverty line from 58% in 1998 to 53% in 2004. The
situation of orphans however deteriorated from 16% in 1998 to 18% in 2004.
The Project was rated moderately satisfactory at the close in December 2005. Positive
results (Annex 2 of the Bank ICR) in the form of construction and rehabilitation of roads
and bridges, schools, health facilities, water and sanitation facilities improved the quality
of infrastructure and therefore service delivery. The Project increased access to and
utilization of social and economic services.

The quality of infrastructure and services certainly changed the lives of many individuals,
community groups and communities. These achievements suggest that ZAMSIF being
the single largest poverty reduction agency for GRZ at the time made a contribution to
the positive movement in the poverty indicators described above.

The Project closed as scheduled and the whole credit was disbursed inclusive of an
exchange gain of US$ 4.03 million. The total disbursed was therefore US$ 68.730 million
against a budgeted amount of US$ 64.7 million. GRZ total contribution as per PAD was
expected to be US$ 5.0 million. However based on actual financial requirements (based
on budgets approved from 2000 to 2005) the amount reduced to US$ 2.673 million. The
actual availability of funds throughout the implementation of the Project was
unpredictable and irregular from GRZ.

Communities contributed about 15% of subproject costs in the form of labour, local
materials and or cash. It is estimated that this amounted to approximately US$ 5.8 million
compared to US$ 4.50 million estimated in the PAD thereby representing 28.8%.

4.1 Amendment of DCA.           Disbursements to infrastructure development of the Project
were slow in the first two years owing to among other reasons lack of understanding of
the Indicative Planning Figure (IPF) modalities and non-implementation of the National
Decentralization Policy (NDP) by GRZ. In order to improve performance of the
ZAMSIF Project, it was found necessary to amend the DCA.

In May 2003, DCA amendments were effected to provide for IAPSO procurement and
increased the threshold for procurement under shopping. In order to reduce the lead-time
to first disbursement of funds to sub-projects the DCA was amended to allow processing
of sub-project applications on "absence of objection basis" by a Technical Sub-
Committee of the NSC.




                                              40

During the MTR held in August 2003, a number of amendments were recommended and
these were effected in March 2004 in order to realign the operational procedures to the
strategy that had been developed for the Project. The following items were therefore
amended:
    · Project Development Objective
    · Special account limit (increased from US$3million to US$8million)
    · Procurement aggregates
    · Definition of operating costs
    · Performance indicators
    · Schedule 1 (reallocation)

In June 2005, it was clear that schedule 1 would not accommodate expenditures to be
incurred under various categories to the end of the Project. A request to reallocate
schedule 1 was approved by IDA and the amendment was effected in November 2005.

Restructuring of the Project at MTR had many positive impacts on the overall
implementation of the Project. Commitments and disbursements improved tremendously
while movements of districts on the capacity building ladder improved. Among other
tasks, the introduction of operational planning and a strategic re-alignment of the
components brought the Project back on track as discussed at Section 5 (ii).

4.2 Project Development Objective (PDO).             ZAMSIF original PDO was "to
contribute to the achievement of improved, expanded and sustainable use of services
provided in a governance system where local governments and communities are mutually
accountable".

During the MTR, the achievement of the PDO was rated unsatisfactory (US) due to
overall poor performance of the Project. Rewording of the PDO was effected to read "to
contribute to the achievement of improved, expanded and sustainable use of services
provided in a governance system where local governments and communities would
become mutually accountable". The rewording was made in the context of unsatisfactory
progress on project implementation. Commitments, disbursements and progression of
districts on the capacity building ladder were considerably behind target. There was no
indication that GRZ would proceed to implement the National Decentralization Policy
(NDP).

4.3 Project Design. The design assumptions were ambitious in terms of
implementation of the NDP. The policy though approved by Cabinet in October 2002
during the early life of the Project was never implemented. This affected the performance
of the Project. The policy was launched by the President on 20th August 2004 and the
timeframe for implementation is now ten (10) years from the date of the launch long after
implementation of the Project. The Decentralization Implementation Plan (DIP) had not
been approved by Cabinet Office even by the date of this report.

4.4 Achievement of Project Development Objective.                     At the close of the
Project, ZAMSIF had made considerable progress in achieving "improved, expanded and



                                             41

sustainable use of services provided in a governance system where local governments and
communities would become mutually accountable". Under the CIF the Project created
numerous assets that improved the quality and accessibility to services by beneficiaries.
The improvements made real life differences in people's lives and most cost effectively
than GRZ, private sector or donor financed initiatives. The bottom up approach to
community development enabled communities to manage their own sub-projects
including funds. DIF components built capacity at district and community levels to
improve performance, transparency and accountability and governance. The PMA
achieved most of its target outputs but did not fully achieve its integration objectives into
the MoFNP.

4.5 Achievement by component                    Based on key performance indicators
presented in Annex 2 of the World Bank ICR, it is clear that the CIF, DIF and
Institutional Support components substantially achieved their target output objectives
while the PMA component though achieving most of its output targets did not fully
achieve its integration objective.

4.6     Sustainability          Social fund models that channel funds directly to
communities have been perceived as models that bypass Government and therefore not
sustainable in the long-term. It is true that ZAMSIF channelled funds directly to
communities but the Project was designed deliberately to work through the existing
institutions in order to ensure sustainability. A unique strategy of building capacity within
those institutions was for purposes of sustainability.

According to the Risk Management and Sustainability Study (2005), even the
sustainability of infrastructure and service delivery under the CIF component was found
to be feasible but could not be guaranteed due to resource constraints within community,
sector and even local authority. This is exacerbated by the ad-hoc intergovernmental
transfer system which has failed to guarantee predictable recurrent costs at the local level.
This is now being addressed through fiscal decentralization.
However Government interest in community based approaches employed by ZAMSIF
was based on the belief that they would lead to:
    · Better targeting of resources to help communities
    · Reduced corruption and misuse of resources so that more development assistance
        would reach the poor and
    · Increased transparency and accountability by working directly with the ultimate
        beneficiaries.

The sustainability of ZAMSIF through components supported may not be evident now
because the effect of some interventions take long to manifest. Capacity building
interventions for example take long to bear fruit. The sustainability of ZAMSIF as a
project is better assessed through systems and procedures developed overtime which have
the propensity to be used within Government operations. Below are some of the systems
and procedures:




                                              42

    i)       Distribution of resources to districts through the IPF ­ the IPF was a pre-
             determined amount of money allocated to a district to be used over a five year
             period (2000-2005). It was designed as a composite index based on population,
             poverty and deprivation. This index was formula based and transparent in
             allocating resources to districts. It was used by the Project in a similar manner
             as an objective intergovernmental fiscal transfer system.
    ii)      Transparency and accountability in the utilization of resources ­ direct
             funding to communities through the CIF did not only improve Government
             response to community needs (downward accountability) but also improved
             the capacity of community capacity to account for allocated resources and
             even to make demands on Government for additional resources (upward
             accountability).
    iii)     District planning ­ ZAMSIF insisted that a plan was an important tool for
             targeting resources and encouraged many stakeholders to harmonize the
             planning processes and procedures. The introduction of clear planning stages
             has since made planning a rewarding exercise.
    iv)      Project cycle system ­ districts used the project cycle as an important
             instrument for managing the various aspects of a project and also for
             information sharing.
    v)       Procurement procedures ­ these were simplified to accommodate capacities of
             communities and made it much easier for district teams to supervise the whole
             procurement process and make it more transparent.
    vi)      District Performance Assessments ­ these were standardized and applied
             throughout the country using indicators from the capacity building ladder.
             Based on performance, the assessments enabled a district to graduate to a
             higher level for additional responsibilities or to demand additional capacity
             building support if the district was underperforming.

Section 5.       Overall Implementation and Operations Experience

ZAMSIF operated within GRZ policy and therefore enjoyed political commitment from
top GRZ leadership. There was smooth collaboration between ZAMSIF and all sector
ministries and departments at national, provincial and district levels. However, the
following challenges were experienced:

    i)       Non implementation of the NDP
ZAMSIF was designed on the assumption that GRZ would implement the NDP and that
the Project activities would gradually be devolved to district administrations where
project cycle activities would be facilitated by district officers. The NDP was approved
by Cabinet in 2002 but was never implemented. Non implementation of the NDP
became a major challenge throughout the implementation of the Project because this
implied constrained budgetary resources and limitations in human resource capacities at
the district level.




                                                43

    ii)     Inadequate funds for projects
The major objective of ZAMSIF was to build community capacity to demand and
manage development resources. This was accomplished through learning- by- doing
process where the funds financed initiatives which the communities implemented and
managed. This process created so much demand among communities that they started to
hold Government accountable for not committing additional resources towards their
priorities. There was so much demand that the available IPF was inadequate to meet the
proposals generated.

As at close of the Project 75 project proposals had been processed and received by
ZAMSIF Head Office but could not be funded due to inadequate funds. At the average
cost of US$ 80,000 per sub-project, ZAMSIF needed US$ 6.0 million to commit to these
projects.

    iii)    Negative perceptions of the Project.
Because of its operational autonomy and direct funding to communities, many
stakeholders perceived ZAMSIF as a donor and not a Government project. ZAMSIF had
three roles; a donor, an assessor and a provider. Some members of the donor community
felt uncomfortable with this position and queried the role of both building capacity and
funding projects. Critics felt that the Project was loosely integrated with the overall
administration and therefore operating not as part of government but parallel to
government. Some stakeholders felt that the Project structure was confusing beneficiaries
and not contributing to normal government reforms.

Section 6.      Major factors affecting implementation.
There were many positive and negative factors that affected the implementation of the
project. The timely and successful completion of the Project can be attributed to the
positive factors. They included the following :
   i.   Enabling environment provided to the Project by GRZ through provision of clear
        policy guidelines ;
  ii.   Allocating of Project activities to GRZ officials ;
 iii.   Availability of GRZ counterpart funding ;
 iv.    Smooth flow of financial resources from IDA ;
  v.    Availability of predictable technical support from IDA ;
 vi.    Clear procedures and guidelines from IDA ;
vii.    Clear roles and responsibilities among key stakeholders in the implementation of
        the Project ; and
viii.   Active community participation through various types of contribution to sub-
        projects costs.

However some of the negative factors included the following:

i). Non implementation of the NDP.              As described at section 4.1 and 5 (i) above,
the non implementation of the NDP significantly affected the performance of the Project
because the implementation of the NDP was a critical assumption for the success of the



                                              44

Project. ZAMSIF is seen as having contributed positively to commencement of the
implementation of the policy by preparing the districts a head of the of the DIP approval
by Cabinet.

ii. Drought.    During the 2001/2002 farming season, Zambia experienced drought. This
affected community participation especially in areas where drought was severe. The
result was that in some areas, communities withdrew their labour and other local
contributions from the sub-projects as they were preoccupied with casual work for cash
to buy food thereby affecting the rate of implementation.

As a mitigation strategy, Government requested ZAMSIF to support activities to cushion
the impact of drought in 38 districts that were severely affected. The activities included
primarily high labour content ones such as road works and small dams. ZAMSIF worked
in very close liaison with the Emergency Drought Relief Credit (EDRC), executed in the
office of the Vice President under the Disaster Management and Monitoring Unit
(DMMU). ZAMSIF funding for these projects was drawn from the respective district
Indicative Planning Figures.

iii. Prices.    Although the Project benefited from the exchange gain of US$ 4.03
million, cost-over-runs were experienced on some individual sub-projects arising from
general increases in prices and poor budgeting by district staff. Such projects received
supplementary funding to enable them complete the agreed activities. A total of 92 CIF
subprojects (16.6 %) overspent by as much as US$ 1.352 million. ZAMSIF strategy for
mitigating over expenditure was to handhold communities and district staff during
procurement.

iv. Contractor projects.                In some cases delayed implementation of sub-
projects was due to inadequate capacities among contractors engaged to do the works.

v. Focus on outputs and not outcomes.            As many sub-projects had a significant
infrastructure component and because most sub-projects were supported for one year
there was a tendency among key partners to focus on outputs rather than outcomes.

vi. Size of subprojects.                To assure service delivery, most ZAMSIF sub-
projects were supplied as a package. In some cases the size of sub-projects became too
big in relation to the capacity of communities to implement. Such sub-projects
experienced delays in implementation and experienced cost-over-runs.

vii. Staff turnover.        District staff attrition was a significant problem during the life
of the Project. This was due to poor conditions of service in GRZ and local authorities
and due to the impact of HIV/AIDS. The outcomes of capacity building interventions
were negatively affected and thereby affecting the implementation of the Project.

viii. ZAMSIF MU support to other programmes..                Due to the successful and
efficient performance of SRP, community based components of other programmes
namely Community Transport Infrastructure (CTI), Basic Education Sub-Sector



                                               45

Investment Programme (BESSIP) and Pilot Environmental Fund (PEF) were appended to
the Project for implementation. These components together with Community Response to
HIV/AIDS (CRAIDS) were subsequently appended to the successor Project ZAMSIF for
overall management. Because ZAMSIF was already a large Project by design, these
additional components significantly overstretched the capacities of staff.

Section 7.      Government Performance during the development and
implementation of the Project
Overall, GRZ performed well during the development and implementation of the Project.
Enabling environment was provided for the whole design process to appraisal which
culminated into signing a DCA with IDA for a total Credit of US$ 64.7 million in June
2000.

In addition and as part of its commitment, most of ZAMSIF activities were performed by
GRZ staff at both provincial and district levels. GRZ provided office accommodation to
all 12 ZAMSIF Regional Offices during the implementation of the Project. During the
MTR, GRZ responded adequately to the implementation problems the Project was
experiencing and together with the Bank team went through a thorough and
comprehensive restructuring of the Project to bring it back on course and ensure
successful implementation and completion.

GRZ was expected to defray costs of the Project expenditures not financed from the
proceeds of the credit. The amount as per PAD was US$ 5.0 million. However based on
actual implementation of the Project and the financial requirements, this amount was
agreed at US$ 2.673 million in August 2004. At closure of the Project, GRZ performed
well in this aspect by releasing US$ 2.504million as total contribution to the Project
leaving a shortfall of US$ 0.169 (6.32%). The availability of GRZ funds during the life
of the Project was not as regular as expected. It was only towards the end of the Project
that most of the contribution was provided by GRZ.

Section 8.      IDA's Performance during the development and implementation of
the Project

The IDA of the World Bank performed well during the development and implementation
of ZAMSIF. The Bank teams facilitated all design processes to appraisal which
culminated into signing a DCA with the Government in June 2000. Upon signing the
DCA Government was entitled to receive US$ 64.7 million for the Project. Cash inflow
from the Bank was regular, predictable and adequate.

Bank technical support both during project preparation and implementation was adequate.
During project implementation Bank missions visited Zambia several times. The
missions contributed significantly to supporting implementation. In particular the Bank
facilitated the MTR restructuring and helped the Project to get back on track. During the
missions the TTL together with other Bank staff visited a number of sub-projects to
assess operations on the ground and held discussions with district teams, provincial teams
and communities in various districts.



                                            46

However there were occasions when the Bank response to procurement matters was slow.
This negatively affected the rate of implementation of some of the sub-projects involved
in such procurement. It is hoped that the Bank will draw lessons from ZAMSIF on this
matter and make amends in the manner procurement issues are dealt with.

Section 9. Major Lessons Learnt

  i.   Direct financing and community contribution lower the cost to Government of
       delivering infrastructure.

  ii.  Use of Indicative Planning Figure to allocate resources.         The IPF was a pre-
       determined amount of money that was allocated to all the 72 districts in Zambia
       based on a composite index. Given the agreed components in the index, it was a
       transparent and objective system of transferring resources from the centre to the
       lower tier of GRZ administration. It can be used as a basis for designing an
       intergovernmental fiscal transfer system for Zambia.

 iii.  Diversification of sub-project portfolio.      There was an improvement in the
       sub-project portfolio from the traditional dominant sectors of education and health
       to non-traditional sectors of roads, HIV/AIDS and income enhancement. However
       it appears public-private partnerships at prioritization level of sub-projects may
       help make more progress in local economic development type sub-projects.

 iv.   Well-defined communication strategy (IEC).              IEC strategy facilitated the
       effective and efficient implementation of the project cycle activities. It was a
       powerful tool for fostering community social capital and empowerment. Many
       community members benefited significantly from the information flows as a
       result of IEC activities. Information flows through radio, newspapers, newsletters
       and electronic media improved substantially top down and bottom up
       accountability.


  v.   Guidelines and procedures.              Given clear guidelines and procedures, it
       was evident that districts are able to support community development and ensure
       accountability of resources. Guidelines and processes ensured that sub-projects
       supported were addressing community priority needs and helped communities
       open up to local opportunities.

 vi.   Inadequate design for monitoring.              ZAMSIF was more focused on
       measuring quantitative goals of outputs than on qualitative goals of outcome
       because of an implicit assumption that meeting quantitative goals will
       automatically fulfil the qualitative goals. However, measuring outcomes requires
       a different set of indicators that equally require a clear baseline in the design
       phase.




                                             47

vii.  Government commitment to policy implementation ­ Experience during
      implementation of ZAMSIF showed that it is critical to design programmes or
      projects on the basis of existing policy and not on anticipated or expected policy
      as this may not materialize.

viii. Predictable allocation of resources ­ the IPF concept allocated resources to
      districts based on poverty levels and vulnerability. It was apparent during the
      implementation of ZAMSIF that the nation requires a more predictable
      intergovernmental fiscal transfer system from which programmes such as LDP
      can benefit.

 ix.  District Assessments based on capacity building ladder: this was an ideal
      entry point for capacity building interventions and enabled targeting resources to
      needy areas. It still remains a relevant tool for awarding recurrent and capital
      grants for district councils and recommending interventions.




                                            48

Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Refer to Section 7 (iii).




                                    49

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


  (1)    Project preparation documents
  (2)    ZAMSIF PAD
  (3)    Back to Office Reports, ISRs and Aide Memoires
  (4)    Project Annual and Bi-annual Reports
  (5)    Environmental Analysis (2000).
  (6)    Beneficiary Assessment (February 2003)
  (7)    Implementation Risk Management and Sustainability (July 2005)
  (8)    LCMS Report 2004
  (9)    Indicator Monitoring Survey
  (10)   MTR Management Evaluation (March 2003)
  (11)   ZAMSIF Evaluation Study (2008)




                                        50

