Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIClAL USE ONLY
::;   . -, *  
I .''!: . ' '  , . ,.,ReportNo. 10114
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ISTAŽNBUL SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2159-TU)
NOVEMBER 20, 1991
Infrastructure Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Turkish Lira (TL)
December 1981 - TL 130 - US$1.00 (SAR)
December 1988 - TL 1790 - US$1.00
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
ISKI    -    Istanbul Water Supply and Sewerage General Directorate
DSI     -    State Hydraulic Works
IB      -    Iller Bankasi (Bank of the Provinces)
ISI     -    Istanbul Water Authority
FISCAI. YEAR
January 1 - December 31



THE WORlO SANK                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Wa0swngton. O.C. 20433
US A
OfftC. of Dlffetor-o.neal
Ope*rAttIM ral3iattos
November 20. 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:      Project Completion Report on Turkey
Istanbul Sewerage Prolect (Loan 2159-TU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Turkey - Istanbul Sewerage Poject (Loan 2159-TU)" prepared
by the Operations Evaluation Department.
_- >
y;
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFE-ZIAL USE ONLY
THE WORlD BANK
Washinjton. DC. 20433
U.S.A.
Operations Evalutioen                     REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ISTANBUL SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2159-TU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No,
Preface      .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .i
Evaluation Summary   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             ii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . . .                                                      1 . . . . . . . . . . .
2.   Background     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .1
3.   Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             2
4.   Project Design and Organization  ...  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    3
5.  Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              4
6.   Project Results  ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  5
7.   Project Sustainability   .6...  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  6
8.   Bank Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             6
9.   Borrower Performance and Financial Aspects   . . . . . . . . . .                             6
10. Project Relationship
- Auditing by Independent External Auditor  . . . . . . . . . .                           12
11. Consulting Services.  Contractors and Suppliers   . . . . . . . .                            12
12. Project Documentation and Data   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             12
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE.
1.   Comment on Part I of PCR   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            13
2.   Comment on Part III of PCR   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            13
3.   Evaluation of Bank's Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            13
4.   Evaluation of ISKI Performance   ...  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   13
5.   Relationship with Bank   ....  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION.
1.  Related Bank Loans   ....  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  15
2.   Project Timetable  ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  16
3.   Loan Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            16
4.   Project Implementation   . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .  . . . . .                            17
5.   Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            18
6.   Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            19
7.   Status of Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            23
8.  Use of Staff Resources   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ISTANBUL SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2159-TU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) reviews the preparation,
implementation and achievements of the Istanbul Sewerage Project (Loan 2159-
TU), for which a loan of US $88.1 million was made to Istanbul Water Supply
and Sewerage General Directorate (ISKI) which was also the implementing agency
for the project. The Loan Agreement was signed in May 1982, became effective
in January 1983, and was closed on schedule on December 31, 1988. The Loan
accounts were kept open until September 30, 1989 and a small amount (about
US$54,000) was cancelled on that date. The project components included in the
original project description were completed in December 1988. Interceptors
North of the Golden Horn were added to the project description in October
1985, and some sections were actually financed by the Bank. The sections
which were not financed by the Bank are scheduled to be completed by the end
of 1991.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Division of the
Country Department I (Pakistan and Turkey) of the Europe, Middle East and
North Africa Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the
Borrower (Part II). It is based, inter alia, on the review of the Staff
Appraisal Report, Loan Agreement, Supervision reports, correspondence between
the Bank and the Borrower and internal Bank memorancda.



ii
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ISTANBUL SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2159-TU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMNhRY
Objectives
Project objectives were: (i) to extend and improve the coverage of
sewerage services to about 60% of the total population in the Greater Istanbul
area covering about 70% of the low income group; (ii) to improve environmental
conditions by the reduction of the amount of sewage being improperly
discharged along the shorelines of the Golden Horn rnd the Sea of Marmara:
(iii) to improve institutional capacity in project preparation and
implementation, operation and maintenance, and financial management; and
(iv) to achieve some degree of financial self-sufficiency of the project
entity by the introduction of adequate water supply and sewerage charges.
ImDlementation Experience
The project was completed in December 1988, one year behind appraisal
estimate. Most of the delays occurred before signature of the contracts. Once
the contracts were placed, construction went according to schedule. The
actual total cost of the project amounted to US$231.7 million equivalent as
compared with a projected cost at appraisal of $222 million, i.e. only an
increase of 4% (para 5.03). At the end of 1984, analysis of the revised
project costs estimate indicated that the works would cost less than estimated
at appraisal and that the Loan could accommodate an extension of the project
works. In October 1985, works North of the Golden Horn (Kabatas Interceptors,
tunnel, treatment plant and outfall) were added to the proje-t (para. 5.02).
However, it turned out later that the costs of these additional works had been
underestimated and that only part of one contract for the Northern
interceptors could be financed under the Loan, the other part being financed
only by ISKI. The Northern Interceptors are scheduled to be completed by the
end of 1991.
Actual disbursements lagged during the first four years of
implementation (para 5.04). This was due to the six months delay in
effectiveness of the Loan and the average of one year delay in placing the
major contracts. Disbursements were close to forecasts during the remaining
four years.
Results
The major objectives of the project were met. The works originally
expected to be constructed were completed. In addition to the works originally
determined, part of interceptors at the north of the Golden Horn and about 876
km of water lines were constructed under the project. Largely as a result of
the project, the number of sewerage connections increased from 434,000 in 1982
to 548,000 in 1989.



liii
The sewage of the Yenikapi Drainage Area, which consists mainly of the
old part of the City, is now intercepted and submitted to primary treatment
(screening and partial sedimentation to remove floating materials and grit)
before being pumped into the uiLder current of the Bosphorus where it is
diluted. It is estimated that the sewage from the City running off at the
surface into the Bosphorus and into the Sea of Marmara is being reduced
approximately 30% by the Yenikapi Pretreatment Works. However, some experts
argue that while all Yenikapi effluent is initially directed towards the Black
Sea as designed (para. 4.03), about 45% is mixing into the upper current and
returning to the Sea of Marmara. This fig-re is not the result of scientific
observations, but is based on: (i) measurements of salinity and flows in the
upper and lower currents; (ii) assumptions regarding the zones where transfers
of water between upper and lower current take place; and (iii) an assumption
that transfer of effluent from lower to upper current are equivalent to
transfer of salinity from lower to upper current. In order to test these
assumptions and better determine what actually happens to material released at
the bottom of the Bosphorus, a study based on direct measurements of effluent
marked by tracers is being carried out by the Middle-East Technical University
(para 6.03). The original design was based on many years of measurements and
analysis and was widely accepted as the preferred economic and technical
solution at the time. The on-going study reflects the increase environment
awareness in the Istanbul area and a greater willingness of politicians and
beneficiaries to consider financing more environmentally desirable
investments.
Sustainability
ISKI has the technical and financial ability to operate and maintain the
installed facilities. While financial self-sufficiency was considered too
ambitious an objective at the time of project appraisal,,ISKI's financial
policy has developed in a highly favorable manner since that time. Commencing
in 1988, ISKI adopted a policy to cover all operation and maintenance costs,
debt service and to cover more than 45% of its investments, as it was
covenanted in the Loan Agreement (Ln 2888-TU) of the subsequent project
approved by the Board. Actually, ISKI financed 50% of its investments during
the 1988-90 period (para. 9.05). These financing policy changes may be
attributed to: (i) growing concern in the Government during the period
regarding the Government's fiscal deficit; (ii) growing belief among municipal
authorities in Istanbul as well as among authorities in the Government, that
the financial capacity of the Ist,.nbul Municipality, and in particular of the
water/sewerage sector in Istanbul, was greater than previously thought; and
(iii) the successful "testing" of ISKI's self-financing capacity (i.e.,
demonstrated self-financing increases by ISKI as implementation of the Project
took place while Government contributions were being reduced).
Findings and Lessons Learned
The most significant lesson of the Project was the demonstration of the
high degree of sector self-financing capacity in Greater Istanbul. The lesson
has already been influential with respect to self-financing for the sector in
Ankara and in Izmir. The influence is expected to extend to other large and
medium sized Turkish cities. The project also showed that: (i) tariffs at



iv
levels calling for household water/sewerage spending of 3-4X of household
income, and industrial and commercial tariffs from two to three times the
household average, seem to be acceptable to the public; and (ii' political
inhibition against the making of tariff adjustments needed to reach and to
maintain these levels can be overcome by the municipal authority.



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ISTANBUL SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2159-TU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. identi
Project Name:      Istanbul Sewerage Project
Loan No.:          2159-TU
RV? Unit:          EMENA
Country:           Turkey
Sector:           Water Supply and Sewerage
Sub-Sector:        Sewerage
2. Backcground
2.01        Traditionally, the planning, design and construction of new water
supply and sewerage systems were carried out by central government
organizations: State Hydraulic Works (DSI), Iller Bankasi (Bank of Provinces),
and the Directorate for Roads, Water and Electricity. However, in 1980, the
Government introduced a policy to decentralize gradually major developmental
responsibilities from national to local administrations in order to improve
planning, operation and cost recovery for municipal services. In 1981, the
Government created greater municipal areas in large urban centers, Istanbul,
Ankara, Izmir, and Adana. The water and sewerae- -ervices of small
municipalities in each greater municipal area were merged with those of the
urban center. In November 1981, the Istanbul Water Supply and Sewerage General
Directorate (ISKI) was created to take over the planning, design,
construction, operation and maintenance of all water supply and sewerage
services of the Istanbul Water Supply Authority (ISI), of the Istanbul
Municipal Sewerage Department and of the 24 surrounding municipalities. This
was the first case of the Government's consolidating the municipal efforts for
municipal services in the sector while shifting (decentralizing)
responsibilities formerly held by Central Government agencies to the
Municipality.
2.02        In 1981, sewer systems existed only in major cities serving about
4.4 million people or 18% of total urban population. None of these systems
included treatment, and only a few had adequate disposal facilities.
Precarious sanitary conditions prevailed, particularly in high density, low
income, urban areas. Considering that the need for efficient sewage disposal
is greatest in the large cities, the Government requested the Bank's
assistance for development of the sewerage system in Istanbul.



- 2-
3.  Prgjggt.Djegtives a1d,Desrntion
3.01        The major project objectives were:
(i)   to extend and improve the coverage of sewerage services, by
rehabilitation and extension of the sewage collection
networks to about 60% of the total population in Greater
Istanbul covering about 70% of the low income group
(population earning less than 1000 TL/month in 1973 pricer);
(ii)  to improve the environmental conditions by the reduction of
the amount of sewage being discharged along the shorelines
of the Golden Horn and the Sea of Marmara by the
construction of a sewage intercepting system;
(iii) to provide satisfactory sewage disposal by the construction
of pre-treatment facilities and a deep submarine outfall
main;
(iv)  to improve institutional capacity in project preparation and
implementation, operation and maintenance, and financial
management b- the development of a suitable organization;
and
(v)   to assure some degree of financial self-sufficiency by the
introduction of increased water supply and sewerage charges
(see para. 9.05).
3.02        The project consisted of the following major components
concentrated mainly in the South Halic (South of Golden Horn) area, that is in
the old city of Istanbul:
(i)   laterals and collectors (285 km);
(ii)  interceptors (26 km);
(iii) tunnel (2.4 km);
(iv)  pre-treatment works with in and outlet pumping stations;
(v)   pumping mains (2.3 km); and
(vi)  submarine outfall main (2.0 km).
3.03        The project included also: (i) consulting services; (ii)
industrial wastewater and oceanographic surveys for pollution control; (iii)
laboratory facilities and operation and maintenance equipment; and (iv) a
training center.



- 3-
4, Projectg-esien and Or anization
4.01        The Project was prepared as a follow-up of the Istanbul Water
Supply Project for which Loan 844-TU was made to ISI in 1.972. Preparation
began in 1978 with the up-dating of the existing Istanbul sewerage master
plan. Project processing was delayed repeatedly until, finally, ISKI was
formed. The project, which assisted a new autonomous organization, ISKI, in a
large municipality was in line with the Government policy of decentralization
and increased cost recovery in the sector. The assistance provided to ISKI
helped in strengthening an organization recognized as a model for sector
organization in rurkey's municipalities. The timing of the project was
appropriate because construction of appropriate sewage disposal facilities
was long overdue and sewerage networks did not keep pace with the rapidly
growing population in Istanbul.
4.02        The Golden Horn received a significant domestic and industrial
pollution load which far exceeded the dispersion and assimilative capacity of
the water body and resulted in anaerobic conditions. Polluted water from the
city along the shores of the Golden Hoin and the Bosphorus was running off
into the Bosphorus near the surface, where a freshwater current carried it
into the Sea of Marmara, and much of it onto the City's Marmara shores. The
project was *he first phase of the sewerage master plan which allows no
discharge into the Golden Horn, primary and secondary treatment for all
discharge into the Sea of Marmara, and primary treatment with a long and deep
outfall for all discharge into the Bosphorus. The project included only one
sea outfall located at the entrance of the Bosphorus. For discharge into the
Bosphorus an alternative of primary and secondary treatment with a short
outfall was considered but the chosen alternative was found more economical
while environmentally acceptable because of the existence of a strong
saltwater under current (10,600 m3/s) flowing at the bottom of the Bosphorus
and in the direction of the Black Sea. It was expected that with an existing
dischargo of about 3.6 m3/s of pretreated effluent and submarine outfall
equipped with diffusers laid at about 50 m deep, an initial dilution of about
1 to 100 is obtained, which, because of the significant flow, increases
rapidly enabling a natural treatment process to take place without causing
environmental problems.
4.03        Although the above deAign/master plan was based on many years of
measurements and analysis (including flow, salinity, pollution, underwater
topogranhy) by marine scientists, supported by international engineering
firms, reviewed and approved by all interested parties, including local
Government and local university professors, it was strongly criticized early
1989, after Yenikapi had been commissioned, by the newly elected municipal
government supported by some local university professors (see para. 6.03).
4.04        The design of the large interceptors took archeological
considerations into account. The Archeological Commission reviewed the
proposed design and concurred with the construction of a tunnel to minimize
destruction which would have been created by open cut trenches.



v4 
5.   J      r tj.pc lmilem entarion
5.01        The project components included in the original project
description were implemented from May 1982 to December 1988. They were
virtually completed by the date originally estimated for Loan closing, one
year behind the appraisal estimace for Completion date. For some of the late
civil works contracts, the final payments were not financed un ar the Loan.
Most of the delays occurred before signature of the contracts. Once the
contracts were placed, construction went according to schedule. (See
comparison of bar charts in Part III, para. 4).
5.02        At the end of 1984, analysis of the revised project cost estimates
indicated that the works would cost less than estimated at appraisal and that
the Loan could accommodate an extension of the project works. In October 1985,
works North of the Golden Horn (Kabatas Interceptors, tunnel, treatment plant
and outfall) were added to the project. However, it turned out later that Xhe
works had been underestimated and that only part of one contract for the
Northern interceptors could be financed under the Loan, the other part being
financed only by ISKI. The sections of the Northern interceptors that are not
financed by the Bank are scheduled to be completed by the end of 1991.
5.03        A comparison of appraisal and actual costs by component is shown
in Part III, para. 5 A. The actual total cost of the project amounts to
US$231.7 million equivalent as compared with $222 million, i.e. only an
increase of 4%. The closeness of total cost figures hides substantial
variances on major components. The larger actual cost for the secondary
sewerage system (not financed under the Loan) is due to the greater total
length of laterals and collectors constructed under the project. Interceptors
were less costly because of their reduced total length (Part III, para. 6 A),
while the Fatih tunnel was more costly because of its higher total length.
This is the result of the difficulty acquiring land through expropriation in
order to *.xcavate trenches and construct interceptors in dense urban areas.
While the Bank's present policy is to have the land for sewage treatment
plants acquired before the project is approved by the Board, the policy does
not apply to interceptors since this would be neither feasible nor economical
considering the multiplicity of individual pieces of land to be acquired and
the long period of time involved in some of the acquisition. The cost of the
pre-treatment facilities and marine outfall was overestimated at appraisal
(reflecting in part the rapid depreciation in the value of the Turkish Lira
during project implementation). Savings on these two components were used for
the purchase of ductile iron pipes for water distribution (para. 6.01) and
construction of part of the sewage interceptors in the northern part of the
Golden Horn (para 5.02).
5.04        Disbursement forecasts are compared to actual disbursements in
Part III, para. 3. While actual disbursements lagged during the first four
years of implementation, they were very close to forecasts during the
remaining four years. This is due to the six months delay in effectiveness of
the Loan and the average of one year delay in placing the major contracts.



-5-
6. Project Results
6.01        The major objectives of the project (para. 3.1) have been met.
The works originally expected to be constructed have been completed, except
for the connection of the Zeytinburnu pumping station which has been postponed
pending remedial civil works to this station. Design of the civil works was
difficult because of poor geological conditions. The works are now ready to
be tendered. Para. 6 A, in Part III gives a summarized description of the
works actually achieved. The sewerage facilities constructed under the
project fit in the municipality's overall environmental nlan for the clean-up
of Istanbul, including the relocation of industries outside the area and
creation of parks along the Golden Horn. In addition to the works originally
determined, part of the interceptors north of the Golden Horn and about 876 km
of water lines have been constructed under th.e project. Mainly because of the
project, the number of sewerage connections increased from 434,000 in 1982 to
548,000 in 1989 (Part III, para. 6.B). The sewerage facilities were built in
the oldest part ef the city where mainly poor people live. It is estimated
that the objective of serving 70% of the low income group (para. 3.01 (i)) has
been reached.
6.02        The sewage of the Yenikapi Drainage Area, which consists mainly of
the old part of the City, is now intercepted and submitted to primary
treatment (screening and partial sedimentation to remove floating materials
and grit) before being pumped into the under current of the Bosphorus where it
is diluted. It is estimated that the sewage from the City running off at the
surface into the Bosphorus and into the Sea of Marmara is being reduced
appraximately 30% by the Yenikapi Primary Treatment Works. The remaining 70%
continues to flow into the upper layers of the Bosphorus and the Marmara Sea
without any form of treatment. Most of the remaining sewage will be
intercepted, treated and discharged under the subsequent project (Loan 2888-
TU) and according to the criteria agreed in the Sewerage Master Plan.
6.03        However, some experts argue that while all Yenikapi effluent is
initially directed towards the Black Sea as designed (para. 4.02), about 45%
is mixing into the upper current and returning to the Sea of Marmara. This
figure is not the result of scientific observations, but is based on:
(i) measurements of salinity and flows in the upper and lower currents;
(ii) assumptions regarding the zones where transfers of water between upper
and lower current take place, and (iii) an assumption that transfer of
effluent from lower to upper current are equivalent to transfer of salinity
from lower to upper current. In order to test these assumptions and better
determine what actually happens to material released at the bottom of the
Bosphorus, a study based on direct measurements of effluent marked by tracers
is being carried out by the Middle-East Technical University and expected to
be completed by the end of 1993.
6.04        At appraisal, average long-term incremental costs (AIC) for the
projected extension of sewerage and sewage disposal system applying discount
rates of 8% and 10% were calculated respectively as .072 and .079 $/m3 of
water consumed. With the same method used at appraisal, and taking into
account actual costs and water sales, the rates are respectively .069 and .072



-6-
$/m3. The method used at appraisal was not standard because incremental costs
were attributed to total water sales instead of incremental water sales. Using
a more standard method, with incremental costs related to incremental water
sales, the AIC are .126 and .138 $/m3 at 8% and 10% discount rates (Part III,
para. 6 C). According to the second method, the AIC figures are less than the
sewerage share (usually 50%) of the average tariff of .52 $/m3 for 1989 which
was charged for water and sewerage to all consumers whether or not they are
connected to the sewerage system.
7. Project Sustainability
7.01        ISKI has the technical and financial ability to operate and
maintain the installed facilities. It is ISKI's financial policy to cover all
operation and maintenance costs and to cover a substantial portion (more than
45%) of its investment program, as it was covenanted in the Loan Agreement
(Ln 2888-TU) of the subsequent project. Provided that this policy continues to
be applied (and evidence to date strongly suggests that it will), there should
be no difficulty in maintaining an acceptable level of benefits throughout
the project's economic life.
8. Bank Performance
8.01        Relations between the Bank and the Borrower were good throughout
project preparation and implementation. The Bank supervised the project about
twice a year with missions that were balanced between technical and financial
staff. When the scope of the project needed to be revised, the Bank showed
flexibility (paras. 5.01, 5.02 and 6.01) and agreed to consider pipes as
operation and maintenance equipment. However, the financing of the supply of
ductile iron pipes, with a total length of 876 km, and about $20 million
equivalent of Bank's financing, i.e. 22% of the Loan, would have deserved an
official amendment to the Project description included in the Loan Agreement.
8.02        During Implementation of the Project under review, the Istanbul
Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 2888-TU) was prepared.
9. Borrower Performance and Financial Aspects
9.01        ISKI's performance was generally satisfactory during project
preparation and implementation. ISKI managed to obtain particularly good
progress in implementing the project contracts (para 5.01).
Resource Mobilization
9.02        ISKI's financing plan indicated in the SAR cal:Led for:
(i) US$201.6 million equivalent, approximately 53% of the US$375.2 million
equivalent estimated to be needed for ISKI investments during 1982-87, to be
provided by the Gnvernment; (ii) US$161.6 million equivalent, 43% of the
funds, to be obtained by borrowing; and (iii) 4% to be provided through ISKI
internal cash generation. For the Sewerage Project portion, estimated at
US$222.1 million equivalent (about 60%) of the planned total investment, the



- 7 -
plan called for 1% of the funds to be provided through internal cash
generation. The amount of the proposed World Bank loan, US$88.1 million
equivalent, was 40%, the estimated foreign currency portion, of the estimated
cost of the Sewerage Project. The balance of the funds estimated to be needed
for the Project, 59% of the cost, were to be provided by the Government in the
form of: (i) a direct equity contribution of US$82.7 million equivalent, and
(ii) income  ax sharing funds to be transferred to ISKI, in part directly (a
legal entitlement of ISKI) and in part through the Municipality, amounting to
US$48.5 million equivalent.
9.03        The low degree of self-financing which was envisaged is reflected
in the financial performance covenant in the Loan Agreement, which, in effect,
calls for ISKI charges to customers to cover, annually, the larger of:
(i) operating cost plus debt service (equivalent to 0% self-financing);
(ii) operating cost plus depreciation (equivalent, under the circumstances
envisaged, to a small amount of self-financing; note that the SAR financial
and monitoring indicator tables do not include an index of self-financing).
9.04        It may be explained that in the period of the preparation of the
Project, the cash generation of ISKI's predecessor agencies fell short of
covering operating cost plus debt service. At the time, even covering debt
was considered to be a difficult to reach goal. Government funds for
investment were considered indispensable inasmuch as, it was thought, charges
otherwise to beneficiaries would be seen by beneficiaries, and by their
political representatives, as unaffordable.
9.05        The Project's financial implementation turned out to be
considerably more satisfactory than what had been planned, mainly as a result
of a change in the Government's policy with respect to Government financing
for the sector in Istanbul.   The Government reduced its direct contribution
to ISKI investment from the outset (1983) from what had been planned, and in
1988 the direct contribution was eliminated. The only funds from then on
still flowing from the Government to ISKI were ISKI's tax sharing entitlement.
In all, approximately.US$87.3 million equivalent of Government funds became
available to ISKI during 1982-87, compared to tne financing plan's projected
US$201.6 million. It is estimated that some US$31.8 million equivalent of the
Government funds during 1982-87 were applied to the Project (which represented
36% of an investment expenditures totaling US$ 478 million, during this
period), compared to the figure of US$131.2 million equivalent of Government
funds for the Project in the plan. The balance of US$76.6 million equivalent
needed during the period for the Project was obtained from ISKI internal cash
generation. ISKI's actual self-financing of the Proiect during the period was
thus approximately 44% instead of the 1% which had been envisaged at the
outset. and the Government'slfinancing was 18% instead of 59%.  During the two
additional years, 1988-89, needed to finish the Project, of the total of
US$57.8 million equivalent spent on the Project, approximately 10% was
Government funds (an estimated proportion of the tax sharing funds received),
51% was ISKI internal cash, and the balance, 39%, was from the Bank Loan.
9.06        The financing policy change may be attributed to:  (i) growing
concern in the Government during the period regarding the Government's fiscal



- 8 -
deficit; (ii) growing belief among mutnicipal authorities in Istanbul as well
as among authorities in the Government, that the financial capacity of the
Istanbul Municipality, and in particular of the water/sewerage sector in
Istanbul, was greater than previously thought; (iii) the successful "testing"
of ISKI's self-financing capacity (i.e., demonstrated self-financing increases
by ISKI as implementation of the Project took place while Government
contributions were being reduced). The financing plan for the 1987 follow or,
loan to ISKI (Loan 2888) assunes no Government funds (although ISKI has
continued to receive its tax slharing entitlement, presently amounting to US$9-
10 million equivalent per year), and for ISKI self-financing of its full
investment requirement except for what is to be covered by borrowing.
9.07        This was perhaps the most significant, lesson of the Project,
namely, the demonstration of the high degree of sector self-financing capacity
in the municipality. The lesson has been influential with respect to self-
financing for the sector in Ankara and in Izmir. The influence is expected to
extend to other large and medium sized Turkish cities.
Tariffs
9.08        As noted above, charges in Istanbul for water and sewerage
services while the Project was being prepared (e.g., in 1981, averaging
US$0.16/m3 equivalent) were insufficient for current operating requirements.
Increases in charges were made from time to time during the next four years,
but they were offset to a great extent by inflation. In 1985 the tariff
average was approximately US$0.23/m3 equivalent, but it slipped to
approximately US$0.18/m3 equivalent in 1986. Because of increased sales
volume by 1985, ISKI was then able to cover its operating requirements and
begin contributing to its investmenit even though its tariffs had not increased
a great deal in real terms from the 1981 level. ISKI began a major expansion
in investment spending in 1986, however, and with lessening prospects for
Government funding, substantial changes in tariffs had to be considered.
9.09        ISKI's management carried out a tariff study during 1986 (which
ISKI had agreed to do in connection with the Project) in which progressive
tariff levels according to consumption were considered as well as large
increases in real terms believed to be needed in view of: (i) investment
increases envisaged; (ii) the shrinking of contributions from the Government;
and (iii) the desire to obtain additional financing from the World Bank. As a
result, ISKI introduced a progressive tariff system and increased its tariffs
in January 1987 to an overall average then equivalent to approximately
US$0.75/r3 (with 1987 inflation, the tariff average over the year became
approximately US$0.64/m3 equivalent). Analyses made in the Bank's 1987
appraisal for the follow on "Istanbul Water Supply and Sewerage Project" (Loan
2888 signed December 1987) indicated that this level of charges if maintained
in real terms as ISKI stated was its intention, would enable ISKI to self-
finance its expanded investment program at a level of at least 70X, while
charging households, on average, less than 4X of household income, and
households at and below the poverty level, on average, less than 3Z of
household income.



9-
9.10        The affordability to industrlal and commercial customners
accounting for roughly one half of the total consumption of ISKI water was
less clear inasmuch as in the block system their unit rates were some 70%
more, to 130% more, than the average for households (e.g., the industrial
average for 1987 was US$1.22/m3 equivalent compared to US$.51/m3 equivalent
for households). So far as the Bank was able to determint, there were only
minor objections to the tariffs in the media. Perhaps, however, because of
the impact of the commercial/industrial charges, and because of national and
municipal elections carried out during 1987, 1988, and early 1989, ISKI
allowed its tariffs to decline in real terms through 1987 and most of 1988
(while annTual inflation averaged in the order of 60-70%). The revenue loss
for this reason, and fer other reasons to be explained below under the heading
"Billing and Collectior. , resulted in a slowing of investment spending, the
pace of which by then was governed mainly by ISKI cash generation. The
Sewerage Project, having ISKI's highest priority, was least affected, but
other investments, including the new Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan
2888), were almost completely stopped.
9.11        By late 1988, the tariff average had dropped to approximately
US$0.37/r3 equivalent. ISKI resuwred substantial increases in November 1988,
and its new management following March 1989 elections continued making
increases periodically.  Charges averaged approximately US$0.52/mi  equivalent
in 1989, and US$0.80/m3 in 1990. These figures compare favorably with
water/sewerage combined long run marginal costs in the order of US$0.65-0.75
per m3. Thus, by the time of the final Loan 2159 disbursement for the
sewerage Project, late 1989, ISKI had a well established tariff program
designed to enable financial self-sufficiency for the sector in the
Municipality.
9.12        The main lessons learned from the ISKI tariff experience, or
perhaps more appropriately stated, the main principles reinforced by the
experience, are: (i) that tariffs at levels calling for household
water/sewerage spending of 3-4% of household income, and industrial and
commercial tariffs from two to three times the household average, seem to be
acceptable to the public; (ii) that political inhibition against the making of
tariff adjustments needed to reach and to maintain these levels can be
overcome by authorities such as those in Istanbul who know that self-
financing must play a pivotal role in their investment financing; and, (iii)
that a consummer education campaign explaining the importance of cost
recovery, such as the campaign conducted by ISKI, is effective.
Billing and Collection
9.13        As noted in the SAR, weaknesses in billing had resulted by the
time of appraisal in unaccounted for water levels of 40% and in customer
arrears equivalent to approximately one-year of billings. Because of this,
ISKI agreed to establish a program to "improve billing procedures" and
"institute an effective collection system' (Loan Agreement Section 4.08).
Also, the intention was expressed by ISKI to make improvements in leak
detection and reductions in illegal connections.



- 10 -
9.14        During project implementation water sales were substantially below
the levels projected at appraisal (268 million m3 actual in 1989 versus
estimated 343 million m3), and the level of unaccounted for water deteriorated
from 40% in 1982 to 49% in 1989 (see part III, para. 6.B). This reflects,
among other things, the retroactive downward adjustments to "sales" applied as
"billing losses" are identified (see para. 9.16). ISKI took action to
decrease physical losses (replacement and upgrading of pipes and fittings),
but improvements in leak detection and reduction in illegal connections were
slow in the first few years (while serious delays were occurring also in
project works design and contracting). Attempts were made to address the
problem of malfunctioning and tampered meters, estimated to number in the
order of 300,000, but the repair and replacement effort required greatly
exceeded the capacity of ISKI. An advisor from a U.S. water and sewerage
authority engaged by ISKI in 1983 to study ISKI's problems and make
recommendations in these areas carried out the assignment, but without
significant response by ISKI. ISKI encountered major difficulties in
modernizing its billing system which resulted in very slow increases of water
sales. ISKI's revenues could have been higher (or tariffs lower) if the
remedial programs on reduction of unaccounted for water and improved billing
procedures had showed more success. Later ISKI established a subsidiary to
improve commercial operations, including billing (para. 9.18).
9.15        ISKI attempted to improve its collections starting in 1986 by
introducing bimonthly billing on the basis of formula-estimated consumption
for each two-month interval between semi-annual meter readings and billings.
Also monthly reading and billing began for high quantity industrial,
commercial, and government customers. With these efforts and gradual progress
in meter repair and replacement, customer arrears were reduced from the
equivalent of about eight months of billings by the end of 1985 to six months
by the end of 1986.
9.16        In 1987, ISKI installed a large data processing and computer
facility and took over its billing function Lrom the outside firm which had
been providing billing service to ISKI. The transition was not made easily
because of learning difficulties and a breakdown within the ISKI facility. As
a result of the difficulties, and, no doubt, in part because of the fourfold
increase in tariffs at the beginning of 1987, arrears began to increase. In
addition, what were described by ISKI as "billing losses" began to occur in
substantial amounts. The latter were consumption believed to have been
correctly metered, but (i) somehow not billed, and (ii) effectively rendered
permanently unbillable, because of the difficulties while establishing the in-
house billing function. These problems were not ironed out until well into
i988. ISKI also engaged an outside firm to assist in payment enforcement
operations (closing and reopening water connections) to try to improve
collections from delinquent customers, but it is unclear whether this produced
.,ignificant results, and the arrangement was terminated.
9.17        ISKI next established its own quasi-private, wholly owned
subsidiary company, SUSER, to carry out increasing portions of the billing and
collection functions. SUSER's personnel are compensated on close to private
business levels rather than the public employee scale of ISKI, the intention



. 11 -
being to obtain stronger performance by offering stronger incentives. Also,
SUSER employees do not have public service job protection, and therefore can
be readily dismissed. The experiment has been succeeding, as amounts
collected increased from 52% of potential collection in 1988 to 65% in 1989
and 1990, with further improvements expected in 1991. As of the end of 1990
accounts receivable continued at an excessively high level (6 months of
billing).
9.18        Overall, despite difficulties and setbacks, ISKI did make at least
modest progress in improving its billing and collection from 1982-90, and the
innovation of the quasi-private subsidiary is considered to have been
worthwhile. If the latter holds up over a reasonable period (and evidence to
date does not suggest the contrary), it will demonstrate the value of breaking
at least this particular public service function in Turkey out of the
limitation imposed by overly constrained public sector wages and salaries.
Another lesson of ISKI's experience in this area is the obvious one calling
for not dropping present means of a vital function such as billing until
replacement means are fully in hand and well functioning. A longer period of
test operation of ISKI's in-house data processing/computing facilities w1-xile
continuing to use the outside firm for actual billing would of course have
been desirable.
Accounting and Financial Reporting
9.19        Early during the implementation of the Project, ISKI engaged a
team of Istanbul University professors as consultants under Loan 2159
financing to design for ISKI a modern, commercially oriented public utility
accounting and financial reporting system, and to advise ISKI during the
installation and initial operation of the system. The design was completed by
1984, but only parts of the system were put into operation. Also, there may
later have occurred certain lapses in its application, although this is not
certain. The latter question pertains to ISKI's consistency in accounting on
an accrual basis. ISKI from time to time may have reverted without any
comments from their auditors to a cash basis, for example, in respect to
certain revenues, a matter complicated (i) by ISKI practices of cancelling, or
writing off, erroneous bills, (ii) by the phenomenon of "billing losses", and
(iii) by large receivables amounts. At present (1991), ISKI is implementing
further improvements in its accounting system aiming at more efficient and
timely data processing and more consistent applications of generally accepted
accounting practices.
9.20        In its audited financial reporting, ISKI has not incorporated
capital expenditures, borrowing amounts, and debt payments into its formal
annual financial statements; nor has it prepared periodic sources and
applications of funds statements for use internally. Such statements from
time to time have been prepared in special exercises at the request of, and
with the assistance of, the Bank.
9.2]        ISKI engaged another team of university personnel as financial
consultants in 1989 to prepare a financial planning system for ISKI and advise
ISKI on financial matters. The team completed a financial projection model



- 12 -
for ISKI, and has continued to work in ISKI in applying the model. Although
the model includes detailed financial statements, most particularly including
a sources and applications of funds statement, as of 1990 this framework had
not yet been incorporated into ISKI's financial reporting system. ISKI's
intention is to incorporate the improved accounting system being implemented
(para. 9.19).
10. Protect Relationship -.Auditing by Independent External Auditor
10.1        The independent auditing of ISKI's accounts and financial
statements has been carried out by Central Government Treasury Controllers.
The Bank has accepted the audit reports although noting incompleteness in
their scope. The audits have emphasized the expenditure of Bank loan funds on
the Project. Little attention has been given to finances of the entity as a
whole, and there have been deficiencies with respect to the auditing of
operating revenue, capital expenditures, borrowing other than from the Bank,
and debt service.
10.2        The Treasury was willing to consider the Bank's suggestions on
improving the audits, but littie progress was made. Most recently, ISKI and
the Bank agreed that the entity's 1990 financial statements would be audited
by private auditors following terms of reference suggested by the Bank.
11. ConsultinR Services - Contractors and SuDDliers
11.01       Contractors, suppliers and consultants, both local and foreign,
generally performed well and there were no major procurement issues.
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1        The financial projections in the SAR contain an inconsistency with
respect to inflation assumptions in that the Income Statement projections
reflect various assumed TL price increases for future years whereas the
Sources and Applications projections are in terms of the TL value of December
1981. The necessary connection between the Income Statements and the Sources
and Applications Statements (i.e., the setting of future revenue to cover debt
service) therefore led to essentially meaningless Income Statement figures.
This makes it not feasible to prepare a comparison between projected and
actual financial statements. The actual financial data for 1983-90 are shown
in Part III - 6D.



- 13 -
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ISTANBUL SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2159-TU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Comment on Part I of PCR
1.01        We have read and digested the analysis prepared by the Bank which
is included in Part I of the PCR and are quite satisfied that the points which
have been made and the conclusions which have been drawn are comprehensive and
valid. As Part I contains basically all the points which we would have wished
to make, we do not propose to repeat them.
2.   Comment on Part III of PCR
2.01        We have studied the content of Part II of the PCR in which we have
not found any inaccuracies and we do not consider it necessary to make any
further comment on this.
3     Evaluation of Bank's Performance
3.01        During the duration of the Loan Period the Bank monitored the
progress of the project both financially and technically on a fairly regular
basis.  The Bank missions have been welcomed by both ISKI management and ISKI
staff and we greatly appreciate the assistance and advice which have been
freely given by all Bank's representatives and which we have found most
helpful.
3.02        In addition to this, we acknowledge the flexibility which has been
shown by the Bank in respect fo the various revisions to the scope of the
project which were desired by ISKI management.
4     Evaluation of ISKI Performance
4.01        Our own performance has been rather comprehensively dealt with
Part I of the PCR and we have little to add to this.
4.02        We would however like to emphasise the satisfactory contracts
implementation which took place after the contracts had been awarded, and the
success of the unanticipated self-financing aspect of the project which was
eventually achieved. Valuable lessons have been learned particularly in
respect of tariff levels and billing and collection procedures and we are
confident that both on-going and future projects will benefit greatly from our
accumulated experience.



- 14 -
5     Relationship with the Bank
5.01        That the relationship between the Bank and ourselves has been
effective and successful is self-evident. The business relationship with the
Bank has at all times been cordial and satisfactory. We would like to
reiterate that we are particularly pleased with the flexibility which has from
time to time been shown by the Bank and with the advice and assist ince which
have been received.



- 15 -
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ISTANBUL SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2159-TU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART III, STATISTICAL DATA
1. Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan_Title                Purpose                 Approval               Status                   Comments
844-TU, Istanbul         Expansion of water        1972                 Conpleted in 1981.        Performance Audit
Water Supply             supply system for                                                        Report No 4853,
Istanbul.                                                               issued in 1983.
2888-TU, Istanbul        Additional water          1987                 Contracts awarded         Progress was
Water Supply and         supply, sewerage                               amount to                 slowed down by
Sewerage Project         and sewage                                     approximately 25% cf    insufficient
treatment                                      the estimated cost       counterpart funds
facilities for                                 of the project.          in 1989 and change
Istanbul.                                                               of site Locations
for some treatment
plants.
2818-TU, Izmir           Water supply,             1987                 Design comipleted.        Progress was
Water Supply and         sewerage and                                   Contracts awarled         slowed down by
Sewerage Project.        sewage treatment                               amount to                 insufficient
facilities  for                                approximately 34% of   counterpart funds
Izmir.                                         the estimated cost       in 1989/90 and
of the project.          changing of
personnel for
Project
Management.
3151-TU, Ankara          Sewerage and              1989                 Detailed Design           No major problems.
Sewerage Project         sewage treatment                               underway.
works for Ankara.



- 16 -
2 Project Timetable
Item               Date Planned          Date Revised               Date Actual
Identification                                                      1977
Preparation                                                         1.')78
Appraisal                                                           December 1981
mission
Loan                                                                April 1982
Negotiations
Board Approval                                                      May 27, 1982
Loan Signature                                                      May 28, 1982
Loan                                     November 24, 1982          February 23, 1983
Effectiveness      August 26, 1982       January 25, 1983
Loan Closing       December 31, 1988                                December 31, 1988
Project            December 31, 1987                                December 1990
Completion
3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
End of Fiscal Year        1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989   19
Appraisal Estimate        3.9   15.3  33.4  52.2  69.1  79.8  88.1
Actual                    1.7    2.28  4.77  22.47  65.75  80.72  87.73  88.05
Actual as % of Estimate  43.6   14.9  14.3  43.0  99.5  101.1  99.5  99.94
Date of Final Disbursement:    September 1989



-17 -
4.P, je          5 .
Imglemnentation Schedule
1 82       1   83        I  84         !   85        1   8e;       1   87        1   as        1   89-90    1
Calendar Year                II 11 III IVI I 11 III IVI I 11 III IVI I 11 III IVI I 11 III IVI I 11 III IVI I it III IVI I 11 III IVi
Interceptors                              I                                                       I             I             
- Alibeykoy             ProJI         DODDIBBBEEECCCCCCICCCCCCCqCCCCCICCCCCCCCCCCCICCCCCC         I             II  
-Bakirkoy, Sarayburnu Projl              IDDDDBBEEEECCICCCCCCCCCCClcci;ccccccccccicccccc         I             I             II
Act.1             I             I             I   CCCCCCCCCICCCCCCCCCCCCICCCCCCCCCCCCiCCCCCCCC    I          
Fatih Tuninet           Projl             I   ODDDDB8EIEEECCCCCCCCCICCCCCCCCCCCCICCC              I                    I             I
Act.1             I             I             I      cccselcccccscscccicceccseccececiceccc           I      
IPreatreatment Faci:ities   I              I             I             I             I             I             I             I      
I- Civit Works           Pro31             I      DDDDDB18EEEECCCCCCCICCCCCCCCCCCCICCCCCCCCCTTTITTT              I             I      
I                        Act.1                           I II                 ccccocicsccccseccccicsccccccsccciccsc            I             I
I- Equipment Suppty      ProJl         DDDDIBSBEEEMMMMMMIMMMMMMMMMMMMIHMMHMMH"HIIIIIIIIIIIIITTTITTT              I             I      
I                        Act.1l                   I                                I                          Imm   I  I Imnni i  i Ii  iittttttl I
t   I   I           I             I             I            ~       ~     ~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I II
lSubmarine Outfatl      ProJI         DDDDIDDBBBEEEECCCICCCCCCCCCCCCICCCCCCCCCCCCICCC             I             I             I       
I                 ~~~~       ~~Act.1  I         cclccccccecccs    cccicscscscccciccccscocccicclcccecocc  I             I       
I   I     I             I             I            ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~~~~~~~~I  I  I!
Secondary Sewe, age     Proj1       CCCCCCICCCCCCCCCCCCICCCCCCCCCCCCICCCCCCCCCCCCICCCCCCCCCCCCICCCCCCCCCCCCI                  I             I
Act.l             I             Iccccsccsccccciccccsscscscc ccfcsccccsccclcicssccscel cc      I      I
I            I             I                           I                           I             I             I
North Halic Intercep.       I             I             I             I             IIII                                                    I
Act.l             I                                                             ccccc         cccccciccscccccsclcc
I     I             {             I             I             I~~1   CCCCIICCC            I             I
. I I 1 1. 1 .. 1 - . I ..... I I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Djesign     DDDDD        Manufacturing  M1MMHM
Bidding     Basso        Installation   11111
:.valuation  EEEEE       Testing         TTTTT    Construct.  CCCCC



- 18 -
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs 1/
(USS milLion equivalent)
Appraisal Estimate                           Actual
LocaL       Foreign       Total              Local       Foreign       Total
Costs        Costs        Costs              Costs        Costs        Costs      % Increase
1. Interceptors   Alibeykoy                     23.18        12.47        35.65
16.13         2.43        18.56            *57X
2. Interceptors   Bakirkoy, Sarayburnu           6.42         0.71         7.13
3. Fatih Tunnel                                  2.80         8.41        11.21               8.08          6.96        15.03            34%
4. Pret 'atment Facilities
- Civil Works                                28.11        12.04        40.15               8.68         1.66        10.34            -74%
- Equipment Supply                            3.09        22.43        25.52               1.98         4.12         6.10            -76%
5.  Submarine Outfall Main - Ahirkapi           26.65        17.77        44.41               9.47         4.17         13.63           -69%
6.  North Halic Interceptors                    New item                                      6.05          9.41        15.46    New Item
7.  Secondary Sewerage System                   34.38         1.81        36.19              96.97          0.00        96.97           168%
8.  Water Pipes and Meters                       New item                                    12.00         19.46        31.46    New Item
9.  Operation. & Maint. Equipment                4.29         6.44        10.73               2.55         11.54        14.09            31%
10. Land Acquisition                             1.16                      1.16               0.90                       0.V,           -22%
11. Project Management and Supervision           2.90         2.30         5.20    1
1        3.55         3.85          7.40            -8%
12. Technical Assistance and Training            0.93         1.92         2.85
13. Project Preparation Facil:ty                 0.00         0.50         0.50               0.00          0.50         0.50             0%
14. Front-end Fee                                0.00         1.30         1.30               0.00          1.30         1.30             0%
133.90        88.10       222.00             166.35        65.39       231.75              4%
1/ See para 5.03 for explanation of cost variations between Appraisal and Actual.
B. Project Financing
1982-89 Period (US$ million)
Source                                        Apgraisal                  Aztual
IBRD Loan                                      88.1 (40%)                  88.0 (38%)
Internal  Cash  Generation                       2.8  ( 1%)              106.1  (46%)
Government Contribution                       131.2 (59%)                  37.6 (16%)
Total                                         222.1                      231.7



- 19 -
6. Project Results
A. Project Description at Appraisal and Actual
Appraisal Estimate                                   Actual
1.  South Halic Interceptors            Length 26 km                  Total length 10.5 km, 1.2 - 2.6 m die.
2.  Tunnel                               Length 2.4 km                Total length 6.5 km, 2.2 - 2.8 m dia.
3.  Pretreatment Facilities              Peak Capacity 12 m3/s        Peak Capacity Effluent Puiping St. 12 m3/s
Peak Capacity Influent PuTping St. 10 m3/s
No 8 purps                   No 2 Coarse screens 100 mm spacing
Influent Pumps 4 No duty + 1 Standby
No 4 aerated degriting & descumming basins
No 4 Fine screens 20 mm spacing
Effluent Pumps 4 No , 3 m3/s capacity each
Standby Generators 2 No; 2 MVA each
Odor Control by oxydation with ozone.
Two units (1 duty, 1 standby)
4.  Pumping Mains (Outfall)              Length 2.3 km                Length 2.3 km
5.  Submarine Outfall                    Length 2.0 km                Twin pipelines 1.1 km long, 1.6 m dia.
6.  Laterals and collectors              Length 285 km                Substantially more than 285 km
7.  North Halic Interceptors            Not foreseen                  Tunnels, 4.4 km long, 2.4 - 3.2 m dia.
Open Cuts, 4.0 km long, 2.2 - 3.2 m dia.
8.  Water pipes & meters                 Not foreseen                 Total length 876 km, 200-600 mm dia.
No 4650 meters 20-40 mm
No 350 meters 50 - 250 mm
B. Indicators
Unit          1982                         1988                 1989
Appraisal Actual               Appraisal Actual    Appraisal Actual
Water Produced                       Mm3/yr    335         216                 504        505        504        525
Water Sales                          Mm3/yr    208         129 a/              343        240 a/    343         268 a/
Unaccounted-for Water                %           38%        40%                 32%        52%        32%        49%
Year End Water Connections           000                                                  599                  612
Year End Sewerage Connections        000                   434                 576        533                  548
Year End Water Customers             000                   749                           1020                  1070
Year End Total No Connections        000       1229       t183                1552       1132       1601       1160
Year End Total Staff                 No        4770       4770                5200       6092       5270      6166
No Staff/1000 Total Connections    No          3.88       4.03                3.35       5.38       3.29        5.8
a/ These data reflect the retroactive downward adjustment to "water sales" following identification of "billing
losses" (Pee para 9.16).



- 20 -
C. Average Incremental Cost
(US$ million equivalent)
Incremental
Investment Renewal    Operating         Total      Water Sales Water Sales
Year     Costs a /  Costs       Costs           Costs       Mm3/year      Mm3/year
1983      4.5                                  4.5          200
1984      1.5                                  1.5          250              50
1985      6.5                                  6.5          269              69
1986     46.6                                 46.6          320             120
1987    113.9                                113.9          280              80
1988     39.4                                 39.4          240              40
1989     18.4         5.8      2.0            26.2          268              68
1990      5.1         5.9      2.1            13.1          308             108
1991      4.2         6.0      2.2            12.5          343             143
1992      4.2         6.1      2.3            12.6          360             160
1993      4.2         6.2      2.4            12.8          383             183
1994      4.5         6.3      2.6            13.4          451             251
1995      1.5         6.4      3.2            11.0          630             430
1996      6.5         6.5      3.3            16.3          652             452
1997     46.6         7.7      3.6            57.8          674             474
1998    113.9        10.5      4.3           128.7          727             527
1999     39.4        11.5      4.6            55.6          778             578
2000     18.5        11.9      4.8            35.2          790             590
2001      5.1        12.1      4.8            22.0          806             606
2002      4.2        12.2      4.9            21.4          822             622
2003      4.2        12.3      4.9            21.5          838             638
2004      4.2        12.4      5.0            21.7          855             655
2005      4.5        12.5      5.1            22.1          872             672
2006      1.5        12.6      5.2            19.3          890             690
2007      6.5        12.7      5.3            24.6          907             707
2008     46.6        13.9      5.6            66.0          926             726
2009    113.9        16.8      6.2           136.8          944             744
2010     39.4        17.7      6.4            63.6          963             763
NPV @   10X                             279.61      3891.75        2030.44
AICI - 0.072 $/m3
AIC2 - 0.138 $/m3
Sensitivity Analysis of Average Incremental Cost
Discount Rate AIC1 AIC2
................ ...... ................. .
0.073    0.142
8X      0.069    0.126 $/m3
10X      0.072    0.138 $/m3
a/ Assuming, like in appraisal, 3 periods of significant investments in sewage
disposal and continuous investments in sewage systems.



- 21 -
D. Financial Data a/
ISKI BALANCE SHEET AS OF DECEMBER 31
(USS million)
ASSETS                         1983    1984    1985       1986    1987      1        1989    1990
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets           49.8    93.0   106.2   121.3   129.6   186.8   254.5   334.0
Accumlated Depre.             -9.2    -8.9    -8.9    -9.8   -12.0   -13.5   -19.9   -27.2
Works in Progress            51.6      7.5    19.5    52.4    94.5    97.5   187.1   319.1
Total Fixed Assets         92.2    91.6   116.8   163.9   212.2   270.8   421.7   625.8
Other Assets                    4.4      2.8    10.1    36.8    46.1    48.0    46.3    41.1
Current Assets
Cash and Banks                7.8    17.9    22.0        6.7      2.2      2.1      4.1      4.0
Receivables                  15.7    17.9    43.0    35.8    43.6    63.4    70.6   121.2
Inventories                   6.3      5.9      5.1      6.6      5.7    19.6    18.4    16.3
Other                         3.0      0.2      0.9      0.9      7.5      8.0      5.3      7.7
Total Current Assets       32.9    41.9    71.0    49.9    59.0    93.1    98.3   149.3
TOTAL ASSETS            129.5   136.3   197.9   250.6   317.3   411.9   566.4   816.2
LIABILITIES
Equlty                         40.2    83.4   135.5   133.6    94.8   146.2   210.5   332.1
Long-term Liabilities
Domestic Loans                0.9      0.4      0.3      8.7    12.2       7.2    12.1       9.5
Foreign Loans                49.0    30.4    24.9    71.0   154.8   176.9   227.4   307.7
Customer Dep. and Other      12.3    10.8    16.0    14.3    13.2          9.6      8.2    25.6
Total Long-term Liab.      62.2    41.7    41.2    94.1    180.2   193.7   247.7   342.8
Current Liabilities
Payabtes                     17.6    10.1    18.6    19.1    34.5    70.2   105.5   124.1
Taxes and Other               9.4      1.2      2.5      3.7      7.8      1.8      2.7    17.1
Total Current Liab.        27.0     11.3    21.2    22.9    42.2    72.0    108.2   141.3
TOTAL LIABILITIES        129.5    136.3   197.9   250.6   317.3   411.9   566.4   816.2
Source: ISKI
Note: a/ Part 1, para 12.1 indicates why the conparison with projected figures of the Staff Appraisal Report is not
feasible.



- 22 -
ISKI INCOME STATEMENT
(USS miLLion)
REVENUES                      1983     1984     1985     1986     1987     1988     1989     i?
Operating
Non-operating
Total Revenues            39.2    54.4    95.2    66.6   106.4   130.7   140.2   254.5
EXPENDITURES
Operating                   35.3    28.4    41.3    48.6    61.9    69.7    82.7   160.8
Non-operating                2.4      4.5      5.9      7.4    37.6    33.1       65.8    39.2
Total Expendit.           37.7    32.9    47.2    56.0    99.4    102.8   148.5   199.9
NET PROFIT (LOSS)              1.6    21.5    48.0    10.6         7.0    27.9    -8.3       54.5



X 23 -
7.  JJAM,o   CoveDn__tsL
L-8s 25£Sl2>                                     Lo-vCOVef                                                    Status
3.01.               MIaintain construction supervision teams and a project manager         In compliance.
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.02 ti)             Employ eigineering consultants for project management and             In compliance.
construction supervision.
3.02 Cii)            Emptoy consultants for the identification and preparation of          In compliance.
next stage water supply and sewerage works.
3.02 tiii)           Employ a training expert and a financial advisor by                   In compliance.  Training specialist
October 1, 1983.                                                      enployed 2/83.  Financial consultant
employed 6/82.
3.04 Ce)             Furnish the Bank with a project completion report six months          Not yet provided.
after the loan closing date.
3.05.                Acquire all land needed for the project.                              In conpliance.
3.06.                Prepare final drawings for secondary sewerage systems.                In compliance.
:.07.                Obtain the services of an expert to supervise the manufacture         Not required since approach to supply of
of pipe for a mininxn of three months.                                pipes for the project has changed.
4.03.                Take out ard maintain satisfactory insurance.                         In compliance.
4.05.                Commence a pollution control program by June 30, 1983.                In conpliance.  Program commenced 11/86
4.06.                Liquidate receivables and payables outstanding on Deceffber           In comptiance.
31, 1981.
4.07.                Complete a tariff study by December 31, 1983. review the              Study completed 10/86 and impleniented
results with the Bank and implement the recommendations in            1/87.  Results are satisfactory to the
accordance with an agreed timetable.                                  Bank.
4.08.                Istablish programs to reduce unaccounted-for water and                Programs were initiated in 1985 but not
improve billing and collection by January 1, 1983.                    with satisfactory results.
5.02.                Have its financial records audited annually by indipendent            Reports were prepared annually by
auditors and furnish the auditor's report to the Bank by July         goverrnent auditors; reports accepted by
31.                                                                   the Bank although considered to be
insufficient in scope and quality.
5.04. (a)            Adjust tariffs to cover operation and maintenance costs and           In coppliance since 1984.
debt service in excess of depreciation.
5.05.                ConsuLt with Bank at least three months before the beginning          In compliance since 1984.
of each fiscal year on measures to comply with section 5.04.
of the L.A. and to finance its investment program.



- 24 -
8. Use of Staff Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Actual Staff-Weeks
Through Appraisal                                               174.9
Appraisal through Board Approval                                   5.8
Supervision                                                       91.5
Total                                                           272.2
B. Missions
Soecialization       Performance          Types of
Puroose              Month/Year           No of Persons        Days in the Field  Represented            Rating Status        Problems
Supervision            07/82                   2                       5            Eng/Fin. Anal.              2             F,T
Supervision            12/82                   2                       9            Eng/Fin. Anal.              2             T
Supervision            06/83                   2                       9            Training Spec.              2             F,T
Fin. Anal.
Supervision            09/83                   2                       9            Eng/Fin. Anal.              2             T
Supervision            03/84                   2                       5            Eng/Fin. Anal.              1             T
Supervision            05/84                   3                      10            Eng/2 Fin. Anal.            2             T
Supervision            12/84                   2                       8            Eng/Fin. Anal.              1             T
Supervision            02/85                   1                       5            Eng.                        1             T
Supervision            07/85                   1                       5            Fin. Anal.                  2             T
Supervision            09-10/85                2                       8            Eng/Fin. Anal.              2             T
Supervision            05/86                   2                       5            Eng/Fin. Anal.              2             T
Supervision            07/86                   2                       4            Eng/Fin. Anal.              2             T
Supervision            02/88                   2                       5            Eng/Fin. Anal.              1             F
Supervision            04/88                   2                       5            Eng/Fin. Anal.              1             T
Supervision            07/88                   2                       3            Eng/Fin. Anal.              1             F,T
Supervision            09/88                   2                        6           Fin. Anal./Eng.             1             F,T
Supervision            12/88                   2                       3            Fin. Anal./Eng.             1             F,Proj.
Man.
Supervision            06/89                   2                       9            Fin. AnaL./Eng.             I             F,Proj.
Man.
M:\DC\TUR\2159\PCRF`ART3.V2



