Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3307-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
A PROPOSED LOAN
TO
ISTANBUL SU VE KANALIZASYON IDARESI GENEL MUDURLUi
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR AN
ISTANBUL SEWERAGE PROJECT
May 3, 1982
This document has * restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TURKEY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       Jan.1980 /1    Oct. 1980    June 30, 1981        Dec. 1, 1981
US Dollar        =  TL70.0   /2    TL83.50  /2  TLIOO.00   /2         TL130.00
Turkish Lira    =  US$0.014          US$0.012    US$0.01             US$0.008
/1       Since January 1980, the rate is being adjusted for the differential
irflation between Turkey and its major trading partners. TL130/$1.00
was used for this report.
/2       'xcept for imports of fertilizers and insecticides/pesticides, as
well as raw materials and inputs for their manufacture, for which the
rate was TL55/$1.00 in January 1980, TL70.0/$1.00 from October 1980,
and TL85.34/$1.00 from April 15, 1981.  The special rate for
fertilizers has now been eliminated.
ABBREVIATIONS
DSI       -       State Hydraulic Works
IB        -       The Bank of the Provinces (Iller Bankasi)
ISI       -       Istanbul Water Authority
ISKI      -       Istanbul Water Supply and Sewerage General
Directorate (Istanbul Su ve Kanalizasyon Idaresi)
YSE       -        Rural Infrastructure General Directorate of the
Ministry of Village Affairs and Cooperatives
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Turkey              -       March 1 to February 28  /3
ISKI                            -       January 1 to December 31
/3       Turkey is in the process of changing its fiscal year from January 1
to December 31, commencing in 1983.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
ISTANBUL SEWERAGE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Istanbul Water Supply and Sewerage
General Directorate (ISKI)
Guarantor:                Republic of Turkey
Amount:                   US$88.1 million equivalent, including $1.3 million
capitalization of the front-end fee, in various
currencies.
Terms:                    17 years including 4 years grace with interest at
11.6 percent per annum.
Project
Description:              The project is aimed at (i) expanding and improving
the sewerage services in Istanbul; (ii) improving the
city environmental conditions; and (iii) strengthening
the institutional framework for planning, financing
and implementation of water supply and sewerage
facilities in Istanbul. It would cover about 60
percent of ISKI's proposed investment program during
1982-87. To achieve these objectives, the project
would include the following major components:
(i) laterals and collectors, 285 km;
(ii) interceptors, 26 km, and tunnel, 2.4 km;
(iii) pretreatment works with inlet and outlet pumping
stations; (iv) submarine outfall main, 2.0 km;
(v) operating and maintenance equipment;
(vi) consultant services; and (vii) technical
assistance and training.
Project Benefits and    The project is expected to (i) increase the population
Risks                     served by sewer connections from 52 percent to about
60 percent and that of the lower income group from 50
percent to about 70 percent; (ii) through the
reduction of water pollution reduce the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
health hazard at public beaches, commence the
restoration of Golden Horn and generally improve
environmental conditions; and (iii) strengthen ISKI
and its cost recovery procedures with improvements
expected in project implementation, works operation
and accounting systems. The institutional development
could provide a pattern for other urban areas.
Major project risks would include the possibilities
for delays in project implementation and for cost
overruns which are normally associated with large and
complex civil works and the difficulties inherent in
the merging of former sector entities. With actions
already taken to complete project design elements, and
the provision of technical assistance to ISKI in
project implementation and improvement in its internal
organization, these risks have been reduced to
acceptable levels.
Estimated Cost:                                       Local      Foreign    Total
-------- US$ Million --------
Sewerage System                                        24.5         1.3       25.8
Interceptors and Tunnel                                20.9        13.7       34.6
Pretreatment Works, Pumping Stations
and Pumping Mains                                    21.0        23.9       44.9
Submarine Outfall Main                                 16.8        11.2       28.0
Operating and Maintenance Equipment                     3.0         4.5        7.5
Land Acquisition                                        1.1        -           1.1
Sub-Total                                         87.3        54.6      141.9
Project Management and
Construction Supervision                              1.9         2.3        4.2
Physical Contingencies                                 14.1         8.9       23.0
Price Contingencies                                    29.6        18.6       48.2
Consultant and Technical
Assistance and Training                               1.1         1.9        3.0
Total Project Costs                              134.0        86.3     220.3
Project Preparation Facility                            -           0.5        0.5
Front-End Fee                                           -           1.3        1.3
Total Financing Required                         134.0        88.1      222.1



- iii -
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign    Local
------- US$ Million ----
Proposed Bank Loan                                  -          88.1      88.1
Portion of Municipal Fund                          48.5         -        48.5
Central Government Contributions                   82.7         -        82.7
Internal Cash Generation
and Customers' Contribution                       2.8        -          2.8
Total                                          134.0        88.1      222.1
Disbursements
Bank FY          1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Annual            5.2    11.4    18.1    18.8    15.6    10.7         8.3
Cumulative        5.2    16.6    34.7    53.5    69.1    79.8         88.1
Rate of Return:           Since the benefits accruing from a sewerage and sewage
disposal project cannot be meaningfully quantified, no
rate of return has been calculated.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3836-TU of May 3, 1982.



*  4                                                                                                                                         4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
ISTANBUL SU VE KANALIZASYON IDARESI GENEL MUDURLUGU
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR AN ISTANBUL SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Istanbul Su ve Kanalizasyon Idaresi Genel Mudurlugu (ISKI) with the
guarantee of the Republic of Turkey, for the equivalent of US$88.1 million
(including $1.3 million for the capitalization of the front-end fee) to help
finance the expansion and improvement of the sewerage services in Istanbul.
The loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with
interest at 11.6 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.       The last economic report entitled "Turkey:  Policies and Prospects
for Growth" (No. 2657a-TU) and the Postscript thereto, were distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1979 and March 1980 respectively. Updating of
economic prospects as well as indepth economic analysis and dialogue has since
been undertaken through the continuing work on structural adjustment loans
(SALs) to Turkey, and two special economic missions. The report of the
special economic mission in November/December 1980 to evaluate the investment
program and entitled "Turkey: Public Sector Investment Review" (No. 3472-TU)
was distributed to the Executive Directors in December 1981. The report
entitled "Turkey: Industrialization and Trade Strategy" (No.3641-TU) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 18, 1982. Its analysis is
also reflected in this Part. Annexes I-A and I-B contain the Basic Country
Data and relevant details about recent economic developments.
Characteristics and Development Constraints
3.       Turkey is a country about as big as France and Germany combined, with
an estimated GNP per capita of $1,450 in 1980. With a population of around
45 million, the density is low (78 per square kilometer of agricultural land),
although the rate of urbanization is high (about 45 percent).  Educational
enrollments have expanded greatly, but the rate of adult literacy remains
relatively low (60 percent). Although population growth is not high by
middle-income country standards (2.2 percent per annum), the employment
situation has deteriorated steadily, with an unemployment rate of about 16
percent, despite rapid economic growth, substantial emigration of workers to
Western Europe in the early 1970s and the more recent flow of workers to the
Middle East. There is little or no absolute poverty, but income distribution
is still relatively skewed. Data for more recent periods is incomplete, but
indicates a worsening especially of the position of wage and salary earners
over the last few years with a sharp real decline in the minimum wage. There
are also considerable regional differences, and large rural-urban disparities.
1/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report on the Export-Oriented Industries Project (P-3199 TU)
dated January 29, 1982.



- 2 -
4.       Agriculture is the most important sector in th- i-onr-,  Tt
contributes 23 percent of GDP (1980), employs about 55 percen- of the labor
force, and provides about half of merchandise exports.  Turke'- 's One of the
very few developing countries which is self-sufficient in food. Yet,
agriculture has been given a secondary role compared to industry in the
development strategy.  The main sector objectives have been to:  (a) expand
food supply for a growing population; and (b) provide exports to finance
industrial development.  Turkish agriculture is dualistic; a modern irrigated
commercial sector using modern inputs in coastal areas, produces cash crops
and most exports; traditional rainfed agriculture emphasizing grains and
livestock, is practised on the Anatolian plateau where only a small part of
the irrigation potential has been developed, despite massive investments
through slowly implemented and long-gestating projects.
5.       With its natural and human resources, Turkey has considerable
potential for expanding agricultural production and exports. The major
constraints on growth and productivity are: (a) limited development of
irrigation/ drainage facilities and poor utilization of what has been
developed; (b) small and fragmented farm holdings; (c) inadequately funded and
poorly coordinated research and extension services; (d) insufficient
availability of credit; and (e) inadequate marketing arrangements, especially
for exports.  Increased productivity could be realized with a somewhat larger
and more efficient allocation of investments, backed by more coherent credit
and price policies and support services.
6.       Reflecting the heavy emphasis of the development strategy on rapid
industrialization, industry has absorbed up to 30 percent of total
investment. Consequently, it today accounts for 19 percent of GDP, 48 percent
of exports (mainly textiles, processed foods and leather products), but only
14 percent of employment. The private sector is overwhelmingly dominant in
exports, and accounts for some 60 percent of value-added and an even higher
share of employment. Industrial policy has sought to achieve self-sufficiency
through import substitution, use of advanced technology and greater depth of
integration in productive processes, with consequent priority for capital
intensive investments in basic and intermediate products. Exports have
generally been given a secondary role, and accounted for only about 4 percent
of sector output in 1979. The principal policy instruments used have been
large public investments in inefficient State Economic Enterprises (SEEs),
and generous incentives combined with high levels of protection for private
investments. These policies yielded high growth rates, domestic production
of some key basic and intermediate goods based on domestic resources, adoption
of modern technology, a skilled labor force, as well as some dispersal of
industries to less developed regions. But they also resulted in the
establishment of a number of uncompetitive industries, wasteful of scarce
capital and too dependent on imported inputs, with low employment and limited
export possibilities.
7.       The major sector constraints which the Government is now attempting
to overcome, are: (a) low levels of capacity utilization; (b) limited export
capability in some subsectors; (c) inefficiency of the manufacturing SEEs;
(d) lack of sufficient long-term financing for industry; and (e) excessive
dependence on imported inputs and low productivity. Apart from import
protection, several factors have adversely affected productivity, of which a
marginal research and development effort and inadequate labor training are of
particular importance. Export efforts have also been hampered by the
limitations of marketing facilities.



- 3 -
8.       Turkey has large underdeveloped energy resources (hydropower and
lignite), but little petroleum. Energy consumption has grown in line with
GDP, but remains below the per capita average for middle-income developing
countries. However, imported oil accounts for over 85 percent of oil
consumption and about 45 percent of total energy consumption. As a result,
the oil bill was $3.3 billion in 1980, equivalent to 113 percent of exports,
probably the highest figure in the world.
9.       Hence, the energy situation has become a major preoccupation of the
Government, and the sector has been accorded the highest economic priority.
Prices for most products - especially petroleum products - have since 1980
been brought into line with prices in Europe and other indices of real costs
to the economy. Investments in energy now have the largest share in the
public investment program. The principal sector constraints are: (a)
organization and management of institutions in the sector; (b) the lack of
comprehensive demand-management and conservation programs; (c) insufficient
resources for exploration; and (d) poor project implementation capacity,
especially in the power and coal/lignite sub-sectors.
Government Policies Until 1980
10.      Economic policies until the mid 1970s were responsible for the
achievement of rapid economic growth, with substantial growth in industrial
capacity. However, both the pattern of growth and the excessive recourse to
external finance, especially in the seventies, resulted in the substantial
problems which Turkey is confronting today. At the same time, income
distribution remained relatively unequal; employment creation inadequate;
savings performance poor; and the industrial sector mostly inefficient,
despite sizeable investments, and not contributing sufficently to either
exports or employment.
11.      In the past decade, economic management suffered further due to
political instability, which thwarted effective decision-making. At the same
time, economic problems were aggravated by serious economic shocks emanating
from abroad: international inflation, leading to a sharp rise in Turkey's
import prices (including oil) and a significant deterioration in her terms of
trade; high interest rates resulting in an increased debt servicing burden;
and recession in Europe leading to reduced export prospects and emigration
possibilities. Inappropriate expansionary policies in response to these
factors delayed Turkey's adjustment to the changed international environment,
so that by 1977 the country was set on a course of rapidly growing inflation
and an inexorable foreign exchange crisis. By 1977, the inflation rate had
*           escalated to 25 percent against 15 percent in 1976, and was rising:  the
budget deficit as a percentage of GDP increased to over 6 percent; with a
tripling of imports between 1973-77 to $5.8 billion and merchandise exports
and workers' remittances equalling only $1.8 billion and $1 billion in 1977,
the balance of payments deficit soared to $3.6 billion, or over 6 percent of
GDP. The Government's response to the crisis emerging since 1973 was to
increase external borrowing, mainly short-term. Consequently by end-1977,
total external indebtedness surged to $11 billion, of which short-term debt
alone was $6.2 billion. A crisis of confidence developed, the inflow of
external capital nearly ceased and Turkey faced a host of severe interlocking
domestic and external problems. Since January 1980, to achieve its goal of
reestablishing viable growth and increased efficiency of resource allocation,
through greater reliance on market forces and the introduction of an outward
orientation in economic policy, the Government has adopted a series of



measures in the areas of exchange rates, export promotion, protection policy,
interest rates, SEE prices, taxes, investment criteria and incentives, and
institutional reforms. A number of additional medium-term policies continue
to be initiated, and it is clear that the Government is determined to follow
through with its newly adopted development strategy.
Government's New Policy Priorities and Actions
12.      The new regime, which took over following the military intervention
on September 12, 1980, has vigorously pursued these new policies, pari passu
with efforts to restore political order following a period of rampant
terrorism, paralysis of the constitutional process, and widespread labor
unrest.  It has also emphasized, like previous military regimes in 1960-61 and
1971-73, that it will transfer power to civilian authorities once order is
restored and a new viable democratic system suited to Turkish circumstances
has been constitutionally established.
13.      Especially since September 1980, there has been substantial action on
economic policies,, although the severity of the economic crisis has forced the
new government to continue to focus much more on short-term than on
medium-term concerns.  In view of the severity of the crisis, and the urgent
need to bring down inflation and stabilize the balance of payments as quickly
as possible, it has accepted the need for a temporary sacrifice of growth and
social objectives. However, while financial aspects of economic management,
especially availability of foreign exchange and balancing the budget, have
come to dominate policy concerns, fairly drastic structural changes have been
made or initiated in the operation of the exchange rate regime, the tax
system, interest rate policy, export strategy, the SEE sector and public
investment policy.
14.      On development issues, a welcome change is beginning to be apparent
in the scope as well as in the sectoral emphasis to favor the development of
energy, infrastructure and agriculture, at the expense of manufacturing,
especially as far as the allocation of public sector resources is concerned.
There is acceptance of the division of labor between the public and the
private sectors, with the former now expected to concentrate on the provision
of infrastructure while the latter provides the main impetus to industrial
growth and exports. The administrative arrangements in the agriculture
sector are being drastically recast to provide better service support to the
farmers.  The development strategy has also changed, to give much greater
weight to exports, relative to import-substitution. Finally, and most
significantly, reliance on the market mechanism is being emphasized as against
more centralized planning, including in the inefficient SEE sector. Given the
long period of inward orientation, detailed planning and administered prices
prevalent until January 1980, the impact of these changes will take some time
to manifest. They also need to be complemented by further actions, which the
Government proposes to pursue, to fully implement the new development strategy.
15.      The retrenchment following the financial crisis resulted in both
public and private investment declining in real terms since 1977. The overall
level of investment in 1980 was around that in 1975, with private investment
being barely larger than in 1974. The extreme shortage of domestic resources
resulting from the Government's restrictive policies on credit and high
interest rates aimed at bringing down inflation, has necessitated rationing of
investible funds. The high oil import bill also forced a drastic reduction in
capital goods and raw materials imports needed for public and private sector



investments. The private sector, which to some extent has also continued to
adopt a wait-and-see attitude before investing, has been particularly affected
by the shortfall in resources, high cost of credit, and the lack of a
developed capital market.
16.      Despite the Government's attempts to reduce the investment-savings
gap and improve on the poor savings performance of the past years, the results
in 1979-80 continued to be poor as the Government had to bear the large
financial losses of the SEEs. However, as a result of major tax reforms in
late 1980/early 1981 and improved expenditure discipline, there was a
significant improvement in public accounts in FY81. The budget deficit is
expected to be about 1 percent of GDP vis-a-vis 4 percent in FY80; the SEE
financing requirements are estimated to have been reduced to 8 percent of GDP
in 1980, compared to 11 percent in 1979.
17.      The new Government's policies to reduce the size of public
investments, stimulate the private sector to take the slack, and overall, to
further reduce the gap between savings and investments, will need to be
vigorously pursued. In the last three to four years, the strategy has been to
meet the gap by tapping external financing on a prudent basis, which practice
is expected to continue. Turkey obtained increased support and debt
rescheduling from OECD countries and diversified its aid relationships with
OPEC countries, especially Saudi Arabia and Libya. Loan commitments, which
totalled $2.5 billion during 1972-75, increased over threefold to $8 billion
during 1976-79, and the gross public M&LT disbursements in 1980 reached about
*1.5 billion.
Effects of the 1980-81 Policy Measures
18.      These new policy directions are beginning to show results.  The
recent results are provided in Annex I-B. Briefly, the average annual rate of
inflation has been successfully brought down from 107 percent between
January-December 1980 to around 35 percent for the same period in 1981. The
flexible exchange rate policy under which the TL has been adjusted daily since
May 1981, together with the new export oriented policies, has led to an
unprecedented export growth in 1981; exports are estimated to be over $4.5
billion, or over 55 percent higher in dollar terms than the 1980 level.
Increases were concentrated in manufactured goods, which experienced a rise of
nearly 120 percent; product groups with the largest increases included
textiles, clothing, cement, iron/steel, and non-electrical equipment, with the
Middle East becomming an increasingly important market. A new and rapidly
growing source of foreign exchange is income earned from construction
contracts (with a gross value of nearly $7 billion in 1981) in the Middle East
and North African countries. These activities are also expected to add to the
normal flow of worker remittances, which remained strong throughout 1981.
Although import growth continued to be strong in 1981 (around 14 percent of
GDP), import volumes had declined sharply in 1978-79, and as a proportion of
GDP, will remain well below the 1974-77 average. Given these developments,
the current account deficit in 1981 is expected to be about $2.6 billion (4.1
percent of GNP) compared to $3.2 billion in 1980 (5.5 percent of GNP).
19.      In response to the freeing of interest rates, total deposits in July
1980-June 1981 increased by 97 percent and time deposits (including
certificates of deposit) by an astonishing 265 percent over the corresponding
period in 1979-80. Since July 1981, private companies have been free to set
their own bond rates in competition with banks, and can use flexible rates, if



they so choose. The Capital Market Law was passed in July 1981 and steps are
being taken to establish a capizal market.  Follo-L ing      to improve SEE
financial performance - by freeing most SEE prices and gradually exposing SEEs
to market forces - the SEE losses are projected to be only TL 5 billion in
1981, compared to TL 72 billion in 1979. This gain was partly offset by the
increases in SEE investment expenditures which in 198i sLoo- a. TL j4
billion, compared to TL 460 billion in 1980. The major tax reform initiated
in late 1980/early 1981, is now beginning to show effect. The overall deficit
on public account in 1981 is estimated to be about 1.5 percent of GDP,
compared to 4.5 percent in 1980.
Medium Term Prospects
20.      Making a reasonable assumption that the Government's new economic
policies will continue and be followed-up by further necessary measures, one
can tentatively project that the investment rate over the next 5 years could
average 23 percent of GDP and gross domestic savings 19 percent of GDP, with
the current account deficit remaining on average close to the 1980 level of
about $3 billion. This could allow the economy to grow at an annual average
of between 4-5 percent during 1981-85. The gross capital inflow required to
meet the financing needs would reach $6 billion in 1985, as against slightly
over $3 billion in 1981. The past and prospective movements of macroeconomic
indicators are summarized in the Table below.
Le-els           Average _ l
Actual    Rrojected   Xeal Growth Rates /1
1975   1980    1985     1975-80  1980-85
(Units)
A.  GDP        1980 TLbn  3,818  4,325   5,287      2.5     4.1
- Consumption          3,342   3,660   4,244       1.8     3.0
- investment    "        997    994    1,216       0.0    4.1
B.  Exports of Goods    Current  1,402  2,910  9,086  6.4  18.8
ibn
Imports of Goods  "    4,739  7,667    13,842     -3.7    4.8
- Oil:  value            808   3,552   6,585      -       -
Current Account
Balance    Current $bn  -1,892  -3,196  -3,164
Gross Capital
Inflows    Current $bn  2,067  4,057  6,010
C.  Investment/GDP  z      23.7   23.0     23.0
Savings/GDP             15.3   15.4     19.0
D.  Exports of Goods/GDP   X  3.2  5.2    10.0
Oil imports/Exports
of Goods             57.6   122.1    72.5
E.  Debt Service Ratio /2  8      11.5    33.2
/1  This does not reflect the latest (January 1982) estimates of GDP growth (4.4 percent) and
exports of goods (S'.5 billion) in 1981
/2 Total dabt service as percent exports of goods + NFS + workers' r_ittancee.



21.      The balance of payments picture in the 1980s could however be less
severe if: (a) worker remittances increase by 2-3 percent in real terms,
instead of remaining constant as assumed in tl-he above table; (b) remittances
from overseas construction activities annually average about $300 million
during the 5-year period (instead of $15-20 million assumed earlier); and
(c) average import elasticity is between 1.0-1.1 (instead of an assumed 1.1-
1.2). The current account deficit in 1985 could then be below $2 billion,
necessitating gross capital inflow of $5 billion in 1985.
22.      The viability of prospects in the table is briefly discussed below.
Continuation of economic and fiscal policies give room to expect that the
inflation rate can be progressively brought down further between 1982-85.
Policies, including continuation of the present exchange rate policy, and the
excellent 1981 export performance, should also make it possible for Turkey
to achieve a real growth of exports of about 19 percent per annum during
1980-85. The export growth rate appears attainable, taking into account the
low export base and market prospects, especially in the Middle East and North
African countries, and the present underutilization of industrial capacity.
However, as the economy returns to a normal growth path, non-oil imports as
well as the demand for energy should pick up significantly.  Although
Government policy is to substitute domestic energy resources, especially
lignite, for imported oil to the extent possible in all major consuming
sectors, Turkey will have to continue to rely heavily on imported oil. The
oil import bill is estimated to increase from $3.6 billion in 1980 to $6.6
billion in 1985; but as a percentage of exports of goods, it is likely to
decline to 73 percent in 1985 from 113 percent in 1980. The pressure of oil
imports on the balance of payments position will thus continue.
23.      A significant determinant of future prospects, in addition to
increased aid flows, will be the negotiation of substantive improvements
in trade policies towards Turkey. Revised agreements between the EEC and
Turkey in 1977 and 1980 have partly compensated for the erosion caused by
EEC restrictions on labor movement and textile exports, and offer hope for a
better future relationship. The EEC could provide a large and growing market
for Turkey's engineering products, as well as textiles and clothing - if their
quality and product composition is upgraded. Moreover, Turkey has recently
succeeded in diversifying its trade to include larger shares for the Middle
East and North African countries, from 14 percent in 1978 to 44 percent in
the first ten months of 1981. While these markets are becoming increasingly
important to Turkish firms, exports from Turkey represent only a small
proportion of the manufactured imports of these countries. Hence, while one
should cautiously interpret the recent upsurge in sales to Iran and Iraq,
Turkey has excellent possibilities to increase exports of relatively simple
engineering goods, cement, and various chemicals, in addition to processed
food, to these markets, in view of its geographical proximity and cultural
ties.
Creditworthiness
24.      At the end of 1978, Turkey faced an overwhelming debt burden of $7.5
billion in short-term debt and $6.8 billion in M&LT debt. Turkey was faced
with service payment obligations (mostly on short-term debt) of $5.1 billion
(including arrears), or nearly three times the value of merchandise exports
in 1977. Prolonged discussions with over 200 creditor banks resulted in an
agreement in July 1979 to reschedule a total of $3.0 billion in short-term



- 8 -
liabilities, including some $2.4 billion in convertible Turkish Lira deposits
and $400 million banker's credits (both at 1.75 percent above the London
Inter-Bank Offer Rate (LIBOR), with 7 years maturity including 3 years grace)
and $300 million in third party reimbursement credits (also at 1.75 percent
above LIBOR, but with an accelerated repayment schedule). Some $300 million
in oil loans were also rescheduled in 1979. At the end of 1980, arrears on
unguaranteed trade credits were consolidated in an amount of around $1
billion.  As a result of these exercises, short-term debt outstanding at
end-1980 was reduced to $2.8 billion, the balance having been converted to
M&LT debt. Finally, in January 1981, leading commercial banks agreed in
principle to extend the terms of the 1979 commercial debt rescheduling.  A
series of large-scale rescheduling operations relating to M&LT official debt
also took place. In 1978, 1979 and 1980, OECD member creditors rescheduled
$1.0, $1.1 and $2.5 billion respectively of debt service obligations and
accumulated arrears (the last exercise including some re-rescheduling). The
terms of the 1980 rescheduling were 8 to 10 years including 4 to 5 years of
grace, and provided debt relief estimated at $1.1 billion in 1980 and another
$0.8 billion in 1981, with smaller amounts thereafter. Without these
reschedulings, the debt service ratio would have been around 29 percent
instead of 12 percent at the end of 1980, on short-term debt of $2.8 billion
and M&LT debt of $14.3 billion. Nevertheless, debt service obligations are
likely to remain high over the coming years. The ratio is likely to rise to
about 33 percent in 1985, and still be around 30 percent if the favorable
assumptions spelled out in para. 21 are realized. The high ratios in the mid
to late 1980's, are partly the result of repayment, which would amount to
about $1.0 billion in 1985 alone of rescheduled debt carrying a very high
interest rate, and partly due to the need to borrow additionally in the coming
years to enable the economy to achieve a modest level of growth and revived
vitality. However, despite the rapid increase, the debt burden should remain
manageable, provided current policies are successfully implemented, the export
drive is sustained, and Turkey continues to receive further international
support from private and official donors.
25.      On all aspects of economic analysis, the IMF and the Bank have
coordinated closely with each other, and Turkey continues to be in good
standing with the IMF. A three-year standby arrangement in an amount
equivalent to SDR 1,250 million was approved by the IMF's Board and became
effective on June 18, 1980. Under the arrangement, Turkey has thus far made
six purchases totalling SDR 760 million, including the tranche for SDR 100
million released in January 1982.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
26.      The Bank/IDA have to date lent about $3,476 million, through 68
projects. Agriculture accounts for 20 percent of funds lent, industry and
DFCs (including structural adjustment) for 41 percent, power for 12 percent,
and urban development, transportation, education and tourism for the rest.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1982, with notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.



- 9 -
27.      The implementation of private sector projects has been satisfactory.
Political instability, limited coordination amongst ministries, staffing
problems and the serious external and domestic financial crisis since 1977
have seriously affected project implementation in the public sector. A system
of joint project reviews between Turkey and the Bank was instituted in June
1975. This has resulted in distinct, but modest, improvements. The broad
reform of the public sector launched in January 1980, and pursued with new
measures since then, allows cautious optimism that performance can be
gradually improved further, provided it is not eroded by new factors,
including shortages of resources. As of December 31, 1981 overall
disbursements amounted to 68 percent of appraisal estimates, which compares
favorably with other countries in the Region. This figure includes structural
adjustment lending which tends to disburse more rapidly than other project
funds, and also reflects good disbursement performance in the power,
industry/DFC and water supply sectors. Disbursements have been fair in the
agricultural sector and rather poor in the urban, energy and railways sectors,
due mostly to project-specific problems that are being addressed through
on-going supervision efforts.
28.      Bank lending is aimed at supporting the economic policies initiated
in January 1980, especially: (a) the pursuit of an export-oriented
development strategy; and (b) domestic economic policies aimed at establishing
a macro-economic balance, increasing domestic savings, restraining public
investment and reorienting it to reflect the new Government priorities
(completion of ongoing projects, emphasis on quick-yielding new investments,
and balance of payments impact). The Bank has discussed with the Government
how its overall lending can best contribute to the latter's medium-term
objectives, and help remove past policy and institutional constraints. A
series of structural adjustment loans (SALs) is envisaged, at the Government's
request, to support its program of structural adjustments that is being
implemented. Agriculture, industry and energy will be the key sectors for
project lending. In agriculture, projects emphasize livestock, exports, and
rural development; in industry (including DFCs), the emphasis is on promotion
of exports and employment, and the gradual strengthening of the SEEs. Energy
projects underway are in power generation based on domestic hydro and lignite
resources; future projects will emphasize the oil/gas sub-sector and
coal/lignite. Projects for urban development and public utilities may
supplement these efforts. The close macroeconomic and sector dialogue
established with the Government in recent years is expected to be pursued on
key issues. The economic and sector work undertaken over the last 15 months
includes special studies of the public investment program, of
industrialization and foreign trade strategy, and of the energy sector, and
completion of sector memoranda on agriculture and industry.  In addition, the
progress made in fostering structural adjustment will be monitored in the
context of each future structural adjustment loan.
29.      Besides the proposed project, other projects expected to be ready for
consideration by the Executive Directors in this fiscal year are for highway
rehabilitation and the third loan for structural adjustment. Other projects
being processed include: agricultural credit, irrigation completion,
development of gas reserves, rehabilitation of the paper and cement
industries, and a supplement to the Elbistan loan.
30.      The Bank Group's share of the estimated total external debt was 8
percent in 1980, and is expected to grow to about 11 percent by 1985.  Its



- 10 -
share of total debt service payments (excluding debt rescheduling) is
projected to increase from about 10 percent in 1980 to about 12 percent in
1985.
31.      IFC has invested in synthetic yarns, pulp and paper, glass, aluminum,
iron and steel products, motor bicycle engines, piston rings and cylinder
liners, and tourism. It has also invested in the Turkish Industrial
Development Bank (TSKB). As of March 31, 1982, gross IFC commitments totalled
about $226 million, of which $87 million were still held by IFC. New
investment opportunities are being pursued.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Organization
32.      Traditionally, the provision of water supply and sewerage has been
the responsibility of municipalities and village councils. However, the local
bodies have lacked the financial resources and, except for a few major cities,
the technical capabilities for discharging this function. Thus, planning,
design and construction of new systems have been gradually absorbed by three
government organizations, which were originally established as advisory and
financing agencies. These organizations are the State Hydraulic Works (DSI),
Iller Bankasi (Bank of the Provinces), and the Directorate for Roads, Water
and Electricity (YSE), of the Ministry of Rural Affairs and Cooperatives.
33.      For the Istanbul Municipality, a semi-autonomous Water Supply
Authority (ISI) has been responsible for works operation and maintenance,
while DSI has undertaken project preparation and implementation. ISI also was
bulk supplier for a score of smaller municipalities. In other urban and rural
areas, municipal departments and village councils operate their own water
supply and sewerage facilities, except for major rural water supply systems
which are operated by YSE.
34.      Alternative institutional arrangements had been considered, in
particular at the 1978 Conference on Planning and Development of Community
Water Supply and Sanitation in Turkey. Major changes, however, were not to be
made until the Government created greater municipal areas by executive order
of February 1981 sanctioned by law of December 1981. This is expected to
improve planning and implementation of municipal services.
35.      With the creation of greater municipal areas in 1981, the water
supply and sewerage services of the small municipalities were merged with
those of the nearest large urban centers. At the establishment of the Greater
Istanbul Municipality, the water supply services of 24 surrounding
municipalities were merged with those of ISI, while all sewerage services were
vested in a Municipal Sewerage Department.
36.      The most important institutional reform, however, and one which may
set the pattern for other urban areas, was initiated by Law 2560 of November
20, 1981. It created the Istanbul Water Supply and Sewerage General
Directorate (ISKI) as an autonomous entity responsible for the planning,
design, construction, operation and maintenance of all water supply and
sewerage facilities in the Greater Istanbul Municipality. Of particular
significance, the new law gives ISKI's General Council the freedom to set
water tariffs and sewerage charges without, as in the past, having to seek



- Il -
prior approval of the Municipality or the Central Government. The new
arrangements should enable ISKI to meet its financial obligations and to
finance a gradually increasing share of its investments with internally
generated funds.
37.      Environmental protection and conservation have also received
increased priority through the recent creation of a central organization for
environmental activities in the Deputy Prime Minister's Office.
Water Supply and Sewerage Service Levels
38.      In 1979, 63 percent of Turkey's total population had adequate water
supply (63 percent of urban and 63 percent of rural areas); 18 percent had
inadequate supply (14 percent of urban and 23 percent of rural areas); and
19 percent had no public supply (23 percent of urban and 14 percent of rural
areas). Inadequate supply means insufficiency and intermittence in water
availability and distribution.
39.      Sewerage systems exist only in the major cities serving about
4.4 million people or 18 percent of total urban population, a large part being
in Istanbul. However, none of these systems includes treatment and only a few
have adequate disposal facilities. As a result precarious sanitary conditions
prevail, particularly in high density, low income, urban areas.
40.      The insufficiency of sewerage systems and the indiscriminate disposal
of domestic and industrial liquid and solid wastes have caused serious
deterioration of rivers and coastal waters increasing considerably the dangers
of contaminating drinking water supplies. According to public health
statistics, 38 percent of water samples tested (during 1977) were
unsatisfactory from a bacteriological viewpoint. Water related diseases are
endemic with outbreaks occurring annually. In 1977 the total recorded number
of such cases exceeded 15,000 with 143 deaths. In 1970 a cholera epidemic in
Istanbul caused 52 deaths, and was attributed to unsatisfactory sanitary
conditions.
41.      In 1978, the Conference on Planning and Development of Water Supply
and Sanitation formulated the following objectives: (i) provision by 1990 of
adequate water supplies to the entire urban and rural populations;
(ii) provision by 1990 of satisfactory excreta disposal facilities to the
total rural population; and (iii) provision by 2000 of satisfactory sewerage
and sewerage disposal facilities to the total urban population.
42.      These objectives are ambitious and unlikely to be met in the time
frame originally envisaged. The National Action Committee set up in
connection with the U.N. Water Decade has established a number of priorities.
Their realization, however, will depend in large part on available financial
and human resources. The progress on these matters would be addressed further
in future sector studies, and during the course of project supervision.
Sector Investment Program
43.      The share of water supply and sewerage in public investments has been
decreasing. The sectoral investment program for the fourth Five-Year-Plan,
1978-1982, represents about 3.5 percent of total public investments, divided
between urban water supply, rural water supply and urban sewerage in the
proportions of 37 percent, 46 percent and 17 percent respectively.



- 12 -
44.      A comparison between the 1973-1977 and the 1978-1982 investment plans
indicates that rural water supply and sewerage are getting increased priority
over urban water supply. While the plan investment allocations are inadequate
in relation to the needs of the sector, the amounts actually provided during
1978-80 were about 80 percent of the funds requested, distributed in the ratio
of 45 percent, 35 percent and 20 percent between urban water supply, rural
water supply and urban sewerage. The actual allocations made for the sector
are reasonable in the country's economic circumstances in recent years. The
Government plans to concentrate public investment on energy and infrastructure
projects. Thus the resources devoted to improving water supply and sewerage
services will continue to be limited.  This is in line with the approach
recommended by the Bank following a review of the Government's medium-term
public investment program. As the country's economy recovers, greater
attention will be given, inter alia, to improving urban services.
45.      The planning and coordination of sectoral investments needs
improvement. The sector investments have been planned in five year increments
independently by the different sector agencies and are not fully integrated.
The utilization of the available funds could be improved by better
inter-agency coordination. Capital investments have been financed by
Government grants or low interest rate loans, which in the past have seldom
been repaid.
46.      Water tariffs are set by local bodies with Government's approval.
Except in the major cities, water tariffs have been insufficient to cover even
operating expenses. Sewer connection charges have been levied but sewage
disposal service has so far been free. Thus operational and maintenance costs
for sewerage and sewage disposal systems and to a certain extent also for
water supply systems, have been covered by municipal budget allocations.
47.      It is the Government's intention, through appropriate tariff levels
for water supply in urban and rural areas and the introduction of sewerage
charges, to enable sector entities to cover operational expenses. Water
supply and sewerage entities will also be expected to finance a gradually
increasing proportion of their investment requirements through internal cash
generation.
Previous Bank Involvement
48.      The Bank made a $37 million loan in 1972 (Loan 844-TU) for expansion
of the Istanbul water supply system. The project implemented by ISI was
substantially delayed due to institutional and financial constraints, and
ISI's difficulties in attracting and retaining competent staff. The
additional water supply provided under the project has helped to maintain a
relatively good level of service which is expected to improve considerably as
leak detection and other improvements under way start yielding results. More
importantly, the project contributed to institutional development in the
establishment of ISKI as an autonomous entity. This will facilitate the
rational planning, execution and financing of water supply and sewerage
services. The experience gained from the implementation of the Water Supply
Project has been incorporated in the proposed project to ensure timely
execution and financing arrangements. In addition to the Water Supply
Project, IDA made a $2.3 million credit in 1972 (Cr. 324-TU) to prepare master
plans and studies for urban programs in Istanbul. This credit partly helped
to prepare the Camp-Tek-Ser report (para. 50) which included a review of the
master plan for sewage disposal in the Istanbul area. The Bank also made a
$6.0 million loan in 1979 (Loan S-15-TU) to the Government to develop viable



- 13 -
methods of manufacturing smokeless fuel from lignite, and to investigate other
possible technologies which may reduce air pollution in Ankara. This project
is still in the early implementation stage.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
49.      Istanbul, the capital of the former Byzantine and Ottoman Empires and
one of the oldest cities of the world, is the foremost cultural, industrial
and economic center of Turkey. Industrial growth started on the European side
around the Golden Horn and later spread to the Bakirkoy area along the
northern shore of the Sea of Marmara. On the Asian side of Istanbul,
industrial growth is concentrated mainly in the Kartal area. The growth has
been accompanied by heavy migration and accelerated proliferation of large
squatter settlements. The present population of the Greater Istanbul
Municipality is about 4.7 million.
50.      Two comprehensive sewerage and sewage disposal master plan studies
have been carried out for the Greater Istanbul area, i.e., the Damoc report
and the Camp-Tek-Ser report completed in 1971 and 1975 respectively. In 1978
it was decided to update the Camp-Tek-Ser study, to further evaluate some
alternative technical proposals and to include detailed engineering for three
of the four major drainage areas - Yenikapi, Kabatas and Uskudar (see attached
maps). The updating of this study was carried out by consultants and
completed by end-1980, and financed by a $0.5 million advance from the Project
Preparation Facility approved in August 1978. Concurrently, detailed
engineering was prepared for the fourth drainage area Kadikoy-Kartal by a
local consultant (Tek-Ser) engaged by Iller Bankasi.
51.      The implementation of proposed works in the four drainage areas is
estimated to cost about $500 million. Because of financial constraints, the
works have been phased taking into account priority considerations such as the
need to reduce the pollution in the Sea of Marmara, which is extensively used
for recreational purposes and to commence the restoration of the Golden Horn,
which in its inner portion shows anaerobic conditions. For these reasons the
Yenikapi drainage area was selected to be covered under the proposed project,
which should be executed during the period 1982-1987.
52.      The physical component of the project is located mainly in the area
of the medieval walled city, the most densely populated in Istanbul.  This
area is bounded by the old city wall to the West, the Golden Horn to the
North, the Bosphorus to the East, and the Sea of Marmara to the South.
53.      The project was appraised in November/December 1981.  The Staff
Appraisal Report No. 3836-TU, dated February 23, 1982 is being distributed
separately. The key features of the project are described in the Loan and
Project Summary, and in Section III of Annex III. Negotiations were held in
Washington from April 15-22, 1982 with a Turkish delegation led by
Mr. T. Altinok, Chief Counselor at the Turkish Embassy in Washington and
including representatives of ISKI and the Government.
Project Objectives and Description
54.      The major project objectives are: (i) to extend and improve the
coverage of sewerage services, by rehabilitation and extension of the



- 14 -
secondary sewage systems, thereby serving about 60                     t- >al
population in the Greater Istanbul Municipality covering about 70 percent of
the low income group; (ii) to reduce the amount of sewage be-l-g discharged
along the shorelines of the Golden Horn and the Sea of Marmara by the
construction of sewage interception systems, and to provide s2tisfactory
sewage disposal by the construction of pretreatment works and a deep submarine
outfall main, thereby improving environmental conditions; (iii) to improve
ISKI's institutional and managerial capacity; and (iv) to promote ISKI's
financial viability by the introduction of adequate water supply and sewerage
charges.
55.      The project further aims at developing procedures for pollution
control for the Greater Istanbul area and also for the country as a whole, to
be achieved through industrial wastewater and oceanographic surveys.
56.      The project would include the following major components:  (i)
laterals and collectors (secondary sewage systems), about 285 km; (ii)
interceptors, 26 km; (iii) tunnel, 2.4 km; (iv) pretreatment works with inlet
and outlet pumping stations; (v) pumping mains, 2.3 km; and (vi) submarine
outfall main 2.0 km. The sewage disposal works are designed for a capacity of
12 m3/sec. The project also includes equipment for water supply and sewage
system operation, consultant services, technical assistance and training,
including the establishment of a regional training center and engineering
design for next stage water supply and sewerage disposal development.
57.      The project would cover about 60 percent of projected water supply
and sewerage sector investments in the Greater Istanbul Municipality during
the project implementation period, 1982-87.
The Borrower: ISKI
58.      The Istanbul Water Supply and Sewerage General Directorate, ISKI,
upon its creation in November 1981, acquired the relevant personnel, assets
and liabilities of the former ISI (para. 33), as well as those of the Istanbul
Municipal Sewerage Department. Consolidation under ISKI was substantially and
successfully completed in December 1981. ISKI's authority is vested in its
General Council, its Board of Directors and its General Director. The General
Director is assisted by three Assistant General Directors who are responsible
respectively for (i) planning, design and construction; (ii) operation and
maintenance; and (iii) administration and finance. ISKI's enabling
legislation is general and there is a need for defining operational procedures
as well as for operating and maintenance manuals. These should be completed
by June 1, 1984 which ISKI agreed to at negotiations (Loan Agreement Section
4.04).
59.      Upon its formation, ISKI took over the activities carried out by the
former sector entities. An opening balance sheet was established as at the
end of 1981. However, it has not been possible to prepare consolidated income
and cash flow statements of past operations because the 24 municipalities
which joined the Istanbul Municipality to form Greater Istanbul did not keep
separate accounts for their water and sewerage operations.
60.      ISKI's opening balance sheet includes all sector fixed assets and
appropriate depreciation reserves. There are no arrears in the servicing of
the existing long-term debt, the Central Government having for the most part
provided funds for this purpose. However, the bulk of the receivables and



- 15 -
other payables, which are claims on and from municipalities and Government
entities, is over one year old. As of the end of 1981, the receivables and
payables amounted to $36.0 million and $38.0 million respectively. To ensure
that this does not adversely affect its finances, ISKI would carry out a plan,
acceptable to the Bank, to segregate from its current account the payables and
receivables outstanding on December 31, 1981. They would then be liquidated
in a manner that would ensure that ISKI has no negative cash flow in any
fiscal year (Loan Agreement Section 4.06). Further, ISKI would establish, by
January 1, 1983, a program satisfactory to the Bank to reduce unaccounted for
water through leak detection, to improve billing procedures and to institute
an effective collection system (Loan Agreement Section 4.08). This would
enable ISKI to ensure that its receivables are kept within prudent limits.
61.      ISKI, which is run by a competent and forceful General Manager, faces
a shortage of qualified and experienced staff particularly in the financial
and accounting areas. Thus, to improve its financial and accounting systems,
ISKI agreed at negotiations to employ a financial advisor by October 1, 1982
(Loan Agreement Section 3.02).
62.      ISKI will develop a training unit and will also be responsible for
the establishment of a regional training center. This should cover related
training activities in the water supply and sewerage sector on a regional
basis. This is according to recommendations made in a training study prepared
by the French Cooperation Agency "La Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique". At negotiations ISKI agreed to hire a training specialist by
October 1, 1982 (Loan Agreement Section 3.02) to advise ISKI on the
development of the training unit and on manpower development.
63.      ISKI's law gives it broad autonomy including the right to set its own
tariffs, and thus enable it to be financially viable. Its immediate financial
objectives are to fully recover operating and maintenance costs of its water
supply and sewerage services, including depreciation, and in the longer term
to make a modest and gradually increasing contribution towards capital
investments, after meeting its debt service. ISKI has increased its average
tariffs for water supply effective January 1, 1982. Further, during the
project period, as part of its annual budget review, ISKI would take
appropriate measures, including improvement of operational efficiency and
adjustment of its tariffs, in consultation with the Bank, to ensure that in
each year its revenues are sufficient to cover O&M costs, and debt service, in
excess of the provision for depreciation (Loan Agreement Section 5.04 and
5.05).
64.      In addition to the need for tariff adjustments, there is a need to
introduce block tariffs both to promote water conservation and to ensure
equity among different classes of consumers. ISKI is collecting necessary
data for this purpose. At negotiations ISKI agreed to complete a tariff study
not later than December 31, 1983, in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, to consult with the Bank on its findings, and,
thereafter, to implement its recommendations in accordance with a timetable
agreed with the Bank (Loan Agreement Section 4.07).
65.      The volume of water sold is expected to increase by about 42 percent
in the project implementation period. This, coupled with the forecast tariff
increases, would produce revenues which would grow about three-fold. In the
same period, operating expenses, including depreciation, would also increase



- 16 -
about three times, leaving a combined gross income sufficient to enable ISKI
to meet its obligations. On this basis ISKI would realize a rate of return of
about 4 percent on its average net fixed assets in operation in the years from
1982 through 1984, 8 percent in 1985, 17 percent in 1986 and 9 percent in
1987. Its overall operating ratio would decrease from about 94 percent in
1982 to about 86 percent in 1987.
Project Cost and Financing
66.      The estimated project cost is $220.3 million equivalent, including
$86.3 million foreign exchange (about 40 percent).  It does not include any
taxes, as ISKI is exempt from taxes and duties. The costs of the principal
components are given in the Loan and Project Summary. Physical contingencies
average about 13 percent of base costs. Price contingencies for both civil
works and mechanical and electrical equipment have been estimated assuming
price increases in dollar terms of 8.5 percent for 1982, 7.5 percent for
1983-85 and 6 percent for 1986-87. These estimates include about $7.1 million
for about 1100 man-months of consultant services, based on an average cost per
man-month of $2,000 equivalent for local and $10,000 equivalent for foreign
consultants (1981 price level), including international travel and subsistance.
67.      The proposed Bank Loan of $88.1 million equivalent  would cover the
entire estimated foreign exchange expenditures, including $0.5 million advance
under the Project Preparation Facility and approximately $1.3 million front
end fee. The estimated local costs of $134 million would be met by internal
cash generation and customers' contributions amounting to $2.8 million, (I
percent of total), Government equity contributions of $82.7 million, (37
percent of total), and the portion of the municipal fund allocated to ISKI
amounting to $48.5 million (22 percent of total). The proposed Bank loan
would be made to ISKI for 17 years including 4 years grace, at an interest
rate of 11.6 percent, with the Government guarantee.
Project Implementation
68.      ISKI will be responsible for project implementation and for operation
and maintenance of the water supply and sewage systems for the Greater
Istanbul Municipality. By July 1982 detailed engineering including adequate
soil surveys and preparation of tender documents would mainly be completed
except for the secondary sewage systems, which will be prepared on an annual
basis. Final drawings for secondary sewage systems are at present prepared by
the contractors executing the works. This is not satisfactory and ISKI agreed
to at negotiations that for contracts to be entered into after June 1, 1983,
final drawings should be prepared by ISKI (Loan Document Section 3.06).
69.      For the implementation of a project of this magnitude ISKI will be
assisted by engineering consultants for project management, tender evaluation
and preparation of contract documents, review of contractors' drawings,
supervision of construction works, material and equipment supply and
installation. These consultant services will be provided by a foreign
consultant in association with a local one. Consultant proposals have been
invited according to terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and at
negotiations ISKI agreed to finalize selection and terms and conditions of
employment of consultants as a condition of loan effectiveness and to maintain
competent supervision teams during the implementation of the project (Loan
Agreement Sections 3.01(b)(i) and 7.01). ISKI also agreed at negotiations to



-17 -
retain a Project Manager (an ISKI staff member) with terms of reference and
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement Section 3.01(b)(ii)).
70.      Due to the country's economic difficulties, several projects have, in
recent years, been delayed for want of adequate and timely resources. In
order to ensure that the proposed project receives adequate and timely funds,
ISKI agreed at negotiations to determine, in consultation with the Bank, as
part of its annual budget review, the annual contributions required from the
Government towards its investment program, in time to enable the Government to
include such requests in its budget for the next fiscal year (Loan Agreement
Section 5.05).  The Government would thereafter, as agreed to at negotiations,
ensure the provision of such funds in the form of equity (Guarantee Agreement
Section 2.02). It is anticipated that during the project implementation
period ISKI's debt-equity ratio would be below 60:40, and its current ratio
above 3.5.
71.      Regulations should be formulated for the control and the pretreatment
requirements of industrial affluents before being discharged into the sewage
systems, and pollution monitoring programs should be established for the
Golden Horn, Sea of Marmara and the Bosphorus. This would provide data on the
impact of the proposed project and also a basis for future actions to be taken
for further improvements of environmental conditions. At negotiations ISKI
agreed to commence, by no later than June 30, 1983, the implementation of a
program on the above matters (Loan Agreement Section 4.05).
Procurement and Disbursement
72.      Procurement of civil works for submarine outfall main, pretreatment
works and pumping stations, tunnel and interceptors with pumping mains and of
mechanical and electrical equipment for pretreatment and pumping plants should
be on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
Bank guidelines and subject to prequalification procedures. Procurement of
equipment for maintenance and operation of the water supply and sewage systems
should be according to ICB, except for contracts valued below $150,000 each
and not exceeding $800,000 in the aggregate for which local bidding or
international shopping on the basis of three price quotations would be
acceptable.  For goods procured through ICB, domestic suppliers of equipment
and materials would be given a 15 percent preference or the import duty,
whichever is lower. Consultant services would be procured in accordance with
Bank guidelines.
73.      The contracts for the secondary sewerage system, estimated at $36
million, would be carried out in accordance with local competitive bidding
procedures. These works are technically simple, small, and would be spread
over the project period and not attract foreign bidders. Though they are part
of the project, Bank disbursements will not be made against these contracts.
74.      The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed as follows:
(i) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 100 percent of local expenditures
ex-factory for mechanical, electrical and other equipment; (ii) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures, and 30 percent of local expenditures, for civil works
(other than for the tunnel), consultancy services, technical assistance and
training; (iii) 75 percent of total expenditures of the tunnel; (iv) refunding
of project preparation advance; and (v) payment of the front end fee.



Project Benefits and Risks
75.      For the Yenikapi drainage area, where the maj;or part o the extension
of the sewage system will take place, the population density and the
proportion of lower income people are comparatively high. The project will
increase the population served by sewerage connections from 52 percent (1981)
to about 61 percent (1987), and that of the lower income group from 50 percent
to about 70 percent.  The portion of project costs attributable to the lower
income group would be about 30 percent of the total costs. An affordability
analysis also indicates that projected increase in the water supply and
sewerage rates would be within the paying capacity of a low income family.
76.      The project would reduce the health hazard at public beaches, which
otherwise might have to be closed with new beaches to be developed further
away from populated areas, commence the restoration of the Golden Horn, and
gradually improve environmental conditions, which would have a beneficial
effect on the tourist industry.
77.      The technical assistance and training to be provided under the
project would contribute to strengthening ISKI's technical and financial
capabilities. The project could also provide a pattern for sectoral
development in other large urban areas of Turkey.
78.      Major project risks include the possibilities for delays in project
execution and for cost overruns which are normally associated with any large
civil works undertakings, and the initial difficulties inherent in the merging
of the former sector entities. With the thoroughness of project preparation,
the provision of experienced consultants to assist ISKI in project management
and construction supervision, and the implementation of comprehensive training
programs, these risks have been reduced to acceptable levels.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and ISKI, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank, and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The special features of the Loan Agreement are referred to in the
text and listed in Section III of Annex III.
80.      A special condition of loan effectiveness is the selection of
consultants for project management and construction supervision with
qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank
(Loan Agreement Sections 3.02 and 7.01).
81.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
82.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments.
May 3, 1982
Washington, D. C.



- 20                                              Annex 1-A
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
TURKEY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TURKEY                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVfAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                           -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             780.6                                 MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
AGRICULTURAL     554.5               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b               EUROPE              MARKET ECONOMIES
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  300.0        550.0    1330.0                  2609.1                    9444.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUiIVALENT)     254.3       504.1      806.5                  2368.4                    7896.6
POPULATION ANL VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 27109.0      35321.0   44237.0
GRBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.7         38.4       46.5                    53.2                      76.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPLLATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        69.1
STATIONARY POPLLATION (MILLIONS)                         114.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        35.2        45.2       56.7                    80.6                     142.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      51.0        64.0       77.8                   133.9                     523.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          41.2        41.0       39.2                    30.1                      22.8
15-64 YRS.                          55.2        54.3       56.3                    61.5                      65.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.6         4.7        4.5                     8.3                      11.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.8         2.5        2.5                     1.5                       0.8
URBAN                               6.1         5.1        4.6                     3.1                       1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      42.5        38.0       34.2                    22.9                      14.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      15.5        12.5        9.7                     9.1                       9.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.1         2.6        2.3                     1.6                       0.9
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        65.6       66.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   5.3          8.2       38.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71100)           96.0       100.0      112.0                   119.8                     112.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   110.0       111.0      115.0                   125.7                    131.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           81.0        80.0       82.0                   92.5                      98.1
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        24.0        26.0      24.0                    39.7                      62.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      23.0        15.0        9.0                    3.4                        0.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    50.8         57.1       61.6                    68.9                      73.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           194.0       153.0/c       ..                    25.2                      12.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATI ON)
TOTAL                                ..        52.0       75.0
URBAN                                ..        51.0       70.0
RURAL                                ..        53.0      80.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                ..          ..       20.0
RURAL                                ..          ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2799.6      2227.6    1770.3                    973.3                    621.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      1883.8    1461.3                    896.6                     217.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             590.0/d     490.3      505.8                  262.3                     119.4
URBAN                             190.O/d     313.4      312.5                  191.8                     120.9
RURAL                                ..      5912.2         ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        20.2       22.3                    18.2                      17.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEIIOLD
TOTAL                               5.7         5.9
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..         2.2
URBAN                               2.0         1.9
RURAL                                ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              29.0        41.1       57.0
URBAN                                ..        78.2
RURAL                               2.0        18.0



- 21 -                                        Annex l-A
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
TURKEY --SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TURKEY   -                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGRS
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b               EUROPE              MARKET ECONOMIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 75.0        110.0      105.0                   105.9                      99.6
MALE                  90.0        124.0     115.0                   109.6                     102.1
FEMALE                58.0        94.0       95.0                   102.2                     101.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 14.0         27.0      41.0                     66.3                      89.3
4                                       MALE                  20.0        38.0       57.0                    73.2                      83.3
FEMALE                 8.0        15.0       26.0                    59.5                      85.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  18.0          14.0       18.0                    28.4                      18.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            46.0         38.0      30.0                     26.8                      21.2
SECONDARY                          19.0         28.0      27.0                     23.6                      16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        38.0         55.5/e    60.3/h                   75.4                      98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0          3.9       11.5                    83.9                     349.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         49.1         87.7     101.3                    181.6                    1018.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.0          1.8      54.0                   131.1                      400.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  51.0           ..         ..                   123.8                     336.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.1           6.7         ..                     5.7                       4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13782.1       15817.7   19220.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   40.2         37.2      36.3                     32.9                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              78.0         67.7      54.3                     34.0                       6.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 11.0         12.1      12.9                    28.7                       37.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                50.1         44.8      43.4                     42.3                      45.7
MALE                                 58.7         55.7       54.4                    56.5                      58.9
FEMALE                               41.2         33.6       32.1                    28.5                      33.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9         1.0        1.0                     0.9                       0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   33.0/f        32.8         .
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.07f        60.67i    56.5/i
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.27?         2.9       3.47?*
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.67T         9.47j    11.47i
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     342.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     270.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..           ..     220.0                   385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1967;  /d 1962;  /e Six years and over;  /f 1963;  /g 1968; /h 1975; /i 1973.
May, 1981



-22 -
Annex 1-A
P'age 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes;  Although the dots are dranfro  source  generally djudged the most  nthctitsti- sed reliable, it should olac ho curse chtb-'rev ny  -o  c. intro-
eeiell   operbla b-o.eeofth.      l of of  tadar dise    dfloitio Ae sd cono..Pt. oeed by diff.erelcatie  nctorn   thre deco.  lb. dcci roe, none-
theless, -usful to d..cribe ordern of  egnitude, iadinsto treads, sd ohbrsoteies crr-lu  mJnt diffeoeucee between. countrie..
The referecegrulp. s-  (I) the sum  countrY group of the ebjeot countrY sad (2) a oootry gtona  with ...erbuc highet average incom  thea the country go..up
of the subject  ounry (e as r m   "Capinsl Duep1os Oil  aportora" grop whee  ' Middle Inome North Afrion and Middle Eoan" Ia chree. heccoes of  trngr
-anto-oleora  effieloise).  In the ref.elrsa     grop date the  -cregee ee  popoeioa.  _eighead e-dehe-fa eae  fcor eeh indicat or W shov  only oh-
mojonity of the  tonrise IA agop hoe dsne for thtr indicetor.  Since the  -oveege ofconresag the indicators  . depnd  on tbs ersilsbility of dtne
en ,i  ntuif oe  onin  at ho emrtised In relating sesgeof o.-  indinstor tosobr.   h                            vrsenoolyuefu  l to  oparing the ve1ue of
oeindiao  etanie        &na  tho  -nutty end  rfrnegroups.
LAND AREA (tho...end agho.)                                                                       Pouainprfeis   e      oa, uban, sad rursl - Population  (tone1,
Totsl - Tote1 sorface are  toprising 1sod ar   end talud waters.                                    rba,edral  divde  bytIr repetiv  nuber  f hospital bade
Agri-oItur.1 - Stnaae ofAgricultural era  und temporarily orpraenl                                  vilable In publit n.       rvt   eea   a   pcnin   hospital sad re-
for nrops, pacots  erh't' an hk..s geodeos or to lie follow; 197h duta.                         hehilitanot    eres-    opite. noetblients permenetly etsffad
byr at leac one physician. Etatb1ishbten providing principally c.ent-
GNP PUI CAPITA (US$0  - GNP per capita rstimetas at onoret earhet prices, cal-                       dial care err not included.  Rura hoepitals. hewvee-, inoods health
nolanad by  -   conerion matihd as Wetid 5Bel  Anlac 11977-79 basis); t96.                         ead msdirel centers not parasnealy staffod by a pbyaielan  (hot byIa
1970 Pdcd 1979 deco.                                                                               _sdioel.. slrcr  ouso e'idwifa., et)  hiob offer la-paisn   a0--
dotion sad prn-ide a limted range of Wiosl facilities. Fer etatia-
UniRx CfMRNt'IO  PiR CAPITA - As-oI c--optinl of  -osrial enery (coal                                tinal :p epos. urban hospitals isclsde WM.if  priuoipal/geae-cIopias
sad lignte.petroleum, natrsi gas sad hydro-, .. aolar aad geothoraI el1-                           end rura  hospital. Il..ol or rara  heepitale sad   edirsI sad mo-.teiy
trietty) in hilogrm  of tool  quiv-leat per oe pita; l960, 1970, and 1979                        rAn:ras.  Speole1'isa   hospitul. see. imeeded only r-dar total.
deco.                                                                                           Adleosor cIaL Ned - Tore  oabse of cdm.isso     t r.  r discharges
Bsfrom hospitals d-iidad by the nauher of beds.
POPULATION AND VITAL STATIDTICS
Total Pouiotion  Mid-Yer (thouands) -A. of July 1; 1960, 197i, and 1979            gOUSING
data.                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~A-sega Si.. of Househld (esn  tr ho..eoho1d) - total. urban  sa  rural
Orba"  Pnpaacion (pero...t of totu1) - Ratio of urban tc canal populecion;                         A hueehold cons ists of a grou.p of individuals who shorn living   uaer
diff erent definition  of urban since my affect ..oparebtiity of dein                           and thir mit anal.  A boarder or lodger my or my sot ha included in
umong . cranio-; 19ff1, 1970, and 1970 data                             ,                       rh -hushod forsairce,upss
Penuistiun Ptoinctioo                                                                            vrg   use   frron   e   om    toa.  uba."  ankurl-                     sraea
,Pnrle.tion. invur 1200 - Curat population proJeectail  are based on 1980                       hot of Paenper-      room_ In 011 orbn, and rura  ...cuPied cuovstirnal
total poultion by ago and n-  atd their mortality sod fertility eaa.-                         de,lligs  repectively.  Deellinge sacldm no-parmnst utrotorne sa
P-oj-tiou parsatera for mortolity rtna. oumprine of three len.e seA.-                         -onpied psen..
ing life _npette...y at birth introasing  itb coutry a par ..Pit. incom                     Aco..e Or El-orrIoIrr (oroma  of d-elines)  - orl. arb-, cad -areI 
cml, andfemle life napsotany stabileinig at 77.) yearn.  The pars-                            Cevet iemi dwsllinge with  eeti Ityi  liig  quarters As peretage
mtetres for fortuity  uter  ulno hove three level  asumngdclie In                             of total, srba, and rora1 dwellings t-peetiv-ly.
fertility onoodin  toicnlvl  n   at family plasning penmn
abcutry  dis tha    nge  one- of. thes  nin  nmintin.- of mortslity                 EDUCATION
and fertility treads for projeociun purpoa..e.                                              Adiusetd   rilerageos
ttstumrveoroatin-Ia tstraypouain  hmi  no growth  Fma                                   rimary shool- tta. mis end f-1al  - Gr..a total, mes and feala
the birthprate Is equal to the death  nte, nod also the  Sg. s-teunc en  n                       eoleto  sltl ae   tcsPriaylvla   atns                            fra ne
minecosan.Thie Is ach-ied oly After fertility rates d-cliu  to                                  primaryehoaepopulations.; normally include  children aged 6-Il
the relceet      1ee  of unit net rpedoin  as,we  mob genaetitonY yern hot adjusted for dirffer-a  lengths of primay edu..etlen; f or
of vee  roplnoe  ite.-If "'ctly.  The stationr   population ems sea                             nosties with oniv-rs   edootion enrollmet my neosed 100 percen
estimated on the basis of the projected ohrartealteics of the Ppoplucion                        aimesom  pupiler  below  -r shov  the off  ia1 enhool ags.
In the yncr 20ff, ond the reta of deolne of fertility rate to repleo...comsr  nhool    crl, saeed feml  - Compord as chore; es-odac
_ont lard.                                                                                      edun..tion reqsits at least fou  ymrsof approved primry itmetratien;
Yno   eclror  rocai is reuobed - The year when ottinoery populution                               Provides genera, vctra,or teacher tsiniag introc..tiona  for pupib.
eisa ho.ea    aco,                                                                               saly of 12 to 17 years of ege;  crspnec onrse  at  gaaeea11y
Prnlaio  loatyr . ,d                                                                                  -1oded.
Per en. he.-Mid-year popula-io  pee squsre kilonece  (100 hnccares) of                          Posinlsrlen    eson   fsceor       occir-2 ietin-cione
tute1 area; 19I 01970 cod 19)9 dota.                                                            include technicl, industia,orother penr   e which operate ind pod
Pa2n. 1m.a    -1oruo  lund - Computed as above for  orcutra -ed                           nety oru       peprtes of  -ncodar  i_etitations
only; 1960. 1970 ond 197  dt.-P.Pil-ntber teatln -t n                                                                          . sd secodary - Total students emenild in
Population A.a Strututs ireo"t)   Children (0-14 paste), seeking-age (ii                             priae  s.d a....ndary level  divided by nubern of teechee.  tn the
94 year).and retired (5 Year  a. ador) a  preng of mid-year pop-                                   eereepoediog level..
lation; 1960, 19750. and 1979 data,                                                             Adult lit-esy rate (percet) - Literate adults (able to read end write)
Populeion   owh Hota (Percont) - tton1 - Aa_a  grwt  rtute  nf total mid-                            saperoetgcsg  of C.tel adult popalcion aged 15 yaecr cod rest.
yearpopuaton  faor 1915-HO0. 1960-70.osd 19701-7 9.
pneulatirn Growth Hots (oarc...t  - orbso - HAsuel strah ratee of utbs  Ppua-                 CONSUMPTIONI
iston  for190-i,1960-70G. ad 1970-79.                                                   PassangarCar  free. thoussad ompolnios           asne e.   comprise motor
Crude NithRae(ethund  - Anual live births Par th-unad of mid-y...as  stngls  then sight parsons  encludes embuence, hease  cad.
population; I        SH,   070   n 979 dana.                                                    military -ehilo .
Crud  Death Hots (ps.r c1hooseud) - Annual deaths Per th-osada of mid-yeo                       Radio   . taunivere  fothboaen  welation  - All types of  -ociesre for radio
popueniaon; 1960, 1970, end 19 79 data.                                                         broaduacts in general publie Pee thoosed uf population; rarlude  se-
Gross Rnrrnduction  htn -Averag   aubet of dough t-r  a na ill beat in                             lica-ed retiner  In  ountries sAd in year  whe  rgiecruciom  of erdin
her noml-eI      dotv   Period if she eaperienca  presnt ege-pepiftin fsr-                      aete se .In effect; data  or reaso  yaro my not be comparable since
Pamlv  iseina- Acarot. anue  (toucude  -Anna numberof acoptore                     TV Raric   r  fear tosn    vuaim             TV remsiver  for brodad t to
of  itc-cetro  deice  uder aupices of lecionoI faiY peiuprgo.enalubIc  e P                                     hosod  uplsion; eatldee unlirood TV r..civera
Pamly  lanin   - ees  (errntof married women) - Perneacge of morried                      In  -~ttie  sad Io years when reitainof TV sets  -s  in  ifer.t.
wnoof ohild-heering oo. (15-44 year) who nsa birch-cotrolI devic.s to.eeen    inlto   frtchoused P.Pu.tian) -Shw  the evarag  cir-
eli maried w_ne  Iu-sa  ago grop.claio  of "ail gI nr   in-tene  nsprat                                                                              defined An A periodia
pobliostirn devoted primarily to esnordiag gnrlnw.I  n niea
FOOD AND NUTITIONtob"dlyifo aper   ar  ace  foor ti.                                                                                                    k5meh
lndeo of Pond Product ion per Cpico (1969-1-liS)   - ladenf Per to.Pita.unn                     Cinem   AnulAtteedsnc  tsr Gonna. per tsar - Rnsd on the nuber of
p-ed-otio of all food comoitio.  Puductien   cludes seed -an  dedad                             ticktet  cold during the year, includingsdisis  to drive-in cinea
Is ton calender ye.r besi.    Coeoitias covr primary gode. I..  enaoeaad mobile unite..
inntsad of sugar) which aredibla and c..ctain notrisots (e.g. cofeeenod-
tea Are seclded).  Aggregae- pnduction of -.ch c...try Ie base.d on                         LARG  FORCE
unti-ua  average prod-co  price weighte; 1961-65, l970, and 1979 data.                        Total! .F' laborPo        .. fhunds) - E-unolccly acte e-     us  inclding
Per  crt  eplofroriec  (Porrot of  -ngir-ots  - Computed froare  f....e andunepLyed hot  eclodiug hosemi-s, students, etc.,
onrogy equivalen  ofnt  fond  cupisaalbl   ncutypet0pt                                         eeing populetion of al   ges.  Deflnition In v-i.o. nountrise Are
prday.  Arnilble supplie  cnrise don-tic prodoccion, imports I...                            netnmprbe 190170nd99da.
enporra, nod chongesI in -soch   Net nopplireecld  aia  fon, seds,Pl                                 orei    Pemalalber force aspecntg   oftto  labor foc.
qoci,:e used in food process.ing, sod losss.. ndinibti. Rq.io                            aiutr    oret) - aorb.  force in re-ioig  fretry, hunting cod
mec   rm  eatim    d by PAP based on phyeiologi-sl .-od. for ..r-I ccc-                   fiebieg as p-eltoeegs rf towa  lehor force;16,197  ad1979 date.
vity end heaIbh ccnidnring euvicroote1 temp-r-uo, body  vightn.  Seg                        Industr  fpercent) - LAborfrei.iig  tercion, mafattotiag
and se  diatribution ci poplotion, and all1wing 15 p-eroe   for waste At                      cad nIetoicity.  etar andr: gaIe,ecntg.f  oe  lebor forc; 1060,
household invo; 1961-il, 197~0, end 1977 dais.                                              1970 and 1979 data.
7nr   apto  nuorly ofP.. oroni   (an  pe ';dnyj - Protein  -tnroe of per  upits             Perticiration  Ratr (rercelt) -total,   ae   n  femal - ParticipatiOn o
se   upY o odprdoy.  Me_nPplY of fond is defiled Co shor.  Ro-                           antivty raes. ate oomoted 5.; totl  nl,  n  femal  labor f.recess
qloemenceI   for d allontries esceblishod by USDA provide for minimu                          pretages of  -rc1, mole and feml  poultono  n1i ages. -ep-ti-aly;
alownn  of HO gtem  of total protein Per day und 20 gEan  of animl ord                        1990, 1970, cod 1979 dais,  Th.an Ats pbase.d oni I'  patiiptotrae
Pulse proteIn, of which 10 g-n  ehold be unSeal Protein.  These anad-                        reflecting age-se   ercrmof thepplir.  und long rime trend.  A
soda ate lowe  thou thuer of 75 groin of totalI protein  n 1faeo                              fewatiae et      c. room uti"ealtourcas
suialproei  soanavrage frrosod   rpsdb  PAP ic the , Thrtonml    sedt                                   c    ai    Ratio of ppulntion under 11 and 65 sod tre
Ffrl Pco  Sroy; 1961-65. 1970 and 17   ao                                                  otettliefre
Percpt    rte        npl   ron anima  end P.lse - Protein supply of food de-
rived frrm  anmt  aM   ueai   oe   e   a;16-I   90ud1977,dota.                            INCOME DISTRIBUTION
child  (noes 1-4) Mortulity Rate- (per thrunond) - Annu-l deatbe per thounond In                 eroca of Private Iot-  (both  in cashend  idl - Re-i-ed by riches
Of. e  rcup 1-4 yearn, no children I.tchin ugo group; faor most devlopingcOn                    5 p er.e.e, riohoet 20 p-eret, P.oet20pecr. nod poornt -i peeetr
trite  dccn de-vd  ft.on life tchiro; 1960 , 197 0 and 1979 data,                               of boouehelde.
lizaTN                                                                                          POVORTV TARGET GROPSIP
Lif.E.. Contu...   or Dioth (learn) - Averuge nuber of years of life remining                   Thefolloing notiatme err very opproiaet  mesueso  poverty ler-l.
et blitb; 1960, 1970 and 1979 data,                                                             and should he irterpreted with  ...aid-rble caution.
Cof ant Mortulity  Raet (orthoua...d  .-.Anal dnreha of infonto oudnoon  yomr                   E.sti-mtd Abeolote P-vec  Inmm  leve  f(00$  par caita) -               -ubnsd -rurl-
ofaoprthonoo.nd  IIo birtho.                                                                    Abouepvry  so.iuld  thor incom  level hen which a s.itml
Honsc  Of   iter(rtctc   rouain            totl  uno.admn                rntitionll1y  dequato diet PI- onsontie1 on-food tqoteneinu
bet of pro'Pl.  fro bl uh, nod rru) with r....cabecrn  cc noft                                  effrdbtle.
water s-pply (cine         -cnted  -utucentern  or ontoontd hut unontunntdorlae                             aeivtoet  t.m.eeI(H    o   apt)-ohn  n   ua 
onto ..ch un th-et.roo  potecte-d  brble   prige  co.d ...oitry wels dc                          nuarltr    oet   cooOvli   n-hr  ofaeaeptcpt
perceutegee of the Ir  . rpectiveb pouaIn.   ne   c eaeopblcperanoel moos  of rho coutry.U                                            Ih leve  In derived f roe the rur.1
fouts in or ntaudpcnc loctred not morn thou 200 meter  iron a hous  mY be                       lnve  nith udjuntent for higher Coa  of living In orbenere
roacunbeaccnaold impl  thttehueif   rnaea thth  hushodndruu     -                                           rPccn  of pcpolatiun  (rbanen  tru1) uho ure "ouolote-
dono  bo  to spoof adiprcyootirot. part of the dey It fttchiug the                           o
fAm~ily', n ter teedo.
Nosber or people (total , orbon, and  tor`l)  -rud  yourt  dsosls
pernentagne of their  -epe-ti-e pop1.lation.  tco diapo...  ma-y inr1.de
the colcinad diepo..ni, oith or oitbh_t  trenet, of huma  untt-nmoed Scoiu1 Data Dlivini
and wteat-wtc  by wotor-boce  ysten  tor the us  of pit prelisead  ii                                                           Eooichcynsd                 P IoetireDptmt
lee IeaclatOO.                                                                                                                                            1901
Poolation per Phrocio -Poolaic  divided by tubor of preocicing phyal-
P Jlco et oFe   rnin Pesn- P      op- eio  divided1 by nuber of pructining
mie ued f-nle grcduatvctoe,pratical nure, no d useistr   ueo



- 23                                               Annex l-A
Page 4 of 5
TURKEY-COUNTRY DATA
Population:       44.8 million (1980)
GNP Per Capita:  US$1460 (1980)
Amount             Average Annual Increase (X)         Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)
(million US$           (at constant 1980 prices)                 (at current prices)
Indicator                                 at current prices)
1980              1965-70   1970-75  l175-80          1965      1970      1975    1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a                      56,617                6.6         7.5       2.8        100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0
Agriculture                                12,112                 3.1        4.4        2.7         30.7      26.4      26.2    21.4
Industry /b                                13,529                 9.5        9.5        2.9         16.6      17.2      18.0    23.9
Services                                   27,925                 8.2        8.0        3.7         42.9      46.5      46.0    54.5
Consumption                                   45,920                  5.8       7.0        2.5         84.6      82.8      84.8    81.1
Gross investment                              15,132                11.7       12.9         1.8        16.7      20.1      23.7    26.7
Exports of goods and NFS                        4,090                 7.9       7.3        0.9          6.1       5.8       6.1      7.2
Imports of goods and NFS                       8,526                11.2       13.8       -3.5          7.4       8.7      14.5    15.1
Cross national savings                        12,096                11.6       11.9        3.3         15.8      18.8      18.4    21.4
Average Annual Increase (%)         Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)
(at constant 1980 prices)                (at current prices)
1970-75       1975-80           1965      1970      1975    1980
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                             2,910                    -0.8        4.6              100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0
Primary /c                                  1,863                    -4.3        4.6                80.0      83.0     64.1    64.0
Industrial products                         1,047                    17.0        4.7                20.0      17.0     35.9    36.0
Merchandise imports                             7,909                    12.4       -4.1              100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0
Food                                           308                    9.9      -17.6                 6.0       9.3       8.3     4.0
Petroleum                                   3,862                    18.5       11.2                10.0       7.0      17.0    48.8
Machinery & equipment /d                    1,435                      9.9     -16.2                39.9      39.8      38.5    18.1
Other                                       2,304                    12.1       -6.4                44.1      43.9      36.2    29.1
1975      1976       1977       1978       1979       1980
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE
GDP deflator                                               15.1      17.7       22.1       30.2       48.3      100.0
Exchange rate                                              14.4      16.1       18.0       24.3       36.4       76.4
Export price index                                        60.4       62.8       68.9       73.0       85.9      100.0
Import price index                                        48.6       49.1       54.2       61.7       72.8      100.0
Terms of trade index                                     124.3      127.9      127.1      118.3      118.0      100.0
As % of GDP
(at current prices)
1965       1970       1975       1980
PUBLIC FINANCE
*                Current revenue                                                     15.0        22.6       22.0       19.8
Current expenditure                                                 10.0        11.8       12.6       11.5
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                          -2.0        -2.3       -0.4       -4.8
Investment expenditure                                               4.7         5.7        4.2        3.9
Transfers                                                            5.0         7.5        5.5        9.2
*                Foreign financing                                                     1.8         1.6       0.3        0.2
1965-70   1970-75   1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (M)                                                         6.8        7.7       2.6
GNP per capita growth rate (8)                                              4.1        5.0       0.3
ICOR                                                                        2.9        2.9        5.7
Marginal savings rate (8)                                                  28.2       19.5      30.8
Import elasticity                                                           1.7        1.8      -1.3
/a   At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
/b   Includes mining and quarrying, manufacturing, and electricity, gas, and water.
Ic   Includes agriculture and mining and quarrying.
Id   Includes metal products and machinery, electrical appliances, and transportation vehicles.
EM2DA
11/2/81
(01841)



- 24 -                                                               PugerSo   5
TUKEY-BALANCE OF PAYNENTS, EXTENAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US1 at current prices)
Population:       44.8 pillion (1980)
GNP Per Capita:  U8$1460 (180)
Actual                                                 Pr-iected
1970      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980         1981    1983    1985
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Resource Blalnce                                                              342      3067      2993       3880      1953      2442      4293        3674    3476    3295
Euporcu of goods I NF&                                                     754      2152      2742      2556      3106      3257      4102         5937    8996   12743
Inpurcu of gn-du & NFS                                                    1096      5219      5735      6436      5059      5699      8396         9611   12497   16038
Work-' Remittances                                                            273      1312       983        982       983      1694      2071        2550    3135    3500
Net cr000.fru                                                                  91         23        15        12         -         -         -            _        -        _
Currant account baluoce                                                       -5R    -1092    -2295       -_572    -1710    -1771        -3196       -2459   -2092   -1642
Dirc.t private in-netr.c.                                                      92       251       163        169       147       200       195         220       284      369
Poblic ni6LT (grosu) /0                                                       271       334       720        997      1017     4321 /d  2489          2794    3305      3809
onrciuation on HfMLTT7  (-ud. debt reliaf)                                   -146      -175      -203       234       -336      -414      -914       -1099   -1992   -2297
Pnblio M6LT (neo  Ia                                                          125       159       517        763       681      3907      1575        1695     1313     1512
Debc 8elief  a.orn.ta-ion onLy)                                                 -          -         -         -         -         -       814         533       1ll    -224
Other capitol /b                                                               27      1065      1503      2074       1030    -2410       1004         2S9      -81       278
Cha0n00 in reserveu  (-   in-rea.a.                                          -186       417       112       566      -148         74      -392        -270    -235      -292
Intcernatioua l reuerves                                                      612       1404     1292       726        074       800      1192        1470    1907    2455
Reservesuasnuooncbo  of importu                                                 7          3         3         1         2         2         2           2         2        2
Actual_T
1972      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980
GROSS DISBURSXENTS
Official grantu
Croon disbursecenut  of M6LT loan                                             372       324       720       997      1017      4321 /c  2409
Connou-iunul                                                               261       100       167       193       227       596       909
Bilateral                                                              139        69        81        130       192       510       849
IDA                                                                      4        18        21         19         8         3         -
Othbr multilateral                                                     118         13        65        44        27        03        6n
Ncn-ccnou.i.nI.I                                                           111       224       553       804       790      3725 In  1580
Official  :p-rt cr-ditn                                                  1        47         57       47         91       202       283
IBRD                                                                    25        91       117       146       165        277       313
Other tsltilateral                                                      27        48        54          5        35        11        35
Pricate /c                                                              58        38       325       606       499       3235 Ic   949
EXTERNAL DE8T
Debt o-totuodiog and disburu-d /d                                            2538      4475      6083    10943      14313    15791      17119
Official                                                                 2273       2980      3275      3648      5970      7198      0265
IERD                                                                    92       288       391       512       648       890       1157
ID                                                                     99       144       163       181        188      190        184
Other                                                                 2082      2548      2721      2955       5134      6118      7924
Prinute Ia                                                                246        340       558      1104      1144      4101 Ie  5007
Short-cern                                                                     19      1155      3050      6191      7199      4492      2847
Debt outnt-nding including undisburu-d (public and pri-ate)                  3560      6086      9207     13736    17554    19794    22875
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt ..rvite Ie                                                         224       291       368       418       532       689       712
PaY-ent.                                                                  161       175        203       234       336       414       10
Incerest                                                                   63       116       165        184       196       275       612
ToIal dbt tervice os 1 ouporta of goada   NPS
' remiances                                                  11.8       8.4        9.9      11.8      13.0      13.9      11.5
Total dab  snrvic-  a    GNP                                                  1.3       0.8       0.9       0.9       1.0       1.2       1.2
Anorag-   interesc rate on nev loans ..  )                                    4.4       7.3       7.2       7.6       6.9      11.2       8.5
Official                                                                  4.5       6.4        7.1       7.6       6.3       4.4
Privace                                                                   6.8        8.7       7.8       7.6       8.2      13.7
Av-rae maturity of nev loana (years)                                         22.1      13.1      12.7      11.7      13.2      11.       8.2
Official                                                                 26.0      18.6       17.3      14.0      15.6      25.5
Privete                                                                  II.0        5.1      10.2       0.9       7.6       7.1
BANK G0OUP EXPOSURE (7)
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                                            3.7       0.7      10.2      10.8       9.5       7.7       6.0
IBRD diuruecntu/tul gro  disburuemeunt                                        6.7      27.2      16.5      14.6      06.2       6.4      12.5
IBR1   debt uev tice/tntul dabt servine Ie                                    S.1      00.5      11.7      15.0      15.4      15.3      18.8
IDA DOD/total DOD                                                             7.9       4.3       4.3       3.8       2.7       1.6       1.1
IDA disbursements/total grosu disbunsemeota                                   1.1       5.4       2.9       1.9       0.8       0.1
IDA debt  -rvie /tItal debt nervice Ie                                      0.4        0.6       0.6       0.5       0.4       0.4       0.4
An % of Debt Outatandinp
at End of Must Recaot
Year (1980)
Maturity structure o debt outstauding (2)
Mnnurities due vithin 5 y..rs                                                                      40.7
f.tnrities dun aithin 10 years                                                                     60.3
Inter.. utructure of debt oututanding (%)
Interes t due vitbin first year                                                                     5.7
/0   Incloden prinate puaronuc.d and nen-gnaranteed dnbt.
Tb  IDcludes erroc  and euisainn, and for projected years it includes net IMF, und unidentified capital inflovs.
7Z   Includes  2,638 nillio  uf consolidated short-ten  debt.
7T   Incldeu stok of k    bert-ter=, and debt relief, but ...cldc  IMF b-orroviug.
T    Take- account of debt relief due to debt rescheduling, asd encluden interest un uhort-tere debt.
E V2DA
2/1/82
(01841)



- 25 -                          ANNEX I-B
Page I of 4
Recent Economic Developments and Policy Changes
1.       Against a background of deepening economic crisis, the authorities
announced a policy framework in January 1980 to initiate a major shift
over the medium-term in the orientation of economic policy from detailed
regulation of the economy towards greater reliance on the market
mechanism. Overall, progress in the program to date has been encouraging.
(a) During the second half of 1980, there was a marked decel-
eration in the rate of inflation from a peak of 120 percent in March 1980
to 80 percent by December 1980, and less than 35 percent by October 1981.
While this deceleration did not proceed evenly, the overall trend is
unmistakable, and is due to a combination of factors. First, the effect of
the major upward adjustment of SEE prices in February 1980 and the large
depreciation of the lira in January 1980 which contributed to the initial
upsurge in the rate of inflation has largely passed.  Second, a tight
monetary policy was maintained, together with a marked increase in interest
rates to positive real levels on deposits which arrested the flight into
goods. Third, with some easing of external financial constraint, there was
a marked improvement in the availability of fuels and other key inputs;
(b) From September 1980, once work stoppages were terminated by
the military government and the supply of imported inputs was eased,
economic activity rebounded somewhat from the severely depressed levels
earlier in the year;
(c) With domestic demand still weak, much of this increased pro-
duction was channelled into exports, which improved markedly; during the
first eight months of 1980 the year-on-year rate of growth was only 6
percent, while for the rest of the year the rate increased dramatically to
60 percent. This reflected a major expansion in industrial and mining
exports. These trends have continued over the whole of 1981; as a result,
export earnings are likely to exceed $4.5 billion in 1981, i.e. a growth of
about 60 percent over 1980. The direction of export trade has been
generally shifting away from the industrial countries of Western Europe and
towards Middle Eastern and East European countries, partly reflecting the
sluggish growth in many of the industrialized countries, and also Turkey's
interest and success in developing new export markets within its region.
Their share in total exports rose from 14 percent in 1978 to 44 percent
during the first ten months of 1981.  The war-affected economies of Iran
and Iraq were a factor influencing these developments; export receipts from
these countries over the first eight months of 1981 were nearly four times
the level of the same period of 1980. Iraq is now second only to Germany
in Turkey's export trade. Exports have responded to the exchange rate
depreciation and the strengthening of the export incentives which have been



- 26 -
ANNEX I-B
Page 2 of 4
further improved during the first half of 1981 through better preferential
credit facilities, increased tax rebates for industrial exports, and the
instituting of a system whereby exporters may deduct 20 percent of their
foreign exchange receipts from taxable income.
(d) Workers' remittances also picked up sharply between
July-December 1980 in response to the interest rate adjustment and the
flexible exchange rate. They have remained strong in the first half of
1981, prompted by further increases in interest rates and a new savings
scheme for workers abroad which allows them to deposit their foreign
currency in Turkish banks, and redeem in Turkish lira on maturity at the
prevalent rate of exchange (they are not redeemable in foreign currency).
In addition a new and rapidly growing source of foreign exchange is income
earned from overseas contracting activities, mostly in the Middle East. By
August 1981, contracts outstanding totalled nearly $7 billion, of which $5
billion were in Libya.
2.       Serious imbalances, however, persist on the external account.
While total current receipts have grown considerably over the last 12
months, the same is true on the payments side. Substantial external assis-
tance permitted an increase in import volume of around 12 percent in 1980
(compared to export volume growth of around 9 percent), and import growth
has continued to be strong in the first half of 1981. Import volume,
however, had declined sharply in 1978-79, and, as a proportion of GDP,
remains well below the average for the years 1974-77. The terms of trade
have deteriorated for the fourth consecutive year, with import prices in
1980 rising more sharply than in any year since 1974, due mainly to the
increase in oil prices. As a result, the current account deficit rose to
$3.2 billion in 1980, (about 5.5 percent of CNP, compared to about 2.5
percent in 1979) and is expected to be about $2.5 billion in 1981 (4.2
percent of GNP).
3.       The problems connected with external indebtedness continue to
constrain rapid recovery. As of end-1980, the total external debt was
estimated to have increased by around 11 percent to $18.2 billion, inclu-
sive of IMF debt, reflecting substantially increased disbursements by the
OECD member countries, Saudi Arabia, IMF and World Bank. The maturity
structure has improved over previous years, partly on account of three
rescheduling arrangements with OECD member countries and two rescheduling
arrangements with commercial banks. Consequently, the share of M&LT debt
in the total has grown from 48 percent in 1978 to 79 percent in 1980.
Moreover, commercial arrears have declined $722 million since December
1980. While the term structure of the total external debt has improved,
debt service payments have grown rapidly on account of new borrowings to



- 27 -
ANNEX I-B
Page 3 of 4
finance the expanded current account deficit in 1980, the inordinately high
interest rates on rescheduled commercial debt (close to 20 percent because
of the surge in LIBOR rates), and higher interest rates even on the debt
rescheduled with OECD countries than when the debt was originally
contracted. Equally worrisome is the possibility that net capital inflows
from M&LT sources might decline markedly over the next few years.  This is
due to the substantially higher debt amortization payments to be made over
the period 1984-89 when the debt relief afforded by the rescheduling
arrangements falls due, as well as to expected reductions in official debt
relief, in new commitments and disbursements of OECD and in credits from
banks.
4.       Domestic savings have for years lagged behind investment needs.
In 1980, the investment rate was 23 percent of GDP while the savings rate
was about 16 percent of GDP; the latter represented a decline of about 3
percent since 1978. Public savings have declined particularly sharply,
from 8 percent of GDP to 4 percent of GDP over these years. The
Government's response 1981 has been to implement a major tax reform, grant
greater pricing autonomy to the SEEs, restrict public investment, and
improve private savings through increased interest rates and a regulated
capital market. The need for a major tax reform had become critical.
During the years of rapid inflation in 1978-80, the elasticity of the tax
system with respect to GNP declined from around 1.2 to 0.8-0.9, and the
ratio of tax revenue to GNP declined from 19 percent in 1978 to 16 percent
by 1980. There had also been a marked shift in tax structure due to the
failure to adjust the tax system to inflation. The distribution of the tax
burden had become highly skewed and inequitable, the incentives were
distorted, and tax administration had become even weaker. A major tax
reform package was passed in late 1980/early 1981 with the objectives of:
(a) increasing the yield and future buoyancy of the system; (b) making the
tax structure more equitable; and (c) improving the efficiency of
collection. The package is now being implemented, but it is too early to
evaluate the results; the main impact of the new taxes, especially those on
non-wage earners and the agricultural sales tax, will only be seen later in
the year, and progress in their implementation is being monitored under
SAL II. Initial indications are that the tax reform is generating more
revenue than originally expected.
5.       Following the deregulation of commercial bank interest rates in
July 1980, and particularly after the breakdown of the "gentlemen's
agreement" between the banks at the beginning of this year, interest rates
have increased sharply and are now positive in real terms. There has been
a sharp rebound in bank deposits, particularly in time deposits (including
the new certificates of deposit). Between July 80 and June 81, total
deposits increased by 97 percent and time deposits (including certificates
of deposit) grew by an astonishing 265 percent. The deregulation of
interest rates has been further extended by the freeing of private bond
rates in July 1981. Private companies are now free to set their bond rates
in competition with the banks and can use flexible rates if they so chose.
In addition, the Government announced an increase in three-month Government
bonds' interest rate to 34 percent, comparable in after tax yield to bank



- 28 -
ANNEX I-B
Page 4 of 4
deposit rates. In response to the recent emergence of "brokers" offering
monthly interest rates of 10 percent, which threatenes to destabilize the
financial system, the Government issued a decree requiring all dealers to
register with the Finance Ministry and obtain Central Bank approval of
their advertising.
6.       The long-awaited law setting up a regulatory framework for the
capital market was passed in July 1981. This law among other things:
(a) regulates the public offering and sale of financial assets; (b) sets up
an independent Capital Market Board with seven members selected by the
Council of Ministers, with one seat nominated by the bankers association
and the rest nominated by the Government; (c) regulates non-issuing
secondary institutions and provides for investment funds and companies; and
(d) provides that the companies and intermediaries coming under the law are
subject to audit by the Board's auditors. The Board is expected to be
functioning within six months, and all institutions must conform to the
requirements of the law within 12 months.
SEEs
7.       To improve overall SEE financial performance, the Government began
in 1980 by freeing most SEE prices and by initiating steps to begin to
expose SEEs to market forces. This was followed in 1981 with additional
steps aimed at furthering their market exposure and improving their opera-
tional efficiency, culminating in a far-reaching reform package which has
been finalized as a draft law to be submitted to the "Parliament". The
initial steps taken were: all SEEs (except two agriculture service SEEs)
were cut off from the Central Bank, and a larger portion of budgetary funds
was channelled through DYB. These steps, particularly the freeing of
prices, have had some effect. SEE losses declined substantially, from
TL 72 billion in 1979 to TL 23 billion in 1980, and are projected by
Government to be further reduced to about TL 5 billion in 1981. However,
in terms of its impact on Government finances, this was more than offset by
the increase in SEE investment expenditures from TL 172 billion in 1979 to
TL 476 billion in 1980. As a result, budgetary transfers to the SEEs as a
proportion of total Government expenditure rose to around 20 percent in
FY80 as against 15 percent in FY79. IMF limits for 1981 on public sector
borrowing from the Central Bank and budgetary transfers to SEEs are
designed to reduce this drain in real terms.  While the granting of pricing                ft
autonomy to SEEs was a necessary adjustment, there was little improvement
in SEE operating efficiency, so that in many cases users of SEE products
and services were paying prices set at levels high enough to cover SEE
inefficiencies. In addition, there was a sharp build-up in commercial
arrears and tax and social security arrears, amounting to TL 209 billion,
in 1980, or 44 percent of total investment (compared to 10 percent in 1979).



- 29 -                            ANNEX II
Page I of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Loan
Number    Year   Borrower                   Purpose                           Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
*        Thirty loans and fourteen credits fully disbursed                            1097.7      177.4
883-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey         Ceyhan Aslantas                   44.0                 12.3
957-TU   1974   Republic of Turkey         Antalya Forestry                  40.0                  0.1
1023-TU   1974   TEK/TKI                    Elbistan Power                   148.0                 25.8
1l30-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey         Rural Development                  75.0                28.0
1194-TU   1976   TEK                        Power Transmission II              56.0                 0.7
1248-TU   1976   Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)          Agriculture Credit                 54.3                 27.2
1258-TU   1976   State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)        Newsprint                          70.0                  4.1
1265-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey         Livestock III                      21.5                 8.1
1310-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey         Tourism                           26.0                 19.3
1379-TU   1977   DYB                        Industry                          70.0                 12.1
1585-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey        Northern Forestry                  86.0                 56.6
1586-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey         Livestock IV                      24.0                 19.4
1606-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey         Erdemir Steel Stage II            95.0                 49.6
1741-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey         Ports Rehabilitation              75.0                 60.1
1742-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey         Grain Storage                     85.0                 84.3
1748-TU   1979   TSKB                       Industry                          60.0                 35.9
1754-TU   1979   TSKB                       Private Sector Textiles           65.0                 48.5
1755-TU   1079   SYKB                       Private Sector Textiles           15.0                 13.7
S-15-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey         Ankara Air Pollution Control       6.0                  5.7
1844-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Karakaya Hydropower              120.0                104.7
1847-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Sumerbank Cotton Textiles         83.0                 80.2
1862-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Livestock V                       51.0                 50.9
1916-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Petroleum Exploration             25.0                 24.6
1917-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Oil Recovery                      62.0                 55.2
1952-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey         Labor Intensive Industry          40.0                 40.0
1967-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey         Second Fruit and Vegetables       40.0                 39.8
1985-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey         Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                 110.0                109.2
1987-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey         Second Structural Adjustment   300.0                   60.7
1998-TU   1481   Republic of Turkey         State Industrial Enterprise
Finance                           70.0                 70.0
20Q3-TU   1982   TSKB                       Export-Oriented Industries       100.0                100.0
2094-TU   1982   Republic of Turkey         Erzurum Rural Development         40.0                 40.0
Total                                                     3254.5 /b  177.4   1286.8
of which has been repaid                                 298.1        8.1
Total now outstanding                                     2956.4      169.3
Amount sold                       3.6
of which has been repaid        3.6                      - 0 -      - 0 -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a                         2956.4      169.3
Total undisbursed                                         1286.8      -0-      1286.8
/a Prior to exchange adjustments.
lb In addition a loan for $44.1 million for a second Fertilizer Rehabilitation project was approved
the Board on April 27, 1982.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page Z of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Fiscal                                                     Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligor       Type of Business                    Loan   Equity    Total
1964     TSKB          DFC                                  -        0.92     0.92
1966     SIFAS I       Nylon Yarn                          0.90     0.47      1.37
1967     TSKB II       DFC                                  -       0.34      0.34
1969     TSKB III      DFC                                  -       0.41      0.41
1969     SIFAS II      Nylon Yarn                          1.50     0.43      1.93
1970     Viking I      Pulp and Paper                      2.50     0.67      3.17
1970     ACS           Glass                              10.00      1.58    11.58
1971     NASAS         Aluminum                            7.00     1.37      8.37
1971     SIFAS III    Nylon Yarn                           0.75      -        0.75
1971     Viking II    Pulp and Paper                        -       0.14      0.14
1972     SIFAS IV      Nylon Yarn                           -       0.52      0.52
1972     TSKB IV       DFC                                  -       0.43      0.43
1973     TSKB V        DFC                                10.00      -       10.00
1973     Akdeniz       Tourism                             0.33     0.27      0.60
1974     Borusan       Steel Pipes                         3.60     0.43      4.03
1974     AKSA          Textiles                           10.00      -       10.00
1975     Kartaltepe   Textiles                             1.30      -        1.30
1975     Sasa          Nylon Yarn                         15.00      -       15.00
1975     Aslan         Cement                             10.60      -       10.60
1975     DOKTAS        Steel                               7.50     1.37      8.87
1975     TSKB          DFC                                25.00      1.23    26.23
1976     NASAS         Aluminum                            1.58      -        1.58
1976     TSKB          DFC                                25.00      -       25.00
1976     Asil Celik   Steel                               12.00      2.20    14.20
1977     Borusan       Steel Pipes                          -       0.06      0.06
1978     DOKTAS        Steel                                -       0.09      0.09
1979     Ege Mosan    Engines for Mopeds                   2.15      -        2.15
1979     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories        8.85     0.45      9.30
1979     Asil Celik   Steel                                 -       1.80      1.80
1979     Trakya Cam   Glass                               33.15     2.25    35.42
1980     TSKB          DFC                                  -       1.09      1.09
1980/82  ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories         -       1.26      1.26
1980     MENSA         Textile and Fibers                  4.00      -        4.00
1981     Kirklareli
Cam Sanayii
A.S.       Glass Tableware                    13.20       -      13.20
Total Gross Commitments                        205.91    19.78   225.69
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments
and Sales                                    134.48     4.31   138.79
Total Commitments now held by IFC               71.43    15.47    86.90
Total Undisbursed                                4.17      0.11     4.28



- 31 _
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF MARCH 31, 1982 1/
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44 million
loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date: March 20,
1974. Closing Date: December 31,1983.
Initial delays occurred due to difficult rock conditions and
inappropriate tunnelling methods. Political problems in 1980 further delayed
the project. In December 1981 the project was extended for a two-year
period. The main dam construction is progressing satisfactorily, with 95
percent of the earth works completed and the spillway ready for evacuating the
floods in the 1981/82 season. The installation of the power plant has been
started. The construction of the irrigation systems is progressing
satisfactorily. It will be completed and be operational for half of the total
area in the 1982 season. On-farm works are progressing steadily, with about
two-thirds completed. Tile drainage is expected to be completed in 1983.
Staffing of the extension service is satisfactory. Its backing up by
consultants is soon to materialize in a satisfactory manner. The project is
expected to be completed by end-1983.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya/Akdeniz Forest Utilization Project: US$40 million loan of
January 28, 1974. Effective Date: May 26, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1982.
Construction is substantially completed. The saw mill is ready for
operation and the pulp and paper plant is expected to start operation in
May/June 1982.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: June 1, 1976. Closing Date: July 30, 1982.
Project implementation had been delayed by critical problems,
including insufficient staff, inefficient management, inadequate coordination
among various agencies and unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors.
Following continuous Bank and co-lender reviews of the situation with the
Turkish authorities from early 1977, the remedial measures initiated by the
Government resulted in some improvement of project execution, until mid-1979.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in executic., and in particular to report any
problems which are being encouncered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 3.2 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
However, continuing and serious shortage of local funds then affected project
progress, which has been aggravated by staff and management deficiencies.  The
Government's timely provision of adequate local funds for this high priority
project from the Structural Adjustment Loan counterpart funds has helped
resume momentum. The colenders and the Government agreed in November 1980 on
a detailed program of action to overcome remaining implementation problems;
this program is now being implemented. Further measures to strengthen project
implementation by strengthening site management with expatriate assistance,
increasing suppliers' involvement in equipment erection, and changing
contracting arrangements for the major civil works, and to meet remaining
foreign exchange needs are being considered by the colenders and the
Government.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975.  Effective Date:  January 22, 1976.  Closing Date:  June 30, 1984.
The project is in general progressing satisfactorily although because
of disruptions of construction in 1980, the irrigation works will be completed
only by end-1983. In November 1981.the closing date was extended 2-1/2
years. The Corum dam has been completed including the works to divert run-off
from 5 nearby watersheds. The Kumbaba pumping station is operational, and
irrigation has started in 1981. The Alaca dam, delayed because of extra
excavation required due to bad rock, is expected to be completed by end-1982.
Damage to the Alaca diversion tunnel, because of rock slides, has been
repaired and the tunnel lining is completed. Construction on the scheme's
irrigation system has been started. Contracts for completion of the dam and
for the irrigation system of the Guldercek scheme have been awarded and work
is in progress. The project extension service is operating successfully and
its impact on agriculture is promising. Village roads, small irrigation
facilities and most of the water supply and electricity works will be
completed by end-1982. The project is expected to be substantially completed
by end-1983.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project: US$56 million loan of
June 14, 1976. Effective Date: April, 21, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Procurement action is complete, somewhat behind schedule, but
deliveries of some equipment are delayed. As of December 31, 1981, an amount
of $5 million was held in the loan accounts pending settlement of final
payments.  Of this, about $4.3 million have since been disbursed.  The loan is
expected to be closed shortly.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries: US$54.3 million loan of
May 5, 1976. Effective Date: May 11, 1977. Closing Date: June 20, 1984.
The ferryship component has been implemented, and the two roll-on and
roll-off ships purchased under this project and the First Fruit and Vegetable
Export project are now operating a regularly scheduled service between ports
in Turkey and two ports in Italy. The implementation of the agro-industries
component is delayed, mainly due to investors' reluctance to assume the
foreign exchange risk. The Government is reviewing possible measures to
overcome this problem. The Agricultural Bank (TCZB) has introduced improved
lending procedures for its ongoing supervised credit program, and this



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
component is being implemented satisfactorily. After considerable delay, the
consultants have completed the study of TCZB's structure and procedures. TCZB
has begun implementation of some of the consultants' recommendations. At the
Borrower's request, a cattle-fattening component of the Project, and $7.7
million of the original loan amount of $63 million allocated for this purpose,
were cancelled on May 5, 1977.  Also, as provided for in the Loan Agreement,
$l.04 million for training was cancelled on December 22, 1977, following
approval of UNDP funds for this purpose.
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint: US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date: October 15, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is nearing physical complnt4--, Th- newsprint plant has
begun operations and appears to be operating well. The sawmill is physically
complete but is not operating due to marketing problems because of a depressed
construction industry. Energy savings through using bark as fuel are not
being achieved since the Forestry Department continues to deliver logs with
bark removed. Remaining loan funds are being used for technical assistance
and spare parts.
Ln. No. 1265 Livestock III: US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976. Effective
Date: February 25, 1977. Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
After a slower than anticipated start-up, project implementation has
improved. About 760 dairy farms are being developed, more than anticipated at
appraisal, and a higher than expected proportion of sub-loans has been made to
small farmers. The Government is taking action to recruit 3 technical
specialists to help train the project staff and beneficiaries in forage
production and in strengthening extension services. If this action is
completed by end July 1982, the Bank plans to consider the Government's
request for a further extension of the closing date to permit utilization of
the remaining $8.5 million undisbursed loan funds.
Ln. No. 1310 South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure: US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Effective Date: March 1, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Though delayed, project implementation is now progressing
satisfactorily.  Highway connecting the project area to Antalya and water and
electricity supply systems are completed, the construction of Kemer marina is
in an advanced stage, and all other major construction works are contracted.
The Government's request for a two-year extension of the closing date, and
some modifications in the project scope, is under consideration.
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977. Effective Date: July 21, 1977. Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The loan has been fully committed. Disbursements are expected to be
completed by December 31, 1982, which is the extended closing date. A
comprehensive study of DYB's institutional aspects and objectives is to be
carried out by the Government under Loan No.1998.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Ln. No. 1585 Northern Forestry: US$86.0 million loan of June 5, 1978.
Effective Date:  October 30, 1978.  Closing Date:  March 31, 1986.
Depressed timber sales have reduced complementary funding for the
project but action has been taken to remedy the situation through stimulation
of sawn timber exports and expansion of housing construction. Revision of
forest management plans has been completed and proposals have been approved to
prepare new plans for all productive forest areas. Action for recruitment of
project consultants and fellowship training is underway. Procurement is
making steady progress.
Ln. No. 1586 Livestock IV: US$24.0 million loan of June 5, 1978. Effective
Date: October 31, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The supervised credit program is behind schedule as demand for
sub-loans was affected by increased feed costs and low milk prices. Following
the Government's actions to correct the situation, the project is picking up
momentum. Recruitment of technical specialists is under way. Government is
reviewing measures to attract qualified staff and train them to provide
effective extension and animal health services to farmers.
Ln. No. 1606 Erdemir Stage II Steel: US$95.0 million loan of June 30, 1978.
Effective Date: July 30, 1979. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Procurement for the phenol treatment plant, the raw material handling
system and the hot rolled shear line has been completed. The depressed
domestic market for steel is affecting sales and internal cash generation. As
a result of lack of cash, raw materials and operating supplies have been
inadequate from time to time, and shortfalls of local funds for the project
are projected. The Government has agreed to reschedule some loans and
increase its equity. The company is considering approaching its private
sector shareholders for increased equity, selective price increases, and
seeking export markets.
Ln. No. 1741 Ports Rehabilitation: US$75 million of July 2, 1979. Effective
Date: January 22, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Procurement of
equipment is well advanced, but a delay in project completion of about one
year is anticipated due to delays in finalizing designs of some equipment.
Technical assistance, training, costing and port sector studies, as well as
procurement of civil works are in progress.
Ln. No. 1742 Grain Storage: US$85 million of July 2, 1979. Effective Date:
January 21, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Project implementation has begun. Consultants have been appointed
for engineering design and supervision of construction. Preliminary
engineering designs for silos have been completed. A prototype of hopper
wagons has been designed and is under evaluation.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
Ln. No. 1748 TSKB XIII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$60 million
of July 12, 1979.  Effective Date:  October 25, 1979.  Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
After initial delays, the progress is now satisfactory with over 85
percent of the loan committed. Targets for SMI and least developed regions
are not likely to be met, because of current policies' impact on small
enterprises, the need to focus on rehabilitation of existing firms, and export
promotion projects. However, approvals of export-oriented projects have
almost reached targets despite depressed investment demand. The planned
program for training and export development has been implemented.
Lns. Nos. 1754 TSKB (US$65 million) and 1755 SYKB (US$15 million) Private
Sector Textiles loans of September 17, 1979. Effective Date: February 29,
1980. Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The consultancy and extension service are now supplying useful
assistance to private firms. Only about 40 percent of the loan has been
committed, due to depressed conditions in the textile industry.
Ln. No. S-15 Ankara Air Pollution Engineering: US$6 million loan of December
12, 1979. Effective Date: April 4, 1980. Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Equipment for modification of the Seyitomer plant has been installed,
and is expected to be commissioned in April 1982. Pollution monitoring
equipment is being procured. Consultants are being selected for project
studies.
Ln. No. 1844 Karakaya Hydropower: US$120 million loan of May 21, 1980.
Effective Date: August 15, 1980. Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
Project implementation is making satisfactory progress.
Ln. No. 1847 Sumerbank Textiles Modernization and Rationalization: US$83
million loan of May 28, 1980. Effective Date: February 27, 1981. Closing
Date:  June 30, 1984.
Project implementation is about one year behind schedule due to
delays in loan effectiveness and staffing problems in the project
implementation unit. Physical implementation is now progressing
satisfactorily. The plan for reorganization of the Cotton Textile Division
was approved by Sumerbank's Board in March 1982 and a contract for financial
technical assistance was finalized in February 1982. The main problem facing
the project at present is difficulty in recruiting competent personnel for the
project unit due to salary limitations on State Economic Enterprises.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Ln. No. 1862 Livestock V:  US$51 million loan of June 6, 1980.  Effective
Date:  October 22, 1980.  Closing Date:  June 30, 1987.
Project implementation, though behind schedule, is picking up
momentum, with the recruitment of consultants and progress in procurement of
goods.
Ln. No. 1916 Petroleum Exploration Project: US$25 million loan of November
24, 1980. Effective Date: June 30, 1981. Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Geophysical and geological studies are making progress and seismic
surveys have begun. Recruitment of consultants for carrying out energy audits
is underway.
Ln. No. 1917 Bati Raman Enhanced Oil Recovery Field Demonstration Project:
US$62 million loan of November 24, 1980. Effective Date: June 30, 1981.
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Detailed
engineering designs for the Bati Raman Enhanced Oil Recovery sub-project have
been completed, and all major equipment ordered. The stimulation of the
Thrace gas field has been completed. Progress in separation of TPAO's
import-related operations is behind schedule, pending Government's decision on
overall SEE reform.
Ln. No. 1952 Labor Intensive Industry Project: US$40 million loan of
March 13, 1981. Effective Date: June 12, 1981. Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
Sub-loan approvals (about $3 million) have been slower than expected
because of the depressed investment climate.
Ln. No. 1967 Second Fruit and Vegetable Project: US$40 million loan of
April 6, 1981. Effective Date: August 4, 1981. Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Projection implementation has begun satisfactorily. Recruitment of
consultants for horticultural production marketing and studies is underway.
The articles of agreement for the Regional and the Central Marketing
Corportions have been finalized, and the Government has initiated efforts to
establish them as private entities.
Ln. No. 1985 Fertilizer Rationalization and Energy Saving Project: US$110
million loan of May 15, 1981. Effective Date: August 28, 1981. Closing
Date: December 31, 1986.
This project is currently making good progress in its initial phase
of implementation. Some consultants have been appointed, and negotiations are
in progress with others. Procurement action also has begun.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Ln. No. 1987 Second Structural Adjustment US$300 million loan of May 15,
1981. Effective Date: August 17, 1981. Closing Date: November 30, 1982.
A mission in November 1981 reviewed progress in carrying out the SAL
economic program, especially in the areas of trade policy, tax reform, SEE
reform and energy prices and found progress satisfactory. The second tranche
of $100 million was, therefore, released on December 29, 1981.
Ln. No. 1998 State Industrial Enterprise Finance Project: US$70 million Loan
of June 3, 1981. Effective Date: August 27, 1981. Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
Project implementation has commenced satisfactorily. Action has been
initiated for recruitment of consultants by the beneficiary enterprises and is
expected to be completed by June 1982
Ln. No. 2093 Export-Oriented Industries Project: US$100 million loan of March
5, 1982. Loan not yet effective. Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
The loan is expected to become effective on schedule.
Ln. No. 2094 Erzurum Rural Development Project: US$40 million loan of March 5,
1982. Effective Date: July 8, 1982. Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Loan not yet effective, but project implementation has begun.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page l of I
TURKEY
ISTANBUL SEWERAGE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Project first identified by the Bank               1978
(b)   Time taken by the country to prepare project   3 years (from Jan. 78 to
Dec. 80)
(c)   Agency which prepared the Project:                 Istanbul Municipality
assisted by consultants.
(d)   First presentation to the Bank:                    March 1981
(e)   Departure of Appraisal Mission:                    November 1981
(f)   Negotiations completed                             April 22, 1982
(g)   Planned date of loan effectiveness                 Sept. 1982
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Action:  None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(i) ISKI would implement a plan satisfactory to the Bank to clear up
accounts related to receivables and payables outstanding on
December 21, 1981, and ensure that no negative cash flow occurs
in any given year (para. 60);
(ii) ISKI would would take measures, including the improvement of
operational efficiency and tariff adjustments, to ensure that its
revenues are sufficient to cover O&M costs and debt service
(para. 63);
(iii)  ISKI would implement a pollution control program satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 71);
(iv)  the Government would allocate funds required for the project to
ISKI as an equity contribution on the basis of ISKI's annual
request (para. 70).



______________________________________                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 1622k.
.   1,~  /   2                        U S S. R.                                                                                                                                  FEBRARY 1R2
'5  soofASop                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~TURKEY
-a,S.  _           h  I .- K   ,                                          ISTANBUL SEWERAGE PROJECT
% T U R K  S Y   LP/47 a                                                                                   \GREATER ISTANBUL MUNICIPALITY
RAQ 
Aiedrgr4~cnSd    W$~,aYRIAO                                                                                 DRAINAGE ZONES AND MASTER PLAN PROPOSAL:
0 of the nede S o/ rher' hrept t WhOh 1 a   f d IshY d T mmdAmO nd     _                                                     O N  SE WAGE  DISPOSAL
oro.e.aZssO.,o,1 t*  ofrh,o   omVr,,.re.   SOym sO  e ndeorr, P1 
Ii-  ,/,-  . SARIYER
i                        /"                                       oo.                X                                                                          _
C~ ~~~ ~~I '  I,                                           /R  -,  l  
II                                                                  , ,r-                          t.M
[,~~~~~~~~~~                                                          I       /K$CI  U' A>'                                              0+\(<
K(AeOITHANE~
Al, ,yko         It
Kb             LJ~~~MRAN]YE~ >
=,   7     acr-age Z~Or n g  BErIKTA  t
'EYUP~                             
BAKIR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K
R :: :: n ~~~~Petbpwd Nereoalhrfgm Wqrks O ne rS/
t              t      ~~~~~~Propsrd P-wpig Stdtlos-    neratoc  onrje-                                            ~}                 1>
- -; - - -\ -__  P,p-e S6p.d- O.tf.11 Maims  >f-.d7C{C-_
O    ,   E  Q ,         ,                        (l 
G-f., )~~~~~t..bvl Wmc7hty B.-d.,.''   KUD4                      '
Nw3 IDd 16225   h-  RdAKR'OYd P-Zpone) p ,AULOMETERSr-
:~ ~~~~~k                60-govp  dn1wy zn.W mr
4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p



I



IBRD 16226
FEBRUARY 1982
TURKEY
ISTANBUL SEWERAGE PROJECT
YEIKPIDRAINAGE ZONE
EISTING AND PROPOSED SEWERAGE
AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL WORKS
ALI   ~ ~ ~ KAPresent Coverage by Secondary Sewerage System:
90-100 %
/                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~70-90%
50-70%
50%
Existing:
l~  Pumping Station
Interceptors
Proposed:
Interceptors and Outfall Mains
Tunnel
- Pumping Main
I J] Petreatm,ent Works and Pumping Stations
--Boundary of Drainage Zones
ESENLER  "J                                                                                                       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Previous Istanbul Municipality B.undury
BAYRA                            ~~~~~~~A/ibeykKty interceptor                                                     IBD125su 5.g     ,                     dpps,
neuediposal workn  fnr th, G-tu-n 1ntunhu  Munr4P,ici 1iY.
'~~~~~~~~  ,'                                 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~On Inset-
OLiN~~~~~~,R~~~~        N                                                                                                                 -  - ~~~hr,International Boundares
skt~r,d'ge                                                0          1          2          3
KILOMETERS
r                                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j 
&n&moriee Out&zfMllArn                                   rnauuiepurri,u uuuu  n l,?   o~
BAKIRKby                               u                                                                                                                              BULO                         r              r
RA.kara
A~~,smteetn              /S~~YRIA     P



