Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AA/ 3oc'd- ,szoZ
Report No. P-4867-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$200 MILLION
TO
THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
November 8, 1988
This document bas a resticted ditibution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average
Calendar 1987         July 1988
Currency Unit     =    Dirham (DH)
1 Dirham (DH)     -    US$0.1196                0.1186
1 US Dollar (US$) =    DH 8.359                 8.432
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB:              African Development Bank
ASAL:              Agricultural Sector Loan
Bank al-Maghrib:   The Central Bank
CMPE:              Centre Marocain pour la Promotion des Exportations
(Center for the Promotion of Moroccan Exports)
GFCF:              Gross Fixed Capital Formation
ICB:               International Competitive Bidding
IGR:               Personal Income Tax
IHS:               International Harmonized System
ITPA:              Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan
MLT:               Medium and Long Term
OCP:               Office Cherifien des Phosphates
OECF:              Overseas Cooperation Fund (Governmenc of Japan)
PAL:               Public Administration Loan
PGI:               General Import Program
PSN:               National Solidarity Tax
QR:                Quantitative Restriction
SMAEX:             Societe Marocaine d'Assurance a 1'Exportation
(Export Insurance Agency)
SOE:               Statement of Expenses
TIP:               Target Investment Program
TPS:               Domestic Sales Tax
VAT:               Value Added Tax



FOR oFCAL US ONL!
MOROCCO
SrRUCITURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan and Pro Sam
Borrower:          The Kingdom of Morocco.
Amount:            US$2C0 million equivalent.
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years of grace at the standard
variable interest rate.
Description:       Morocco's Structural Adjustment Program aims to achieve a
sustainable increase in the rate of economic growth in
order to ensure employment opportunities and acceptable
living standards for its growing population, while      --
enhancing external creditworthiness. The proposed SAL
would support the first phase of a program of action
covering: an increase in the level of public revenues and
savings to finance essential infrastructure and social
investment, while reducing the need for public sector
borrowing; further rationalization of trade and industrial
policy; and the elaboration of an external liability
management action plan. Specific policy measures would
help raise the overall efficiency of the economy in line
with program. goals.
Bentfits           The principal benefits of the adjustment program resulting
and Risks:       from the acceleration of economic growth through increased
factor productivity would be: a rise in employment
opportunities and living standards for the growing
population; the development of an outward-oriented private
sector; and continued improvement in external
creditworthiness with a view to restoring voluntary access
to commercial borrowing. Program risks concern the timely
implementation of a comprehensive set of structural
reforms, which will require a cohesive and concerted
approach from those governmental institutions involved in
policy implementation. Underscoring the Government's
commitment to the adjustment program are strong policy
dialogue as reflected in a jointly-evolved, medium-term
macroeconomic framework, the implementation of several
broad reforms in the fiscal area, and the buoyant response
of the economy to the structural measures in place. These,
bolstered by a multifaceted program of training and
technical assistance, all serve to mitigate the risks.
This document has a stricd distrbution and may  ' t:u<d by ecipients only in the peformane
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwi -e be dis m-ed without World Bank authorition.



- ii -
Estimated          The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed in two
Disbursements:   tranches: US$100 million upon loan effectiveness, bhich is
expected to take place by December 1988, and the remaining
US$100 million after the completion of a number of key
actions upon which success of the program depends. Release
of the second tranche iP planned for mid-1989.
Appraisal Report: None
Map:               IBRD No. 20864



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTlM  LOAN
Table of Contents
Page
INTRODUCTION                                                              I
PART I:       THE ECONOMY                                                 1
Background                                            1
Macroeconomic Developments
since the Firancial Crisis of 1983                  2
Outstanding Development Issues                        5
Rationale for Continuing Bank Adjustment Lending    6
PART II:      THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM                           7
Program Objectives and Policy Tools                   7
The Policy Framework of
the First Structural Adjustment Loan                9
Tax Policy and Administration                    9
The Public Investment Budget                    12
Trade and Industrial Policy                     16
External Liability Management                   20
Program Benefits, External Financing Requirements
and Social Impact                                 23
fsacroeconomic Outcome of the SAL               23
Assessment of Macroeconomic Perfozmance         26
Medium-Term External Financing Requirements   27
Social Impact of Adjustment                     29
PART III:     LOAN ADMINISTRATION                                        30
Procurement and Disbursement                         30
Accounts and Audits                                  31
Coordination with Other Agencies                     31
The OECF                                        31
The AMDB                                        31
Implementation Risks and Justification               31
PART IV:      OTHER BANK OPERATIONS                                      33
Experience with Past Adjustment Lending              33
Project Lending                                      34
PART V:       RECOMMENDATION                                             35
ANNEXES:   I Key Economic Indicators                                     38
II Letter of Development Policy
and Associated Policy Matrices                          44
III  Supplementary Program Data Sheet                          62
IV  Status of Bank Operations in Morocco                      65
V  Institutional Support, Technical Assistance & Training  68
VI  Progress under Existing Adjustment Operations             70
MAP:     IBRD No. 20864



REPORT AND REON OF THE PR
OF THE ITERNAIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTON AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJSIENT LOWAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$200 MILLON
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
INTRODUCTION
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$200 million to the Kingdom of Morocco. The loan
would support the first phase of a structural adjustment program aimed at an
acceleration of growth and a strengthening of social services. The program
would be implemented in the context of a macroeconomic framework which ensures
internal and external equilibria. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Cofinancing arrangements with other bilateral and multilateral agencies are
being actively pursued.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       Morocco has a relative abundance of natural resources, including the
world's largest and most easily accessible phosphate reserves, vast areas of
arable land, and an extensive coastline. Its geographical proximity to major
industrialized markets favors the development of international trade. This
potential has been exploited in terms of strong manufactured export growth, a
booming tourism sector, and the substantial outflow of workers abroad whose
remittances figure prominently in Morocco's balance of payments.
3.       Social indicators have improved over time, although differentially
according to income level. The urban-based growth of the 1960s and 1970s, for
example, increased the share of income accruing to the upper 20% of the
population, while the poorest levels vitnessed a reduction in their share from
181 to 12X. Overall growth was nonetheless sufficiently rapid to diminish the
incidence of absolute poverty from almost 50% in 1960 to 372 in 1979. Other
aspects of socioeconomic development have improved since the mid-1960s with
life expectancy at birth rising from 49 to 59 years, infant mortality
declining from 145 to 90 per thousand, caloric intake per capita increasing
from 952 to 119S of the minimum daily standard requirement, and primary school
enrollment rates growing from 572 to 81S, principally the result of higher
female participation rates. Although the urban growth rate is twice that of
the rural sector at present, a significant share of the population continues
to reside in the countryside and is employed in agriculture. In 1986, the
population, which is increasing at about 2.61 per annum, reached 22 million
with a GNP per capita of US$580.



-2 -
4.       For nearly two decades after Independence in 1956, Morocco followed
a re-atively conservative approach to economic management. A slow rise in
investment was financed by periodic recourse to external borrowings, which
supplemented the limited pool of domestic savings. During this period, the
economy grew at a rate of 4S per anmum. Primary products, principally
phosphates, accounted for 90S of merchandise exports.
5.       A boom in phosphate prices during the years 1975-77 injected renewed
vigor into the economy and coincided with rising defense expenditures and an
unprecedented expansion of the public investment program, signaling the end of
the circumspect fiscal policies of the past. The sudden reversal in the terms
of trade in the late 1970s, as a result of the plunge in phosphate prices and
the second oil shock, prompted Morocco to resort increasingly to external
capital markets in order to maintain the higher rate of public investment.
The viability and expediency of this development strategy were conditioned by
the abundance of foreign financing opportunities on highly attractive terms
(interest rates were negative in real terms).
6.       During this period, Morocco's external debt grew exponentially from
US$1.8 billion in 1975 to US$13.9 billion in 1983, at which point it
represented nearly 1201 of GDP and 3551 of foreign exchange earnings. The
structure of Moroccan debt changed over this period with 401 of outstanding
liabilities owed to conmercial banks compared to nil a decade earlier; more
than 601 of the debt was at non-concessional rates. The unanticipated rise in
international interest rates in the early 1980s, compounded by the declining
productivity of public investment and a severe and prolonged drought in
1980-84, proved more than Morocco's balance of payments could endure. Bereft
of foreign exchange reserves and access to external funds, Morocco was unable
to shoulder its debt service burden-the debt service ratio reached 531 in
1983, with interest payments alone accounting for 201 of exports.
7.       By that time, it ha'd become clear that the solution to Morocco's
financial distress lay in a comprehensive program of economic reform. A set
of extensive stalb'lisation and adjustment policies was evolved by the
Government and supported by a series of IMF standby arrangements and World
Bank sectoral adjustment loans. Restrictive fiscal and monetary policies were
employed tu contain aggregate domestic demand, while structural reforms in
trade and industry, agriculture, education, and the public enterprise sector
were initiated to augment the supply response of the economy. Debt service
payments to official and comnercial creditors were rescheduled, initiating a
process that has already spanned five years and is expected to continue well
into the future.
M b  Deveow_ents since the Financial Crss of 1983
8.       The challenge of adjustment facing Moroccan policy makers was indeed
formidable given the forbidding debt burden, the large financial imbalances
which beset the economy, and the relatively limited base of non-traditional
manufactures. Despite difficult circumstances, Morocco has made much progress
in alleviating both internal and external disequilibria since 1983.
Stabilization of public finances was achieved through a package of
expenditure-reducing measures to decrease government absorption. As a result,
the overall fiscal deficit as a share of GDP fell from 11.71 in 1983 to 6.11



_3-
in 1987 on a commitment basis. This performa.'ce was all the more remarkable
in view of the budgetary claims of national priorItios in the Western Sahara
and the sizable interest payments on the public debt, the latter representing
nearly one-quarter of total budgetary expenditures. The improvement it the
balance of payments has been even more impressive, as evidenced by the decline
in the current account deficit from 12.71 of GDP in 1982 to about 1S (before
debt rescheduling) in 1987.
9.       The substantial reduction in macroeconomic imbalances can be
attributed to a combination of favorable external dtvelopments and the pursuit
of rigorous policy reforms. The decline in international petroleum prices
served to strengthen not only the trade balance but the fiscal situation as
well, with the introduction of an oil levy equivalent to 2.7S of GDP
(para. 32). Following a period of protracted drought, agricultural productien
responded decidedly to the more auspicious weather conditions, leading to a
decline in food prices ana imports. These factors contributed to an
improvement in the overall terms of trade when the decrease in import prices
more than offset the fall in export-prices (para. 10) in 1986, restoring much
of the deterioration that occurred since 1980.
10.      Structural policy measures intended to augment the productive
capacity of the economy, however. underlie much of the adjustment that has
taken place sinc6 1983. The sweeping reform of the trade and industrial
regime has given rise to productivity gains in labor and capital, averaging
over 51 per year, as well as a shift in the structure of external trade
flows-V. Measures introduced to eliminate export barriers, reduce existing
disparitiks between exporting and import-substituting activities, and simplify
administrative procedures in the area of external trade have led to buoyant
export growth of manufactured goods (para. 60). Increasing at an average
annual rate of 15.5S since 1983, nonphosphate-based manufactures have
compensated both the decline in the price of phosphoric acid and the
stagnati=n of world phosphate demand. Nont-aditional manufactured goods now
account for over 301 of total merchandise exports, compared to approximately
201 in 1983, ~esulting in a more diversified export base and a reduced
dependency on natural resource-based manufactures.
11.      Appropriate exchange rate management, an important factor underlying
this impressive performance, served to boost tourism proceeds and worker
remittances as well, while containing import demand at sustainable levels
following the reduction of external trade barriers. Despite a 251 nominal
depreciation of the Dirbam since 1983, judicious monetary policies helped
staunch inflationary pressures, resulting in a 231 decline in the real
exchange rate. In line with the objectives of a Bank-supported financial
sector reform, the structure of deficit financing changed significantly during
this period, as the Treasury resorted increasingly to the nonbank private
sector to compensate for reduced borrowing opportunities abroad and limited
access to Central Bank funds. This enabled the monetary authorities to eschew
inflationary financing and lower the rate of change in prices from 12.5% in
1983 to 2.41 in 1987.
1/ The impact of liberalization on trade and industrial adjustment has been
thoroughly documented in report 6714-MOR.



4-
12.      The extent of Morocco's adjustment efforts is apparent in the
evolution of the non-interest current account balance, which represents the
magnitude of the resource transfer between the home country and the rest of
the world. Before the adjustment program was launched in 1983, Morocco was
receiving a not resource transfer in excess oL 52 of its GDP. This trend was
reversed after 1985 with Morocco transferring nearly 3% of its GDP abroad in
1987, net of debt rescheduling, in line with the narrowing of the current
account deficit (para. 8). During this period, the stock of external debt
nonetheless continued to rise owing to continuing, albeit decreasing, current
account deficits, and increases in the valuation of external liabilities
linked to real exchange rate movements between the Dirham and international
currencies and amongst the international currencies themselves. By 1987,
total debt outstanding and disbursed still represented about 115 of GDP and
353X of all foreign exchange earnings.
13.      The Bank has given its support to Morocco's adjustment program in
terms of policy advice, technical assistance, and financing (paras. 109-110).
In certain areas, however, progress was not as rapid as expected. For
example, objectives aiming at the complete repeal of quantitative restrictions
on imports by 1989 and the elimination of a stable source of fiscal receipts
in the form of the special import tax (para. 61), as reflected in the ITPA
program, were not achievable within the given timeframe in light of the
looming threat of world protectionism. the growing opposition of certain
domestic interest groups to further trade liberalization, and the pressing
need to narrow the budget deficit in the face of structural revenue
constraints. In the context of the overall implementation of trade policy
reform (paras. 57-61), however, Morocco has arguably become one of the more
liberal trade regimes within the developing world.
14.      On balance, the extensive reforms implemented since 1983 have
initiated a significant transformation of Morocco's underlying economic
structure without unmanageable stress to the social fabric. The
moderately-paced implementation of stabilization measures, the exploitation of
available financial capital and restructuring techniques in the form of debt
rescheduling, and the adoption of supply-oriented policy reforms have all
served to mitigate the contractionary impact of adjustment. The fall in
purchasing power of salaried employees tollowing the devaluation of the Dirbam
was to some extent limited by the fact that consumer prices increased at a
slower rate than producer prices. The social costs of lower real wages,
however, were partly compensated by a postive employment effect in the
manufacturing sector (7.5% growth per annum since 1983), as the bias toward
capital use was reduced and production shifted to more labor-intensive
exporting activities. In general, the rationalization of the structure of
incentives led to a growing outward-orientation and an increased
competitiveness of Moroccan industry which, in turn, enabled firms to exploit
existing productive capacity and avert recessionary pressures. Prescient
policy-making was evident in the design of a detailed plan, developed in
conjunction with the Bank, to target subsidized foodstuffs to the poor to
permit a substantial narrowing of generalized consumption subsidies.



-5 -
15.      The progress achieved in remedying macroeconomic imbalances since the
onset of the adjustment program nevertheless belies certain structural
weaknesses. Although the impact of stabilization policies on economic growth
was relatively restrained, with GDP increasing at an average annual rate of
3.3S, per capita consumption stagnated. Moreover, the narrowing of the fiscal
deficit has been achieved, in large part, at the expense of public
investment. To this effect, the share of central government gross fixed
capital formation in GDP has fallen by more than half since the early 1980s,
representing a modest 2.81 in 1987. While a good deal of budgetary resources
had previously been channeled to finance premature investments or projects of
questioneble economic priority, the recent curtailment of development
expenditures has been so severe that it has led to the suspension or
cancellation of many essential investments in key economic and social sectors,
with potentially deleterious effects on future growth and the development of
human capital, as well as on income distribution.
16.      A less than buoyant fiscal system and the inability to effect the
requisite cuts in current expenditures are manifest in the weak public savings
effort, reflected in a 4.51 current budget deficit on average since 1983.
kUe discrepancies between budgetary commitments and cash payments have led to
a s,ubstantial buildup of domestic payment arrears, which represented 7.31 of
GDp at end-1987. In addition, the virtual depletion of foreign exchange
reserves, amounting at times to only several days worth of imports, has given
rise per4!-dically to external payment arrears and protracted delays in
obtaining foreign exchange. This has resulted in foregone opportunities or
higher financial charges for those economic agents operating in the foreign
trade sector.
17.      T..re are indications that the tendency of the Government to consume
beyond its means may adversely affect private investment demand. For example,
real interest rates have risen by approximately 19.5 percentage points since
the mid-1970. in order to mobilize the private resources necessary to
compensate for the comparative lack of foreign and public savings. The
significant rise in the cost of capital and the liquidity problem faced by
some firms as a result of the proliferation of domestic payment arrears, point
to the continuing danger of crowding-out.
18.      Finally, Morocco's balance-of-payments' position remains precarious
despite the dramatic improvement in the current account previously noted
(pars. 8). At present, debt indicators remain high (para. 74) and constitute
a major impediment to mobilizing adequate levels of external financing.
Furthermore, the future performance of the current account is predicated, in
part, on the favorable evolution of the external environment. Unless
constraints on the capital account are eased, Morocco would have to transfer
even higher levels of net resources abroad, thereby compromising future
economic growth, adjustment efforts, and, ultimately, prospects for improved
creditworthiness.



- 6 - 
FRdl#2fti for g9§*tbig Bo& AdHzsbDFr¢ tMAWn
19.      Structural weaknesses in the area of public finance have at times
slowed the pace of reform in sectoral adjustment programs supported by the
Bank, viz. the inability to reduce budgetary reliance on trade taxation, the
recurrence of government arrears, particularly to the public enterprise
sector, and the lack of local counterpart funding for public investment
programs in agriculture, health, and education. As evidenced by these
developments, Morocco's adjustment program is at a critical juncture.
Although the vigorous pursuit of policy reforms at the sectoral level has led
to marked increases in output and employment, particularly in export-oriented
sectors (para. 14), initial optimism about the timeframe needed to yield the
full benefits of each program is being tempered, as continuing budgetary
difficulties introduce tensions into program execution. Moreover, the
favorable exogenous factors which abetted adjustment efforts cannot be relied
upon to nourish higher rates of economic growth. Finally, Morocco's heavy
debt service obligations, which continue to absorb a substantial share of
national savings, militate in favor of additional structural reforms designed
to raise the growth rate above that achieved is the recent past. Indeed, this
orientation is explicitly recognized in the Government's medium-term
macroeconomic framework, which targets a 4.52-51 GDP growth rate. The
viability of a growth-oriented medium-term scenario is conditioned on the
extension of structural policy reform to the government budget, required to
consolidate and strengthen the sectoral gains achieved thus far.
20.      In view of its ongoing involvement in Morocco's sectoral adjustment
programs1', the Bank is well placed to assist the Government in deepening
its adjustment efforts through a structural adjustment loan (SAL). The
compouents of the SAL have been tailored to address the principal difficulties
facing existing sectoral programs, as well as formulate medium-term approaches
to issues addressed hitherto in a short-term perspective. The IMF support to
the Government in furthering the Tmprovement in external and domestic balances
will continue to be both necessary and desirable. In this context, the
establishment of annual budget and balance-of-payments targets is warranted.
Insofar as structural weaknesses in fiscal and investment policy persist, it
is apposite that the SAL program pursue the objective of supporting
a medium-term framework for roroccan public finances in parallel with the IMF
program to reduce the budget deficit.
21.      Two broad interrelated strategic goals will be pursued through
continued adjustment lending. The SAL program would both coalesce with the
achievements of past adjustment efforts and address remaining constraints to
further policy reform, thus effectively helping Morocco to move from an
initial phase of stabilization-cum-liberalization to one of comprehensive
structural adjustment. As the first in a program of two or three similar
operations, the SAL would serve to support Morocco during the transition to a
path of higher growth through increased investment, greater productivity,
1/ A description of Bank-supported sectoral adjustment operations and the
progress achieved in meeting specific conditions are addressed in
par"s. 109-111 and Annex VI.



- 7 -
and improved creditworthiness. Concomitantly, a shift in Bank assistance
towards investment lending will be facilitated through continued
liberalixation at the sectoral level, together with the reconstitution of the
country's development programs for key social sectors and infrastructure. The
Bank's continued association with the adj-ustment process through the provision
of quick-disbursing resources is warranted in light of Morocco's limited
access to international capital markets, while its catalytic role could be
tapped to mobilize sources of additional financing (paras. 101-102) in order
to ensure more equitable burden-sharing and limits on exposure.
PART I - THE STRUCTURAFL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
PrWIuan Obet vesand PRocn Tools
22.      During the past few years, the Moroccan economy has grown at an
average rate of 3.32 on an annual basis, slightly more than the rate of
increase in the population. The proposed medium-term adjustment program seeks
to reinvigorate the economy through a rise in the growth rate of per capita
income and to consolidate the structural achievements registered to date,
without disrupting macroeconomic atability. Spanning the initial two years of
the Government's medium-term adjustment program, the SAL is viewed as the
first in a series of two or three similar operations designed to fully restore
Morocco's access to international financial markets by the mid-1990s, while
enabling the ec-nomy to grow by 4.5S-52 per annum. The adjustment program
contains four sets of policy tools to be used in achieving these goals.
23.      Fiscal reform measuree are intended to increase the buoyancy of the
tax system, while minimizing distortionary effects on resource allocation
decisions. Measures to be supported under the SAL (paras. 37-42) serve to
narrow fiscal incentives and lower marginal tax rates, leaving export
promotion to the realm of trade and exchange rate policy. Additional action
in the area of tax administration would improve collection efforts
(paras. 43-44).
24.      Public investment has taken much of the brunt of the fiscal
adjustment in the past. The deteriorating quality of the publ£c capital stock
represents at present a significant constraint to attaining higher rates of
GDP growth. The increase in the level and efficiency of public investment
expenditures constitutes a major component of the adju&tment program. To this
effect, particular attention is being devoted to the identification of a
target public investment program, which would respond to the twin objectives
of complementing private investment and providing for the most urgent social
needs. The timely execution of the target investment program would be
supported by an improvement in budgetary procedures.
25.      Trade liberalization efforts have given rise to significant
improvements in the incentive regime governing economic behavior in the
tradables sector since 1983, although the pace of structural reform slowed
somewhat in 1986 for fiscal reasons (para. 61). In order to provide economic
ageats with clear pricing signals for investment and production decisions, as
well as reinforce perceived government credibility in the area of trade
reform, the SAL would support continued import liberalization and export
promotion.



26.      External liability management represents a significant challenge in
view of the impact of the formidable external debt burden on the Moroccan
economy. The elaboration of a robust debt management system is clearly
warranted to monitor the complexities of the rescheduling arrangements of the
past, inform policy-makers as to the relative merits of different
restructuring options, and enable the formulation of a strategy governing
external debt policy in the future. In this vein, the SAL provides for the
institutional reforms and technical assistance necessary for the
implementation of such a system.
27.      Macro Links to Proaram Components.  The interrelationship between the
policy measures comprising each component of the adjustment progrem and the
macroeconomic objectives is an important aspect of the SAL. Growth targets
are predicated on increases in efficiency and investment: the sectoral
allocation of incremental capital formation is determinant, however, if
distorted patterns of growth are to be avoided. To this effect, further trade
liberalization is necessary to provide the private sector with unAmbiguous
indications as to the relative profitability of exports, particularly since
capacity is likely to become an increasing constraint to buoyant export growth
in the near future. Tax policy should be designed so as to minimize
distortions regarding the intersectoral allocation of investment. Public
investment plays a significant role in the adjustment program in view of its
strong complementarity to private investment1L7.
28.      Finally, policy measures should be internally consistent so as to
ensure that the processes of fiscal reform, trade liberalization, and raising
public investment do not work at cross purposes, with negative repercussions
on macroeconomic equilibria. The increase in investment and the process of
import liberalization could lead to a worsening of the current account
balance, requiring compensatory action on the exchange rate. Regarding
but' etary balance, both the substitution of quantitative restrictions
by tariffs and the reduction in existing tax incentives will boost Treasury
revenues. The increase in public investment, however, could exacerbate the
budget deficit, while the mobilization of the required additional financing
will confront the authorities with difficult choices. Whereas excessive
reliance on monetary financing would be incompatible with the objective of
price stability, unbridled recourse to fledgling capital markets could lead to
a crowding-out of private investment, either through the cost or the
availability of credit. Furthermore, increasing reliance on non-inflationary
sources of domestic finance could jeopardize budgetary equilibria in the
future by an unsustainable increase in the burden of interest payments. For
example, a rcenario whereby higher public debt leads to rises in interest
rates which, in turn, result in larger interest payments and even higher
levels of public debt, would eventually culminate in an explosion of the
budget deficit.
29.      Macroeconomic Consistency Analysis.  In order to ensure internal
consistency between the structural measures to be supported under the SAL
(Annex II) and the medium-term macroeconomic framework, a macroeconometric
1/ Analysis shows that private investment in Morocco, for example, may be
subject to sharp declines in marginal productivity or even not materialize
at all in the absence of matching infrastructure-related public investment.



-9-
model of the Mo,-occan economy was constructed. In view of its importance to
the policy dialogue, the model underpinning the macroeconomic analysis was
transferred to Morocco and technical staff trained in its use. These joint
efforts served to ensure realism and inject an added degree of rigor in the
elaboration of the Government's medium-term macroeconomic framework.
Specific, desired outcomes of the SAL program, which have been developed in
consultation with the Bank. are discussed below in paragraphs 82 through 88.
30.      The analysis, which has been designed to reflect the mnain objectives
of the adjustment program and aid in the assessment of the ex ting trade-offs
and complementarities between policy instruments and targets, las three main
components. In the area of external trade, behavioral relationships
characterizing the export supply and demand of manufactured goods, as well as
disaggregate import demand decisions, were estimated. Import demand was
analyxed in the context of a rationed consumer/producer model and, as such,
can be used to simulate the impact of trade liberalization policy scenarios.
In the area of private expenditure, the relative importance of factors
underlying consumption and investment decisions was assessed. The private
capital accumulation decision was found to depend on output, the cost of
capital, credit availability, and the stock of public capital. While public
capital is shown to have a strong complementarity effect on private
investment, the availability of credit affects only the dynamic adjustment of
investment. In the area of Public finance, Treasury revenues were shown to be
a function of both income and import levels, with expenditures being set to
respect fiscal objectives.
31.      Particular emphasis was given to the macroeconomic impact of
financial choices. The amount of monetary financing compatible with a given
inflation target was assessed on the basis of an estimated money demand
function. Domestic bond financing was determined residually. While recourse
to monetary financing is shown to have a decided impact on inflation,
exoessive reliance on domestic bond financing could lead to a significant
crowding-out of private investment. The path traced for the fiscal deficit
(para. 86) takes these effects into account and is consistent with continued
low rates of inflation, as well as the targeted levels of private investment
expenditures.
The Pblicy Framework of the First Structural Adiustment Loan
Tax Policy and Administration
32.      Progress to Date.  The structural weaknesses in the Moroccan tax
system have given rise to a steady reduction in tax pressure from 19.01 of GDP
in 1983 to 16.8% in 1986. This trend has been mitigated to some extent by
increases in nonfiscal revenues, attributable by and large to the introduction
in 1986 of a windfall tax on petroleum. The considerable proceeds from this
levy, which represented 13X of total Treasury revenues in 1986 and 2.72 of
GDP, more than offset the virtual dissipation of dividend payments and profit
taxes from OCP (the state-owned phosphate company) to the Government,
following the plunge in world phosphate demand.
33.      The evolution of overall fiscal receipts nonetheless belies
significant changes in the structure of revenues since 1983. Direct taxes on



- 10 -
personal income and corporate profits remained relatively stable in relation
to GDP during the period 1983-86. The extension of various exemptions granted
under the* investment and export codes forestalled any rise in the buoyancy of
profit taxes, particularly since fiscal privileges were directed to the more
dynamic sectors of the economy of late, namely agriculture, real estate,
tourism, and certain export industries. Revenue from taxes on salaries and
wages rose slightly as a proportion of GDP, owing to the progressivity of the
rate structure and the lack of adjustment of nominal rates in keeping with
inflation, resulting in the phenomenon of so-called bracket creep.
34.      Indirect taxes have been subject to significant structural reforms
leading to wide fluctuations in revenue shares. For example, the reduction in
the special import tax rate (para. 58), as part of the overall efforts to
attenuate the bias against exports, led to a decline in overall trade tax
revenues. However, this trend was cushioned to some extent by an increase in
the average effective customs duty rate, coincident with the elimination of
quantitative restrictions on goods at the upper range of the tariff schedule.
The aggregate loss of trade tax revenues corresponds tc approximately one
percentage point of GDP.
35.      Despite several increases in rates, domestic indirect taxes also
experienced a reduction in their share of GDP.  On two occasions, the general
rate on the former domestic sales tax (TPS) was raised, from 152 to 17% in
1982 and to 192 in 1984. After increasing from 5S in 1980-81 to 62 in
1984-85, the ratio of sales tax revenues to GDP subsequently fell to 5.52 in
1986.  These results can be attributed to:  (i) a decline in the tax base,
owing to the fact that agriculture and exports, the two fastest growing
sectors in the economy, where the incidence of exemption from indirect
taxation is relatively high; and (ii) transitional difficulties regarding the
replacement of the TPS by the value-added tax (VAT) in 1986. Reasons for the
shortfall in revenues linked to the introduction of the VAT include: First,
the generalization of tax credits were not fully offset by reductions in
exemptions or increases in tax rates for certain products. Second, credits on
existing inventories were granted as a condition of the VAT being extended to
the wholesale level. Third, the time period during which tax credits could be
claimed was shortened, engendering a once-and-for-all loss in revenues.
Initial revenue losses notwithstanding, the VAT led to a significant
rationalization of the rate structure of indirect taxes, as the number of
rates was compressed from eleven to five.
36.      Consumption tax proceeds also exhibited a downward trend resulting
from the failure to adjust upwards most specific tax rates. The only item on
which revenues increased was tobacco, insofar as government revenues are based
on a percentage of the total sales of the state-owned tobacco monopoly,
corresponding in essence to an ad valorem rate. Revenues from all other
excise taxes and registration fees decreased from 1.4% to 1.0% of GDP during
the 1983-86 period.
37.      Fiscal Reform.  The program to be supported under the SAL is
comprised of a series of actions which seeks to: (i) increase the buoyancy of
the fiscal system by broadening the tax base and reducing marginal rates;
(ii) improve the allocative efficiency of the fiscal system, as well as tax
incentives for productive investment; (iii) enhance the equity of the tax



- 11 -
structure; and (iv) raise collection rates by strengthening existing
institutions and rationalizing tax administration efforts.
38.      Considerable progress in the fiscal area will be achieved with the
promulgation of the 1988 budgetary law, which contains numerous measures to
reform the current tax structure based on the recommendations of joint
Bank-IMF technical assistance missions. As part of the SAL, the modification
of the existing investment codes (para. 33) will rationalize the incentives
for productive investment by limiting the duration and rate of existing fiscal
exemptions and reducing intersectoral disparities in the tax code. Profit tax
exonerations have decreased from ten to five years and the exemption rate from
1001 to 50S for all sectors other than export-oriented industries. In the
case of the latter, the ten-year exemption has been curtailed, with the result
that exporters will now be subject to taxes on half the profits earned from
the sixth year on. As a result of these reforms, investors in less-developed
regions and/or privileged sectors will witness a reduction in tax advantages,
both in absolute terms and in relation to other sectors, which have benefited
from the reduction in the corporate tax rate (para. 39). Finally, fiscal
exemptions on various state-owned banks, including the Central Bank, have been
repealed.
39.      The corporate tax rate on profits earned in 1987 was lowered from 48S
to 451, followed by a further decrease to 40S on all profits earned beginning
in 1988 in the context of the SAL program. These reductions in rates have
been matched by additional measures to broaden the tax base and ensure a more
equitable distribution of the fiscal burden. The minimum corporate tax
liability rate, deductible from the actual tax liability of the firm, has been
raised from 4.51 to 81, whereas the national solidarity tax (PSN) rate has
increased from 101 to 25% for those firms exempted from the corporate tax in
accordance with the privileges previously granted under the investment codes.
Finally, the zero-bracket threshold applied to the personal income tax has
been raised from DR 6,000 to DH 8,400 in response to the fiscally regressive
impact of inflation on low-income groups. This measure will result in an
improvement in income distribution and an administrative simplification of the
personal income tax regime in view of the elimination from the tax base of the
large number of low-income taxpayers.
40.      Important measures have also been taken as part of the SAL with
respect to indirect taxation. For example, exemptions from the VAT have been
eliminated on a number of products, leading to a widening of the indirect tax
base. In order to reduce dispersion, rates have been increased on certain
items such as coffee, rice, cattle feed. and transportation services. Excise
taxes, stamp duties, and registration fees have also been adjusted upward with
a 7.51 increase in the average price of tobacco products.
41.      In order to complete the final phase in the modernization of the
fiscal system, the Government has presented the personal income tax reform
bill to Parliament for ratification in October 1988 in accordance with the
SAL. This reform replaces the current schedular system with a unified income
tax schedule, which aggregates all sources of personal income and reduces the
highest marginal tax rates. Multiple taxation of dividends is to be
circumscribed, the five existing tax rates on different sources of income are
to be consolidated, and the rate structure is to be simplified. As a result



- 12 -
of these modifications, the number of taxpayers will be reduced, thereby
facilitating tax administration. The multiplicity of tax rates according to
income source, which characterized the previous system, was potentially
regressive in nature and offered numerous possibilities for tax evasion to all
but salaried employees and wage earners. In contrast, the personal income tax
reform should lead to a more equitable treatment of the individual taxpayer.
42.      On the basis of a disaggregate analysis of these fiscal reform,
government revenues are projected to increase significantly. VAT collections
from January to August 1988 are already 232 higher than over the same period
In the previous year. Wage and corporate tax proceeds should also exhibit
greater buoyancy, as witnessed by the projected increase with respect to GDP
of nearly half a percentage point. Globally, fiscal revenues are expected to
grow by over 132 in 1988 with the share of total government revenues in GDP
rising from 21.91 in 1987 to 22.5S in 1988.
43.      Institutional Reform of Tax Administration-'.  Important measures
to improve domestic tax administration are being undertaken in parallel to the
structural reform of the fiscal system, so as to realise the expected yields
of the latter. In order to standardize and strengthen corporate accounting
vractices in Morocco, the Government would approve for presentation to
Parliament a draft law instituting a national chart of accounts to replace the
one in effect since 1957, as well as a draft law regulating the accounting
profession. A functional reorganization of the tax department is being
undertaken and a training component formulated to enhance the quality of tax
return audits, by fully exploiting the potential for cross-checking
declarations of VAT and corporate income tax liabilities. The hiring of a
minimum of fifty new examiners per year over the period of the SAL program
will lead to an increase in the frequency of audits.
44.      A series of actions is presently underway to reduce the potential for
tax evasion. The structure of penalties applicable to late payments and tax
fraud would be reinforced. Penalty interest will accrue from the time the tax
liability originates, rather than at the time the violation is detected as in
the past. A unified taxpayer identification file would be established on the
basis of a national fiscal census, which should aid in tax enforcement. In
order to simplify administration and reduce lags in tax collection, a study is
being undertaken to examine the feasibility of advancing the due date for the
second payment of the corporate income tax and amending the fiscal code, so as
to mandAte that commercially-oriented transactions exceeding a certain amount
be settled by check. This will serve to limit the potential for evading VAT
payments at the wholesale level.
The Public Investment Budget
45.      Proaress to Date.  Morocco entered the decade with an ambitious
1981-85 Development Plan which targeted an annual GDP growth rate of 6.5%, to
be achieved primarily through a doubling of public investment. In response to
1/ Institutional support, technical assistance, and training programs
underpinning SAL reforms are proposed to be financed under a Public
Administration Loan (PAL), described in Annex V.



- 13 -
the adverse economic conditions which characterized the early 1980s,
government investment was curtailed to the point that real expenditures
declined by over 501 between 1981 and 1986. While the adjustment and
liberalization efforts undertaken by the Government since the 1983 crisis
sought and obtained a higher share of private investment in total gross fixed
capital formation (GFCF), rising from 12.9% in 1982 to 16.61 in 1986, the
level of public investment has fallen below the minimum necessary to meet the
development needs of the private sector and the social needs of the
population, particularly the economically disadvantaged.
46.      The volume of the 1981-85 Plan, together with inappropriate project
selection criteria and the inadequate coordination of planning and budgeting
processes, resulted in the programming of more public investment than existing
institutional capacity and resource availability could support. In addition,
the Government was unable to contain the growth of annual commitments on the
investment budget. This led to delays in project execution, a deterioration
of the existing public capital stock, and a substantial buildup of payment
arrears to local contractors.
47.      In response to these problems, the Government took a series of
actions beginning in I '5 with a view to realigning expenditures with
available resources, and thereby improving the budgetary process. Specific
measures undertaken include: (i) detailed annual reviews of the investment
program in consultation with the Bank, resulting in the postponement or
elimination of most nonpriority or inadequately prepared projects;
(ii) development of the capabilities to undertake sound economic and financial
analysis of investmnt projects, prior to their inclusion in either the
Development Plan or the annual budgetary law; and (iii) introduction of an
annually modifiable investment plan.
48.      The impact of these reforms is evident both in terms of project
selection and efficiency gains achieved in the area of investment budgeting
and financial execution. One example of this is the improvement in the ratio
of payment orders to authorizations from 301 in 1986 to 501 in 1987.
Furthermore, the majority of projects contained in the 1988-92 Development
Plan are of high priority and economically justified.
49.      Despite the actions taken during the past few years to rationalize
public investment expenditures and related budgetary procedures, there remain
some outstanding issues which, unless addressed, could compromise medium-term
growth objectives. The relative scarcity of fiscal resources and the
persistence of government payment arrears have seriously slowed the completion
of ongoing projects and virtually preclude undertaking new investment.
Disbursements under externally-financed projects have been hampered for want
of local counterpart funds.
50.      The inability to pay contractors in a timely manner for works carried
out has led, moreover, to an increase in project costs. Companies inflate
their margins on government contracts in order to compensate for anticipated
payment delays. At times, the situation has deteriorated to such an extent
that certain firms are no longer willing to bid on government contracts.
Although the outstanding stock of arrears on the investment budget has been
reduced by over DR 1 billion in 1986-87, principally as a result of the issue
of Treasury bonds to public enterprises, payment delays concerning capital
expenditures now stand at four months.



- 14 -
51.      The budgetary practice of cancelling and recommitting those budgetary
allocations which have not given rise to payment orders constitutes a
significant impediment to project execution. While justified in the past when
a standardized budgetary nomenclature and computerized management information
system were lacking, this procedure has been found to complicate unnecessarily
investment planning in the technical ministries. At present, much of the works
undertaken in the previous year must await up to six months of interministerial
budgetary arbitrage before they are recommitted and authorized to continue.
Between 50Q and 75% of all payment orders approved in 1987 in health (74.11),
housing (65.7X), and education (55.3%) went towards the settlement of arrears;
similarly, the share of recommitments in total commitments for these sectors
exhibited comparable rates. In contrast, these same ratios for total
productive investment across sectors averaged 24.4% and 35.5% respectively.
Thus, while the sectoral distribution of budgetary allocations may adequately
reflect development priorities, budgetary execution has been otherwise.
52.      There is presently an urgent need to ensure a level of public
investment in priority socioeconomic sectors consistent with overall growth
and developmental objectives. In addition, the efficiency of public
investment programming and budgeting must be raised to support the timely
execution of individual projects. In accordance with the growth-oriented,
medium-term macroeconomic framework, the Government intends to: (i) maintain
a minimum level of central government investment consistent with the targeted
increase in the share of public gross fixed capital formation in GDP from 3.51
to 4.21 by 1991-92 (par"s. 27, 84); and (ii) strengthen the processes and
procedures of investment planning and budgeting in order to improve the
management and efficiency of public investment expenditures. These measures
are expected to ensure both the availability of sufficient resources and the
timely execution of targeted high priority projects in key socioeconomic
sectors.
53.      The Target Investment Program (TIP).  A targeted program of public
investment has been formulated by the Government in consultation with Bank
staff, on the basis of growth objectives, sectoral priorities, and identified
projects in the Plan. The SAL will focus primarily on projects carried out in
the context of the central budget, insofar as investments of the main public
enterprises and municipalities will be followed under other Bank operations.
The annual evolution of the TIP in terms of project execution and financing,
as well as changes in the relative share of the TIP with respect to relevant
macroeconomic aggregates, are presented in Table 1. The specific projects or
subsectoral programs contained in the TIP for 1988-89 have been identified and
are acceptable to the Bank. Formulation of the annual TIP for the following
years will take place in October, prior to the presentation of the draft
budgetary law to Parliament. The annual execution of the TIP in terms of
budgetary commitments and expenditures will be monitored on a quarterly basis
under the SAL.
54.      Reform of Budgetary Procedures.  A sweeping reform of investment
budgetary procedures has been initiated based on the recommendations of a
joint Bank-Fund technical assistance mission. Actions already underway
include the preparation of a new, harmonized budget nomenclature to
rationalize the classification of capital expenditures, the simplification of
budgetary procedures to facilitate investment programming, the strengthening



- 15 -
of project evaluation capabilities in the Department of the Budget, and the
computerization of budget management a"id control. Overall support for the
improvement of government expenditure policies is expected to be provided for
under the PAL. In contrast, the SAL focuses on those aspects of the
investment budget and its management which underlie implementation and
monitoring arrangements for the TIP.
Table 1: PROJECTED EVOLUTION OF INVESTMENT
(in percentages)
1987     1988     1989     1990      1991
Total Investment/GDP          19.1      19.9     20.5     20.7   21.6
Consolidated Government
Iuvestment/GDP La            3.5      3.5       4.0      4.1    4.2
Target Investment
Program (TIP)/GDP            2.4       2.7      3.1      3.3    3.7
TIP/Consolidated
Government Investment   69.6      77.1     77.5    80.5   88.1
Percentage Share in        Cumulative Increase
Total TIP                     1987-1990
Sectoral Distribution of TIP
- Agriculture            32       31        30       30          46S
- Public Works           38       39        37       34          41S
- Transport               2        2         2        2          24S
- Social Sectors /b      28       28        31       34          86%
/a  Includes central government, municipalities, and social security.
/b Includes education, health, and housing.
55.      In the context of the 1989 budget law, investment procedures would be
further modified to accelerate the currently protracted arbitrage of budgetary
resources which takes place early in the year between the Ministry of Finance
and the spending ministries, so as to expedite project commitments. In
addition, commitments of the previous year, which have not given rise to
payment orders, would no longer require a formal reauthorization prior to the
continuation of the corresponding works in the following year. To ensure the
timely flow of information between the Ministry of Finance and the spending
ministries required for investment planning, the integration of budgetary
management systems through computer links to all relevant users would be
designed in consultation with the Bank. Finally, the present arrangement
regarding foreign exchange risk would be reviewed in consultation with the



- 16 -
Bank to mitigate future costs to the Treasury and facilitate financial
planning by beneficiaries and financial intermediaries utilizing foreign loans.
56.      These improvements in procedures should give rise to considerable
efficiency gains in the budgetary execution of public investments. A set of
performance ratios in terms of budgetary authorizations, commitments, payment
orders, and disbursements has been established in the context of the SAL. The
adequate execution and financing of the target public investment program
should result in a gradual improvement in these performance ratios and a
concomitant reduction in payment delays from four months in 1987 to one and
one-half months in 1989. In order to provide the Bank with the information
required for the timely monitoring of the investment budget, an
interministerial working group has been established for all SAL-related
discussions of public investment.
Trade and Industrial Policy
57.      Progress to Date. A broad reform of the structure of incentives was
launched in 1983 to correct the deep structural distortions which had hindered
the performance of the Moroccan eConOmy. This program, supported by two
Bank-financed Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment (ITPA) loans, included
the liberalization of the trade and industrial regime, the promotion of
export-oriented activities, the adoption of a more flexible exchange rate
policy, and the rationalization of domestic capital markets. Specific
measures were taken in three major areas.
58.      First, import restrictions were significantly reduced and the
prohibited list of imports abolished, with the result that 89% of total import
value and 66% of total tariff positions are no longer subject to licensing,
compared to 381 and 50S respectively at end-1983. The maximum customs duty
rate was reduced from 4002 in 1983 to 451 in 1987 and the special import tax,
an across-the-board, uniform surtax, declined from 151 to 51 over the same
period, although the latter was subsequently raised in the interest of fiscal
exigencies (para. 61). These measures lowered the unweighted average
cumulative rate of trade taxes (inclusive of the stamp duty) to 35.91, down
from 58.41, and the maxirum protective rate to 621, down from 466%. The
dispersion of rates was also reduced with the standard deviation decreasing
from 40.5 to 15.4. Second, the export regime was considerably enhanced. The
temporary admission scheme, the centerpiece of Morocco's export promotion
efforts, was strengthened and extended to include indirect as well as direct
exporters. Virtually ell export licensing requirements were abolished and all
export taxes repealed. -the export credit scheme was improved by raising
ceilings on pre-shipment financing and increasing maturities on post-shipment
financing. Fiscal and financial incentives embodied in the industrial
investment and export codes were rationalized. Third, the simplification of
administrative procedures has improved the flow of information and relaxed
institutional constraints with respect to international trade transactions.
This has led to a reduction in customs processing time by 501.
59.      Analysis of the change in the structure of incentives reveals that
external trade flows have increased their share in GDP as a result of the
replacement of quantitative restrictions by tariffs; the decline in nominal
protection following the successive reductions in the tariff ceiling; and the
fall in effective protection owing to the high concentration of finished



- 17 -
products in the upper echelons of the tariff range. Liberalization-induced
policy reforms have also resulted in a growing proportion of local industry
being subject to increased competition from abroad. According to a
production-weighted index of protection, for example, the share of domestic
manufacturing subject to QRs during the period 1983 to 1986 declined from 602
to 401 and from 452 to 15S, as a function of tariff line and import value
respectively. Various export promotion measures served to curtail the
financial profitability premium of import-substituting activities relative to
exports by a factor of nearly three, the premium declining from 501 to 201.
The administrative co8sC of external trade also decreased, as illustrated by
the steady increase in the proportion of license requests approved (842 in
1986) and the substantial reduction in processing time for applications.
60.     The change in incentives has induced a number of significant shifts
in economic benavior since 1983. Buoyant export growth has sustained a
relatively higher level of imports, leading to a more open economy as
reflected in an increase in the ratio of external trade flows to GDP from 53S
in 1983 to 561 in 1986. The growth in exports could not be attributed to a
surge in traditional exports insofar as the decline in the value of phosphate
rock was only partially compensated by an increase in the export of phosphoric
acid and fertilizer. Rather, robust growth of Moroccan manufactured exports
led to greater market penetration abroad. After stagnating at 1.51 during the
period 1982-84, Moroccan manufactured exports as a percentage of EEC imports
rose to 1.91 in 1986, a strong iadication of improved competitiveness. The
realignment of the wage-rental ratio in keeping with the relative abundance of
labor in the Moroccan economy underlay productivity gains in labor and capital
which have taken place in the manufacturing sector. The attenuation of
distortions in factor prices also contributed to the rapid gains in the export
of labor-intensive goods, particularly once subcontracting activities were
taken into account.
61.      Following the closing of ITPA II, the Government continued with the
reform of the trade and industrial regime. Licensing requirements were
removed on 335 tariff positions in August 1987, corresponding to approximately
61 of domestic industrial production. Prompted by fiscal considerations, the
Government replaced the SIT and the relatively distortionary stamp duty by a
12.51 uniform import tax in January 1988 to mobilize additional revenues. The
overall impact of these measures was a rise in the average trade tax rate of
about two percentage pointa.V, accompanied by a significant compression in
the dispersion of nominal and, by extension, effective rates of protection.
62.      Import Liberalization.  Although considerable progress has been
achieved in reducing both the level and dispersion of effective prote4%tion,
the present structure exhibits certain characteristics which indicate the need
for further reform. An analysis of QR and tariff coverage by end-use shows
that final goods continue to be more highly protected by both instruments than
are inputs, resulting in a cascading structure which reinforces rates of
1/ The average trade tax rate in 1988 (35.7X) is nonetheless significantly
lower than that prevailing in 1983 (58.4X) at the onset of the
liberalization program.



- 18 -
effective protection. For example, 67.52 of all consumer goods are subject to
QRs, compared to 9.52 of intermediates and 17.5% of capital goods. Similarly,
intermediates, capital goods, and consumer items had mean tax rates of 27.92,
31.72, and 50.12 respectively on an unweighted basis in 1986, and 20.42,
21.2%, and 26.52 when weighted by import value.
63.      The growth objectives of the medium-term macroeconomic framework are
based, in part, on an increase in the level and marginal efficiency of private
sector capital formation. Whereas existing capacity has been adequate to
sustain the manufactured export drive until now, utilization rates are
presently high and new investment is required if export potential is to be
fully realized in the future. To this effect, further reductions in the
remaining quantitative restrictions are necessary to ensure that investment
decisions, whether in import-substituting or export-oriented sectors, are
conditioned by undistorted price signals. Only in this way will resources be
channeled into those productive sectors where Morocco enjoys a comparative
advantage. A significant share of the latter, however, corresponds to
industries (e.g. textiles) where international trade is regulated on the basis
of multilateral agreements.
64.      As part of the ITPA program, quantitative restrictions have been
eliminated on product categories corresponding to 602 of domestic industrial
production, indicating the extent of trade liberalization which has taken
place to date. While the share of domestic production subject to quantitative
restrictions is perhaps the most economically meaningful index of the extent
of trade liberalization, Morocco's trade regime appears even more liberalized
in terms of the more traditional measure based on import weights. Subsequent
to the ITPA reforms, only 102 of total import value is subject to quantitative
controls. As part of the SAL, the Government abolished import licensing
requirements on preducts corresponding to 102 of industrial production, in
order to promote efficiency in the industrial sector and reduce the existing
anti-export bias. The promulgation of the 1989 and 1990 liberalization
programs should leave no more than about 152 of domestic production subject to
import licensing requirements, corresponding for the most part to products
whose trade is regulated by international agreement.
65.      Safeguard Procedure.  Since the onset of the liberalization program
in 1983, the shift from quantitative controls to price restrictions has caused
concern among domestic producers and government officials that increased
import flows could exert excessive pressures on certain industries,
particularly in areas exposed to unfair trading practices from abroad. This
has led to the introduction of reference prices on a limited number of items
when the amount of potential protection in the tariff structure was deemed
inadequate. Reference prices are set in nominal dirhams and have yet to be
subsequently raised on any item. Existing reference prices are limited to
approximately 300 tariff positions (out of 8,057) with concentration ratios of
302 in ceramics, 102 in textiles, and less than 52 in paper, chemicals,
electrical products, and metal works. The import coverage of reference prices
imposed since 1985 varies from about 952 in ceramics, 202 in textiles, and 52
to 72 in paper and metal works. The transitory protection afforded by
reference prices has eased adjustment pressures for politically sensitive
industries and, as such, has served to retain political support for trade
liberalization in general.



- 19 -
66.      The Government has recognized the need for a more formal procedure
which is transparent, nondiscretionary, and reflects the national interest
rather than the concerns of onc particular special interest group. In
consultation with the Bank, the Moroccan authorities are preparing such a
procedure which allows for a limited amount of transitory protection,
consistent with the overall national interest, without reintroducing the
levels of protection prevailing in the past. Specific features of this
procedure are as follows: (i) representation of all concerned parties,
including both users of the imported good, be they producers who import the
item as an intermediate input, or final consumers of the good, and producers
of the import-competing good. Whereas the producer benefits from the
introduction of transitory protection, users are penalized by the artificial
increase in price; (ii) protection would be granted temporarily, in accordance
with Morocco's international commitments and the national interest; (iii) the
institution(s) governing this procedure would prepare an annual report on the
state of protection and related costs and benefits to the national economy, in
line with continued efforts to rationalize incentives.
67.      As part of the SAL, the safeguard procedure will figure prominently
in the law outlining the general principles of foreign trade activities which
the Government intends to present to Parliament in 1989. This procedure
should enable trade liberalixation to proceed without jeopardizing the
efficient development of the domestic economy. In addition, the adoption of
the safeguard procedure will supplant the existing practice of reference
pricing.
68.      Tariff Simplification.  An international comparison of Morocco's
trade tax structure with those of immediate competitors and comparable
economies underscores the need for further simplification. Most of the tariff
reforms implemented to date have focused on the reduction of rates; however,
the Moroccan tariff nomenclature is unduly driven by firm-specific
considerations. This is particularly evident in the case of such consumer
goods as foosd, beverages, tobacco, and textiles. The intricacy of the
Moroccan tariff structure seems hardly justified in view of the fact that
other countries manage more complex foreign trade structures with fewer codes.
69.      In order to correct these irregularities and induce greater
efficiency in the allocation of productive resources, the Government, in the
context of the SAL, intends to simplify the existing tariff nomenclature with
the adoption of the International Harmonized System (IHS) on January 1, 1989.
Those tariff positions which have not been used during the past five years
would not automatically be integrated in the new tariff nomenclature. The
number of tariff positions would be consolidated at the eight-digit level with
the same rate being applied to like products. An action plan and timetable
will be established in early 1989 to reduce the number of tariff rates and to
aggregate product categories from the eight to the six-digit level.
70.      Export Promotion and Industrial Developrent.  In tandem with the SAL
program, the Government intends to strengthen its efforts in the area of
export promotion to sustain the impressive performance of exports of
manufactured goods and services exhibited during the past few years. The
export insurance agency, S AEX, would be provided with adequate budgetary



- 20 -
resources to cover normal commercial risk and empowered to act on behalf of
the State in the case of political risk. Budgetary funding for the Center for
the Promotion of Moroccan Exports (CMPE) would be increased with the objective
of identifying new markets abroad. A study would be carried out to identify
specific policies and actions in support of industrial expansion and sustained
export growth. Potential obstacles to external trade flows, identified in the
report of the Committee for the Simplification of Trade Procedures, would be
addressed with the objective of reducing customs processing time by one-half.
In order to increase proceeds from tourism, price controls on four- and
three-star hotels were abolislaed in September 1988 and credit ceilings on
medium- and long-term loans to the hotel sector are to be removed before
end-1988.
71.      As part of the SAL, the Government has taken a series of significant
measures to liberalize the exchange regime to attract both foreign direct
investment and worker remittances from abroad. Virtually all controls have
been abrogated for resident and nonresident foreign investors ou foreign
exchange and stock tranEactions. As such, foreign investors are empowered to
repatriate up to the full amount of their initial investment, irrespective of
whether a guarantee to this effect was granted at the outset. In addition,
the purchaser of foreign-owned assets may now settle all foreign-exchange
obligations directly abroad. Prior authorization to repatriate the
foreign-exchange equivalent of paid-in capital and profits has been abolished
and commercial banks can now be used to transfer funds directly to nonresident
aliens without going through the Exchange Bureau. Finally, the deregulation
of exchange controls has been extended to include Moroccan nationals residing
abroad, the latter being authorized to open convertible dirham accounts.
External Liability Management
72.      Progress to Date.  The rapid rise in Morocco's external indebtedness
has its roots in the late 1970s and largely reflects various adverse external
developments and serious structural problems in the economy. Sharp increases
in oil prices, depressed conditions in the world phosphate market, and rising
international interest rates undermined Morocco's ability to service its
external debt. In addition, an ambitious public investment program and a
heavy buildup of defense expenditures were sustained through extensive
recourse to borrowing abroad. As a result, Morocco's total external debt
reached about 86t of GDP by 1982, compared to only 371 in 1977. In 1983,
Morocco found itself unable to meet its heavy debt service obligations. In
response, it sought the assistance of the IMF and the World Bank in putting
together a program of macroeconomic stabilization and structural adjustment.
This allowed for a series of official and commercial bank debt reschedulings.
The amount of payments rescheduled from end-1983 to end-1987 totaled
US$6.5 billion.
73.      The profile of Morocco's external debt has improved since 1983,
reflecting a slowdown in the contracting of new debt commitments. In
addition, the compositional structure of new borrowings shifted from
commercial to official sources which served to soften the average terms of
external liabilities. As such, the average interest rate on new commitments
declined from 101 in 1982 to less than 61 in 1987, while the average maturity



- 21 -
increased from 11 years to approximately 20 years. This resulted in an
increase in the grant element from 5% to 282&'.
74.          Despite the relief from its creditors, Morocco's total external debt
position remains precarious.  At the end of 1987, the total external debt
outstanding and disbursed (DOD) was approximately US$20.6 billion or 11% of
GDP, while debt service payments absorbed 31.6S of exports of goods and
services, inclutiing workers remittances (Table 2). Before debt rescheduling,
the debt-service ratio was 60.8%, of which 20.9% of exports accounted for
interest payments alone. In the absence of additional debt relief or any
other form of refinancing, the debt-service ratio would average an estimated
47.3S a year during 1988-1990, equivalent to annual debt service payments of
US$3.8 billion.
Table 2: EXTERNAL DEBT KEY INDICATORS
160t    1981    1982    1C63    194    19o5    194          1967
.........................................................................................................
Totol It.nmIt DO  (billIon) 1/      9689.1  10.4  12410.0  139.4  139.0  16696.1  188.6  203.
of tiich: PiAlic Odt            6739.1  9615.4  11119.0  12567.4  12707.3  1432.1  1746.6  19466.6
Privte Led"  (iltion)         3649.   3694.3  4w23.6  36.   38)6.6  4059.1  48)0.1  4904.4
Offietat ewns (bilion)        43.4  M591.1  69A.4    63.0   O6.  1131n.0  1204.4  1452.2
" IXt GofP                          59.92   74.31   06.32  118.6S  127.02  134.7S   12212  115.02
Debt tevIce  efore Oft (Iitten) 21  1314.7  1423   1S14.2  2063.8  19.3  2361.6  36.   3550.?
As I of iSO's  net workee rn        30.1$   34.52   39.42    2.6    S0.6    56.72   7R.7X   60.81
det Service After OC (bmillion) 2V    314.7  143.3  1S14.2  1321.3   653.3  1224.6  1669.4  1166.?
A6s X of SINs lnet wrkes r_         30.12   34.52   39.42   33.71   21.72   29.42   3.43i  31.62
tnt Pewce Sefore St (llitten) 21  68.9   706.6   666.5   7755    79.3   774.1  1063.2  1220.5
S X Of GUP                           3.63    4.62    4.S2    5.68       6.71    652    7.21    7.32
A S d ofU Mel workers ro            14.9S   17.121  17.32   19.62   20.32    18.62   21.1X   20.92
Int Pwmft Aftor 0t (btlelo) 21   64.9   706.6   6.50    627.5   606.3   576.1   851.2   839.5
eof cw                              3.62    4.2    4.5        4.71    5.12    4.92    5.1S    5.02
t 2X f We    inet Wkes ro           14.92   17.11  1V.32   16.02    15.51   13.62   16.91    14.41
Sacst INIIF. INf  aff etimot
1V  Inctufts NUL  Sahrt-tenu Debt.
21  Incltui  ILt Debt except military debt.
19B0    1981    196      1910    1984    1985    1966    197T
AMtt ReshWeded                      a        0       0      742    1134    1135    1769    1704
hAMti.tlO                          0        0       0      594      945     937    1557    1323
Intet0                                      0       0      148      189     198      212      381
1!  During the period 1983-87, Bank lending played a major role in torocco's
adjustment efforts, accounting for about one-fourth of net external
financial flows (including int-irest reechedulings).



- 22 -
75.     With the steady improvement in the external current account balance
achieved since 1983, Morocco transferred about 3% of its GDP abroad on a net
basis in 1986-87. Net transfers from Morocco are projected to reach between
42 and 5% in 1988-89. Notwithstanding these substantial capital outflows and
the underlying repercussions for growth prospects, Morocco still requires
significant amounts of financing to meet its debt service obligations and to
ensure an adequate expansion of public investment in key economic and social
sectorsL.  Gross capital requirements in 1989-95 would average about
US$3 billion per year. More than one-third of this could be covered by
rescheduling, although potential amounts forthcoming from conventional
rescheduling do not offer Morocco the relief it needs from its heavy debt
burden-it would merely postpone the problem. The rest could be obtained
through fresh borrowing, preferably at softer terms, or through exceptional
financing in the form of grants. Assuming the necessary financing does not
materialize from these sources, Morocco could explore other means, including
debt conversion schemes, exit bonds, or exchange offers, as have been
undertaken by other heavily-indebted countries such as Mexico, Chile, and the
Philippines.
76.      Debt Mana8ement System. The debt-servicing problems that continue to
loom ahead despite multi-year reschedulings underscore the urgent need for the
adoption of a solid debt mAnagement system. The most urgent aspect of debt
management consists of an effective system of approving, registering, and
monitoring all external borrowing. This would require institutional
arrangements covering: (i) the legal modalities for authorizing and
regulating new borrowings; and (ii) the organization of the flow of
information on the contracting and disbursement of loans, and on payments of
principal and interest. These structural changes are required before any type
of data computerization is implemented.
77.      Recognizing the need to improve the management of its external
indebtedness, the Government of Morocco has committed itself in the context of
the SAL to the establishment of a debt management system which would allow for
a more rigorous and reliable analysis of the country's debt profile. Under a
plan of action formulated with Bank support, the Government, through the
Department of the Treasury, would establish a system of data collection,
compilation, and recording of all foreign debt1'.  This would serve as the
basis for the Debt Data Computerization Project, which is being undertaken
over an 18-month period that began in September 1988 with the support of the
PAL.
78.      The Department of the Treasury has been effective in monitoring
direct government debt. For public enterprise and publicly-guaranteed debt,
however, gaps still exist due to weak control procedures. Private
nonguaranteed debt, though negligible, needs to be added to the system while
it is still within manageable proportions. Most of the necessary information
exists in the Exchange Bureau, but there is no mechanism in place to keep
track of the evolution and status of private nonguaranteed borrowing.
1/ Detailed projections of external capital requirements in the context of
the medium-term adjustment program are presented along with a feasible
financing plan in paras. 92-93.
2/  Includes public and publicly-guaranteed MLT debt, private nonguaranteed
MLT debt, and public short-term debt.



- 23 -
Short-term debt is also a source of concern since the Government has no data
on the actual level of total short-term borrowing. Bank estimates show about
US$2.2 billion at the end of 1986, which appears overstated from the Moroccan
perspective.
79.      Clearly, an essential ingredient for an effective debt management
system is a stroP3 statistical base. In order to achieve this, the
responsibility for monitoring and regulating foreign debt must be centralized,
and the procedure for carrying this out strengthened. The Department of the
Treasury is the logical choice as the central monitoring unit. Nevertheless,
it would be critical to have an established system of coordination among all
agencies involved ii the borrowing process to facilitate reconciliation and
sharing of relevant data.
80.      As part of the SAL, the Government would:  (i) publish a circular
instituting the obligation to register all public and publicly-guaranteed debt
contracts with the Department of the Treasury, as well as communicate all
pertinent data (commitments, disbursements, cancellations, amortization, and
interest payments); (ii) establish a formal coordination committee among all
agencies involved in the foreign borrowing process, i.e. Department of the
Treasury, Central Bank, Exchange Bureau, and relevant ministries; and
(iii) submit annual tables indicating the status of both private nonguaranteed
and short-term debt.
81.      The success of these endeavors would greatly assist Morocco in the
implementation of debt policy, especially by providing the means to analyze
the impact of various financing alternatives and different debt restructuring
options. In order to improve the structure of external debt, the Government
intends to limit nonconcessional public and publicly-guaranteed borrowings to
under US$500 million on maturities of 12 years or less, and to US$70 million
on maturities between one and three years. Short-term borrowing (i.e.
maturities of less than one year) by the Treasury and public enterprises
will be limited to US$300 million. Improvements in the debt profile and
creditworthiness are essential requirements if Morocco is to be in a position
to secure sufficient external financing at the most advantageous terms
possible.
Proeam Benefits. Externl Financint R*uuirements, and Soca Impaet
Macroeconomic Outcome of the SAL
82.      The medium-term macroeconomic scenario underlying the structural
adjustment program identifies a set of economic policies which results in:
(i) an increase in the rate of GDP growth induced by a rise in the level of
productive investment; and (ii) an improvement in external creditworthiaess.
The impact of the structural reforms (paras. 83-84) on macroeconomic aggregates
such as the government budget, current account, and, by extension, the stock
of external debt was assessed in comparison to a scenario where no policy
reforms are present. A set of complementary macropolicies was then identified
to preserve budgetary and balance-of-payments stability, thereby ensuring the
sustainability of the structural reforms over the medium term. To this
effect, the macroeconomic framework to be supported under the 1988-92
structual adjustment program (paras. 86-88) is based on the implementation of
a series of structural and accompanying macro measures which coalesce into a
comprehensive and consistent policy package.



- 24 -
83.      Trade liberalization measures, represented by the repeal of most
remaining quantitative restrictions, will affect the current account through
an increase in import demand. Specifically, imports of consumption and
investment goods (e.g. categories affected by the removal of nontariff
barriers) should increase by 8.42 with respect to the base case by 1990, and
by 15.6S by 1992. Higher trade tax revenues, corresponding to 0.2 percentage
point of GDP in 1990 (and rising, thereafter, to 0.4 in 1992) will serve to
improve the fiscal balance. The rise in customs receipts derives from the
liberalization-induced widening of the overall tax base in keeping with the
general orientation of the fiscal reform. The increase in foreign and public
savings leads to lower interest rates and/or less constrained credit policy
with a positive impact on investment. A priori, the effect on consumption is
ambiguous. Higher customs duty collections (not rebated to the private
sector) will reduce disposable income and hence consumption, whereas the fall
in interest rates will positively affect the propensity to consume.
Empirically, the income effect was found to prevail with the result that
private consumption declines. The change in the composition of expenditures,
with investment increasing its share, would lead to a weakening of the current
account on the order of 0.8% and 1.6S of GDP in 1990 and 1992 respectively,
compared to the scenario without policy reform, thereby warranting
complementary macropolicy action (para. 85).
84.      The effects of increased public investment are as follows.
Investment of the consolidated government sector (i.e. central government,
municipalities, social security) is targeted to increase its share in GDP from
3.52 in 1988 to 4.0% in 1989, rising to 4.2S by 1991-92. In order to
fcrestall the upward pressure on interest rates and the potential crowding-out
of private investment that would ensue from the increased demand on existing
resources, the budget deficit is targeted to fall to about 3.5% of GDP
(paras. 86-87). In fact, the crowding-out effect on private capital
accumulation is more than compensated in the medium term by the complementarity
effect which relates private and public investment. As a result, total
investment will increase by I percentage point of GDP in 1991-92. Higher
investment will lead to higher import demand for capital goods with an
associated impact on the current account, corresponding to 0.1 and
0.5 percentage point of GDP in 1990 and 1992 respectively. Fueled by higher
investment spending, Treasury borrowing requirements would increase by
0.6 percentage point with respect to GDP over the period of the program in the
absence of compensatory macropolicy action. Higher tax revenues from
investment imports, however, will slightly mitigate the impact of the rise in
capital expenditures.
85.      Action on key macropolicy instruments has been envisaged to take into
account the overall effects of supply-oriented structural measures on the
balance of payments and government budget. The medium-term macroeconomic
outcome is thus based on the use of a flexible exchange rate policy to improve
the current account balance and to strengthen external creditworthiness,
whereas tax policy is geared to rationalizing investment incentives and
narrowing the budget deficit. The projected rise in the average effective
rate of tax collection reflects improvements in the area of tax administration
and structural measures to increase the buoyancy of the fiscal system.
Increases in national savings are required to allow the desired increases in
investment, reserve accumulation, and growth; moreover, they reflect
behavioral responses to fiscal, interest rate, and exchange rate policies, as



- 25 -
well as to the liberalization of the financial sector which is presently under
study and could be supported by a future Bank-financed operation. Other
combinations of policy instruments (i.e. import tariffs/export subsidies,
public expenditures) can be envisaged; however, they are not likely to change
significantly the path of the required adjustment.
86.      The macroeconomic scenario on which the SAL is based (Table 3)
integrates both the aforementioned structural policies, as well as the
objectives of further reducing the budget deficit and achieving virtual
current account equilibrium. The borrowing requirements of the Treasury are
assumed to fall to 3.5% of GDP by 1989. The current account should continue
to register at most a slight deficit over the period, whereas the non-interest
current account would exhibit significant surpluses, on the order of 5-6% with
respect to GDP. The evolution of the current account is predicated on the
active management of the exchange rate needed to contain import demand and
sustain the strong export growth of finished manufactures, projected to
average approximately 122 on an annual basis.
Table 3: MEDIUM-TERM MACROECONOMIC SCENARIO
1987-88      1989-90      1991-92
GDP Growth Rate                             3.0          4.6           4.8
Total Consumption/GDP                      83.9         81.7          81.2
Total Investment/GDP /a                    19.5         20.6          21.7
- Private GFCF/GDP                    16.1         15.9          16.7
- Public GFCF/GDP /b                   3.5          4.1           4.2
Gross National Savings/GDP                 18.7         20.1          20.7
- Private Savings/GDP                 20.4         19.5          20.0
- Public Savings/GDP /b               -1.7          0.6           0.7
Fiscal Revenues/GDP                      22.2         23.4          23.6
- Trade Taxes/GDP                      3.6          4.3           4.5
- Other Revenues/GDP                  18.6         19.1          19.1
Public Expenditures/GDP                  27.5         26.9          27.1
- Interest Payments/GDP                6.7          6.5           6.1
- Transfers/GDP                        7.1          6.9           6.9
- Other Current Expenses/GDP          10.2          9.4           9.9
Budget Surplus/GDP                         -5.3         -3.5          -3.5
Exports of GNFS/GDP                        26.7         31.1          32.0
Exports of Manufactures/GDP               8.4         10.8          11.7
Imports of GNFS/GDP                        30.1         33.6          35.1
Imports of Capital Goods/GDP              5.6          7.1           7.9
Imports of Consumption Goods/GDP          3.1          3.5           3.6
Index of Competitiveness                    1.00         1.07          1.07
Non-interest Current Account
Surplus/GDP                               6.4          6.2           5.0
Current Account Surplus/GDP                -0.8         -0.6          -1.0
/a  Including variations in stocks.
lb Consolidated government sector, including central government,
municipalities, and social security.



- 26 -
87.      The sedulous implementation of fiscal reforms is expected to lead to
an improvement in the efficiency of tax administration and an abatement in the
distortionary and revenue-reducing effects of various fiscal exemptions. The
resultant increase in government savings will ensure that the posited rise in
public investment is not incompatible with the objective of providing private
firms with the necessary incentives to invest. Indeed, the real interest rate
is projected to decline from its 1987 level, enabling the share of private
investment in GDP to reach 16.71 by 1991. Total investment would therefore
increase its share in GDP and reach 20.62 in 1989-90 and 21.71 in 1991-92.
88.      Finally, the impact of declining current account deficits on the one
hand, and the dynamic growth of export proceeds on the other, should have a
beneficial effect on external perceptions of creditworthiness. The impact of
real exchange rate movements on foreign exchange earnings and GDP growth will
more than compensate the ensuing capital losses on the valuation of the stock
of outstanding external debt. As a result, debt indicators will improve with
the ratios of net debt to GDP and to exports of goods and services (including
worker remittances) decreasing respectively, from 1.13 and 3.48 in 1987 to
0.81 and 1.95 in 1992.
Assessment of Macroeconomic Performance
89.      The intended economic outcome of the policy reforms comprising the
SAL can be summarized as: (i) an increase in growth fueled by higher levels
of efficient investment; and (ii) a strengthening of Morocco's creditworthiness
with a view to restoring voluntary access to international capital markets.
To this end, the overall evolution of the economy will be monitored to ensure
that the structural reforms introduced in the context of the SAL are having
their intended effect, as reflected in the adjustment path set out in the
medium-term macroeconomic framework (paras. 86-88). Monitcring arrangements
will be conducted in close cooperation and consultation witi the IMF.
90.      From the vast array of suitable aggregates, a set of four indicators
has been identified in consultation with the Bank as the basis for
macroeconomic monitoring under the SAL program. Reflecting the supply
response emphasis of the SAL on outward-oriented growth and improved
creditworthiness, these indicators will be at the center of the macroeconomic
discussions with the Government (para. 91) and will allow for a quantitative
evaluation of the progress made in achieving program objectives. The four
indicators, whose targeted evolution is portrayed in Table 4, are as follows:
(a) the ratio of total gross fixed capital formation to GDP;
(b) the ratio of gross public and publicly-guaranteed debt outstanding to
total foreign exchange earnings;
(c) the rate of real growth of manufactured exports;
(d) the level of net foreign assets of the Central Bank.
91.      Macroeconomic progress will be reviewed semiannually.  The effects of
the policy reforms being introduced in the context of the SAL will be assessed
principally through reliance on the evolution of these indicators. Although



- 27 -
related to the macroeconomic outcome adduced in the medium-term framework
(paras. 86-88), the actual figures presented in Table 4 are intended to
represent minimum levels of performance. Should there be any significant
divergence from the targets, explanatory factors would be identified and
remedial policy action taken. In the event that actual performance exceeds
the targeted outcome, a strengthening of objectives would be considered. The
evolution of the indicators for 1988 would be reviewed prior to second tranche
release, and those for 1989 before Board presentation of a second SAL or any
future policy-based operation. Were the Moroccan economy to achieve the
targeted levels of performance through 1992, it would essentially have
established a secure basis for self-sustaining growth, which would permit
access to voluntary financing from international capital markets.
Table 4: MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS TO BE MONITORED UNDER THE SAL
1988     1989     1990     1991      1992
Total Gross Fixed
Capital Formation/GDP                19.01    19.52    20.0%    20.5%    21.0%
Gross Public & Publiely-
Guaranteed External Debt/
Total Foreign Exchange
Earnings                              2.8      2.6      2.4       2.2      2.1
Real Growth Rate of
Manufactured Exports                  122      10%       10      102      102
Net Foreign Assets of
the Bank al-Maghrib
(US$ million)                         450      850    1,050    1,200    1,400
Medium-Term External Financing Requirements
92.      Sustained equilibrium on the current account implied by the
medium-term macroeconomic framework would limit net external capital flows to
a minimum. This policy stance is conditioned by creditworthiness
considerations in terms of the need to keep the evolution of the external debt
stock in check and thereby contain future debt service payments. In the early
years, net inflows from abroad would go towards reconstituting international
reserves, and would therefore not lead to any significant increase in net debt
outstanding. At present, reserves are at an unacceptably low level for an
economy in which external trade flows play such a critical role. Their
buildup is important to sustain further trade liberalization, to protect the
hitherto vulnerable public investment program, and to cushion the economy
against the vicissitudes of the external environment.



- 28 -
93.        The strong current balance notwithstanding, structural weaknesses on
the capital account, manifest in the limited levels of autonomous lending,
will mst likely require continued reliance on exceptional financing through
the early 1990.. Given the current account projections of the medium-term
macroeconomic scenario and in the absence of debt rescheduling, Morocco's
gros capital requirements will average approximately US$3 billion per year
over the period 1989-95. An analysis of the sources and uses of foreign
funding, based on a number of reasonable assumptions, has given rise to a
feasible external financing plan which is consistent with the macroeconomic
framework (Table 5). During the period 1989-91, continued rescheduling of
debt service payments to the Paris and London Clubs, on terms at least as
favorable as those obtained in the past, would be required. As the full
impact of the SAL program begins to materialize in the early 1990s, the
improvement of the debt indicators would permit a relative shift in financing
from rescheduling to increased access to international capital markets on a
voluntary basis. A more equitable distribution of Morocco's capital
requirements vis-&-vis external creditors is one objective of the financing
plan. As a result of the targeted buildup of reserves (para. 92) and the
increase in public investment (para. 52), debt outstanding of all creditors
other than the Bank and Fund should increase by about US$150 million in 1989.
Table 5: MEDIUM-TERM EXTERNAL CAPITAL FLOWS
(Millions of US Dollars)
1985   196*   196?   1965   1989   1990   199    1992   1993   19
*  * .....     .*v.+............. v**v. .........  * .....  . . ... h.*.**................   ......*    ............................
Gross oilbW*sita                  1314.5  1W.9  1434.9  148.2  1695.2  1563.8  1578.3  1647.6  1661.9  20.2
Ofticlot =swe                    059.9  10t.9  11.8  153.6I   t1.3  IM&2  18.2  131.6  124A.  1517.2
of thigh  1330               307.0  362.6  40.5  470.0  586.9  530.6  530.5  489.9  4n2   5s52.
Privae sttm                     154A   317.1  331.6  250.6  313.6  315.5  315.1  416.0  43.1  515.0
Si ct invsat                      20.2   11.6   56.7   62.4  64.6   75.5   83.0   91.3  100.4  149.6
Int1et losbeholwti                 196    212    361   1r    138    19*    14          78     59    14
Total; rtlatlen 1/               "60.5  108.3  996.2  1087.5  1518.3  1401.7  1302.8  1402.5  1497.9  1967.6
Totat Ibt capital otes            692.3  583.3  876.4  630.2  363.5  448.5  49.   414.4  343.5  336.2
Officift  t6 72.7  515.?  614.5  543.2  331.2  469.2  369.0  273.5   28.5   59.S
of hi  116                   220.2  254.3  241.0  260.0  3Q2.5  305.3  292.2  165.4  86.1  115.4
Privat tIwcm                     129.6   67.6   61.9   87.0   52.4  -40.?  105.4  140.9  315.0  278.6
36 not flow/Total met Capitad Ftows    24.71  43.6X  27.51  41.31  94.51  68.1X  59.1   39.91  2S.6   34.12
Touta Clm/U  2/                   134.71  122.1t  115.01  117.3X  109.01  101.9X  95.31  88.7X  82.21  70.21
Toeta tCSfmsr eof 4  2/ 3/        400.71  374.5  35.51  307.3X  266.3  246.21  229.7X  21t.61  196.91  171.42
Debt Svc   eprts ofG   3/ 4/       29.41  37.6X   31.6X  33.1X   34.6   30.S  27.31  26.2X  24.61  24.41
1/ Represnt.  rtlaatian an NLT ptAic debt inctuding the INF.
2/ 00 Ifclues NLT (pitic ad private) ard S Oebt.
3/ Expr et of a  inctue wrkas iittwnee.
4 After debt reltio; Ilatude tLT pubtic debt onty.



- 29 -
Moreover, concerted efforts have been made in the context of the SAL to
attract additional sources of financing at highly favorable terms
(par"s. 101-102) in the interest of burden sharing and portfolio
diversification. The medium-term financing plan has Bank exposure rising from
13.8f in 1988 to 17.7S in 1995, in keeping with the limits of prudent
financial management.
Social Impact of Adjustment
94.      The social impact of the SAL program is expected to be positive.
After five years of sustained stabilization, the acceleration of economic
growth will improve prospects for national income and employment over the
medium term. Fiscal policy reforms will raise public savings, enabling vital
increases in public investment to take place. The share of social expenditures
in overall public investment will rise with a view to improving human capital
and relieving the plight of the poor. Measures to increase the progressivity
of the tax structure will engender a more equitable distribution of income.
Judicious financing of the budget will ensure adequate access of the private
sector to domestic credit, while averting an erosion of purchasing power in
the rural and socially disadvantaged sectors through excessive reliance on
inflation tax revenues. Continued trade liberalization should lead to the
expansion of private investment in labor-intensive, export-oriented activities.
Average growth in indastrial employment is expected to register at least 5S
per annum in keeping with past trends. Although real wages are likely to
remain stable in the short term, returns to labor are expected to increase in
the medium term as a result of the continued gains in worker productivity and
the relative expansion of labor-intensive sectors. Consumer welfare will
benefit from the effect of trade liberalization on both import prices and
domestic prices linked to gains in factor productivity. Diversification of
the production base and the increased openness of the economy should put the
country in a better position to withstand external shccks.
95.      In addition to the measures proposed under the SAL, the Bank is
attempting, through other operations in the lending program, to protect the
poorcr segments of Moroccan society from any adverse effects induced by the
compression of government spending. The Agriculture Sector Loans have been
designed to stimulate agricultural growth in general, with investment policy
focusing on capital formation and structural reforms being extended to the
area of rainfed agriculture. Income distribution patterns in the agricultural
sector will thus be improved. At the same time, protection will be afforded
to low-income urban and rural landless groups through a targeted program of
consumer subsidies. Bank-supported investments in the agricultural sector
have focused to date on area development, small and medium irrigation systems,
and agricultural credit. In the future, emphasis will also be placed on
natural resource management and the development of research and extension
packages, which would benefit smaller farmers in both rainfed and irrigated
perimeters. The Education Sector Loan will ensure greater equity of access to
educational services by focusing on basic education, particularly in rural
areas, where measures to increase female participation rates have received
special emphasis, and on lower secondary levels relative to higher strata
within the sector. Within the Public Health sector, expenditure patterns are
being restructured away from the traditional urban-based, curative health care
system to emphasize preventive health care, particularly in rural areas.



- 30 -
PART m - LOAN ADMINISTRATION
Proia-ement and Disbursement
96.      Import eligibility criteria would be similar to those applied to
other recent policy-based operations, which have proved to be both efficient
and satisfactory. The Ministry of Finance and the Bank al-Maghrib (the
Central Bank) will be responsible for loan administration. Proceeds of the
loan would be used to finance the full foreign exchange costs (c.i.f) of
eligible imports, procured after ICB. Ineligible items would be those
financed from other sources, goods intended for military or paramilitary use,
and luxury items. Both private and public sector imports would be eligible
for financing. Private sector contracts under US$5 million each, includin¶
petroleum products, would be awarded on the basis of the normal purchasing
procedures of the buyer, which are based on price quotations in international
markets. Procurement of petroleum products and foodstuffs would be limited to
an aggregate of US$50 million. Public sector imports under contracts below
US$5 million up to an aggregate of US$20 million will be awarded in accordance
with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts
for all other goods, public and private, will be procured through
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
97.      The Central Bank will be responsible for the maintenance of the loan
accounts, and for the preparation and submission of withdrawal requests.
Disbursements would be in two tranches of US$100 million each, one upon loan
effectiveness scheduled for December 1988, the other upon fulfillment of
conditions precedent to release of the second tranche (conditions of first and
second tranche release are presented in Annex III), estimated to be
accomplished by mid-1989. The Closing Date of the proposed loan would be
December 1989.
98.      Disbursements for contracts procured after ICB would be made against
fully documented withdrawal applications, following standard procedures
employed in adjustment lending. Disbursement against other items would be
made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) from the Central Bank
detailing individual transactions in a given period, together with a
certification of payment of the amounts involved and of their eligibility
under the proposed loan. Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained
by the Central Bank and withdrawal applications would be consolidated and
submitted in amounts of not less than US$1 million. In light of the fact that
the Government has taken upfront action on many elements of the adjustment
program, including fiscal and budgetary reforms1', it is recommended that
the Bank retroactively fi,.&ace eligible items procured within four months
prior to expected loan signing, up to a maximum of US$40 million. Under the
financing plan for the overall adjustment program on which the SAL has been
based, no other financing is available in 1988 for the needed imports.
Contracts costing less than US$25,000 would not be eligible for financing.
1/ The extensive advanced actions undertaken by the Government are enumerated
in Attachment I of Annex II to this report.



- 31 -
Acunoots and Audits
99.     The Central Bank would maintain records of all transactions under the
loan in accordance with sound accounting practices. All accounts would be
audited within nine months of the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audit reports would contain
explicit certification that claims submitted under SOEs were made in
accordance with the Loan Agreement.
Coodination with OtherlA2encies
100.    Morocco successfully concluded its fourth Standby Arrangement with
the IMF on August 30, 1988, authorizing purchases of SDR 210 million. The
program covers the period September 1, 1988, to December 31, 1989. The
formulation of the SAL has been evolved in close collaboration with the IMF.
The reform of investment budgetary procedures and fiscal policy derived from
the work of joint missions with the IMF which visited Morocco in September
1986 and December 1986 respectively. The SAL appraisal mission benefited from
the participation of an IMF staff member, and continuous consultations with
the DMF have been conducted on all aspects of Morocco's adjustment program.
The OECF
101.     The Overseas Co-operation Fund (OECF) of the Government of Japan has
expressed its intention to cofinance the proposed SAL. A representative of
the OECF participated in the SAL appraisal and negotiations and will recommend
that the OECF support the same policies as those contained in the program
described in this document, in an amount equivalent to US$100 million.
Commitment authority is expected to be available to the Government by December
1, 1988.
The AfDB
102.    Lending to Morocco by the African Development Bank (AfDB) is
increasing, although it has chiefly financed investment overations. However,
close collaboration was maintained between the SAL appraisal mission and staff
of the AfDB, with the latter participating in key mission meetings with the
Government and in negotiations in Washington. The AfDB expects to decide
later in 1988 as to whether they will cofinance the SAL.
ImDlementation Risks and Justifcation
103.     Program risks are essentially economic and institutional in nature.
Failure to persevere on the path of structural adjustment is likely to lead to
a distorted pattern of growth with severe repercussions on the overall
performance of the economy. Moreover, the lack of a firm commitment to
structural reforms may undermine the confidence of foreign investors and
abruptly force the Moroccan economy onto a path of economic contraction,
necessitating an immediate and significant transfer of resources abroad. The
inability to renew rescheduling agreements, implied by such a scenario, would
require a surplus of US$442 million and US$974 million in 1989 and 1990
respectively, to avoid defaulting on contractual obligations via-a-vis foreign



- 32 -
creditors. This pattern stands in sharp contrast to the gradual adjustment of
the current account envisaged under the SAL, and would necessarily lead to a
curtailment of growth objectives. The macroeconomic consistency analysis
(paras. 29-31) suggests that to achieve this highly ambitious external
payments objective, output would register a once-and-for-all loss of nearly 9%
over the 1989-90 period with respect to the levels achieved under the SAL
scenario, despite a relatively more expansionary fiscal stance.
104.     Although a reform program of the kind being proposed may present a
political challenge to the Government, none of the specific measures to be
supported by the SAL is deemed to be excessively difficult to introduce. The
fiscal reforms were begun in 1986, and many of the measures described in this
document have already been initiated. Trade reforms of the kind being
introduced are always potentially contentious. However, they are essentially
the continuation of a program previously supported by the Bank under the ITPA
operations, and are thus expected to encounter few difficulties that have not
already been experienced and resolved under the ITPAs. The ability of the
Government to implement an enhanced public investment program will essentially
depend on the availability of additional revenues, for which prospects are
reasonable (para. 42).
105.     The capacity of existing governmental institutions to coordinate and
implement a broad-ranging and complex set of reforms will be considerably
tested, In order to ensure appropriate interdepartmental coordination of the
SAL program, the Government has established a high-level committee which has
served as a counterpart to Bank teams throughout the appraisal process. The
implementation risk was addressed from the outset by the formulation of
comprehensive technical assistance and training programs for all departments
of the Government which will be charged with the implementation of the program.
As previously mentioned (para. 43), these programs are proposed to be financed
by the Bank under a Public Administration Loan which was appraised in parallel
with the proposed SAL, and which is expected to be presented to the Executive
Directors in January 1989. A brief description of these programs is attr.ched
as Annex V.
106.     In sum, three factors serve to limit implementation risks.  First,
the SAL program has been cast in a medium-term macroeconomic framework whose
underlying analysis explicitly ensures internal consistency among fiscal,
external, and monetary accounts over the period 1988-92. Second, Government
"ownership" of the program is evident in the many upfront actions taken thus
far. Moreover, the macro framework has been developed jointly both at the
policy and technical levels, with Government counterparts using the model that
underpins the analysis. It is also noteworthly that the program, as reflected
in the Letter of Development Policy, has been presented to the Council of
Government and endorsed by the King in its overall thrust. While certain
aspects of the implementation phase may indeed test the limits of
institutional coordination, the myriad interministerial counterpart groups
established in the context of the SAL, together with the broad political
backing of the program within the country, will serve to overcome potential
obstacles. Third, the program is both realistic and feasible, particularly,
in view of its strong social bent which seeks to restore an adequate level of
development expenditures in social sectors having succumbed to the exigencies
of past stabilization efforts.



- 33 -
PART lt - OTHER BANK OPERAIIONS
107.     As of September 30, 1988, cumulative commitments to Morocco (less
cancellations) amounted to US$3,821.8 million, of 4.ich US$804.9 million have
been repaid, US$2,722.8 million have been disbursed, and US$1,099.0 million
are undisbursed. During FY87, gross disbursements were US$390.6 million,
while repayments totaled US$134.1 million. Total IFC investments as of
August 31, 1988, amounted to US$157.1 million, comprising 12 operations
(equivalent to US$110.4 million after cancellations, terminations, repayments,
and sal,ta).
108.     Over the past several years, resource constraints on government
spending limited public investment essentially to the completion of ongoing
projects. This led to the postponement of the new Orientation Plan and an
increased focus on policy reforms that would profoundly change the nature and
extent of government intervention in the economy. Against the background of a
series of IMF-sponsored stabilization programs, the cycle of reforms was
conceived so as to maximize supply responses in key sectors of the economy.
The reforms have aimed to spur productive efficiency, inter alia, through
greater reliance on the private sector, and to enhance participation by
Morocco in international trade.
Exueoenee with Pat Adustment 
109.     As previously mentioned (para. 13), the Bank has actively supported
Morocco's adjustment program through a series of policy-based lending
operations. Two Industrial and Trade Policy Loans (ITPAs I & II - Ln. 2377,
dated March 19, 1984, and Ln. 2604, dated July 29, 1985) reduced protection in
a wide range of industrial subsectors and reoriented incentives away from
domestic markets. The second of these loans also contained reforms of the
financial system aimed at mobilizing domestic savings and increasing the
efficiency of financial intermediation. Action programs under each loan were
successfully implemented, although a delay of about nine months was
experienced under che second ITPA on a measure which would have lowered the
incidence of trade taxation. Two Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loans (Ln.
2590, dated July 29, 1985, and Ln. 2885, dated December 4, 1987) rationalized
public investment programs within the sector and fostered efficient growth
through the liberalization of pricing and marketing. Adverse social
consequences attendant on the reduction of consumption subsidies were
minimized through the implementation of a detailed targeted program of food
subsidies. The first loan was executed with only minimal delays. Delays of
about eight months have been experienced in meeting those conditions of
effectiveness of the second loan related to the implementation of the targeted
food subsidies program. Public finance shortfalls have hindered the execution
of the agreed minimum sectoral investment program, an issue to be addressed
under the SAL. An Education Sector Loan (Loan 2664, dated May 9, 1986)
restructured sector expenditures so as to reduce the budgetary burden of
education at all levels, while at the same time, rendering access to education
more equitable to all segments of society. Physical execution of the loan was
satisfactory, with completion scheduled for Dectmber 1988, about six months
behind the appraisal estimate. However, progress towards evolving a
satisfactory structure of sector expenditures, including their financing, is



-34 -
taking longer than originally anticipated in that additional sector analysis
and discussion are required. The Public Enterprise Rationalization Loan
(Lu. 2820, dated July 27, 1987) introduced measures to promote financial and
administrative autonomy of a lIrge number of enterprises through policy
reforms designed to change government-enterprise relationships, as well 8a
through enterprise restructuring. Initial execution proceeded essentially on
schedule.  However, subsequent, though hitherto moderate, delays have emerged,
principally on account of public finance difficulties, in settling the
pervasive government arrears to public enterprises and in executing some of
the sector surveys which are to lay the basis for further restructuring
efforts.
110.     On balance, experience with sectoral adjustment lending has been
positive. To the extent that delays have beset program execution, they have
often been the result of government revenue shortfalls, an issue being
addressed under the proposed SAL. A feature of the sectoral approach to
adjustment has been to enable the design and phasing of operations in a manner
that has geared relevant constituencies to the scope and pace of change, while
taking into account the absorptive capacity of individual client ministries.
They have also provided suitable fora for the conduct of the dialogue on
sector issues, leading to the establishment of viable policy frameworks for
project investments. Institutional autonomy promoted under the sector loans
is intended to enhance the efficiency of enterprises (particularly those
operating in the public sector) benefiting from Bank-financed project
assistance.
ill.     Building on the sectoral reforms achieved through past adjustment
lending, the proposed SAL program supports the transition from a period of
stabilization to the resumption of per capita income growth and productive
investment, while ensuring macroeconomic balance. To this end, the SAL
spi-ifically provides for overall macroezonomic wonsistency, particularly
among fiscal, monetary, and external accounts, as well as a minimum level of
developmental expenditures necessary to achieve economic and social objectives.
One important consequence of the program would be a shift in Bank assistance
toward a relatively higher proportion of investment lending.
Pro Le
112.     Agriculture represents the largest sector receiving Bank support.
Past lending has been ta rural development or irrigation projects focused on
geographical regions, as well as a highly successful credit program. In the
future, increasing attention will be accorded to agricultural support services
at the national level, as essential backstopping of the regional development
effort. Projects are under preparation in research and extension, water
management, and forestry.
113.     The development of domestic energy supplies will be essential if the
oil import bill is to be reduced. The Bank is supporting this effort through
investments in power generation and distribution, in the development of
domestic coal resources, and the appraisal and development of petroleum
(principally gas) and oil shale resources. A pilot, small sce'e mining
venture for export is also under execution.



- 35 -
114.     Bank lending for infrastructure and utilities has helped to build a
number of technically proficient agencies in the fields of road transportation,
water supply, housing finance, and municipal infrastructure finance, as well
as to expand the provision of essential services. Future emphasis will be on
enhancing the efficiency of existing infrastructure through improved financial
and managerial performance.   Mobilization of private and non-budgetary
financing, as well as improved cost-recovery, will receive special emphasis.
115.     Industrial development in Morocco, taking advantage of changes in the
overall incentive framework introduced under the ITPAs, is being supported
through commercial and development bank intermediary lending to domestic
electrical and mechanical enterprises, as well as firms engaged in production
for export. Future lending will aim to improve the efficiency of bank
intermediation and help expand the availability of credit to small-scale and
export-oriented industries.
116.     Education, health, and-urban development projects are being designed
to lower unit costs in order to widen the access of low-income groups to these
services. Bank-financed operations are promoting a shift away from
capital-intensive investments benefiting a limited clientele towards the
development of more cost-effective delivery systems for basic services.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
117.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with -he Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
Barber Conable
President
Attachments
November 8, 1988
Washington, D.C.



- 36 -
1987 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
imacco
Reference Groups (MRE)
Most
Recent     Lower mid      Upper mid
1965       1973    Estimate      incomo         InCome
AREA
Total lend area (thou sq km)    446.6        446.6      446.6
Agricultural (% of total)         54.7        59.2       65.5
GNP PER CAPITA (current USS)         220         340        580         820      1,830
POPULATION aID VITAL STATISTICS
Total population (thou)         13,323      16,478     22.474
Urban pop. l of total)              32          36         44          36         65
Population growth rate(%):
Total                                        2.7        2.4         2.5        2.1
Urban                                        4.4        4.0         4.2        3.6
Life expect. at birth (yrs)         49          53         59          58         66
Population projections:
Pop. in 2000 (thou)                                  31,267
Stationary pop. (thou)                               65,846
Population density per eq km
of agricultural land                68          82         73         284        238
-Pop. age structure ():
0-14 yrs                          46          48         45          39         36
15-64 yres                        0          48          52         55          59
65 and above                       3           4          3           6          5
Crude birth rate (per thou)         49          44         36          36         28
Crude death rate (per thou)         la          15         II          1i          8
Total fertility rate               7.1         6.7        4.9         3.6        3.7
Infant mort. rate (per thou)       145         120         90          82         52
Child death rate (per thou)         32          26         10          II          4
Family planning:
Acceptors annual (thou)            6          37
Users (% of married women)                     5         27
FOOD, HEALTH AND NTRITION
Index of food production per
capita (1979-81 a 100)                         t13        105         108        106
Per capita supply of:
Calories (per day)             2,162      2.548       2,729       2.514      2.987
Proteins (grams per day)          58         67          73          56         75
Pop. per physician (thou)                     13.1       17.2         6.9        2.4
Pop. per nurse (thou)              4.                     0.9         1.4        0.7
Pop. per hospital bed (thou)                  0.7         0.8         0.8        0.4
Access to saft water
(% of population):  Total                    tof5        57
Urban                   100        100
Rural         . 
Population Growth            Infant Mortality        Primary School Enrollment
4.Z
3 -                     ISO.'                    I
ms,sooCeIns-$             Be     to                            510Ilo0b    650o
M Noltocco                                      9  zoocco
MRNmS Kr rour                                   *  QWWS°Q



- 37 -
1987 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
MOROCCO
Reference Groups (MRE)
most
Recent     Lower mid      Upper mid
196!       1973    Estimate      income         income
LABOR FORCE
Total Labor Force (thou)         3.694       4,413       6.906
Female (%)                         11         15          20         29          34
Agriculture (%)                   61          54          46         55          29
Industry (%)                       1S         10          25          16         31
Participation rate (%)
Total                             28          27          30         35          38
Male                              49          45          49         49          50
Fiemale                            6           9          12         20          26
Age dependency ratio                1.0        1.1         0.9        0.8         0.7
HOUSING
Average size of household:
Total                                          6
Urban                                          5
Rural                                          6
Percentage of dwellings with
electricity:
Total
Urban                                         66
Rural
EDUCATION
Enrollment rates:
Primary: Total                    57          82          0o        103         1O5
Male                     70          78         97         110         108
Female                   35          48         62          97         101
Secondary: Total                  i1          16          31         40          63
Male                   16          21         37          48          64
F_male                  5          12         25          39         61
Pupil-Teacher ratio:
Primary                           39          36          36         32          28
Secondary                         26          21          21         20          19
Pupils reaching grade 6 (7) 21                                                     S5
tCOME .  CONStMWTION. AND POVERTY
Energy consumption per cap.
(kg of oil equivalent)              124        204         237        345       1.960
Percentage of private income
received by:
Highest 10% of households
Highest 20%                       436         49
Lowest 20%                         7 a         4
Lowest 40%                         18 a       12
Est. absolute poverty income
level (USS per capita):
Urban                                        157         389 b
Rural                                        101         238 b
Est. pop. below absolute
poverty income level (X)
Urban                             Si a        38          28 b
Rural                             49 a        48          45 b
Passenger cars/thou pop.           12.2       17.1                    4.0        50.4
Newspaper circulation
(per thousand population)          16.5       14.2        11.9       14.0       68.0
IECSE August 1987
Net aaae.. Netw mest ist eati_etf 4ffuehre a" oU w  ect   1as 6 salemm etbe.ws noted.
Gernp suag. ato gUltO wegted. Cbmte    ae adeses on data avatbult sd Is et Maem. Unlethe,dee noted
t8  sles to en ye b    I= and It_  1802 betwen 80   i  a_d ee  et eW elwoe betwee90 esd 188.
. 180. b. 17.



- 38 -
AMEX I
KEY ECONOMIC ICATORS



KEY NACOKDNIC INDICAT
*  Actual~..P.....el......Prj .iea
............................ .................................................................................................................................
--.......  - --  ---    t al         -- ...........    Prol . ........ ----.  P r o  i * e t I a n  8   ...........
1961    1982    1983    198       1965    1986    1967    1968    1989    1990    1991    1992    193           195S
..............................................................................................    ................................................................................................................................ ..............................
0P Growth Rate                   -1.3X     6.8X    2.38    2.1S    4.4%    SX         1.0     S..0     4.6 4X8    4.6            4.68%    4.91    5.0X
GD? Growth Rate                  -2.38    6.18    2.3X    2.08    4.6         T.4.     1.28    4.9S     4.4X     4.S    4.68    4.9S    4.§X      S.O
GDI/capita Growth Rate           -4.9S    3.X    -0.3X    -0.7X      24.      4.9X     1.38    2.4X     1.6.     2.08    2.4S    2.4X     2.58    2.4X
Constptioucapita Gromth Rate    -2.8       2.1X    -3.48    -0.68    0.4"     7.2n     1.3X    -1.78    0.3X     2.7X    1.08    2.18    1.9X      2.3X
Debt Service (USS  1/ 4/        1427.3  1S14.2  1321.6   653.3  1226.6  1869.4  1646.7  2306.8  2633.7  2M.3  273.4  2890.4  292.1  3S57.6
Debt Service/XCS t/ 4/           34.S    39.48   33.78   21.78   29.48   37.6    31.68   33.18   34.6    30.SX   27.38   26.28   24.48   24.4
Oebt Service/U0P 4/               9.4    10.1t    9.98    7.28    10.38    12.6X    11.0    12.18   13.S    12.08   10.68   10.4X    9.7X    9.S8
Gross Investmnt/GDP              22.4X   23.3S   20.9X    21.6X    22.9S   20.3S    19.18   19.9X   20.58   20.7X   21.4    21.78   22.0S    22.28 
Dometic Savings/GUP                7.48    6.4"    I1."    10.48   13.28    13.08   14.11   18.08   16.78   1T.68    16.S    18.78   16.7X    20.98
National Savings/P                 9.88    10.6X    13.28    11.68    14.08   1T.48    1T.6    19.58   20.68    19.58   20.38   21.08   21.48   21.78
Noaginat lational Sawings Nte   -S2.48   16.28   S8.98    -1.38   31.38   34.08   24.38   44.28   32.38    7.78   28.98   27.28   26.48    19.08
P,htic lewIetwmntGP 2/ 3/          7.98    10.S8    S.28    S.98    4.28    3.18    3.58    3.S8    4.08    4.18    4.28    4.28    4.3n            4.48
Pbtic Saing/P 3/                  -S.4"    1.S   -6.S    -S.SS   -5.78   -2.78   -2.68    -1.08    0.58    0.4           0.78    0.78     1.0      1.8
Private Investment/U0P 2/         14.18   12.9X   16.48   1S.4    17.48X    6.4    16.8   15.l1    15.68   1S.98    16.4    16.6    17.O8    17.1
Private Savings/P                 1S.41    9.18    19.78   17.38   19.n1   20.18   20.48   205    20.18    18.9   1t.4    20.38   20.48   20.58
Ratio of P/riv Inrvetment        S6.08   81.48   31.8    37.68    24.28    8.7    21.2X   22.38   25.8   2S.8X   25.38   2S.O    2S.38    2S.7
Goverumnt sevenues/P  3/         23.2    22.78   22.38   21.28   21.28   20.S    21.98   22.S    23.41   23.511  23.             23.4    23.78    23.68
overument Experditures/GOP 3/    36.78   31.78   34.08   32.6    31.18   26.38   28.08   27.08   26.98   27.68   27.1X   27.1    27.0    27.08
Def t-) or Swplus (*) /GDP 3/   *13.SM    *s9.0   -11.78  -11.48   *9.98    -S.8    -6.11   -4.SX    -S.SX   -3.58   .3.SX    -$.58        3.38    -3.28
Exports 6rowth *ate               0.28    4.98    8.28    2.6        4.28    2.28    9.68    11.18    9.68    6.18    S.68        S.1X     S.A6     s.n
Exports/GUP                      20.68    19.88   22.58   2S.S    26.98   24.58   25.38   28.08   3O.68   31.51   31.98   32.22    32.48   32.s5
lkrt Grith Rate                   1.98    3.18  -11.38    4.38    0.1         7.48    4.18   -1.1n      S.68    7.2      S.31    S.2S    S.4"      S.58
luports/DP                       35.a8   34.a8  .31.7n   36.9s   36.68   31.6    30.2S   30.08   32.6    34.68   34.98   3S.3X    3s.3n    3S.4x
Currnt Account (in USS)        -1861.6  -189.6  -1021.0  -1166.6  -1056.7  -427.s  -216.9   -6.2    26.5  -275.   -320.S  -161.4  -123.5   168.3
Current Account/GOP             -12.5X   -12.7X    -7.7X   -10.08   -8.98    *2.9s   -1.38   -0.48    O.1X    -1.28    -1.38   -0.78    -0.48    -0.58
.............................................................. ................................... ,  ...,,,,,.......................... ...,,             0 
1/ Debt Service on KLI debt only: XGS includes workers remittances.
2/ Includes onty gross fixed investment.
3/ Consolidated public sector (Central Goernment. wsnicipalities, Social Security).
4/ After debt relief.



MOROCCO - BALaNCE OF PAYOEUTS
(US1 Nillions at Current Prices)
--     --  - --    Actual  ---.--.-----.---------   Prelim   - ------------- Projections  --------------
1980     1981     1982     1963     1984     1985     1986    1987      1968     1969    1990    19         192    1999
....     ....  .    ....   ....  .    ....   ....  .    ....   ....  .    ....   ....  .    ....   ....  .    ....   ........ ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
A.  Exports of Goods & NFS         3273     3082     2969     2994    3038      316S     3616    4234      5341    640       7240    6068      8979    1210S
1. Merchandise (FOB)             241S     2283     2043     2086    2161      2145     2411     2782     3S87    4410    4962    S550        6198     8374
2. Non-Factor Services            6S0     7I9       926      906      677     1040     1205     1453     1754    2041      2278    256       278      3731
B.   lsports of Goods & NFS        S247     S310     S199     4223     4390     4341     4692    5063      5696     6837    7956    8650       9626    13187
1. Merchandise (FOB) 1/          3770     3840     3615     3301     3S69    3S13      3477    3650      4931    SS3    6740    7516    0319    11042
2. Non-Factor Services           1477     1471     1364      923      821      628     1215     1212      767      983      1216    1332     1507     2145
C.  Resource Balance              -1974    -2226    -2230    -1229    -1352     ll1S6    -1076    -828      -3S8     386      -716    -782      -847    -1062
0.  Net Factor Income              -562     -702     -650     -768     -764      -964     -900    -1148    -1476    -1478   -1SSS    -1633    -1S34    -1698
1. Factor Receipts                 38       36       2S       11       16       15       1S       16       23       34       63       iS       67       127
2. factor Payments                600      738      675      779      781      979      916      1163     1499     1512     1618    1706      1621     1825
(interest payments)            638      690      647      766      796      764     1048     1208     1370     1434     1563     1576      1566     1714
E.  Net Current Tronsfers          1116     1069      981      977      930     1064      1S49    1759      1767     1693     199S    2095      2200     2592
1. Current Receipts              12S2     1195     1068     1068     1006     1125     1602     1824    1T82      1907    2009    2109       221S      2610
a. Workers Remittances        1054     1014      849      916      8n       967     1396     158?      1591     1703     1789    1878      197n     2329
b. Other current trans.        198      181      239      151      135      157      204      237       191     204      220      231       243      281
2. Current Payments               135      126      107       91        n       61       S3       65       1S       1S       14       15        1S       is
F.  Current Account Balance       -1420    -1862    -1899   -1021    -1187    -1057       -428    -217       -67       29    -276      -320     -181     -128
G.   Long-term Capital Inflow      1318     1541     1S66      736      1229     1119     886       985      712      4S8      676      666      S79      343
1. Direct Investment              110       74      102       47       S1       20       12       57       62       69        75      83       91       150
2. Official Capital Grants         96      314      124      142       16      300        17       0         0       0         0        0        0        0
3. Net LT Loans (DOS Date)       1111     1154     1340      399      973      601      646      S47       478     2S1      407       439      409       49    , 
a. Disbursements              1665     1774     2099     1044     1167     1096      1353     1228     1332    1501      1584     1570     1648    2032   (g  z
b. Sepayments                  553      620      759      644      194      495      706      6B1      854      1250     1177     1131     1238     1963     "
4. Other Lt Inflows (Met)           0        0        0      148       189      196      212      361      171      136      194      144       78      144     r
H. Total Other Items (Net)         -207      120      -32        9     -166      -79      -100     -503    -402        0        0        0        0        0      n
1. Met Short-Term Capital        -124      178      331       16        3      168      134    -218         0        0        0        0        0        0
2. Capital Flows WEI              -83       58     -363       -7    -169      -247      -234     -285    -402        0        0        0        0        0
3. Errors and omissions             0        0        0        0        0        0        O        0        0        0        0        0        0        0



NOROCCO - BaLANCE OF PAYMENTS
(US$ Mitlions at Current Prices)
--.....-.......--  -.-  Actual. ----------.-----------        Prielia  .............   Projections  ---------------
1980     1961     1962     1983     1984     1985     1966     1987     1968    1989    1990    1991        199      1995
....     ....  .    ....   ....  .  .. ....  ....     ....  .    ....   ....  .    ....   ....  .    ....   ....  .    .... .. ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..
1. ChgWe in Net Reserves            308      200      366      277      123       17    -359      -26S     -243     *486    -401    -345       .397     -155
1. Met Credit from the INF        152      164      442      119      136       73    -287      -109       -82     -74    *228    -171       -164       -S
2. Other Reserve Changes
C- indicates Increase)            1S6       36      -77      158      -13      -56      -73     -157    -161    -412       -173    -174    -233       -150
Shares of GDP (current USS):
............................
1. Resource Balance               -11.11  -1S.0O   -14.9X    -9.2X   -11.4"    -9.8X    -7.3X    -4.9X    -1.9X    -1.81    -3.1X    -3.1X    -3.01    -2.9X
2. Total Interest Paynts            3.61    4.7X      4.31     S.86      6.71    6.41      7.1K     7.2X     7.2X    6.81     6.6S      6.2X     5.6"     4.6X "
3. Current Account Salance         -8.01   -12.5   -12.71    *7.71   *10.0    -8.91    -2.91    -1.31    -0.41     0.11    -1.21    -1.31    -0.71    -0.5S
4. LT Capital Inflow (line G)       7.41    10.41    10.51     S.51    10.31     9.4X     6.01      5.9X     3.71    2.21      2.91     2.6X     2.11     0.91
S. Net Credit from the INF          0.91     1.11     3.01     0.91      1.1S    o."    -1.91    -0.6"    -0.41    -0.41    -1.01    -0.71    -o."        0.01
Foreign Exchange Reserves:
..........................
1. Int'l Reserves (IFS lid)         180      144      202       44       50       82      155      327      48S      900     1073      1247     1480     1970
2. Gold (end yr wLoro   price)      415      280      322      269      217      230      275      341       341     341      341       341      341      341
3. Gross Reserves incl Gold         595      424      524      313      267      312      430       668      829    1241      1414     1S88    1821      2311
4. Gross Res in months imports     0.37     0.28     0.41     0.10     0.12      0.18     0.33     0.63     0.81     1.29     1.34     1.42     1.SS     1.5?
Exchae Rates (ON/1SO):
........................
1. Nam. Off. X-Rate (IFS rf)     3.9367   5.1723    6.023   7.1113   8.8105  10.0625   9.1044   8.3592
2. Real Eff. X-Rate Base 1980     100.0    92.3    90.3    84.3    79.5          74.2    70.9    68.5
3. X-Rate for GNP Conversion     3.9361  5.1723   6.0230   ?.1113   8.8105  10.0625   9.1044   8.3592 
OQX
00
Nemomandu  Item:                                                                                                                                                   w
CDP (millions of current USS)   17822.3  14836.1  14957.3  13307.7  11899.4  11856.9  14754.8  16748.0  19094.6  20964.3  23019.3  25322.6  278J1.6  37278.6      0
1/ FOB for historical years and CIF for projected years.



MlOROCC: NLT EXTENAL PU8KIC FINANtAfLOLSP 1/
(Willisam  of US Dotlars)
.............................................................................................................................................. .................................................................................... __
1980     1961      1962      1983     1964      1985      1986     1987      1988      1909     1990      1991      1992     1995
............................................................................................................................................... .................................................................................._
Gross Dlsbursements                      1904.7   2001.8  2577.8   1187.9   13S2.0   1314U.    1387.9   1434.9   1484.2   1695.2   1583.8   1S70.3   1647.6   2032.2
Offfeist Sources                      1099.5   1442.6   1339.4    672n.       7.6   1059.9   1070.9   1103.0   1233.6   1381.3   1268.2   12S5.2   1231.6   1S17.2
Multilateral                          146.9    254.2    244.2    304.1    312.3    447.5    608.0    506.1    664.8    808.9    758.4    770.7    78.s    792.8
of which:  IBRD                     63.7      49.3    134.1    174.5    274.7    307.0    362.6    404.5    470.0   #5.9    S30.6    S30.5    489.9    5Si.8
Bilateral                            712.5    961.1    616.8    224.3    223.8    394.1    427.7    390.1    416.7    376.2    509.8    484.5    S03.1    724.4
INF Purchasos                        240.1    227.3    478.4    144.1    184.5    218.4         35.2    206.9    1S2.1    194.2         0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Private Sources                        805.2    SS9.2   1238.3    S1S.4    631.3    254.6    317.1    331.8    250.6    313.8    31S.5    31S.1    416.0    S15.0
Total Aamrti2ation  2/                    640.8    683.2    79S.2    669.3    243.0    640.5   1028.3    906.2   1087.5   1S18.3   1404.7   1302.8   1402.5   1987.6
Not Financial Ftows                      1263.9   1318.7   1762.4    S18.6   1109.1    674.1    359.7    438.7    396.8    176.9    179.1    267.5    245.1              44.7
Official Sources                        897.2   1258.8   1176.1    531.3    S01.S    564.7    303.7    433.5    372.2    193.1    295.2    245.0    195.5    -84.S
Multilateral                          107.9    207.9    192.5    231.9    206.5    291.1    406.1    262.5    199.9    450.2    436.3    431.4    294.0    226.1
of which:  IBRO                     35.0      62.2      96.5    123.5    202.7    220.2    254.3    241.0    260.0    362.5    305.3    292.2    16S.4    115.4
Bltateral                            636.9    886.S    541.2    180.2    159.1    200.6    184.2    279.5    254.0   -183.1            86.7    -1S.1       65.7   -306.0
Not IMF                               152.4    164.4    442.4    119.2    135.9        73.0   -256.7   -108.5    -81.7    -74.0   -227.8   -171.3   -164.2           -4.6
Private Sources                         366.6     59.9    606.3    -12.6    607.6    109.4         56.0       5.2     24.6    -16.2   -116.2        22.4     49.6    129.2
1/  Excludes military debt.
2/  Includes amortization on NLr public debt including IMF.



OEDT SERVICE ASWTWUS
..................... ......................................................
1987    1968    199    1990    1tt    1992    199        1994    1995
PrincipAl Repoyu_nts (NLT)
INultilateral                 243.6   464.9   358.7   322.1   339.3   434.5   494.3   S27.3   566.7
Of  Wchs  IIIRD              164.2   210.6   227.0   225.9   239.1   325.5   385.6   408.2   438.6
Bllaterol                     110.S   162.7   561.3   423.1   499.S   437.4   605.5   943.6  108.7
IIF (Repurd.es)               315.4   233.8   268.3   227.8   171.3   164.2   177.S    97.7       4.7
Privat*                       326.7   226.1   330.0   431.7   292.6   366.4   220.6   33S.7   332.S
TOTAL                       996.2  1087.5  1518.3  1404.7  1302.8  1402.5  1497.9  1904.3  197.6
Interest Repe)luflts (NLT)
Nultiltteral                    235     314      349     388     423     456      477     490     503
Of which: I3RO                 182     246      276     306     331      356     369     374     380
Iilateral                       217     537      577     672     728      758     719     763     691
INF                              69      72      66       56      42      29       17       6       1
Private                         307     277      304     253     239     24       271     306     376
TOTAL                         827    1199    1296    1369    1432    1488    1484    1564    1S70
Key Ratios (CLT)
Interest ;S                    14.28   17.2X   15.88   15.08   14.38   13.S    12.3X   11.8X   10.88
00A/XoS                       333.58  284.2x  245.3X  22S.OX  208.3X  192.08  177.18  162.9X  149.68
Net Oisbursaaents/lnterest     53.0X   33.18   13.6X   13.1X   18.7X   16.S8   12.48    7.2X    2.88
Net Tromfers/GDP               -2.38   -4.2X   -538   -5.2    -4.6    -4.S   -4.28   -4.3X   -4.18
IBRO Debt Service/Totsl DS
After Debt Relief            18.78   19.88   17.88   19.28   20.9X   23.68   25.38   22.68   23.0X
Before Oebt Relief            9.78   13.2X   13.38   12.68   13.2X   16.68   19.18   18.SX   18.38
I0 
n



- 44 -
ANNEX E
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
AND ASSOCIATED POLICY MATRICES



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
November 1, 1988
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
(nofficial Tasion of FrEnc Version)
Dear Mr. President:
1.       The current outlook for the Moroccan economy is more promising than
it has been at any other time since Morocco began its stabilization and
adjustment programs in 1983. The country's external and domestic deficits
have been greatly reduced in comparison with the levels reached in the early
1980s. Ongoing restructuring programs aimed at improving the performance of
the major economic sectors, chiefly agriculture and industry, are beginning to
yield results.
2.       Key reforms in other sectors such as education, public health and
public enterprises, now permit an improved allocation of capital expenditures
in line with development priorities, together with the restructuring and
rehabilitation of enterprises. All these efforts have contributed
simultaneously to increasing the production of goods and services, improving
the efficiency of resource utilization, and widening access to social services.
3.       The progress realized since 1983-oftentimes in difficult
circumstances-in restructuring the economy and reducing financial
disequilibria, is undeniable.
4.       However, this progress has not been as pronounced as the Moroccan
authorities had initially hoped owing to the constraints imposed by public
finance, the debt service burden, and the country's limited foreign exchange
reserves.
5.       Thus, notwithstanding the fruitful efforts made to reduce arrears
owed by the Treasury to public and private enterprises, the continuing
weaknesses in the realm of public finance have not yet made it possible to
achieve the level of liquidity necessary for the sound execution of public
expenditure programs and support for economic activity. Moreover, the
compression of the investment budget has inevitably disrupted the execution of
certain essential programs designed to boost the productive capacity of the
economy, in particular in the areas of infrastructure and irrigation, and to
further improve access of the growing population to public services,
especially as regards education in rural areas and in public health. In
addition, service of the country's external debt represents an excessive drain
on per capita income, while limiting Morocco's normal access to international



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
capital markets, despite the efforts made by His Majesty's Government to
ensure that the country remain in good standing with its creditors. Finally,
the low level of Morocco's foreign exchange reserves wakes it difficult to
absorb the external shocks re-sulting from the vicissitudes of external factors
and intensify the efforts to restructure the national economy.
6.       To ease these constraints and consolidate the foundation for
sustained and lasting growth, the Government proposes to pursue its
restructuring and adjustment efforts within a medium-term macroeconomic
framework that reflects the objectives and priorities set forth in the
Orientation Plan for 1988-92. A program of structural reforms in the areas of
fiscal policy, public investment, foreign trade, and external liability
management has been developed to achieve the macroeconomic objectives for the
1988-90 period, as concretized by a selected number of indicators. To
implement this program, the main components of which are detailed below, the
Government requests the support of the World Bank in the form of a first
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL). Insofar as the proper implementation and
monitoring of the SAL are closely linked to a set of institutional reforms
designed to reinforce existing capabilities within the Administration, the
Government also seeks the Bank's assistance in the form of a Public
Administration Loan (PAL).
7.       The Government commits itself to implementing the policies and
actions described below and in the associated Attachments, in order to achieve
the objectives of the program contained in this letter. In this context, it
plans to conduct semiannual consultations with the Bank and the other
cofinancing partners of the SAL to review the progress of the economy under
the reform program.
MEDIUM-TERM MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
8.       The principal medium-term macroeconomic objectives, in keeping with
the 1988-92 Orientation Plan, are:
-    acceleration of GDP growth rates, renulting from improvements in the
level and productivity of investment;
-    application of fiscal and monetary policies consistent with the
ob-jectives of price stability and the financing of private investment
at a reasonable cost, with a view to ensuring a balanced contribution
to savings and investment from the public and private sectors;
-    further liberalization of foreign trade, supported by a flexible
exchange rate policy;
-    elaboration of a forward-looking debt management strategy, including
a policy of indebtedness compatible with the targeted evolution of
the economy, and permitting the adequate mobilization and
diversification of financial resources.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
9.       This macroeconomic framework, which has been the subject of detailed
exchanges of views among the Government authorities, the World Bank and the
other parties cofinancing the SAL, will serve as a performance milestone for
the semiannual consultations in the context of the proposed loan, the purpose
of which will be to analyze setual results obtained as compared to agreed
objectives. In the event that divergences between the target and actual
figures were to jeopardize global macroeconomic equilibria, the Government
will take the necessary remedial actions.
10.      In order to facilitate assessment of the economy's performance during
the adjustment process, four key indicators have been selected that reflect
the overall strategy of the program, the figures for which are presented in
the Attachment. These indicators are:
(i)    total gross fixed capital formation (GFCF) to GDP;
(ii)    the ratio of total gross public and publicly-guaranteed external debt
outstanding to exports of goods and services;
(iii)   the real growth rate of exports of manufactured products;
(iv)    the level of net foreign assets of the Central Bank.
PROGRAM OF ECONOMIC POLICY REFORM
11.      The accomplishment of the macroeconomic objectives expressed by these
four indicators will depend on the implementation of a set of economic policy
measures in the areas of public finance, foreign trade and industry, external
debt, and the promotion of private investment, all of which comprise the
action program supported by this first Structural Adjustment Loan.
Budgetary Policy
Fiscal Policy
12.      Morocco is currently implementing a far-reaching tax reform that will
provide the country with substantial additional revenues and further
rationalize the structure of incentives for private investment. The reform of
the corporate tax has allowed increased flexibility and better control of the
tax base as compared to the past. In addition, new procedures for settlement
and collection will serve to accelerate the payment of corporation tax
liabilities to the Treasury. These changes are already having an effect,
insofar as 762 of the estimated proceeds of this tax had been received as of
May 31, 1988, compared with 41X as of May 31, 1987.
13.     With regard to the reform of the Investment Codes, the duration and
rate of exemptions granted to enterprises have been reduced, although the full
impact of these measures on the Government budget will not be apparent for
about five years. At present, revenues which benefit from either partial or
full fiscal exemptions, however, have been made subject to the National
Solidarity Levy (PSN) at a rate of 25% (formerly 10), which should result in
an appreciable increase in receipts from this tax.



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
14.      Furthermore, with a view to broadening the tax base and enhancing the
equity of the tax system, the Budgetary Law for 1988 has repealed certain
exemptions allowed hitherto for some financial institutions.
15.      The lowering of corporate income tax rates should lead to higher
productivity of private investment and an expansion of its overall volume,
while harmonization of tax incentives will have the effect of reducing the
average cost of capital and will help to attenuate the existing distortions
among the various types of investments.
16.      The introduction of the VAT on April 1, 1986, as an integral part of
the Moroccan fiscal structure, also represents an important milistone towards
the modernization of the existing tax system, particularly considering that
the previous eleven rates of the ad valorem tax on products and services (TPS)
have been replaced by only five rates. As of January 1, 1988, the low rates
applied to certain products and services have been raised, while some products
formerly exempted are now subject to the tax. These measures have served to
mitigate even further the existing distortions in the VAT rate structure. The
proceeds of this tax are rising rapidly, its yield as of end-August 1988 being
23f higher than that for the same period in 1987. In order to achieve greater
economic neutrality, one of the major advantages of the VAT, the Government
intends to examine the possibility of further simplifying the rate structure.
17.      To support these reforms, the Government has undertaken a large-scale
training program with the aim of producing a highly-skilled and multifaceted
corps of tax inspectors. In this vein, the Government has launched a
decentralization policy to facilitate the identification of taxable income and
assets, and to speed up tax administration.
18.      The Government will impleient the following measures in order to
increase the yield and productivity of the tax system:
(i)    the draft legislation instituting the Personal Income Tax (IGR) which
replaces the direct schedular tax system will be submitted to the
House of Representatives during its October 1988 session.
Introduction of the IGR will, in a relatively short period of time,
yield additional budgetary revenues compared to the present system,
as well as lead to the simplification of the direct tax system and
greater fiscal equity. The IGR will apply a single progressive scale
that will take the place of the diverse schedules of the past,
thereby eliminating the distortions between taxpayers with only one
source of income and those with more than one. The system of
declaration on which the tax will be based, together with the
consolidation of the various tax schedules, will enable better
management of the tax base. Application of these measures is an area
where the technical assistance envisaged under the PAL will be
utilized;



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
(ii)    the General Code for Standardized Accountint, the draft version of
which is now ready, will be submitted to the Rouse of Representatives
as soon as possible in order to consolidate the standardization of
accounting operations. The draft law regulating the accounting
profession will also be submitted to the House of RepresentatiLves as
early as possible;
(iii)   in order to further rationalize the functioning of the tax system, a
study will be undertaken, the purpose of which is to:
-    prepare, with due regard to the specific features of the Moroccan
economy, recommendations regarding regulations to govern comnercial
transactions conducted on a cash basis, in order to enhance the
transparency of business operations and reduce the likelihood of
evasion;
-    accelerate payment of corporate taxes, insofar as the present system
does not require payment of the first installment until three months
after the close of the fiscal year.
Public Investment
19.      The Government is aware that the macroeconomic objectives require the
share in GDP of gross fixed capital formation of the consolidated public
sector to increase significantly, from 3.5S to around 4.22. Within the
context of the 1988-92 Orientation Plan, the SAL envisages monitoring the
execution of the capital expenditures of certain ministries related to those
investments that will help speed the country's economic and social development.
20.      To this end, and with regard to the capital budget, the Government
intends to adopt the following measures:
(i)    during the preparation of the Budgetary Law, the Government will
discuss with the Bank the annual investment Program to be carried out
in the context of the SAL. This discussion will focus, in
particular, on the contents and implementation of the Target
Investment Program (TIP) for 1988-89 (see attachment).
Performance indicators will be used to reflect the improvement expected in
terms of commitments, payment orders, and payments. A working group, under
the auspices of the Budget Directorate and comprised of representatives of the
Ministries of Finance and Plan, will be created to monitor the TIP. This
group will provide the World Bank with the information, on a quarterly basis,
necessary to monitor these investments.
(ii)    budgetary procedures will be improved to permit expeditious approval
of work programs, pending the introduction of the new nomenclature
that will make possible the elimination of most of these programs.
Technical ministries will be given greater flexibility to manage



- 50 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
appropriations.  In particular, expenditures committed in the course
of the year, which do not receive the General Treasury (TG) approval
for payment during that year, will be automatically carried forward
s to the next year. This will enable the technical ministries to start
or continue works for which comuitments have already been made.
(iii)   a detailed plan will be drawn up for implementing an integrated
budget management information system, which will include definitions
and specifications permitting the interface between the different
information systems in existence or under preparation.
(iv)    as regards gulic enterprises, other than the ORMVAs, budgetary
transfers for their investments will continue to be governed by the
principles established under the public enterprise rationalization
program.
(v)    the current foreign exchange risk system, under which major losses
have resulted in the buildup of payment arrears to financial
intermediaries, will be modified in consultation with the Bank, so as
to limit the drain on the Treasury in the future. Existing arrears
will be cleared by direct payment or through the issuance of
interest-bearing Treasury Bonds.
Trade and Industrial Policy
21.      The pronounced expansion of exports of manufactured goods included in
the macroeconomic framework presumes intensified participation by the private
sector, especially in the form of increased industrial investment in the
sectors possessing a comparative advantage. In this vein, the Government
intends to improve the environment of the industrial sector and to continue to
liberalize foreign trade.
22.      To this end, the Government intends to take the following measures:
(i)    to progressively eliminate recourse to protection based on
quantitative restrictions, the Government has transferred 544 tariff
positions, 512 of which relate to strictly industrial products, from
List B co List A with the publication of the General Import Programs
(PGI) for 1987/88. As a result, only 252 of domestic indtstrial
production is currently still protected by quantitative
restrictions. Upon publication of the 1989 PGI, additional
industrial products will be transferred to List A, after adoption of
the customary ancillary measures;
(ii)    the industrial sector is presently confronted with economic or
institutional obstacles that constrain its development. To improve
the environment in which Moroccan industrialists operate and
facilitate the pursuit of liberalization, the Government will
undertake a study to identify ways of easing the constraints which
hamper the development of the Moroccan industrial base and the



- 51 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
expansion of manufactured exports; moreover, the study will examine
the role that the Ministry of Trade and Industry could play in this
regard, in the context of a more liberal economy. The
recommendations of this study will be discussed with the Bank and
implemented as part of a wider program which could eventually benefit
from Bank support;
(iii) when the International Harmonized System is adopted on
January 1, 1989, the Moroccan customs nomenclature will be amended so
as to limit tariff positions to eight digits;
(iv)    with a view to reducing dispersion in nominal protection and to
reduce the present distortions in resource allocation, an action
program to rationalize the tariff structure will be drawn up, based
on the following principles:
-    a reduction in the number of customs duty rates;
-    application of the same duty to similar products, so that the new
nomenclature can be reduced progressively from eight to six digits,
according to a schedule set by the Ministries of Trade and Industry
and of Finance.
In addition, the principle of using the customs duty as an instrument of
sectoral rather than of fiscal policy will be instituted.
(v)    in the context of the draft framework law on Foreign Trade that will
be submitted to the House of Representatives in the course of 1989, a
safeguard system based on the following principles will be proposed:
a transparent procedure, with all parties represented, based on the
costs and benefits to all Moroccan economic agents, providing for the
establishment of a temporary protection mechanism, in accordance with
Morocco's international commitments and the national interest. An
annual report on the status of protection, setting out the costs and
benefits of existing or envisaged protection measures during the
year, will be issued. Existing mechanisms, which will continue to be
used in accordance with the principles presently in effect, will be
revised when the safeguard system is adopted.
External Liability Policies and Management
23.      The Government seeks to achieve progressive improvement in the
external debt indicators through the sustained growth of the economy and of
exports. It also proposes to diversify its sources of external financing,
improve the debt profile, and give preference to non debt-creating financing
(direct investment). In the immediate future, the Government's priority is to
improve external debt management so as to fully anticipate changes in the
structure of the debt and the evolution of debt service obligations. This



- 52 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
will facilitate the Government's analysis of financing alternatives for
balance-of-payments requirements by taking into account different hypotheses
with respect to interest and exchange rate variations, and contribute to the
sustained improvement of the country's liquidity indicators, which will
strengthen the Government's position in its relations with Morocco's external
creditors.
24.      In the context of the action program implemented by the Government
with technical assistance from the World Bank, the Government intends to
improve the procedures for data gathering and processing on a consolidated
basis with regular updating covering all short, medium and long-term
commitments contracted or guaranteed by the State. The Government also
intends to set up a system for inventorying private nonguaranteed debt with
maturities of one year or more.
25.      In the context of the SAL, the Government intends to take the
following measures:
'i)    institute, by circular, the obligation to promptly register with the
Treasury Directorate all external financing contracts on behalf of
the State or guaranteed by the State or by the Central Guarantee
Fund, and to regularly report all data relating to external
indebtedness;
(ii)    establish a coordinating committee under the auspices of the Treasury
Directorat* and consisting of representatives of the Ministries of
Plan and of Economic Affairs, the Bank al-Maghrib and the Exchange
Office, with a view to improving the inventorying and collation of
external debt. In addition, the Treasury Directorate will send the
Bank an annual summary table setting out all indebtedness, including
recourse to nonguaranteed private debt with maturities of more than
one year, and the available data on short-term debt.
26.      The Government considers that the policies and measures described in
this letter will enable the country's economic and social objectives to be
attained. To facilitate the smooth implementation of the program, the
Government hereby renews its request for an initial Structural Adjustment Loan.
Respectfully yours,
Minister of Finance



- 53 -
AMnex I
Attachment I
Page 1 of 4
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
POLICY MATRIX
Reform of Budget Pollce
(Fiscal Measures)
----Measures to be taken
Measures being taken/        Prior to release of the
Objective                already implemented          second tranche
Rationalization of       Revision of profits tax           Approval by the Council of
the fiscal system by    exemptions under the invest-    Government of the draft
expanding the tax        ment codes                        General Code on Standardized
base, reducing tax                                         Accounting and the draft law
rates, and enhancing    Submission of the personal        governing the accounting
equity                   income tax (IGR) reform to        profession
the House of Representatives
Increase in the rate of the      Establishment and updating
national solidarity levy         of a single taxpayer
(PSN) for tax-exempt             identification file based
enterprises                      on an exhaustive census of
the taxpaying population
Reduction in the corporate
income tax rate from 45% to      Discussions with the Sank
40%. introduction of a           on the findings of a study
minimum tax paywent, and         on the regulation of
acceleration of payments due    commarcial cash transactions
and the possibility of further
Elimination of tax exemptions   accelerating payment of tax
for certain financial            liabilities
institutions
Increase in the zero-bracket
rate below which no taxes are
withheld from wages and
salaries
Repeal of VAT exemptions for
certain categories of products
and increase in rates
applicable to others
Increase in the TIC (domestic
consumption tax) on tobacco
79318/p0 - 10.30.88



- 54 -
Annex It
A,ttachmffent I
Page 2 of 4
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTHENT LOAN
POLICY MTIX
Reform of 8udget Pol1ev
(bnvestment ExRenditures)
----- Measures to be taken -----
Measures being taken/        Prior to release of the
Objective                already implemented          second tranche
Rationalization of       Revision of budget                Introduction of the new
procedures for           nomencla.ure allowing invest-   budgetary nomenclature
planning, budgeting,    ments to be monitored and          and streamlining of work
and imDlementing         permitting better definition    programs
investment outlays       of capital expenditures
Improved efficiency      Preparation of an integrated
in the management of    budget management information
the Government's         system
capital budget
Formulation of investment
programs to be monitored
under the SAL
Re-establishment of the
carry-over of budgetary
commitments to the next year
Preparation of an action plan   Agreement on action plan
for the implementation of an    and implementation
integrated budget management    timetable
information system. including
design and specification for
interfaces with existing
systems under preparation
Establishment of a task
force headed by the Budget
Oirectorate to monitor
capital expenditures
Establishment of the             Evaluation of progress
objectives of the Target          in implementation of the
Investment Program (TIP) for    TIP
1988 and 1989 including
performance indicators
79313/plO - 10.30.88



- 55 -
AnDne, St
Page 3 of 4
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAh
POLICY MATSX
Trade and Industrial PolicZ
----- Measures to be taken
Measures being taken/        Prior to release of the
Objective               already tmplemented           second tranche
Rationalization of the  Transfer of S44 tariff            Transfer to List A of about
incentives structure    positions to List A. of           120 products at the time
which S12 are related to         of the publication of the
strictly industrial products    1989 PGI (General Import
Program)
Agreement on the contents
of the PGI for 1990
Simplification of the   Agreement in principle on         Implementation of the
tariff system and       adoption of the International   International Harmonized
trade procedures        Harmonized System                 System at the 8-digit level
Consolidation of the stamp       Adoption of the principle
duty and special import tax      that customs duties are
into a single duty               to be used as an instrument
of sectoral rather than
fiscal policy
Agreement on a program to
rationalize the tariff
structure in accordance with
the following principles:
reduction in the number of
custom duties. with same
customs duty being applied
to similar products. and
gradual consolidation of
the nomenclature from 8
to 6 digits
Promotion of exports    Lifting of price controls         Discussion of the
and industrial          on 3- and 4-star hotels           reccaulendations of the
investment                                                study on industrial sector
and export development
Strengthening of the current
export insurance scheme
Liberalization of exchange
restrictions on foretgn
investments
Authorization for Moroccan
workers abroad to hold
convertible dirham accounts
Establishment of a      Discussion of the report          Preparation of the safeguard
transparent and         submitted by the committee        system within the context
durable framork for   on the simplification of            of the draft framework
trade policy             international trade procedures  law on foreign trade
regulations
Discussion of the recom enda-
tions of the study on
79315 - p.11                                   simplifying internattonal
10.30.88                                                  trade procedures



- 56 -
annex 11
Attachment I
Page 4 0f 4
STRUCTtIRAL ADJUSTMENT LOAM
POLICY MATRIX
External LiabilitZ Management Policy
----- Measures to be taken -----
Measures being taken/        Prior to release of the
Objective               already implemented          second tranche
Strengthening external  formulation of an action plan   Issuance of a circular
liability management    establishing a computerized      mandating the registration
external debt managemnt          of all external financing
system                           contracts and the
transmission of all
external debt data
Restructuring and
strengthening of the
institutions responsible for
external debt
Establishment of a coordina-
ting comuittee to ensure the
exhaustive inventorying and
collation of external debt
79318/pU2
10.30.88



- 57 -
Annex II
Attachment 2
MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS TO BE MONITRED UNDER THE SAL
1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
Total Gross Fixed Capital
Formation/GDP                         19.02  19.52  20.02  20.52  21.02
Gross Public & Publicly-
Guaranteed External Debt/
Total Foreign Exchange Earnings        2.8    2.6    2.4    2.2    2.1
Real Growth Rate of
Manufactured Exports                    122    102    10%    102    102
Net Foreign Assets of the
Bank al-Maghrib (US$ million)          450    850  1,050  1,200  1,400
7931B p.13
10.27.88



-58 -                             ANNEX II
Attachment 3
Page 1 of 4
MOROCCO
SRUCTURA    LOAN
TARGET  NVESM14ENT PROGRAMh ClP)
of 1988 constant dilams)
1988     1989     1990      1991     1992
Total Authorizations:
- Arrears (beginning of year)   1,326    1,362    1,262         946    1,035
- Carry-over 1a                  1,769    1,719    1,998    2,092    1,627
- New Authorizations             4,593   5S665    5,912    6.303    6.666
Total Authorizations             7,688    8,745    9,172    9,341    9,328
Commitments (CED)                   7,165    8,307    8,714    8,874    8,862
Payment orders (visas TG):
- Arrears (beginning of year)   1,326    1,362    1,262         946    1,035
- New Issues                     4.121    4.948    5.361    6,301    6.719
Total Payment Orders (visas TG) 5,447    6,309    6,622    7,247    7,754
Disbursements (Payments TG)
Arraars (end of year) /b            1,326    1,362    1,262       946    1,035
Disbursement New Issues             2.759    3,686    4414    5266    5 611
Total disbursements              4,085    5,047    5,676    6,212    6,646
Arrears (end of year) /b            1,362    1,262       946    1,035    1,108
GFCF of the TIP                    4,121    4,948    5,361    6,301    6,719
Commitments/Authorisations            931      952       952      95S      951
Disbursements /Commitments            57%      611       651      702       752
Growth GFCF of TIP                     -        20         8       18         7
Payment TG (rate of growth)            -        24        12        9         7
Growth disbursements
Arrears (number of months)          4         3        2         2        2
/a  Difference between total commitments (CED) of the preceding year and total
payment orders (TG) approved.
/b  Payment order dielays from the preceding year are carried over in the form
of payment order arrears (TG) in the following year. Annual levels
represent a decline in monthly payment delays. In 1987, payment order
delays (TG) amounted to DR 1.5 billion out of a total of DR 3.5 billion
worth of payment orders, equivalent to about a five-month lag.
's ,"q ~;O



-0  qp~~                                                                  q
44          4~~4  .4                                                 .      4
.a      ................                -....    ----------  -------------  ---                                    -----
-- -- - --                E---                        -
a.                       u~~~52   a  a             -rI  -  9                            ug                                            t e
qa  ~~~a                                 E a   a  a                     I -
a                                                                                                                                                                F 
- .- -      - -         -        - -             -      - - - - -    - -      - -     -   - -    -        ----     ----   -



z- '- -- -- -- -- ----,;-- -S£  +_ 
-- ------ ----------   ----------_ _. __............. .__.........._._...._._.. .___._...................... _._...... __
I                                                                                   I~~~~~I
---    --   ----- - -.---.--.-.-- .--  - --_ -      -  
---------------    ---------------- - ----------------------- ----                      -----T           --i    c 
-~~                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ---- C----
I          g                                                ftfi  ,                             ft    W          
l-   -



- 61 -
ANNEX II
Attachment 3
Page 4 of 4
PROJET POUR L'AJUSTENENT STRUCTUREL
,POBRAIIUE p'INVESTIlSEENTS CISLES IPIC)
(I9ilians do  oH noostants 1986) 'a
...............                                                          -.__ _____ __._._
*                   *                                                                   1990 
i                    .... . ... . .......                                               . .. .  .................. . .
CREDITS DISPONI8LES       !                                                      DECAISStMENTS TB
-.................                                            VISAS TS
!                   !-         ----------------------ENA-   !                                                                     . ....
NINISTERES     !lnstanca Reports   CP        Total  SEMENTS  ------------------------------               Instance do Painnts  Total
! i$fint                    Credit'            Instotnces                      ! Notival.         -------.- aiuaut!
!  n-I                                       !dt iaileant  Visat      Total      Visas        n-I        n
n-I     Nouveoux Eoistions
i  iII)     (2)     t(3)       (4)     (4)         (9)       (9)      (10)         (13)      (14)       (15)    (l1)
!ASRICULtURE        !                                    !
!Invsletsie55nts PlC!   392      555    1.109    2,747    2,609           382   1,624       2,007      1,338         362      287    1,720
!Transferts EPs     !
autres Invostis'e.
!TRAVAUI PUBLICS                                                                                                                             i
Itvstilsslosnts PlC,  452        480    2,0S5    2,907    2,838            452   1,962       2,314    !1,531          452      331    1,984
!Trnsterts EPs
!Mutnre  lnvestisu.!!!
Total
WMt SPORTS
!Investiswunts PIC!   23          46       117       87V      178           23     117         140         97          23       20      120
TTranisfrts EPs
!Transfarts DCA                                     130)!    (30)!                             (30)1                                    (30)
MAutres Invrstiru.,
Total                                                     II
MEUCATIOII          !!                                             
Ilnvostisssaents PIC'   314      712   143c    2,444   2,341 !            314   1,324       1,639 i   1,090          314      234    1,404
!Ai;rNs Invnstir#.!!                                              !!!
Totil                                            i        i                                !                                         i
'SANTE
!lnvestissemnts PIC,   61         139      328      528 i    502 !          61     291         352 i      240          61       SO      301
hutrns Investisse. !                                              !                                !
Total       !
!NASITAT
lnvestisloumnts PIC!    29         65      167      260       247           29      144        173        120          29       25      149
!Autrs Invatinue.
Total       !                                    !                                         !
!,UTRES RINISTERES
!Transferts E,P     i                                    i        a                                                                          a
!Mutres Invntisse. !                                                                                                                         a
Total       I                                    a        a                                a                                        I
!TOTAL INVESTISSEN.!                                     i        a                                a                                        a
,a__............. a                                      a        a                                  
!I,vnttir"Aent  PIlC! 1,262    1,999    5,913    9,173    0 ,716 !       1,262   5,362      64624       4,416       1,262      946   $5678
!Transterts EP      i                                             aa 
Autres Invntiss. !                                       !        a                                a                                        a
Total       !                             9,173    8 9,716 i     1,262   5,362      64624 !   4,416        1,262       946     ,6478
lTRES DEPENSES    i                                      i        a                                a                                         a
a*._........__._ a                                       a        a                                a                                        a
'Equipmmnt
!D ett   litar                                                    i 
Totala                                                    aaa
itOTAL RUIET                                                                                       i a
_...    _            . ._._..  ...                 .             .......... . ._, ._..... .                          ..



- 62 -
ANNEX m
SU PPLEMENTARY PROGRAM DATA SHEET



- 63 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MOROCCO
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT WAN
Supplementary Program Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare program:                about five months
(b) Responsibility for program preparation:       Ministries of Finance, Plan,
Economic Affairs, Commerce
and Industry, Bank al-Maghrib
(c) Project first identified by Bank:             July 1986
(d) Bank appraisal mission:                      June 1988
(e) Negotiations:                                 October 1988
(f) Planned date for effectiveness:               December 1988
Section II:   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Board Presentation, Release of First Tranche (US$100 million)
A number of significant policy measures were implemented in the
context of the SAL prior to Board presentation. These include an
extensive restructuring of the fiscal system with the promulgation of the
investment codes, revision of corporate tax rates, presentation of a more
equitable personal income tax to Parliament, and adjustment of VAT rates
on selected product categories; rationalization of public investment
programming and budgeting, including agreement on the contents and level
of the target inveatment program for 1988-89 and simplification of
budgetary management pocicies and systems; continued trade liberalization
and export promotion with the elimination of import licensing requirements
on over 500 products, the repeal of existing exchange restrictions on
foreign investments, and the strengthening of the export insurance scheme;
and the elaboration of an action plan establishing an external debt
management system in collaboration with the Bank.



- 64 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) Conditions of Release of Second Tranche (US$100 million)
Overall Performance
Satisiaction with the general progress of the program on the basis of
the evolution of four key macroeconomic performance indicators for 1988/89.
Specific Actions
1) Fiscal Policy
- Approval by the Council of Government of the draft law instituting a
national chart of accounts, as well as a regulatory framework
pertaining to the accounting profession.
ii) Public Investment
- Implementation of the Target Investment Program (TIP) by ministry for
1988 and beginning 1989.
- Preparation of an action plan (including implementation timetable)
"stisfactory to the Bank for the interface between budgetary
management information systems of all relevant ministerial
departments.
iii) Trade and Industrial Policy
- Repel of import licensing requirements on products corresponding to
at least 120 tariff positions.
- Preparation of an action plan (and timetable) satisfactory to the
Bank for the simplification of the customs nomenclature and tariff
structure.
iv) External Debt Management
- Publication of a circular satisfactory to the Bank mandating the
registration of all external financing agreements on public and
publicly-guaranteed debt.



- 65 -
ANNEX V
STATUS OF BANK OPERATIONS IN
MOROCCO



- 66 -
AiNtX IV
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF RAUM OPEtATIS IN fMCCO
A. STATEMENT (IF BAIN  LOANS ANtI IDA CREDITS (As of Santember 30 1Oaa
Credits
5 Credits() clos                                                                             4S. 16
All cosd  for       MOOCCO
TOTAL nuber Credits *    O                                                                          USS million Amount
Loan CredIt                                                                                        (Less CantOllational
|JMNb3r   liar      hrroaer                               PunkA    undgseurcod
4? Loans(s) closed                                                             1,857.61
L16020-NYC  1978    MROCCO                           KARIA-TISSA RAtUFEO         40.00                   13.81  12/31188(R)
L1GGl0-myc  1979     OROCrCO                         EDUCTION IV                 88.00                   12.58  063/8()
LC8480 YC  1980    MOROCCO                           RURL DEVT.Lt=OS             18.00                    4.60  12/3I/88(R)
L19440-MYC  198     MOROCCO                          UBAN . II                   15.00                   U.49  322/31/89
LZOOO-NlYC  1981    MOROCCO                          PTEP                         6e                      e5    23/0R
tw -Y   191         NM                               WATER SUPPLY fit            78.00                   29.62  12/3/8)
L2082-NYC  192      MOOC                             SMALL SCALE IND It          30.00                   10.10  06/3/8)
L2100o-MC  198      NCEO                             A      G   * I ATLAS        16.00                    8.69  06/30/9)
L21w00-MYC  1il986    N                              UR IFORESTRY PROJECT        15.50                   7S.52  0/30/9(
L2149ODMYC  1962    MOROCCO                          EDUCATION V                 38.00                    7.32  03/3Wto
L22I?C-MYC  198I    MOROCCO                          AG.OEV.UTIIES               22.00                   16.18  12/31/8
TOtAL2245 YC  1983   MOROCCOUR AN    ilI N                                       60.00                   14.03  12/31/89
L22530-MYC  193 t    MOCCO                           SMALULED.I1111.             34.00                   25.9   12/31/89
L22540-MYC  1983    MOROCCO             20                    IV             3 6960
L2M70-MYC  1983          CO nvl76.60                                                                     26.58  12/31/89cm)
L22M2-MYC  193      IOC                              PET.EXPL. & APPRISA         65.20                     .2?  06M/30/8(R)
L24?90-NYC  1985    MOROCCO            ~~~~~~~FEC/IEMICIPALITIES    16.00                    2.08  06/30189
ot4790-MYC  IM  milmrra             VW. TIN. 3                  27.10                   14.12  12/31/90
L21480-NYC  196     MOROCCO                          EL9C.MECN.tND               25.10                   1.01/19
L25080-MYC  1983    iMIROCCO1012319
L25720-MYC  ~~~~~~~~~~~, ~JERAIA COAL                               27.00                   18.55  06/30/91
L25720-mc  1983    MNOCCO              RHEALTI DEVELOPMENT          28.40                  25.25  12/31/91
L26360-MYC  1986    MORCCO                           LARE IRROm. IMPROVE         46.00                   4.10/09
L265 0~My   198   MOR CCOPO RT     PROJECT  22.00   16 .06  06/30/91
L26640-MYC  1986    MOCO                             EDUCATION  SECTOR I        150.00                   38.29  12/31/88
LM73O-MTC  1986    MOROCCO                           CUCA VI                    120.00                   4.00/19
L2r70M-xyc  198?   MOpROCCOTRIIG  t2.0                                                                    5     0/19
L27980-MYC  198?    jMOrOCO                                        122                                   21.12  12/31/92
L2800-MC  1987   MOROCCO  ~TELECW6SJNCATIONS 1                    116.00                  115.89  12/31/94
L,28060-14TC  1987    MOROCCO                        IND.EXP. FINANCE 1          28.00                   20.76  12/31/95
L28061-YC  198    MORCC                              IN0D.Exp. FiINAE 1           3.00                    3.00  12/31/95
L28062*mC  198?   -MOROCCOt-                         INO.EXP. FlINANCE I          7.00                    4.74  12/31195
L28063-NYC  198?,   MOROC=                           IND.EXP. FINANCE 1          14.50                    8.21  12/31/95
L28M6-NTC  198?   MOROCC                             IN0.EXP. FINANCE I           2.50                    2.50  12/31/9S
L28066-MYc  ¶98?   MOROCO                            IND.EXP. FZNANCE 1           2.00                    1.64  12/31/95
L2067-NYC  196?    MOROCCO                           INO.EXP. FtNANCE 1           4.50                   3.73  12/31/95
L280Q7-MYC  1967    MOROCC                           11ND.EEP. FINANCE I          8.50                    7.05  12/31/95
L2=20-NYC  198      MOROCCO                          PERL 1                     240.00                  119.42  06/30/89
1.2=0-myc  ige?   MOROCCO              NAnL. WATER StPPLY R        60.00                   58.95  06/30/95
L28260*Mc  19?MIOC                                   GRETER CASALANCA S          60.00                   60.00  06/30/96
L28850~NYC   988    MOROCCO                       AGR.SECTOR it             225.0016.0 3//9
L29100.NYC  1988    NOROCCO10-0 3319
L295O-Myc  1988   NO=POWER DISTRIBUTION P                                        90.00                   90.00  06/30/95
TOTAL  oftr  asns   39.S   a 11*14.I1                                23.00                   23.00  12/31/94
TOTAL taa~~~~~~~er Loans *   39 ~~~~~~~~1,964.20                                    1,098.96
TofA~ whd      d3,821.81                                                     45.16
of ~~~diich repaid ~~~~~~804.8?                                .
NOTES:
.....................
* not yet effective
Not yet signed
*   total Approved, Repayeants, and Outstanding balance represent both active ad inactive Loans and Credits.
(R) indicates formally revi sed Closing Oate.
The Met Approved and Sank Repyents are historical value, Ott others ae market vatue.
The Signing, Effective, and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department off ical data and are not taken
from the Task BuEdet fite.
1 n/Imlast - FM?c9



- 67 -
AI,NEX IV
Page 2 of 2
fTtAENMlT OIreC tNVE MENt5     OIlUtCCO (As at Aucugt 31. 198f11
fiscal                                                                         USS Millign
.Year      abglsor                  Tve of Ousinest                 Loan           .Lt2           taatl
1962       Banque Nationale         Oevelopment Financing          58.15W           1.54        S9.69-
1978       oour ie Odveloppement
1983       Econonique (BNOE)
1985
1966       SociEte tmdustrielle    Agroindustry                     0.89            0.50          1.39
de Lukus (Loan fully
repaid; equity sold
1976       Marrakech Cement         Cement Production                 -             1.28          1.28
1977       temara Cement            Cement Production               4.75            3.57          8.32
1980
1979       Ciments dAfadir          Cement Production              1S.16                         15.16
1980       SO#UFER                  Mines                          12.99            2.3S         15.34
1981       Casablanca Cement        Cement Production              15.80            2.25         18.05
1982
196S       frumat                   Agroindustry                    8.30                          8.30
1987       Crddit tmombilier et    Financial Institution
WiOteller (CtH)                                         2S.00-           -            25.00-
1987       Setaf11                  Texttle factory                  3.27           1.33          4.60
1987       Cialgas-Maroc S.A.       Agar Production                  1.00           0.30          1.30
1988       83? (not committed)      Textile                         0.64            0.39          1.03
Total Gross Commitnwnts                                144.31           12.82        1S7.13
Less Cancellations. terminations. repayments.
sales and exchange a4djustments                         41.03           -Lz.          46.71
Total Commitments held by IFC                         .L.LL33                       JJLZU
of dwhich undisbursed                                 2.18            0.74          2.92
tFC net.  Does not include participations from cammercial banks.
4791/p3
October 12. 1988



- 68 -
ANNEX V
INSTITIONAL SUPPORT, TECHNICAL ASSTANCE
AND TRAING



-69 -                                     ANNEX V
MOROCCO
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENTL
Instutional SUM      Tehnic    Assisa   and   1
A comprehensive program of technical assistance and training has
been formulated in conjunction with the SAL in order to facilitate the
implementation of the various reform programs to be introduced under the SAL.
Technical assistance and training will be financed under a separate loan
(Morocco: Public Administration Loan) in an amount of US$25 million. The
latter operation was prepared and appraised simultaneously with the SAL, and
is scheduled for presentation to the Executive Directors in January 1989. An
indication of its contents is provided below.
(a) Assistance to the Directorates of Taxes and Customs and to the
Treasury General for improvements in tax administration and
collection. The fiscal census will be reconstituted and data and
statistical records improved; tax records and information systems
will be computerized; tax auditors will be trained and a tax advisory
service established.
(b) Assistance to the Ministries of Finance and Plan in improving
budgetar  and plauninz procedures. A new, harmonized budget
nomenclature will be introduced; the budget will be fully
computerized; and project selection and appraisal methods
strengthened.
(c) The ability of the Treasury General to monitor both current and
investment expenditures will be enhanced through the computerization
of its operations and through staff training.
(d)  Trade fadilitation assistance will be available to the Ministry of
Trade and Industry to improve: customs procedures, export/import
forecasting, assessments of Moroccan competitiveness, and the impact
of exchange rate movements on external trade flows.
(e) The Debt Division of the Ministry of Finance will be strengthened
through the development and implementation of a revised public deEt
management system. The exterral debt management system will be
computerized, an inventory of publicly-guaranteed debt will be
established, and data gathering on the borrowing activities of
specialized financial institutions and public enterprises will be
improved.
(f) The capabilities within the Ministries of Plan and of Economic
Affairs to analyze macroeconomic developments and statistics will be
strengthened through the provision of training and through the
computerization of technical units.
78578/p42



- 70 -
ANNEX VI
PROGRESS UNDER EXISTING ADJUSTMENT OPERATIONS



- 71 -
ANX VlI
Page I of 7
to
STRUCTURAL AO.1U5Th!T LOAM
Proarass under Existino Adiustment OperationsAi
Seeond Agricultural Sector Adtustmant Loan 128a5-M)
Key tonditignalitv a Progress to Dates*'
Policy Area                      condttionaltv                                   Proereis to Date
Agricultural A
Food Pricino a
1aketn
- Cereals Sector   - Implewent grain pricing & marketing reform.    - 1st phase implemented (production quotas for
including:                                        subsidized flour; all other types of flour
(a) finalization of new methodology for           liberalized; new methodology for cereal price
calculating cereals floor prices;             calculation).
(t, production quotas for subsidized flour;
(c) preparation a submission of draft legal
texts related to the deregulation of the
grain marketing system;
(d) settlement of arrears to millers;
(e) elimination of quantitative restrictions
an imports of all grains (other than
soft wheat).
- Sugar Sector     - Freeze producer prices in real terms for        - Price freeze in 1987/88. TORs for deregulation
1987/88 & 1988/89; adopt operational plan        plan under review.
to deregulate sector over 5 years.
beginning July 1. 1988.
- Edible Oil       - Establish & adopt action plan to deregulate    - TORs for plan under preparation.
Sector           sector.
- Livestock        - Eliminate price controls on bran and            - Completed.
Products         sugarbeet pulp.
- Increase seasonal price differential for milk  - Differential is 201 at present.
to 20X in 1986/87; maintain at that level
in 1987/88 & Increase it further in 1988/89.
- Inputs           - Close down 80S of fertilizer outlets meeting   - Criteria defined.
revised criteria (401 before 2nd Tranche).
- Comply with input subsidies phase out           - Proposals under discussion.
program designed in ASAL-S. with weighted
average fertilizer price increase of 11l
in 1988 & 1989.
- Achieve 75S collection rate for water          - 2nd a 3rd tranche release conditions
charges in 1987 & 82S in 1988.                    respectively.
gMa  stoy oEram
- Targeted         - finalize & implement targetted                  - Proposal approved.
compensatory     compensatory programs.
programs
A/ In view of their relevance to the SAL Program. progress under the two industrial sand trade policy adjustment
loans (both of wdich have closed) are Included in this annex.
List is limited to tranche release conditionality.
Other adjustment measures by policy area are also being followed under the loan.



- 72 -
Page 2 of 7
Selend Agreuiltural Spetor Adjugtment Loan teont dl
Policy Area                       egndiionalitx                                     Proaress to Oate
Public Exnenditures Progra
- Investment        - Allocate sufficient budgetary resources          - Allocation of 13% in 1988.  Allocations for
budget           to MARA in 1988 & 1989.                             1989 being finalized.
Sunogrt ServXies
- Extension        - Create a separate division for Extension          - Agreement in principle; not yet implemnted.
in KARA.
- Livestock        - Privatize animal health services                  - Privatization in 40 zones implemented.
tn a total of 60 zones.
- Transfer artificial insemination services        - Transfer completed in 20 zones.
to private sector in a total of 35 zones.
External trade
- Trade             - Transfer progressively over 4 years all          - First group of products transferred in
liberalization   agricultural products to List A of the PGI.         the 1968 PGI.  Tioetable of transfer for
other products has been defined.
78573/p44



- 73 -
ANNIX VI
Page 3 of 7
First Publie Enternris. Ratiinsliation Loan l20.-IoR1
Policy Area                      Conditinait                                       PrFrress to Date
Financial Autonomy   Agrement on financing structure for investment  All measures agreed for 1987 were taken on
of Pts; Pricing    of ONt. ONCF and OSP. for the sam  PEs,            agreed timetable. Neasures for 1988 are under
and Investment     tariff increases were scheduled for 1987 and       review.  1986 tariff increases for ONE and
Policy             1988 as well as the levels of budget transfers   ONEP have already been taken. Budget transfers
to finance investment for 1987 and 1988.          were within in agreed limits.  There are soie
delays regarding the measures affecting ONCF.
Repayment of         Agreement to repay all net arrears as              Bulk of the arrears were settled in 198.
Arrears Between    inventoried for end-1986 before ond-1987.          However. a second bond issue was needed In
State and PEs      No recurrence of arrears In 1987 and               1968 and scheduled for November. Some arrears
subsequently.                                     have reappeared in 1987 and 1988. Remedial
action has been taken. Solutions have been
agreed as conditions of 2nd tranche release.
Government/PC        A series of measures to improve the                Overall progress under this heading is
Relationships      functions of the management, board of PEs          satisfactory.  Some difficulties have
and the establishment of contract-programs        appeared in the discussions regarding the
between Government and selected PEs.              contract-program between the State and ONCF.
Improvewent of the accounting sector.             Detailed review and assessment are planned
development of HIS. and audit for                 before 2nd tranche release.
selected PEs.
Strenthening       - Strengthening the role and functions of            Both OCEPP and CIPEP are now playing a very
the Oversight      the OEPP and of the CIPEP                          active and rational role in dealing with the
Function of                                                          management of the PE sector and on arbitrating
the State        - Studies to be completed and action programs       major issues.  This is a particularly
designed before trawche release on portfolio      successful part oe PERL.  Two studies started
of the State:                                     later than expected, and their results are
* tariff of electricity. water;                   therefore behind appraisal schedule.  These
* restructuring studies on transport and          slips in the program may delay by about
mining sectors.                                 6 months the 2nd tranche release.
7853/Mp4S



- 74 -
ANNEX VI
Page 4 Of 7
Edueatiejn Soetar Ratorm Proaram £26fi44ORe   /
eAlhiSLhrAn                       CmndIitnnalitX                                    Prggress to Date
faulty of Access
- Basic            - Expand number of students admitted to Grade    - Between 1986-88, about 4,500 additional
Education        of primary school.                                  classrooms became operational; the promotion
rate increased from 491 tn June 198S to SS in
- Expand lower secondary school intakes              June 1986 and 61S in June 1987.
(Grade 6).
- Graduates from teacher training institutions
- Promote basic schooling in rural areas, with       (all of whom are assigned to rural areas)
particular attention to female enrollment.         comprised 591 and 57 of female teachers in
19s86/87 and 1987/88. respectively.
- Upper Secondary  - Reduce Grade 9 promotion rate.                    - The promotion rate was reduced to 44% in
and Higher                                                           June 1986 and to 421 in June 1987; new
Education      - Establish new diploma for satisfactory              diploma was Introduced in June 1986.
completion of basic education (Grade 9).
- Develop program of career guidance in            - The study in career guidance is underway and Is
lower secondary schooling.                         expected to be completed by December 1988.
- Institute                                                            - New intakes grew by 2.41 from 1985/86 to
Control of                                                           1986/87. However, they grew by 21X from
Admissions to                                                         986/87 to 1987/88.  In 1988/89. provisional
University                                                           results from end-of-secondary examination show
Faculties                                                            that new intakes will be maintained at 1987/88
level.
- No new credits were available In FY86 and
FY87. However, the 1988-92 Development
Program includes significant expansion of
university faculties.
- Certification not introduced. However. NOE
introduced new examination system for upper
secondary level in 1987/88.
- The study is underway and expected to be
completed by December 1988.
Efficienev of Education
- Strengthen       - Reduce fellowships by 50  for first-time         - Agreed eligibility criteria are being
Student          repeaters.                                         strictly enforced.
Performance
Incentives     - Suspend foreign fellowsbips for all students
in Higher        repeating more than 1 year.
Education
- Develop and implement credit-hour system.        - The study on credit-hour system is underway anc
is expected to be completed by Oecember 1988.
/a Actions described in Schedule 6 of the Loan Agreement as co.Jitions of the 2nd tranche release.
The 2nd tranche was released on September 3. 1987.



- 75 -
X Vl
Page 5 of 7
tducation Sector Qeinm Preram (tont6d)
Pale ifArMA                       Cendgi1tnal tX                                    Prooress to Date
Public exoefAidiupe
- Restrain Growth  - Iawse registration fees.                          - Introduction of registration fees delayed.
of Recurrent
Expenditures   - Raise teaching hours.                             - Number of hours of instruction has been
en Hitgher                                                           increased by more than 20S.
Education and  - Revise stipend formula.
Strengthen
Cost Recovery  - Reduce fellowships.                               - Agreed eligibility criteria are being strictly
enforced.
- Reduce boarding provisions in university         - Boarding facilities were curtailed in 1986/87.
faculties.
- Contain Primary  - Reduce unit costs of primary and secondary        - Application of revised norms and design
a Secondary       school construction,                               resulted in 30X savings for conventional
School Costs                                                         construction at primary and secondary levels.
- Reduce school replacement requirements           - Studies on replseement and teaching staff
through improved school maintenance,               ratios are underway and expected to be
completed by December 1988.
- Reduce ratio of administrative to teaching
staff at secondary level.
- Strengthen                                                           - A system of incentives to encourage development
Private Sector                                                       of quality private sclools was approved by
Participation                                                        Parliament in June 1987.
in Education
78S78/p47



- 76 -
ANNE VI
Page 6 oF I
Lndustrial and Trade Policy adiuattmnt Loas tITPAs I a I A^
(2277-MAR a 204-MAR)
Policy Area                       CsnditItnalitx                                     Proaress to Oatn
Reform              - Reduction of special import tax from 15X         - Achieved with SIT and stamp duty subsequently
of Protection      to 5S.                                              replaced in January 1988 by a  aw across-
the-board import tax at a rate of 12.5%.
- Elimination of import licensing requirements   - Achieved with products subject to licensing
on an agreed list of products.                     requirements equal to 11  of total import value
and 342 of total industrial production.
Tariff Reform       - Reduction of maximum nominal tariff ceiling    - Achieved with tariff floor increased to 2.5.
from 2002 to 45X.                                  thereby reducing the dispersion of nominal and
effective rates of protection.
Exchange Rate       - Maintenance of a flexible exchange rate          - Achieved with exchange rate depreciation by
Management          policy.                                            about 182 in real terms since 1983.
Export Promotion   - Elimination of statistical export tax.            - Achieved.
- Elimination of export licensing requirements   - Achieved on all products except barytine. lead
on virtually all products.                         minerals, unrefined lead. and charcoal.
- Completion of a study on export marketing        - Achieved with OCE export monopoly being
of fresh fruits and vegetables.                    subsequently abolished.
- Rationalization of special customs regime.       - Temporary admission scheme was broadened to
include indirect exporters; wastage rates were
revised; negative list for exporters was
abolished: on-site customs clearance was
introduced; Opriarw export scheme was
introduced; customs procedures were simplified
resulting In a 50X decrease in processing time;
global annual guarantees were introduced;
ex post settlement of customs litigation was
introduced; increase in foreign exchange
allocation to exporters; revision of existing
export code.
Foreign Trade       - Creation of a Committee for the                  - Committee has been created and is fully
Procedures          simplification of Foreign Trade Procedures.        functioning.
Public Investment  - Introduction of new investment budgetary          - Achieved with further progress envisaged under
Program and         techniques to keep comitments in line with         the PERL, the SAL. and the PAL.
Public             available resources.
Enterprises
- Updatirg of arrears matrix for public
enterprises, preparation of arrears reduction
program and reduction of net government
arrears by ON 1 billion.
A/   All conditions were fulfilled for the second tranches of ITPA-I and ITPA-II on September 19, 1984. and
October 30. 1986. respectively. The two loans were subsequently closed on June 30. 1985. and November 20.
1986.



- 77 -
ANNEX VI
Page I of 7
Industrial and Trad. Poliev Adjustment Loans IITPAs I a -Ib (contd)
Policy  Are&                      eendttlitv                                         Proatess to Date
Tax Reform         - Approval of enabling legislation to               - VAT replaced TPS regime and major studies in
rationalize existing sale tax (TPS) and            fiscal reform achieved in the context of the
elimination of anti-expert bias.                   SAL.
Price Controls      - Liberalization of priCe controls on              - Achieved.
60 product categories.
Interest Rates     - Increased flexibility In establishing             - Maxima and minima were set *cr lending and
interest rates at levels dictated by               deposit rates respectively on maturities of
market forces.                                      less than I year; a subcoamission on interest
rate policy was created: and certain interest
rate rebates were eliminated.
Developoent of      - Increased competition between Treasury and       - Elimination of obligatory placement and reserve
Money Market        their borrowers for available supply of            requirements on time deposits; direct issue of
loanable funds.                                    Treasury bonds to the non-financial public.
greater recourse of the Treasury to the money
market.
Efficiency of       - Promotion of a more competitive                  - Allocation of credit ceilings to reflect
the  anking         interbank environment,                             deposit mobilization efforts; extension of
Sector                                                                 third-signature rights to commercial banks for
medium-term credits; completion of a study to
revise bank comtissions.
Foreign             - Establishment of a foreign exchange risk         - Achieved but will be revised under the SAL
Exchange Risk       scheme.                                            to mitigate further losses to the Treasury.
78S7B/p49



MAP SECTION



IBRO20864
Mcditer-ra,entl1    Sea
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A _It o r 
0.~~~~~~~~~4
3r?
30'
____one_t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 0'   rRA WOA S
'-..w   r/  p                                    OWAN Of FER
~,t -.X
Tft                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN ROADS
104J11 PINCIPALES
+     AJIPOST
AEROPOIRYS
/Se~~~~~~~~~~ i-ce c*wia
w~~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1'9 _'''  C)fAI
011411U  $mmOvwNC
*    NATIONAL CAPIAL
CAPITAL DTITAr
--   PROVINCE EOUNDARIES
11     lp     IF          MOMFTMLIS S PRO //NC'S
5   I~~~CI    I~~~S RC~~~~1US ~INTERNATiONAL BOUNDARIES
KONIr\S DETAT
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAIES (APPROMATE
T.s S                                                                                                   FONtERES  TAT PPROMO D-' 'M
2SV
(T=nX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AC "      /9TI_  P, 



