Report No. PID10299
Project Name                     Yemen, Republic of-Health Reform Support(@)
Project (HRSP)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Reform and Financing
Project ID                       YEPE43254
Borrower(s)                      GOVT. OF YEMEN
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND
POPULATION
Address: Ministry of Public Health and
Population, P.O. Box 8622, Sana'a,
Republic of Yemen
Contact Person: H.E. Abdul Nasser Al-Munibari
Tel: 967-1-252193
Fax: 967-1-252247
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                January 30, 2002
Projected Appraisal Date         October 24, 2001
Projected Board Date             March 28, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Main Sector Issues:Yemen is at an early stage of the health
(epidemiological and demographic) transition, with morbidity and mortality
from communicable diseases dominating that from non-communicable diseases
and high Total Fertility Rate (TFR). The most prevalent conditions are
diarrheal diseases, malnutrition, acute respiratory infections,
complications of pregnancy, and malaria. Chronic diseases, such as cancer
and heart disease and injuries are also on the rise. Health outcomes are
extremely poor. Between 1992 and 1997, TFR declined from 7.7 to 6.5
children per women, infant mortality rate from 103 to 75 live births, and
under five mortality rate from 137 to 105 live births. Adult mortality,
total fertility and maternal mortality rates are among the highest in the
Middle East and North Africa region, respectively. Yemen is also one of
the few countries in the region where under-nutrition is a major problem,
particularly among children where about 50 percent are malnourished and
stunted. Communicable diseases such as malaria and tuberculosis pose
significant burden of disease. While limited information is available on
the current epidemiological situation of HIV/AIDS in Yemen, it is of a
growing concern. Among Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STD) clinic
patients, HIV prevalence among patients tested increased from 2 percent in
1993 to 5 percent in 1997. In 1998, 3 percent of STD clinic patients
tested were HIV positive. Population growth, at 3.6 percent per year
(1998), is among the highest in the world, family planning activities are
minimal, and the use of modern contraceptives is particularly low at 10
percent. The situation is compounded by the wide regional disparities and
the significant differences between urban and rural conditions. For
example, TFR in rural areas is 23 percent higher than the overall total
for the country and rural children have a 22 percent greater chance of



dying in their first five years than urban children. Yemen faces major
challenges to improving the health status of its population, which can be
summarized as follows:Lack of efficiency in public spending on health:
Lack of efficiency in the allocation and use of public budget in the
health sector is pervasive. There is excessive centralization of resource
management and the allocation of public resources is not based on need,
e.g., excessive infrastructure investments that are usually clustered in
certain geographic areas particularly urban and mostly focused on tertiary
care, very low budgets for operations and maintenance, and very low
utilization rates. The basic inputs needed at the facility level for
providing proper care are lacking.Lack of accessibility to health
services: Less than half of the population, particularly those living in
the rural areas, has access to basic health services. Physical access is
limited by lack of transportation, rough geographic terrain, and a
dysfunctional health infrastructure (many health units are literally
closed, others are open but either not staffed or without adequate
supplies or both). Lack of financial access arises from the fact that the
availability of health services generally corresponds with the ability to
make cash payments whether direct (cost sharing in public and
fee-for-service in private facilities) or indirect (e.g.,
transportation). Social constraints also exist; for example, it may be
difficult for women, in traditional communities, to seek care if the
service provider is not female or if she does not have an escort.Lack of
quality of health services: The quality of existing services is poor,
particularly in the public sector, thus contributing to the country's poor
health outcomes. The poor quality is attributed to many factors. For
example, inputs for providing services are inadequate, e.g.,
unavailability of drugs and medical supplies. In addition, there is lack
of regulation, standards, and protocols. Moreover, there is poor
maintenance of facilities and equipment. There is also lack of continuity
of care both vertical (referral system from one level to another) and
horizontal (service integration). These are compounded by the poor
management practices at the central and facility levels and low morale of
service providers. Lack of institutional capacity and financial
viability: The institutional framework of the health sector is overly
centralized, poorly coordinated, and weak. The MOPHP core functions such
as policy analysis, strategic planning, sector regulation, performance
evaluation and monitoring, and sector coordination are under-developed.
Management systems such as financial management, human resources, and
information systems are weak. The MOPHP management structure is out-dated
and the health districts, on which depends the District Health System
model, are rudimentary. The financial viability is uncertain because of
the rising costs of health care (e.g., drugs and technology), low public
spending overall, high out-of-pocket spending (59 percent of total
spending and 3 percent of household income), and the lack of risk-pooling
arrangements such as formal social insurance coverage.Government
Strategy:In response to the above challenges, the MOPHP has launched in
1998 a comprehensive sector reform initiative aimed at improving equity,
quality, efficiency, effectiveness, accessibility, and the long-term
sustainability of health services. The MOPHP acknowledged the constraints
people face in affording and accessing care as well as its own budgetary
limitations. The reform is to be undertaken in the context of the
Government's broader reform strategy, which supports public expenditure
rationalization and restructuring, management decentralization, and civil
service reform.The MOPHP's health reform program has nine components: (i)
- 2 -



decentralization of planning, decision making, and financial management;
(ii) redefinition of the role of the public sector with a stronger
emphasis on policy, regulation, and public health, and establishment of
limits on its role as service provider; (iii) district health system
approach; (iv) community co-management of health systems; (v) cost sharing
(Footnote: the government's cost sharing policy includes exemption for the
poor particularly for basic services; therefore this project does not
require any cost sharing for its supported health services because: (i)
the project will be supporting basic maternal and child health services
and (ii) the selected districts are among the poorest in Yemen.); (vi)
essential drugs policy, and realignment of the logistics system for drugs
and medical supplies; (vii) decentralized, outcome-based management system
from the central to the community level; (viii) hospital autonomy and
eventual basic health facility autonomy; and (ix) encouragement of
responsible participation by the private sector and NGOs through
appropriate policy design regulation. The MOPHP's health reform program
will take place in two phases: (i) an initiation phase in which all key
aspects of the reform will be initiated, lessons learned, key legislation
passed, district health systems put in place in at least 40 percent of
districts, revisions of the financial system initiated, and major actors
brought on board; and (ii) a consolidation phase in which the lessons
learned in the initiation phase can be fashioned into long term systems,
policies and regulations, and the remainder of the districts brought into
the health district system.This project will support the "initiation
phase" of the MOPHP health reform program with particular emphasis on
certain critical components such as the District Health System, which is
also supported by several donors such as the EC and GTZ. The project will
build on the lessons learned from the Family Health Project and would
constitute a transition in support of the "consolidation phase" possibly
as an Adaptable Program Lending (APL) operation, which may start towards
the end of this project. The project would also support the development
of the technical studies that would enable the MOPHP in expanding the
implementation of its strategy in all the governorates through parallel
financing from other donors.
2. Objectives
The Project Development Objectives (PDO) are to: (i) increase
accessibility of women and children to a package of integrated maternal
and child health services provided in district hospitals and health
centers in selected districts and (ii) improve the effectiveness of
national public health programs and the resource allocation within the
public health sector in Yemen.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The HRSP will address a number of inter-sectoral issues such as financial
management and infrastructure planning, which will require extensive
interactions between MOPHP and MOPD and MOF.MOPHP will benefit from the
Bank's comparative advantage, over other donors, in overall Public Sector
Management and coordination with several central ministries. The Bank is
already engaged with GOY in budget restructuring, public expenditures
reviews, civil service reform, and the rationalization of MOPHP
infrastructure. The Bank will be therefore in a strong position to help
MOPHP in its dialog with the MOF to streamline the budget process and
improve financial transparency and with the MOPD in health infrastructure
planning.Moreover, the GOY is preparing a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
-3 -



(PRSP) supported by the Bank/IMF and several other donors. The health
sector is an integral part of the PRSP; hence the importance of the
continued involvement of the Bank in supporting the health sector to
ensure that health interventions are adequately targeting the poor.     This
project will also lay the foundation for sector work required for any
potential PRSC.The project will also bring to MOPHP the benefit of the
Bank's experience and access to expertise in the areas of public
expenditures analysis and restructuring and health management information
systems, which are highly specialized technical areas that are not
supported by any other donor.
4. Description
The HRSP will support three components. The first component will
strengthen the service delivery at the district level, as part of the
MOPHP's policy to operationalize a District Health System (DHS), by
rehabilitating district hospitals and health centers in 6 - 8 districts to
ensure the effective delivery of a Package of Integrated Maternal and
Child (PIMAC) health services together with supporting the
decentralization of resource management. The other two components will
support systemic interventions at the national level in public health and
health systems management.By Component:Project Component 1 - US$19.67
million Strengthening Health Service DeliveryThe objective of this
component is to strengthen the operational management at the district
level and the delivery of the PIMAC health services in about 6 - 8
district hospitals and approximately 16 health centers in 6 - 8 districts,
which will serve approximately 1.5 million Yemenis. This is part of
MOPHP's Health Sector Reform (HSR) strategy to implement a DHS, which is
supported by several donors such as GTZ and EC.Sub-component 1.1:
Decentralized Operational Management ($1.03 million)The objective of this
subcomponent is to improve management systems and procedures at the level
of the Governorate and District Health Offices in the selected
governorates/districts in support of decentralization of resource
management to have an operational DHS in accordance with the Local
Authority Law. The project will support the development of supervision
guidelines and the provision of management training for the District
Health Team to carry out their responsibilities. The project will finance
computers and office equipment, training, technical assistance,
rehabilitation of offices, and operational cost. Sub-component 1.2:
Provision of a Package of Integrated Maternal and Child Health Services
($18.64 million)The PIMAC health services will be built on the clinical
service delivery elements of Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses
(IMCI) and expanded Reproductive Health services including Family Planning
and Essential Obstetric Care (EOC). This subcomponent will support the
effective delivery of the PIMAC health services in district hospitals and
health centers including the development of clinical standards and
upgrading the skills of health care providers. The project will finance
the consultancy services to design and supervise the rehabilitation of
about 6 - 8 district hospitals and approximately 16 health centers in 6 -
8 districts, the provision of technical assistance, training, medical
supplies, drugs, medical equipment, and operational cost. Project
Component 2 - US$3.89 million Strengthening Public Health
ProgramsStrengthening public health programs may dramatically improve the
health status in Yemen. Several development partners are providing
support to different programs. For example, UNICEF and WHO are supporting
the Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI) and IMCI, and UNFPA is
- 4 -



supporting reproductive health/family planning. However, malaria, which
has a huge burden of disease, and health education, which supports almost
all public health programs and increase their effectiveness, are not
receiving adequate support. The objective of this component is therefore
to improve the effectiveness of public health programs by strengthening
two critical programs, namely, malaria and health education.Sub-component
2.1: Malaria ($2.13 million)It is estimated that 2 million cases of
malaria are diagnosed each year in Yemen, resulting in approximately
20,000 deaths. The government has endorsed the strategic plan developed
by the National Malaria Control Program (NMCP), which is consistent with
the goals of the global Roll Back Malaria (RBM) initiative.The objective
of this subcomponent is to strengthen the NMCP activities through the
application of cost-effective interventions. This subcomponent will be
implemented by the NMCP and the National Center for Epidemiology and
Disease Surveillance in close collaboration with WHO. This subcomponent
will include four major activities: (i) improved diagnosis and case
management through establishing treatment policies and quality referral
laboratories; (ii) integrated vector management, including promotion of
personal protection measures, (iii) epidemic detection and response
through implementing the epidemic preparedness plan, and (iv) disease
surveillance. The Credit will finance equipment and supplies for
laboratories and vector control activities, procurement of Insecticide
Treated Materials (ITMs), minor renovations of referral laboratories,
vehicles for vector control and surveillance, technical assistance,
training, and operational cost.Support for long-term technical assistance
and for most of the epidemic preparedness plan is being provided by
WHO/EMRO.Sub-component 2.2: Health Education ($1.76 million)Health
Education is one of the most cost-effective public health interventions,
as it supports healthy behavioral changes and increases demand on
preventive services. Under the IDA financed Family Health Project, health
education was supported by strengthening the mass communication
program.The objective of this subcomponent is to strengthen the health
education in order to improve the effectiveness of public health programs
by: (i) increasing the demand for the PIMAC health services; (ii)
increasing public awareness about priority public health programs; and
(iii) changing selected key behaviors that can have substantial effect on
the health of the population, especially mothers and children. This
subcomponent will strengthen the institutional capacity of the health
education program. It will also support the development of a
Communication for Behavior Change (CBC) program to address the priority
health problems, primarily reproductive health/family planning, malaria,
nutrition, and HIV/AIDS.The implementation of this subcomponent will be
carried out by the National Center for Health Education and Information.
The Credit will finance health education equipment, printed materials,
conducting health-awareness campaigns, training, technical assistance, and
operational cost.Project Component 3 - US$6.44 million Improving Health
Systems ManagementMuch of the failure in ensuring availability of health
services to the population is attributed to the lack of management
capacity. The objective of this component is therefore to improve the
MOPHP's capacity in the effective allocation and efficient use of
available resources. This conforms to the Government's broader reform
strategy, which supports public expenditure rationalization and
restructuring, management decentralization, and civil service reform. To
this effect, the HRSP will support the following critical
systems.Sub-component 3.1: Health Finance and Management ($2.07
- 5-



million)The objective of this sub-component is to support human resources
development in the areas of financial analysis and health systems
management. The support of health finance will build on the work that was
previously undertaken by the MOPHP. There are three activities that will
be implemented by the MOPHP/Financial Affairs department. These include:
(i) Public Expenditures Programming to improve resource allocation,
particularly increasing the operations and maintenance (O&M) budget; (ii)
National Health Accounts (NHA) to provide a detailed analysis on total
health spending; and (iii) Health Insurance Studies to assess the
feasibility of developing a health insurance program in Yemen. In
management, a National Center for Management Training (NCMT) will be
established and a national training program will be developed to provide
short-term training courses to all the MOPHP managerial levels. The
Credit will finance minor renovations of the NCMT, the costs of delivering
the training courses, the provision of furniture and equipment, technical
assistance, training, and operational cost.Sub-component 3.2: Health
Management Information System ($3.37 million)The HMIS will support
improved management decision in resource allocation and utilization by
automating the information related to budget preparation and expenditures,
human resources, and infrastructure. The HMIS will develop the
information infrastructure for the collection and analysis of basic
morbidity and mortality health indicators and service utilization. This
will build on the HMIS framework and Geographic Information System (GIS)
developed under the IDA financed Family Health Project (FHP), which is
also being supported by WHO and EC. This subcomponent will support the
development of three subsystems: (i) a Management Decision Support System
(MDSS) to improve resource allocation; (ii) the Health Information System
(HIS) to collect and analyze utilization and disease prevalence data; and
the GIS to present the data graphically. This subcomponent will be
implemented by the Department of Information and Biostatistics. The
Credit will finance software development, computer equipment, networking
and site preparation, technical assistance, and operational
cost.Sub-component 3.3: Credit Administration and Project Coordination
($1.00 million)This subcomponent will finance the Credit Administration
Unit (CAU), which will be responsible for project financial and
procurement management and supporting the Steering Committee (SC) and
Project Coordination Committee (PCC). The project will finance CAU staff,
office furniture, computers, office equipment and supplies, and
incrementatl operational cost. For more details on functional
relationships, please refer to section C.4.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
IDA                      27.47
Total Project Cost       30.17
6. Implementation
Project Implementation ArrangementsThe MOPHP will have the overall
responsibility for implementing the HRSP. The HRSP subcomponents will be
implemented by the concerned MOPHP departments and programs. In order to
manage the project in an integrated and coordinated manner, and to
expedite decisions and actions, there will be three management groups. The
first group would be the SC for policy decisions and project oversight.
The second group would be the PCC, which would provide the coordination
required for the effective project implementation by the concerned heads
- 6-



of the MOPHP departments and programs. And the third group would be the
CAU to manage the day-to-day project administration. The organizational
chart (Chart No. 1) illustrates how MOPHP will function to integrate the
implementation of the HRSP into its normal operations. It presents a
simplified version of the MOPHP organization showing only the concerned
departments and programs that will participate in the implementation of
the HRSP. This chart also shows which HRSP subcomponents will be
implemented by which departments and programs as well as the functional
relationships. A brief description of the three management groups is
given below.Steering Committee. The SC would be chaired by the Minister of
Public Health and Population or his designee, and it would be composed of
MOPHP Deputy Ministers, one representative of the Ministry of Planning and
Development, and one representative of the Ministry of Finance. The SC
will act as the board of directors of the project and will: (i) review and
approve annual plans and budgets submitted by the PCC; (ii) secure
government funding on a timely basis for the project; and (iii) meet
periodically to review the progress reports submitted by the PCC on the
project's implementation status.Project Coordination Committee. The PCC
will be chaired by the Minister of Public Health and Population or his
designee, and it will be composed of the heads of the departments and
programs involved in the implementation of the project, and the CAU
administrator. The PCC will be supported by consultants in critical areas
such as Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). The PCC will: (i) ensure that
project implementation is in accordance with the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA), the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), and the
Operational Manual (OM); (ii) propose updates/revisions of the OM based on
implementation experience; (iii) prepare consolidated annual work plans
and budgets for submission to the SC; (iv) coordinate project's
components; (v) resolve issues occurring during project implementation;
(vi) review implementation progress and prepare technical progress reports
on a semi-annual basis; (vii) review the Project Progress Reports for
submission to the SC (encompassing financial, procurement, and technical
progress of project activities) on a semi-annual basis; and (viii)
supervise the M&E activities and the implementation of the Environmental
Management Plan (EMP).The Credit Administration Unit will be composed of
the following key staff: a Credit Administrator, a Financial Management
Specialist, a Procurement Specialist, an Accountant, and an Executive
Secretary. The CAU will: (i) assist the PCC in the project
implementation, in accordance with the DCA; (ii) handle procurement,
financial, and disbursement management including the preparation of
withdrawal applications under the project; (iii) prepare the financial and
procurement reports on a semi-annual basis; (iv) consolidate the
semi-annual Project Progress Reports (technical, financial and
procurement) for submission to the PCC and IDA; (v) facilitate the release
of counterpart funds in coordination with all the relevant government
ministries and agencies; and (vi) ensure that project accounts are audited
annually. The Credit Administrator will be responsible for managing the
CAU staff and report directly to the Minister of Public Health and
Population or his designee. He will support the SC and the PCC during all
IDA supervision missions, the Mid-Term Review and the Completion Mission,
and will contribute to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). He
will supervise the CAU staff to ensure that: (i) the Financial Management
Specialist maintains the financial management system up-to-date; (ii) the
auditor to carry out the independent annual audits of the project accounts
is recruited on a timely basis; and (iii) the Procurement Specialist
- 7 -



maintains a complete up-to-date record of all procurement carried out
under the project. He will also ensure that the Financial Management
Specialist coordinates his/her work, as needed, with the MOPHP-DG for
Financial Affairs on matters related to project finance and accounting,
and the timely availability of counterpart funds.Chart 1
7. Sustainability
The challenges facing the sustainability of the health delivery system in
the public sector are basically the financial viability and the
institutional capacity.Financially, most of the project's capital
investments will support civil works and medical equipment targeting only
existing health facilities, which will have limited recurrent costs
implications. The recurrent costs required to operate the newly developed
systems, such as the information systems, will be also minimal compared to
the capital investments costs, which will be financed by the project.
Nevertheless, the additional recurrent costs will need to be secured. To
this effect, the project will be supporting the steady increase in the
operations and maintenance budget as a key performance indicator to ensure
the financial viability of the project's outputs. Moreover, the project
will also support the development of several management systems, which
will greatly reduce waste and improve the efficiency in resource
utilization in the public health sector.The development of these systems
however will heavily depend on external (international and local)
technical assistance. To ensure a sustained institutional capacity, the
project will couple the systems development with extensive capacity
building activities aiming at upgrading the skills of MOPHP staff.
Overall, the systems development and the increased management capacity
will improve policy decision making in resource allocation and
utilization.All the above factors combined will support the sustainability
of the project's outputs.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The key lessons learned from prior IDA experience in the health sector and
reflected in the design of this project are the following:Unsustainable
capital investment: Decision on capital investment in health whether
through donors or MOPHP did not include a careful assessment of the public
finance implications of these inputs, thereby creating unsustainable
scenarios in the long run. This project will support the financial
management in MOPHP as well the analysis of public finance implications of
the proposed interventions to secure adequate recurrent expenses in the
long run. Weak project management capacity: The overall implementation of
the Family Health Project was not satisfactory due to the weak capacity in
the Project Management Unit (PMU) in particular and in the MOPHP in
general. The project design has therefore eliminated the PMU concept and
envisaged the implementation of the program directly through the
respective MOPHP departments. In order to assist the MOPHP in effectively
implementing the project, extensive technical support for MOPHP systems
development and capacity building will be provided as an integral part of
the project.Slow implementation of complex projects: The extended
duration that was required to complete the FHP activities including
project restructuring after the mid-term review suggested that complex
projects are more difficult and slower to implement. The MOPHP health
reform program is an ambitious and complex program, which will require
experimentation with pilots and new modalities. It was therefore
conceived to focus the IDA's financing on sector investments in support of
- 8 -



the District Health System and on the development of critical management
systems, which would be considered the HSR "initiation phase". This
phased manner would ensure the development of the learning curve for the
new modalities that can then be extended and replicated nationally, which
would constitute the "consolidation phase" of the HSR.Lack of donors'
coordination: There are a number of development partners who are actively
involved in supporting the health sector and the HSR program in
particular. Neither the MOPHP nor the donors made a concerted effort to
actively coordinate the health programs. This has resulted in duplication
of interventions and waste. Unlike previous projects that supported
vertical programs or focused on a particular approach or geographic area
and therefore did not require much coordination, health sector reform is
influencing all programs, systems, and service delivery levels and
affecting all population groups. The project has addressed this aspect by
endorsing and supporting the MOPHP's initiative to organize regular
periodic meetings with all donors to ensure effective coordination,
synergism and complementarity of technical assistance and program
interventions.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The only project components that have environmental
impact would be the rehabilitation of approximately 6 - 8 district
hospitals and 16 health centers in 6-8 districts. A desk review of the
environmental issues associated with hospitals and health clinics
complemented by field visits to one district hospital was carried out.
The review was based on information obtained during project preparation on
similar works carried out under the Family Health Project. Two types of
waste management issues were identified each requiring its own mitigation
measures. These issues are: (i) wastewater collection and disposal; and
(ii) solid waste collection and disposal. Regarding solid wastes
management, two parallel mitigative measures have been identified, one for
the contaminated hazardous wastes and the other for the non-hazardous
solid wastes. It should be noted, however, that specific EMPs will be
undertaken for each district hospital and health center to take into
account the site specific conditions. Each EMP will follow the Empirical
EMP carried out during Project Appraisal.The generic EMP was prepared
based on guidance agreed upon with MNSRE for the Environmental Assessment
of Health Care Sector Projects. The EMP provides specific recommendations
to address the main issues of hospital waste pollution abatement. At the
source, the recommendations would include provisions to address the
management aspects through capacity building of concerned staff and
provision of necessary handling and storage facilities and resources; and
at the disposal end, it would address the provisions for environmentally
sound treatment disposal facilities and capacity building of concerned
operational personnel. The project cost estimate include provisions for
investments in and of appropriate waste management and waste disposal
programs.The MOPHP, Environmental Protection Council (EPC) and its
Technical Secretariat (TS), concerned governorates, district health
facilities, local governments and beneficiary communities and concerned
NGOs are the key stakeholders.
11. Contact Point:
9



Task Manager
Sameh El-Saharty
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-0900
Fax:   (202) 473-0036
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
February 8, 2002.
- 10 -



