E532
Revised
Generic Environmental Management Plan
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Health Reform Support Project (HRSP)
1. Context
The Republic of Yemen lies at the southwestern tip of the Arabian Peninsula. The total land area is about
555,000 square kilometers (excluding the so called Empty Quarter). It is bordered by the Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia in the north, the Arabian Sea and Indian Ocean in the south, the Red Sea in the west, and the
Sultanate of Oman in the east. Yemen's landscape is characterized by low land coastal plains, a chain of
high and low mountain range and the highlands in the central and northern areas, the desert lands to the
east (the Empty Quarter) and islands.
The diversity of Yemen's topography has led to a diversity of climatic conditions. The coastal region is
characterized by high temperatures and humidity during the summer and moderate weather in the winter.
The interior and mountainous region is rather moderate during the summer and cold in the winter.
Moderate temperatures also prevail in the highlands and western plains in the summer and cold weather in
the winter, with the highest rainfall precipitation in the country ranging from 300-1000 mm per year. The
eastern desert region is characterized by hot summers and cold winters with low rainfall precipitation
ranging from 50-100 mm annually.
The population of Yemen has reached about 18 million inhabitants, which has been growing at an annual
rate of about 4%. About 25% of the population reside in urban centers, which has been increasing rapidly
in the last few years. Sana'a, the capital city, already has reached a population of about 1.4 million
inhabitants. The remaining population live in rural tribal communities most of which are located in the
highlands. Although it is difficult to identify an exact date for modem settlements in Yemen, the
archeological and cultural history of Yemen clearly shows a tribal diverse society. The population of the
coastal regions have mixed backgrounds with migrant population from the Horn of Africa and
southwestern India. The population of the mountain region and highlands are of Arab stock and have
been historically tied to the land along tribal boundaries, and the eastern plains are mainly populated by
Bedouins.
Administratively, Yemen is divided in 20 governorates in addition to the capital city of Sana'a.
Governorates are in turn sub-divided into 353 districts (to be reduced to 301), comprising about 2080 sub-
districts (uzlas). Sub-districts are further sub-divided into about 36,000 villages and about 64,000 hamlets.
The proposed Health Reform Support Project (HRSP) would complement the Government and donors
efforts to address a number of serious health problems through good clinical health care facilities. The
Government health sector strategy proposes to decentralize the management of much service provision
with more community involvement in support of their own health services. This process would also train
and equip the decentralized units (including secondary hospitals), and would expand preventive and
promotion services. The Bank would support this strategy with an emphasis on maternal and child health,
addressing both overall public health sector management reforms and service delivery needs.
A national policy to address the management of hospital wastes, particularly of medical infectious
wastes, is none existent. Government's concern, however, is being addressed at project level. Therefore,
waste management issues associated with the rehabilitation of hospitals and health centers will be
addressed as an integral part of the HRSP. The consultant as part of the functional studies for the
rehabilitation of health care facilities will also conduct waste characterization studies to look at current
practices in the selected project areas, paying particular attention to on-site and off-site waste disposal
options. The study will also look into waste segregation practices at source, waste packaging, handling
and storage in-situ, as well as off-site transport and disposal, and community waste management and
disposal practices.
FILE COPY


﻿2. Description of the Project
The Project Development Objectives (PDO) are to increase accessibility of women and children to a
Package on Integrated Maternal and Child (PIMAC) health services to be provided in about 6-8 district
hospitals and 16 health centers in approximately 6-8 districts in about four governorates, and to improve
the allocation of resources within the health sector in Yemen.
The HRSP would support three main components. The first component will strengthen service delivery at
the district level, as part of the MOPHP's policy to operationalize a District Health System (DHS), by
upgrading district hospitals and health centers in about six to eight districts, to ensure the effective
delivery of PIMAC health services together with supporting the decentralization of resource management.
The second component would strengthen public health programs to complement similar programs
sponsored by development partners, such   as UNICEF's and WHO's Expanded Program        on
Immunization (EPI) and Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses (IMCI), respectively, UNFPA's
Reproductive Health and Family Planning, and WHO's National Malaria Control Program (NMCP). This
component would, therefore, strengthen two critical programs, namely, malaria control and health
education.
The third component would improve MOPHP's capacity to effectively allocate its available resources by
supporting two critical systems, namely, Health Finance and Management (HFM) and Health
Management Information System (HMIS).
3. Description of the institutional/regulatory set-up relative to environmental management of
health sector related issues
Environmental management in Yemen was first conceived immediately after unification in 1990 with the
creation of the Environmental Protection Council (EPC) by Prime Minister's Decree 94/1990. The EPC
replaced the two separate institutions for environmental management that existed in both The People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) and the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR). The EPC was an inter-
ministerial council with broad responsibilities to manage the nation's environment. In 1992 the EPC was
expanded with a Technical Secretariat (TS). The tasks and responsibilities of the TS were determined by
Prime Minister's Decree 34/1992. Three Directorates were set up to implement the TS's functions,
namely, General Directorate of Environmental Protection, General Directorate of Planning and Data, and
General Directorate of Financial and Administrative Affairs. The mandate of the EPC is summarized
below:
a. Propose general policies to protect the environment.
b. Coordinate the efforts of national, regional and international agencies involved in environmental
protection.
c. Set up standards for control of air and water pollution and land degradation.
d. Formulate national environmental legislation and regulations and develop recommendations for
ratification     of international environmental agreements.
e. Set up effective international cooperation and accommodate international environmental funds.
f. Collect information, undertake assessments and monitor mitigation measures.
g. Promote environmental education and public awareness on environmental issues.
h. Monitor the nation's environment and report periodically to the Cabinet.
i. Prepare national study and education programs to train Yemeni senior staff in environmental affairs.
And
j. Organize seminars and lectures on environment and represent Yemen at international conferences.


﻿The EPC was abolished in 2001 and its mandate, responsibilities and institutional framework were
transferred to the newly created Environment Protection Authority (EPA), which was placed under the
oversight of the Ministry of Tourism and Environment. The EPA was established by Presidential Decree
99 of 2001, issued on June 30, 2001. EPA's by-laws have been drafted and are under review for the
approval of the Prime Minister. EPA took over the institutional structure and programs of EPC. EPA,
however, is operating under a limited budget and most resources and assistance is funded by donors and
international conventions for the protection of the environment, biodiversity and climate change.
Although some progress has been obtained with donor assistance in the development of environmental
management, there is, however, substantial work ahead to address in a comprehensive way the key
environmental issues. It should also be noted, however, that implementation and management of pollution
abatement measures is not defined due to a lack of legislation, awareness and enforcement regulations.
Specifically, in the health sector, MOPHP with the help of donors has taken the initiative to address
environmental issues associated with hospitals and health clinics. In this context, however, it should be
distinguished between environmental aspects within the health services facilities and the environmental
impact of such facilities associated with solid and liquid wastes generated by them. Regarding the
environmental health within health facilities, the MOPHP Health Services Department is responsible for
ensuring that such service areas are adequately designed and maintained. Similarly, the Engineering
Department is responsible for the operation and maintenance of services for the disposal of wastewater
and solid wastes. It should be noted, however, that such services are very weak in terms of human
resources with experience in addressing such concerns, and in terms of budgetary resources to properly
operate and maintain such services. These are areas which will require substantial investment in human
resource capacity building and properly designed facilities.
Hospital and health centers in urban areas currently are served by existing municipal wastewater systems
and solid waste disposal services, where they exist. Otherwise, such health facilities are provided with
own installations for disposal in-situ. It should be noted, however, that such facilities do not meet any
internationally acceptable standards and there is substantial need of improvements. Solving these issues,
however, will require the intervention of the central and local government authorities. In some cases on
site disposal may not be feasible and off site disposal would be the only viable option. The latter
alternative would fall within the political bounds of local and central government authorities.
Donors such as IDA, the Government of the Netherlands and Germany (KfW and GTZ) have been
assisting the Government of Yemen for many years in addressing problems of wastewater disposal and
solid waste management. This assistance has been in the form of technical assistance and grant financing
of institutional and policy aspects as well as projects in selected parts of the country. But the areas
without any environmentally sound disposal of wastewaters and solid wastes far exceed the few areas
where pilot operations have been started or completed.
The EPA will require further support from donors to address the environmental concerns more broadly
nationwide. More coordination among donors will be necessary to strengthen synergies and complement
such initiatives. The proposed HRSP would coordinate its programs with those of donors working in the
same geographic areas, and it would also cooperate with central and concerned local government
authorities in finding suitable and cost-effective solutions to the environmental concerns posed by health
services facilities.
4. Identification and role of stakeholders
The main stakeholders are the MOPHP, the EPA, the concerned governorates and districts authorities, the
hospitals and district health centers, the community organizations (including NGOs) and the directly
affected and beneficiary population.


﻿The MOPHP will be responsible for implementing the improvements to district hospitals and health
centers, and will build capacity of its staff in the proper administration of environmental concerns both in
terms of occupational health hazards as well as for the welfare of the beneficiary communities. In this
regard, health education and public awareness campaigns will be undertaken to address such concerns.
The EPA will participate in the review of the recommended environmental pollution mitigation measures,
in setting regulatory requirements, and in the coordination with the concerned stakeholders such as, the
governorate and local authorities, and in findings cost-effective and environmentally sound solutions.
Addressing pollution abatement outside the bounds of hospitals and health centers will require the
involvement of the beneficiary communities as they currently lack adequate facilities for the
environmentally sound disposal of community generated wastes. In solving such community issues,
efforts will be made for promoting beneficiary participation through cooperative initiatives.
To the extent possible, the involvement of existing NGOs and private sector organizations in the
concerned communities will be sought. These organizations could play an important role particularly in
sustainability arrangements and in the monitoring of the environmental and health impacts. There is,
however, little experience in Yemen in promoting such participation at the level of the communities.
Therefore, the HRSP will make provisions for technical assistance and funding resources to promote such
initiatives. During the feasibility design of the proposed rehabilitation works for hospitals and health
centers, the consulting firm will study the social aspects of the proposed services in the beneficiary
community to evaluate and recommend initiatives to promote community involvement. Such
recommendations will include the provision of programs to launch public awareness campaigns and
holding public meetings as required to ensure there is local participation and commitment.
Main environmental impacts entailed by the project'
Direct
The HRSP would finance the rehabilitation of about six to eight district hospitals (ranging from 40 to 80
beds capacity) and about sixteen health centers in about six to eight districts in about four governorates.
The HRSP would complement the programs initiated under the Family Health Project and donors
initiatives. The project would only address the needs of targeted poor areas. More investments would be
required to gradually cover the needs in the rest of the country.
Regarding the environmental health conditions within the health facilities, such needs would be addressed
as part of the design of the rehabilitation works. This means that the service areas in addition to
addressing the space considerations, they would also consider the separation of areas subject to
contagious diseases, and the provision of well designed ventilation systems. Furthermore, capacity
building of concerned staff would also be considered by the project to ensure sustainability of preventive
measures.
Regarding the impact of hospitals and health centers on the surrounding environment, the main aspects of
concern would be the collection, treatment and disposal of wastewaters and solid wastes, particularly
infectious wastes. In addition to the risk posed by such wastes to contaminate the environment, it is of
concern the risk of cross contamination within health facility areas, which could result in health hazards
to people working in such facilities or people visiting them either as patients seeking medical attention or
their families and friends accompanying them.
Wastewaters pose a serious threat to both land and water resources. Therefore, special attention will be
given to the assessment of the surrounding areas to the proposed health facilities, in terms of the risks
such areas would be subjected to by wastewater collection, treatment and disposal. Special consideration
will be given to study the impact on private and public property to ensure the proper mitigation measures
are included in the design of the rehabilitation works.


﻿Solid waste disposal is also of concern as there are generally two major types of wastes to be generated by
health facilities: (i) common household wastes from cooking areas, office areas, etc.; and (ii) infectious
wastes, including sharps, scalpels, cultures, pathological wastes, blood bags, blood saturated swabs and
dressings. Both wastes are of concern from the point of view of public health and environmental hazard.
It is of paramount concern the proper collection, handling and disposal of infectious wastes, as such
wastes would present a threat to the health of people exposed to them at the source as well as the people
responsible for the collection, handling and ultimate treatment and disposal. Also, improper disposal of
infectious wastes could present a risk to domestic animals which would be in contact with them or use
them as food. Similarly, vectors such as flies, rats, cockroaches, mosquitoes and others exposed to such
substances would present a major threat to communities at large. These risks will be considered in the
design of the HRSP.
Indirect
Indirect impacts of the proposed facilities would be additional vehicular traffic due to increased use by
beneficiaries, or which may occur during rehabilitation works. However, such impacts are considered of
minor consequence because the rehabilitation works would be generally small in size. Also, the facilities
already exist in the selected communities and no new works have been considered. It should be noted that
the selected communities would be located primarily in small cities and towns where the vehicular traffic
conditions are of no significance.
5. Mitigation measures to be implemented
Mitigation of Direct impacts
The rehabilitation design of hospitals and health centers will take into account the following aspects:
Segregation of areas within the facilities where contaminated ambient air and wastes can be a threat
to both the employees as well as the public.
Areas that will generate infectious wastes will be provided with the proper means for the safe
collection and handling of infectious wastes.
Staff who will be in contact with infectious substances and wastes will receive the proper training and
awareness to ensure such substances are handled with the proper care and disposed of following the
proper procedures.
The design of the facilities will also include the preparation of an operations manual, which shall give
in detail all the necessary step-by-step procedures and protocols for the on-the-job safety measures
and for the proper disposal and handling of infectious wastes. The manual will also address protocols
and procedures associated with accidents at the work place, which could also result in health and
environmental hazards.
An environmental impact assessment will be carried out for each hospital and health facility to
determine whether on-site disposal is feasible, or whether off-site disposal would be the only
environmentally sound option.
Options for on-site treatment or disposal of infectious wastes, include high temperature autoclaves or
other thermal treatment techniques. Such on-site facilities will be the subject of subsequent site-
specific environmental analysis to ensure adequate environmental protection for the hospital premises
and nearby communities. The alternative treatment and disposal techniques would be discussed
during the individual environmental analysis studies with concerned local authorities and beneficiary
communities to ensure all the risks posed by such measures are properly addressed.
Options for disposal of infectious wastes that cannot be thermally treated would be at specially
designed burial facilities located at the local community waste disposal sites. The special facilities


﻿may consist of designated areas where concrete structures with adequate capacity and provisions to
control wastes on site would be provided. Other environmentally sound options may also be
considered. It should be noted, however, that most communities do not have any facilities for
environmentally sound disposal of solid wastes, and in such cases the local, regional authorities and
EPC will cooperate in the identification of sites and in the acquisition of land, whether it may be
public or private property. The HRSP will fund the necessary studies for the identification and
selection of such sites and the final solution would be reached with the participation of local
communities and authorities.
Common household solid wastes such as paper from offices and food wastes from kitchen areas
would be segregated at source and disposed of at community designated areas or recycled by the
private sector.
Wastewater disposal would address both the health hazards as well as the land and water pollution
abatement aspects. Wastewater disposal would include on-site and off-site alternatives. Wastewater
streams would be separated at the source and rainwater drains will not be combined with wastewaters.
Wastewater from kitchen sinks, showers, lavatories and laundry rooms would be collected and treated
separately from sewage from toilets. Drains from laboratories, which may carry chemical substances
not subject to biological degradation will also be collected separately for neutralization and safe
disposal at designated places.
o   On-site disposal would be feasible as long as it would not contaminate an existing ground water
source or would not pose an environmental threat to the health facilities and adjacent properties.
Such facilities would consist of separate neutralization pits for non-sewage wastewater, septic
tanks for sewage with compartments for separation of solid from liquids, holding pits for clear
sewage, and percolation pits for clear wastewaters. The solids compartment in septic tanks or
pits would be designed with means for easy cleaning with suction equipment or manually. Septic
sludge thus removed would be disposed of at community facilities where proper sludge drying
beds and filtrate evaporation ponds would be built as part of the project. Dried sludge would
then be disposed of at the same community facility site. Liquid wastes would be disposed of on
site. Clear sewage will require a detention time of at least twenty days for further anaerobic
treatment. The on-site disposal would consist of percolation pits built to adequate depths to
ensure deep percolation. In the cases where on-site percolation is not feasible either due to
environmental conditions or poor soil permeability (such as rocky soils), the off-site disposal
option should be considered.
o   Off-site disposal would consist of transporting the wastewater retained in holding tanks on-site
to designated places in the communities. At these places, wastewater treatment lagoons designed
as stabilizations ponds would be constructed. The detention time at these stabilization ponds
shall be in accordance with WHO design standards. To the extent feasible, treated effluents
would be reclaimed for irrigation of approved lands in accordance with WHO guidelines.
Options for final disposal of treated wastewaters would be: (i) infiltration for groundwater
recharge; (ii) evaporation ponds; (iii) land disposal for irrigation of approved crops and plants.
Waste management would take into account the option of contracting out such services to the private
sector for ensuring that the proper funding and accountability for adequate disposal are provided for
under the project.
Training as well as public awareness programs will be included in the design of the rehabilitation of
hospitals and health clinics. The training programs will be designed for the health care, operation and
maintenance and administrative staff. Public awareness programs will be designed for the benefit of the
public at large but also for the local government and community organizations.
Training of health care staff, particularly of staff working in laboratories, emergency rooms, health clinics
and operating rooms where infectious material will be generated will be trained on the proper use and
disposal of materials to protect their own health as well as the health of patients and people who may


﻿come in contact with such substances. Proper receptacles, color coded and labeled as infectious materials
will also be provided.
Training of cleaning staff on the proper use and disposal of cleaning substances that could pose infectious
risks to health and the environment will also be included in the design of the rehabilitation program. Staff
will also be trained on the safe handling and disposal of wastes at the designated places in the hospitals
and health centers, for further handling and processing.
Training of operation and maintenance and waste handling staff will also be undertaken to protect their
own health and to ensure they take the proper measures to protect the environment and public health.
Special training on the proper use and handling of infectious substances and particularly in the handling
of infectious wastes will also be included.
Training of administrative and supervisory staff responsible for the management of infectious substances
used in hospitals and in the management of wastes in general, and infectious wastes in particular, will also
be undertaken. Special daily reporting and logging systems will be developed in the hospital operations
manual, for supervisory staff to maintain and to ensure compliance with all the mitigation measures
provided under the project.
Regarding the proper operation and maintenance of waste handling and disposal equipment and facilities,
proper training programs will be included under the project to ensure sustainability of the systems. In this
context, assurances will be sought from government to provide the required budgets for preventative
maintenance and proper operation.
Regarding monitoring and evaluation of environmental management, provisions will be made in the
design of rehabilitation programs to ensure the required protocols, procedures, resources, awareness and
capacity building is provided to the concerned people and organizations responsible for supervisory roles.
Mitigation of indirect impacts
The indirect impacts anticipated, as explained above, are of minor concern. Such impacts are related with
the rehabilitation works.  The mitigation measures will be included as part of the design and
complemented during construction management. In this regard, adequate provisions will be included in
the construction contracts to ensure compliance with such mitigation measures.


﻿6. Cost of the mitigation measures, source of funding and implementing parties
Mitigating action     Cost (US$) -           Cost (US$) -0 & M     Implementing party
investment             Source of funding
Source of funding
On-site disposal      40,000/hospital        10.000/year/hospital  MOPEP
x 8 hospitals=320,000  x 8 hospitals=80,000
IDA and GOY funded     100% GOY funded
100%
Off-site disposal of  50,000/hospital        15,000/year/hospital   MOPHP
solid wastes
sitex 8 hospitals=400,000                    x 8 hospitals=120,000
and                    and
,000/hal10,000/health
15,00/heath cnter center/year
x  16 H.C.=240,000      x1 H C =6  ,0
x 8 hospitals=320,00
100% IDA and GOY unded
funded (excluding land
acquisition)
On-site wastewater    30,000/hospital        10,000/hospital/year   MOPHP
disposal              x 8 hospitals=240,000  x 8hospitals= 80,000 and
and                    5,000/health center/year
10,000/health center
x 16 H.C.=20,0001
100% IDA and GOY
funded
Off-site wastewater   50,000/hospital        20,000/hospital/year   MOPHP
disposal              x 8 hospitals= 400,000  x 8 hospitals= 160,000
and 15,000/health center  and 5,000/health
x 16 H.C.=240,000      center/year
100% IDA and GOY       x 16 H.C.= 80,000
funded (excluding land  100% GOY funded
acquisition)


﻿7. Supervision and monitoring
Mitigating action  Party            Party responsible   Frequency of   Frequency of
responsible of  of supervision      monitoring      supervision
monitoring
Hospital waste     Concerned        Hospital Director   Monthly        Daily
management         Hospital
measures
Off-site waste     concerned        Hospital Director;  Monthly        Weekly
management         hospital;
measures.
regional and     Governorate or     Monthly         Monthly
local           District
government;     environmental or
and             health official; and
community        Community leader   Monthly         Monthly
organization    or NGO.
MZ 12/19/01
Rev.01/21/02


