Report No. 23320
Report No: I043254 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 11/28/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF      Project ID: P043254
Project: RY-HEALTH REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT (HRSP)          Task Team Leader: Sameh
El-Saharty
Appraisal Date: October 24, 2001         IBRD Amount ($m):
Board Date: March 28, 2002       IDA Amount ($m): 25.44
Managing Unit: MNSHD     Sector: HR - Reform and Financing
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The Project Development Objectives (PDO) are to increase accessibility of
women and children to a package of integrated maternal and child health
services provided in district hospitals and health centers in selected
governorates and to improve the resource allocation within the public
health sector in Yemen.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The HRSP will support three components. The first component will
strengthen the service delivery at the district level, as part of the
MOPHP's policy to operationalize a District Health System (DHS), by
upgrading district hospitals and health centers in six districts to ensure
the effective delivery of a Package of Integrated Maternal and Child
(PIMAC) health services together with supporting the decentralization of
resource management. The other two components will support systemic
interventions at the national level in public health and health systems
management.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$18.25 million Strengthening Health Service
Delivery
The objective of this component is to strengthen the operations management
at the district level and the delivery of the PIMAC health services in six
district hospitals and approximately 16 health centers in six districts,
which would serve approximately 1.5 million Yemenis. This is part of
MOPHP' HSR strategy to implement a DHS, which is supported by several
donors such as GTZ and EC.
Sub-component 1.1: Decentralized Operational Management ($1.0 million)
The objective of this subcomponent is to improve management systems and
procedures at the level of the Governorate and District Health Offices in
the three selected governorates in order to have an operational DHS. The
project will support the development of supervision guidelines and the
provision of management training for the District Health Team to carry out



their responsibilities. The project will finance computers and office
equipment, training, technical assistance, and the institutionalization of
new management systems in accordance with the Local Authority Law.
Sub-component 1.2: Provide a Package of Integrated Maternal and Child
Health Services
($17.25 million)
The PIMAC health services will be built on the clinical service delivery
elements of Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses (IMCI) and
expanded Reproductive Health services including Family Planning and
Essential Obstetric Care (EOC). This subcomponent will finance the
delivery of the PIMAC health services in district hospitals and health
centers. The support will include the development of clinical standards,
upgrading the skills of health care providers, technical assistance, and
the provision of medical supplies and drugs. It would also finance the
consultancy services to design, supervise construction and the contracts
for the construction of the overall rehabilitation and upgrading works as
well as the medical equipment of about six district hospitals and 16
health centers in six districts.
Project Component 2 - US$3.54 million Strengthening Public Health Programs
Strengthening public health programs may dramatically improve the health
status in Yemen. Several development partners are providing support to
different programs. For example, UNICEF and WHO are supporting the
Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI) and IMCI, and UNFPA is supporting
Reproductive Health/Family Planning. However, Malaria, which has a huge
burden of disease, and Health Education, which supports almost all public
health programs and increase their effectiveness, are not receiving
adequate support. The objective of this component is therefore to improve
the effectiveness of public health programs by strengthening two critical
programs, namely, malaria and health education.
Sub-component 2.1: Malaria ($2.02 million)
It is estimated that 2 million cases of malaria are diagnosed each year in
Yemen, resulting in approximately 20,000 deaths. The government has
endorsed the strategic plan developed by the National Malaria Control
Program (NMCP), which is consistent with the goals of the global Roll Back
Malaria (RBM) initiative. The objective of this subcomponent is to
strengthen malaria control activities through the application of
cost-effective interventions. This subcomponent will be implemented by
the NMCP and the National Center for Epidemiology and Disease Surveillance
in close collaboration with WHO. This subcomponent will include four
major activities: (i) improved diagnosis and case management through
establishing treatment policies and quality referral laboratories; (ii)
integrated vector management, including promotion of personal protection
measures, (iii) epidemic detection and response through implementing the
epidemic preparedness plan, and (iv) malaria disease surveillance. The
Credit will support equipment and supplies for laboratories and vector
control activities, procurement of Insecticide Treated Nets (ITNs), minor
renovations for referral laboratories, vehicles for vector control, and
training. Support for long-term technical assistance and for most of the
epidemic preparedness plan is being provided by WHO/EMRO.
- 2 -



Sub-component 2.2: Health Education ($1.52 million)
Health Education is one of the most cost-effective public health
interventions, as it supports healthy behavioral changes and increases
demand on preventive services. Under the WB financed Family Health
Project, health education was supported by strengthening the mass
communication program.
The objective of this subcomponent is to improve the effectiveness of
public health programs by increasing the demand for the PIMAC health
services; increasing public awareness about priority public health
programs; and changing selected key behaviors that can have substantial
effect on the health of the population, especially mothers and children.
This subcomponent will strengthen the institutional capacity of the health
education program. It will also support the development of a
Communication for Behavior Change (CBC) program to address the priority
health problems, primarily reproductive health/family planning, malaria
and HIV/AIDS. While limited information is available on the current
epidemiological situation of HIV/AIDS in Yemen, it is of a growing
concern.   Among Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STD) clinic patients, HIV
prevalence among patients tested increased from 2 percent in 1993 to 5
percent in 1997. In 1998, 3 percent of STD clinic patients tested were
HIV positive. (footnote: World Health Organization 2000. Yemen:
Epidemiological Fact Sheet on HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted
infections, UNAIDS and WHO, Geneva.). The implementation of this
subcomponent will be carried out by the National Center for Health
Education and Information. The Credit will finance health education
equipment, printed materials, campaigns, training, and technical
assistance.
Project Component 3 - US$ 5.43 million Improving Health Systems Management
Much of the failure in ensuring availability of health services to the
population is attributed to the lack of management capacity. The
objective of this component is therefore to improve the MOPHP's capacity
in the effective allocation and efficient use of available resources.
This conforms to    the   Government's broader reform strategy, which
supports public expenditure rationalization and restructuring, management
decentralization, and civil service reform. To this effect, the HRSP will
support two critical systems.
Sub-component 3.1: Health Finance and Management ($1.98 million)
The objective of this sub-component is to support human resources
development in the areas of financial analysis and health systems
management. The support of health finance will build on the work that was
previously undertaken. There are three activities that will be
implemented by the MOPHP/Financial Affairs department. These include (i)
Public Expenditures Programming to improve resource allocation,
particularly increasing the operations and maintenance (O&M) budget; (ii)
National Health Accounts (NHA) to provide a detailed analysis on total
health spending; and (iii) Health Insurance Studies to assess the
feasibility of developing a health insurance program in Yemen. In
management, a National Center for Management Training (NCMT) will be
established and a national training program will be developed to provide
short-term training courses to all the MOPHP managerial levels. The
-3 -



Credit will finance minor renovations of the NCMT; the provision of
furniture and equipment; technical assistance; training; and the costs of
delivering the training courses.
Sub-component 3.2: Health Management Information System ($2.50 million)
The HMIS will support improved management decision in resource allocation
and utilization by automating the information related to budget
preparation and expenditures, human resources, and infrastructure. The
HMIS will develop the information infrastructure for the collection and
analysis of basic morbidity and mortality health indicators and service
utilization. This will build on the HMIS framework and GIS developed
under the WB financed FHP, which is also being supported by WHO and EC.
This subcomponent will support the development of three subsystems. A
Management Decision Support System (MDSS) to improve resource allocation.
The Health Information System (HIS) to collect and analyze utilization and
disease prevalence data. The Geographic Information System (GIS) to
present the data graphically. This subcomponent will be implemented by
the Department of Information and Biostatistics. The Credit will finance
the software development, hardware acquisition, site preparation,
technical assistance, and staff training.
Sub-component 3.3: Credit Administration and Project Coordination ($0.95
million)
This subcomponent will finance the Credit Administration Unit (CAU), which
will be responsible for project financial and procurement management. The
project will also provide logistics support such as computers, office
supplies, and secretarial staff to the Health Sector Reform Core Group
(HSR-CG) responsible for overall program steering and policy direction and
the Health Policy Analysis and Technical Support Unit (HPATSU) responsible
for policy analysis, and technical support and coordination.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The proposed project would include one subcomponent, PIMAC health
services, which would include works with a potential environmental impact.
This subcomponet would only cover six districts, which have not yet been
identified. The districts would be selected based on the following
criteria: (i) the health status using the Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) per
governorate; and (ii) the proportion of poverty in each governorate. Among
the governorates with the highest IMR, the 5-6 governorates with the
highest percentage of poor population would be identified. Governorates
already supported by major development partners would be excluded to
ensure other govenorates not yet receiving support would benefit from the
IDA funded project. On this basis, the districts that have a district
hospital and have the highest number of population would be the primary
candidates for selection. Since the specific facilities have yet to be
selected, it is not possible at this time to determine and environmental
impact associated with the siting of the project.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: A desk review of the potential environmental issues associated
- 4 -



with rehabilitation of hospital and health clincs was carried out based on
information obtained during project preparation. The Project was
classified B because only a limited scope of potential environmental
impacts were identified. Two types of waste management issues were
identified, each requiring its own mitigative measures. These issues are:
(i) wastewater collection and disposal; and (ii) solid waste collection
and disposal. Regarding solid waste management, it would be necessary to
introduce mitigative measures to separate contaminated hazardous
healthcare wastes from non-contaminated wastes.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)       No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The only safeguard issues associated with the project are those related
with environmental impacts of waste water and solid waste generated by
district hospitals and health facilities financed under the credit. There
would not be large scale, significant or irreversible impacts associated
with the proposed project.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
The proposed project would only trigger the policy on environemental
assessment (OP 4.01). Therefore, there would not be any potential
cumulative impacts associated with the application of more than one
safeguard policy, or from several project components.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
No potential long-term impacts are anticipated with future actvities in
the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
The site-specific EMPs for each health facility would include the analysis
of alternatives to be considered to address the potential environmental
issues.
-5-



II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
A simplified generic EMP will be prepared by the Borrower to outline the
major mitigation measures, training objectives and monitoring criteria
that will be incorporated into the project design. Public disclosure of
the generic EMP will take place in Yemen and at the Bank's Info Shop.
During project implementation the Borrower will prepare site-specific EMPs
for each of the six governorates where district hospitals and health
facilities will be rehabilitated. The site-specific EMPs would provide
specific recommendations to address the key issues associated with wastes
generated by hospitals and health centers. The recommendations would
include provisions to address the management aspects of concerned staff
through programs to raise awareness and for capacity building, and
provision of required resources; and at the disposal end, it would address
the provisions for environmentally sound disposal. The MOPHP, MOE,
concerned governorate officials, district health facilities and concerned
local governments would participate in the review process as main
stakeholders. The site-specific EMPs, in addition to addressing mitigative
measures, will address monitoring, evaluation and impact indicators and
procedures for follow-up during supervision of project execution. The
project would include the funding to cover the costs of all mitigative
measures and monitoring activities.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The key stakeholders include the MOPHP, the Ministry of Environment (MOE),
concerned governorates and corresponding district health facilities, and
concerned local governments. The site-specific EMPs would be discussed
with concerned representaives of each of these organizations, and would be
disclosed in MOPHP, MOE, concerned governorates and health facilities for
consultation by interested parties and the general public.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      1/15/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure 1/31/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop   2/15/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
- 6 -



Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Sameh El-Saharty         11/21/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Mario A. Zelaya, Environmental Specialist,
Consultant       11/21/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:        Allan Rotman/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:        Paloma Anos Casero/Person/World Bank
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Sherif Kamel F. Arif     11/26/01
Sector Manager/Director:         Jacques F. Baudouy       11/27/01
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
-7 -



