Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23717-YEM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 22.2 MILLION (US$27.53 MILLION)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
HEALTH REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT (HRSP)
February 27, 2002
Human Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 30, 2002)
Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YER)
YER 1 = US$0.00578
US$1 = YER 173
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL     Adaptable Program Lending           IMR      Infant Mortality Rate
ARI     Acute Respiratory Infection         ITMs     Insecticide Treated Materials
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy         MDSS     Management Decision Support System
CAU     Credit Administration Unit          MOF      Ministry of Finance
CDP     Child Development Project           MOPD     Ministry of Planning and Development
DCA     Development Credit Agreement        MOPHP    Ministry of Public Health and
DG      Director General                             Population
DHS     District Health System              NCEDS    National Center for Epidemiology and
DHT     District Health Team                         Disease Surveillance
EC      European Commission                 NCHMT National Center for Health Management
EMP     Environmental Management Plan                Training
EOC     Essential Obstetric Care            NHA      National Health Accounts
EPA     Environment Protection Authority    NMCP     National Malaria Control Program
EPC     Environmental Protection Council    OM       Operational Manual
EPI     Expanded Program on Immunization    O&M      Operations and Maintenance
FHP     Family Health Project               PCC      Project Coordination Committee
FMR     Financial Monitoring Report         PCD      Project Concept Document
GIS     Geographic Information System       PDO      Project Development Objectives
GOY     Government of Yemen                 PIMAC    Package of Integrated Maternal and
GTZ     German Technical Cooperation                 Child Health Services
HIS     Health Information System           PIP      Project Implementation Plan
HMIS    Health Management Information System  PPA    Project Preparation Advance
HRSP    Health Reform Support Project       PRSC     Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
HSR     Health Sector Reform                RBM      Roll Back Malaria
ICR     Implementation Completion Report    SC       Steering Committee
IDA     International Development Association  SIL   Specific Investment Loan
IMCI    Integrated Management of Childhood  STD      Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Illnesses                           TFR      Total Fertility Rate
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:  Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager/Director:  George Schieber/Jacques Baudouy
Task Team Leader:    Sameh El-Saharty



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT (HRSP)
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     8
3. Benefits and target population                                                    9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                               14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       16
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         16
2. Financial                                                                         17
3. Technical                                                                        18
4. Institutional                                                                     18
5. Environmental                                                                     19
6. Social                                                                           21
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               22



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  22
2. Critical risks                                                                  23
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   24
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          24
2. Other                                                                            24
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       24
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      24
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       25
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 28
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       34
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                 35
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             39
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    40
Annex 6a: Project Financial Management                                                 49
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  53
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 54
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                55
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          56
Annex 11: Environmental Management Plan                                                58
MAP



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Health Reform Support Project (HRSP)
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSHD
Date: February 27, 2002                        Team Leader: Sameh El-Saharty
Country Manager/Director: Mahmood A. Ayub      Sector Manager/Director: Jacques F. Baudouy
Project ID: P043254                            Sector(s): HR - Reform and Financing
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Health/Nutrition/Population
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit   [ Grant     [ Guarantee      [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: SDR 22.2 million (US$27.53 million equivalent)
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Financing Plan (US$m):   Source           Local             Foreign           Total
BORROWER                                       1.99              0.08            2.07
IDA                                            7.94             19.59           27.53
Total:                                         9.93             19.67           29.60
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND POPULATION
Address: Ministry of Public Health and Population, P.O. Box 8622, Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Contact Person: H.E. Abdul Nasser Al-Munibari
Tel: 967-1-252193          Fax: 967-1-252247
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY             2003        2004        2005       2006       2007        2008
Annual       0.23        0.91        5.66       8.70       7.93       4.10
Cumulative      0.23         1.14       6.80       15.50      23.43      27.53
Project implementation period: 2003 - 2007
Expected effectiveness date: 10/31/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2007
0C PAD Form Rev M.n:h. 2Y00



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Project Development Objectives (PDO) are to: (i) increase access for women and children to a
package of integrated maternal and child health services provided in district hospitals and health centers
in selected districts; and (ii) improve the effectiveness of national public health programs and the resource
allocation within the public health sector in Yemen.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key project performance indicators to be achieved by the year 2007 are the following:
* Improved maternal and child health as reflected by an increase in birth deliveries attended in
district hospitals in the selected districts;
*  Increased accessibility as reflected by an increase in utilization of health services in district
hospitals in the selected districts;
*  Increased health knowledge as reflected by an increase in the intention of currently married
women to use family planning; and
*  Improved resource allocation as reflected by an increase of Operations and Maintenance (O&M)
share of total Ministry of Public Health and Population (MOPHP) expenditures.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 19073     Date of latest CAS discussion: May 25, 1999
Poverty reduction is the central goal for International Development Association (IDA) operations in
Yemen. To this effect, the CAS has identified the following four interdependent objectives: (i) to create a
modern public administration; (ii) to attract diversified productive private investments; (iii) to prevent
shortage of fresh water; and (iv) to create an early stream of social benefits in education, health and other
services most valued by Yemenis which directly address poverty and gender gaps, and fortify the benefits
of other CAS objectives. The Board also discussed the Interim-Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper on
February 27, 2001 (document no. IDA/SecM-0109).
In relation to the fourth objective, the CAS further indicated that, in health, the challenge is to address a
number of serious health problems and operate quality clinical care facilities (basic and referral) all within
an extremely small budget. A health sector strategy prepared by the MOPHP proposes, as does the
education sector strategy, decentralizing the management of service provision (with much more
community involvement in support of their own health services), training and equipping adequately the
decentralized units (including secondary hospitals), and expanding preventive and promotive services.
The World Bank would support this strategy with an emphasis on maternal and child health, addressing
both overall sector management reforms and direct health service delivery needs.
The Health Reform Support Project (HRSP) has been designed to be fully consistent with the above-
mentioned strategy as it focuses on increasing accessibility to maternal and child health services,
strengthening public health programs, and improving health systems management.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1 Main Sector Issues:
Yemen is at an early stage of its health system (epidemiological and demographic) transition, with
morbidity and mortality rates from communicable diseases dominating those from non-communicable
2



diseases and high Total Fertility Rate (TFR). The most prevalent conditions are diarrheal diseases,
malnutrition, acute respiratory infections, complications of pregnancy, and malaria. Chronic diseases,
such as cancer, heart disease and injuries are also on the rise. Health outcomes are extremely poor.
Between 1992 and 1997, TFR declined from 7.7 to 6.5 children per women, infant mortality rate
decreased from 103 to 75 live births, and under five mortality rate went from 137 to 105 live births.'
Adult mortality, total fertility and maternal mortality rates are among the highest in the Middle East and
North Africa region. Yemen is also one of the few countries in the region where under-nutrition is a major
problem, particularly among children where about 50 percent are malnourished and stunted.2
Communicable diseases such as malaria and tuberculosis pose significant burden of disease. While
limited information is available on the current epidemiological situation of HIV/ATDS in Yemen, it is of
growing concern. Among Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STD) clinic patients, HIV prevalence among
patients tested increased from 2 percent in 1993 to 5 percent in 1997. In 1998, 3 percent of STD clinic
patients tested were HIV positive.3 Population growth, at 3.6 percent per year (1998), is among the
highest in the world, family planning activities are minimal, and the use of modern contraceptives is
particularly low at 10 percent. The situation is compounded by the wide regional disparities and the
significant differences between urban and rural conditions. For example, TFR in rural areas is 23 percent
higher than the overall total for the country and rural children have a 22 percent greater chance of dying
in their first five years than urban children.4 Yemen faces major challenges to improving the health status
of its population, which can be summarized as follows:
Lack of efficiencv in Public spending on health: Lack of efficiency in the allocation and use of public
funds in the health sector is pervasive. There is excessive centralization of resource management, e.g.,
control of the recurrent budget remains highly centralized where the central MOPHP retains direct control
over 46 percent of the recurrent budget. The allocation of public resources is not based on need, e.g.,
excessive infrastructure investments that are usually clustered in certain geographic areas, particularly
urban and mostly focused on tertiary care, very low budgets for operations and maintenance, and very low
utilization rates. The basic inputs needed at the facility level for providing proper care are not available.
Lack of accessibility to health services: Less than half of the population, particularly those living in the
rural areas, has access to basic health services. Physical access is limited by lack of transportation, rough
geographic terrain, and a dysfunctional health infrastructure (many health units are literally closed, others
are open but either not staffed or without adequate supplies, or both). Lack of financial access arises from
the fact that the availability of health services generally corresponds with the ability to make cash
payments whether direct (cost sharing in public and fee-for-service in private facilities) or indirect (e.g.,
transportation). Social constraints also exist, for example, it may be difficult for women in traditional
communities, to seek care if the service provider is not female or if she does not have an escort.
Lack of quality of health services: The quality of existing services is poor, particularly in the public
sector, thus contributing to the country's poor health outcomes. The poor quality is attributed to many
factors. For example, inputs for providing services are inadequate, e.g., unavailability of drugs and
medical supplies. In addition, there is lack of regulation, standards, and protocols, and poor maintenance
of facilities and equipment. There is also lack of continuity of care, both vertical (referral system from
one level to another) and horizontal (service integration).  These are compounded by the poor
management practices at the central and facility levels and low morale of service providers.
' Central Statistical Office and Macro International, 1998. Yemen Demographic and Maternal and Child Health
Survey 1997 [YDMCHS]. Sana'a, Yemen; November 1998.
2 UNICEF 1998. State of the World's Children, New York, USA.
3 World Health Organization 2000. Yemen: Epidemiological Fact Sheet on HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted
infections, UNAIDS and WHO, Geneva.
4 Central Statistical Office and Macro International, 1998.op.cit.
3



Lack of institutional capacity and financial viability: The institutional framework of the health sector
is overly centralized, poorly coordinated and weak. The MOPHP core functions such as policy analysis,
strategic planning, sector regulation, performance evaluation and monitoring, and sector coordination are
under-developed. Management systems such as financial management, human resources, and information
systems are weak. The MOPHP management structure is out-dated and the health districts on which the
District Health System model depends are rudimentary. The financial viability is uncertain because of the
rising costs of health care (e.g., drugs and technology), low public spending overall, high out-of-pocket
spending (59 percent of total spending and 3 percent of household income), and the lack of risk-pooling
arrangements such as formal social insurance coverage.
2.2 Government Strategy:
In response to the above challenges, the MOPHP launched a comprehensive sector reform initiative in
1998 aimed at improving equity, quality, efficiency, effectiveness, accessibility, and long-term
sustainability of health services. The MOPHP acknowledged the constraints people face in affording and
accessing care, as well as its own budgetary limitations. The reform is to be undertaken in the context of
the Government's broader reform strategy, which supports public expenditure rationalization and
restructuring, management decentralization, and civil service reform.
The MOPHP's health reform program has nine components: (i) decentralization of planning, decision
making, and financial management; (ii) redefinition of the role of the public sector with a stronger
emphasis on policy, regulation, and public health, and the establishment of limits on its role as service
provider; (iii) district health system approach; (iv) community co-management of health systems; (v) cost
sharing5; (vi) essential drugs policy, and realignment of the logistics system for drugs and medical
supplies; (vii) decentralized, outcome-based management system from the central to the community level;
(viii) hospital autonomy and eventual basic health facility autonomy; and (ix) encouragement of
responsible participation by the private sector and non-governmental organizations (NGO) through
appropriate policy design regulation. The MOPHP's health reform program will take place in two phases:
(i) an initiation phase in which all key aspects of the reform will be initiated, lessons learned, key
legislation passed, district health systems put in place in at least 40 percent of districts, revisions of the
financial system initiated, and major actors brought on board; and (ii) a consolidation phase in which the
lessons learned in the initiation phase can be fashioned into long-term systems, policies and regulations,
and the remainder of the districts brought into the health district system.
This project will support the "initiation phase" of the MOPHP health reform program with particular
emphasis on certain critical components such as the District Health System, which is also supported by
several donors such as the European Commnission (EC) and German Technical Cooperation (GTZ). The
project will build on the lessons learned from the IDA-financed Family Health Project (FHP) and would
constitute a transition in support of the "consolidation phase," possibly as an Adaptable Program Lending
(APL) operation, which may start towards the end of this project. This project would also support the
development of the technical studies that would enable the MOPHP to expand the implementation of its
strategy in all the governorates through parallel financing from other donors.
5 The government's cost sharing policy includes exemption for the poor particularly for basic services; therefore,
this project does not require any cost sharing for its supported health services because: (i) the project will be
supporting basic maternal and child health services; and (ii) the selected districts are among the poorest in Yemen.
4



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
3.1 Secter Issues to-be addressed:
In the context of the MOPHP's health reform program, the HRSP will address the following sector issues:
Improving the accessibility of health services: The project will support the development and delivery
of a package of integrated maternal and child health services in selected districts covering almost 1.5
million Yemenis, which can then be replicated and expanded in other districts. The project will support
the rehabilitation of these health facilities and provide the inputs required to deliver the package of
services which would include medical equipment and supplies, drugs, furniture, and training. Moreover,
the level of poverty will be main criterion for selecting the governorates for project interventions to
ensure that accessibility is improved for the poorest population.
Improving the allocation of resources of public spending in health: The project will improve cost-
effectiveness in public spending by supporting two public health programs, namely, malaria and health
education. It will also support the reform of critical management systems that impact public spending in
health. For example, the size and distribution of the work force, the operations and maintenance of health
facilities, and the size and type of health infrastructure are mainly determined by the amount of funds
allocated for each category. Through analysis of public expenditures, the project will improve the budget
allocation process and programming. Moreover, the project will support the development of health
management information systems as the backbone of all other management systems.
3.2 Strategic Choices:
In the process of the project design, the following strategic choice was considered:
Adaptable Program Lending (APL) versus Specific Investment Loan (SIL): This project was
initially conceived and the Project Concept Document (PCD) approved as an APL in support of the
broad-based MOPHP health reform program. However, the slow implementation of the health sector
reform (HSR) initiation phase, the formation of a new government, and the rethinking of some of the
HSR components and overall direction by senior MOPHP officials were among the factors that led to
reconsidering the project's time frame and instrument. Further discussion with government officials
pointed out to the need for adopting a more realistic approach. It was, therefore, decided to proceed with
the preparation of this project as a SIL, which would constitute a transition between the Family Health
Project, building on its lessons learned, and a more comprehensive future project, possibly as an APL or
Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit (PRSC).
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The HRSP will support three components. The first component will strengthen service delivery at the
district level, as part of the MOPHP's policy to operationalize a District Health System (DHS), by
rehabilitating district hospitals and health centers in 8 districts within 4 governorates to ensure the
effective delivery of a Package of Integrated Maternal and Child (PIMAC) health services together with
supporting the decentralization of resource management. The other two components will support
systemic interventions at the national level in public health and health systems management.
Project Component 1 - US$20.57 million Strengthening Health Service Delivery
The objective of this component is to strengthen the operational management at the district level and the
delivery of the PIMAC health services in about 8 district hospitals and approximately 16 health centers in
5



8 districts within 4 govemorates, which will serve approximately 1.5 million Yemenis. This is part of
MOPHP's HSR strategy to implement a DHS, which is supported by several donors such as GTZ and
EC.
Sub-component 1.1: Decentralized Operational Management (US$1.03 million)
The objective of this sub-component is to improve management systems and procedures at the level of
the Governorate and District Health Offices in the selected govemorates/districts in support of
decentralization of resource management to have an operational DHS in accordance with the Local
Authority Law. The project will support the development of supervision guidelines and the provision of
management training for the District Health Team to carry out their responsibilities. The project will
finance computers and office equipment, training, technical assistance, rehabilitation of offices, and
operational costs.
Sub-component 1.2: Provision of a Package of Integrated Maternal and Child Health Services
(US$19.54 million)
The PIMAC health services will be built on the clinical service delivery elements of Integrated
Management of Childhood Illnesses (IMCI) and expanded reproductive health services including Family
Planning and Essential Obstetric Care (EOC). This sub-component will support the effective delivery of
the PIMAC health services in district hospitals and health centers, including the development of clinical
standards and upgrading the skills of health care providers. The project will finance the consultancy
services to design and supervise the rehabilitation of about 8 district hospitals and approximately 16
health centers in 8 districts, the provision of technical assistance, training, medical supplies, drugs,
medical equipment, and operational costs.
Project Component 2 - US$3.74 million Strengthening Public Health Programs
Strengthening public health programs could dramatically improve the health status in Yemen. Several
development partners are providing support to various programs. For example, UNICEF and WHO are
supporting the Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI) and IMCI; and UNFPA is supporting
reproductive health/family planning. Malaria, however, which has a huge burden of disease, and health
education, which supports almost all public health programs and increases their effectiveness, are not
receiving adequate support. The objective of this component is, therefore, to improve the effectiveness
of public health programs by strengthening two critical programs, namely, malaria and health education.
Sub-component 2.1: Malaria (US$2.20 million)
It is estimated that two million cases of malaria are diagnosed each year in Yemen, resulting in
approximately 20,000 deaths. The government has endorsed the strategic plan developed by the National
Malaria Control Program (NMCP), which is consistent with the goals of the global Roll Back Malaria
(RBM) initiative.
The objective of this sub-component is to strengthen the NMCP activities through the application of cost-
effective interventions. This sub-component will be implemented by the NMCP and the National Center
for Epidemiology and Disease Surveillance in close collaboration with WHO. This sub-component will
include four major activities: (i) improved diagnosis and case management through establishing
treatment policies and quality referral laboratories; (ii) integrated vector management, including
promotion of personal protection measures; (iii) epidemic detection and response through implementing
the epidemic preparedness plan; and (iv) disease surveillance. The project will finance equipment and
supplies for laboratories and vector control activities, procurement of Insecticide Treated Materials
6



(ITMs), minor renovations of referral laboratories, vehicles for vector control and surveillance, technical
assistance, training, and operational cost.
Support for long-term technical assistance and for most of the epidemic preparedness plan is being
provided by WHO/EMRO.
Sub-component 2.2: Health Education (US$1.54 million)
Health Education is one of the most cost-effective public health interventions, as it supports healthy
behavioral changes and increases demand on preventive services. Under the IDA-financed Family
Health Project, health education was supported by strengthening a mass communication program.
The objective of this sub-component is to strengthen health education in order to improve the
effectiveness of public health programs by: (i) increasing the demand for PIMAC health services; (ii)
increasing public awareness about priority public health programs; and (iii) changing selected key
behaviors that can have substantial effect on the health of the population, especially mothers and
children. This sub-component will strengthen the institutional capacity of the health education program.
It will also support the development of a Communication for Behavior Change (CBC) program to
address priority health problems, primarily reproductive health/family planning, malaria, nutrition, and
HIV/AIDS.
The implementation of this sub-component will be carried out by the National Center for Health
Education and Information. The project will finance health education equipment, printed materials,
health-awareness campaigns, training, technical assistance, and operational costs.
Project Component 3 - US$5.29 million Improving Health Systems Management
Much of the failure in ensuring the availability of health services to the population is attributed to the
lack of management capacity. The objective of this component is, therefore, to improve the MOPHP's
capacity in the effective allocation and efficient use of available resources. This conforms to the
Government's broader reform strategy, which supports public expenditure rationalization and
restructuring, management decentralization, and civil service reform. To this effect, the HRSP will
support the following critical systems.
Sub-component 3.1: Health Finance and Management (US$1.73 million)
The objective of this sub-component is to support human resources development in the areas of financial
analysis and health systems management. The support of health finance will build on the work that was
previously undertaken by the MOPHP. There are three activities that will be implemented by the
MOPHP/Financial Affairs department. These include: (i) Public Expenditures Programming to improve
resource allocation, particularly increasing the operations and maintenance (O&M) budget; (ii) National
Health Accounts (NHA) to provide a detailed analysis on total health spending; and (iii) Health
Insurance Studies to assess the feasibility of developing a health insurance program in Yemen. In
management, a National Center for Health Management Training (NCHMT) will be established and a
national training program will be developed to provide short-term training courses to all the MOPHP
managerial levels. The project will finance minor renovations of the NCHMT, the costs of delivering the
training courses, the provision of furniture and equipment, technical assistance, training, and operational
cost.
7



Sub-component 3.2: Health Management Information System (US$2.49 miilion)
The HMIS will support improved management decision in resource allocation and utilization by
automating the information related to budget preparation and expenditures, human resources, and
infrastructure. The HMIS will develop the information infrastructure for the collection and analysis of
basic morbidity and mortality health indicators and service utilization. This will build on the HMIvS
framework and Geographic Information System (GIS) developed under the IDA-financed Family Health
Project, which is also being supported by WHO and EC. This sub-component will support the
development of three subsystems: (i) a Management Decision Support System (MDSS) to improve
resource allocation; (ii) the Health Information System (HIS) to collect and analyze utilization and
disease prevalence data; and (iii) the GIS to present the data graphically. This sub-component will be
implemented by the Department of Information and Biostatistics. The project will finance software
development, computer equipment, networking and site preparation, technical assistance, and operational
cost.
Sub-component 3.3: Credit Administration and Project Coordination (US$1.07 million)
This sub-component will finance the Credit Administration Unit (CAU), which will be responsible for
project financial and procurement management and supporting the Steering Committee (SC) and Project
Coordination Committee (PCC). The project will finance CAU staff, office furniture, computers, office
equipment and supplies, and incremental operational costs. For more details on functional relationships,
please refer to section C.4.
Indicative  t         Bank-    :% of -
Component                  Sector        Costs-    % of    financing  ;Bank-
.  . (US$M)- * Totali  (US$NI)  financing
1. Strengthening Health Service  Primary Health,    20.57       69     19.13         69
Delivery                    Including
Reproductive Health
2. Strengthening Public Health  Specific Diseases,   3.74        13     3.52         13
Programs                     including Malaria,
HIV/AIDS
3. Improving Health Systems     Reform and           5.29        18     4.88         18
Management                   Financing
Total Project Costs                  29.60       100    27.53        100
Total Financing Required                  29.60       100     27.53        100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will support the following key policy reform:
a  Increase MOPHP budget allocation and expenditures on "Operations and Maintenance".
The key institutional reforms are to:
Institutionalize a national management training program which will improve management
capacity; and
8



* Institutionalize health management information systems which will increase use of data for
decision rmaking.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project's benefits include:
* Improved maternal and child health services in at least six districts;
*  Improved prevention and treatment of malaria;
*  Increased health-awareness and improved health-seeking behavior; and
*  Improved MOPHP systems and sector management capacity.
The project's target population may be classified into three categories:
* About 1.5 million Yemenis, particularly children (under the age of 5) and women in reproductive
age (15 - 45) who will benefit from improved health services in the selected districts;
* All Yemenis who will benefit from the national malaria and health education programs; and
* MOPHP staff who will benefit from the capacity building activities.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Proiect Implementation Arrangements
The MOPHP will have the overall responsibility for implementing the HRSP. The HRSP sub-
components will be implemented by the concerned MOPHP departments and programs. In order to
manage the project in an integrated and coordinated manner, and to expedite decisions and actions, there
will be three management groups. The first group would be the SC for policy decisions and project
oversight. The second group would be the PCC, which would provide the coordination required for
effective project implementation by the concerned heads of the MOPHP departments and programs. And
the third group would be the CAU to manage the day-to-day project administration.
The organizational chart (chart 1) illustrates how MOPHP will function to integrate the implementation
of the HRSP into its normal operations. It presents a simplified version of the MOPHP organization
showing only the concerned departments and programs that will participate in the implementation of the
HRSP. This chart also shows which HRSP sub-components will be implemented by which departments
and programs as well as the functional relationships. A brief description of the three management groups
is given below.
Steering Committee. The SC would be chaired by the Minister of Public Health and Population or his
designee, and it would be composed of MOPHP Deputy Ministers, one representative of the Ministry of
Planning and Development, and one representative of the Ministry of Finance. The SC will act as the
board of directors of the project and will: (i) review and approve annual plans and budgets submitted by
the PCC; (ii) secure government funding on a timely basis for the project; and (iii) meet periodically to
review the progress reports submitted by the PCC on the project's implementation status.
9



Chart 1. Project Implementation Organizational Structure
_-  - -_     SC: Workplans Approval
Minister of                       ,         Ss Budget Approval, Project Oversight.
z I     }        ~~~~~------            C     ' Minite, MeuteO Mnstr
CAU:ProcurementV Financial Management             Health        -                               I MOPD,MOF
Accounting/ Contract Management/ Project
Progress Report Compilation        …-…-…--                                     PCC:TA Coordination/ Provision of TORS & Specs/ M&E/ Project
Component Implementation/ Workplans/ Budget Preparation/ Gov
…----------------------                        CAU (- -                            PCC      Activities Coordination/ Progress Reports Preparation/ Evaluation
Committee Participation/ EMP Oversight. Chaired by Minister and
Composed of DGs assisted by M&E Specialist, CAU Administrator
Pharmaceuticals &                     Health Services         i              Planning &
i    Supplies Sector                          Sector      |                  Development Sector
Drugs/ Medical                                                           Engneerging &
Equipment &                        National Malaria
1utting        _      Program 2.1     Z----.---*       Maintenance Cross
Supplies Cross                        Program 2.1Cutn                                    I
Cutting  j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cutn
__~~  ~   ~~ _   .Ircrmn                             National Center for  1 _     -n--     Planning 1.1,3.1 
Cufting_ _~~~I                                         __  __   __  _
National Center for  - - -
Financial Affaris                                    Disease Surveillance                H ealth Information &
2.1                IStatistics 3.2
Primary Health Care  j---            Human Resources
1.2                             Cross Cuttin
10



Project Coordination Committee. The PCC would be chaired bv the Minister of Public Health and
Population or his designee, and it will be composed of the heads of the departments and programs
involved in the implementation of the project, and the CAU administrator. The PCC will be supported
by consultants in critical areas such as Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). The PCC will: (i) ensure that
project implementation is in accordance with the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP), and the Operational Manual (OM); (ii) propose updates/revisions of the OM
based on implementation experience; (iii) prepare consolidated annual work plans and budgets for
submission to the SC; (iv) coordinate the project components; (v) resolve issues occurring during project
implementation; (vi) review implementation progress and prepare technical progress reports on a semi-
annual basis; (vii) review the Project Progress Reports for submission to the SC (encompassing financial,
procurement, and technical progress of project activities) on a semi-annual basis; and (viii) supervise the
M&E activities and the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
The Credit Administration Unit will be composed of the following key staff: a Credit Administrator, a
Financial Management Specialist, a Procurement Specialist, an Accountant, and an Executive Secretary.
The CAU will: (i) assist the PCC in the project implementation, in accordance with the DCA; (ii) handle
procurement, financial, and disbursement management, including the preparation of withdrawal
applications under the project; (iii) prepare the financial and procurement reports on a semi-annual basis;
(iv) consolidate the semi-annual Project Progress Reports (technical, financial and procurement) for
submission to the PCC and IDA; (v) facilitate the release of counterpart funds in coordination with all the
relevant government ministries and agencies; and (vi) ensure that project accounts are audited annually.
The Credit Administrator will be responsible for managing the CAU staff and report directly to the
Minister of Public Health and Population or his designee. He will support the SC and the PCC during all
IDA supervision missions, the Mid-Term Review and the Completion Mission, and will contribute to the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The Credit Administrator will supervise the CAU staff to
ensure that: (i) the Financial Management Specialist maintains the financial management system up-to-
date; (ii) the Auditor to carry out the independent annual audits of the project accounts is recruited on a
timely basis; and (iii) the Procurement Specialist maintains a complete up-to-date record of all
procurement carried out under the project. The Credit Administrator will also ensure that the Financial
Management Specialist coordinates his/her work, as needed, with the MOPHP Director General for
Financial Affairs on matters related to project finance and accounting, and the timely availability of
counterpart funds.
Proiect Financial ManaRement
Currently there is no financial management system in place. The needed arrangements have been
discussed between IDA and the Government of Yemen (GOY) representatives. An agreed action plan to
fulfill IDA's minimum financial management requirements and mitigate risks will be implemented prior
to Credit effectiveness.
IDA post-appraisal mission agreed with the Government representatives on the following financial
management arrangements to ensure that these comply with IDA's minimum requirements as per IDA's
Operations Policy (OP) 10.02. Given the weak financial management capacity experienced in the on-
going Family Health Project and its inability to recruit and retain qualified financial management staff,
IDA requires the following actions prior to effectiveness:
* Qualified staff are recruited and properly trained;
* Staff are adequately motivated to avoid high turnover experienced with prior projects;
* Adequate financial management systems (accounting, internal control, financial and procurement
regulations and procedures, and reporting) are in place; and
11



* Qualified independent external auditors acceptable to IDA are appointed for the interim work and
the first year of operations.
The financial management functions of the project will be carried out by the newly established CAU, for
which the MOPHP is recruiting a qualified financial management specialist and an accountant. The unit
will be in charge of keeping accounting records and related documentation, ensuring that all authorization
and payments are in accordance with the Development Credit Agreement and IDA's requirements, as
well as government requirements. The unit will produce financial monitoring reports (FMRs) as required
by IDA according to the draft model included in the OM, and in accordance with other reporting
requirements as required by the other stakeholders, i.e. the Government. An external independent auditor
acceptable to IDA will be recruited to undertake annual audits of the project accounts prior to Credit
effectiveness. Terms of Reference (TORs) will be cleared by IDA prior to the external auditors'
appointment. External auditors will be selected from the list of auditors acceptable to IDA. Draft TORs
are in the OM. The borrower will open a Special Account at the Central Bank of Yemen which will be
managed by the CAU with payments authorized by the Minister of Public Health and Population or his
designee. Payment thresholds above which authorizations will be given by the Minister will be defined
in the procedures manual. Payment authorizations below the thresholds will be made by the CAU
Administrator.  Credit proceeds will be disbursed based on traditional disbursement methods of
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), Special Account replenishment and direct payments.
A training of both financial management staff will take place prior to Credit effectiveness, to ensure that
staff understand IDA's financial management requirements and disbursement procedures and are able to
perform their duties properly.  The training will take place at one of the IDA funded project
implementing units, i.e. the Child Development Project Management Unit.
A detailed action plan with deadlines for implementation of the various actions was discussed and agreed
with the Government counterparts and is included in Annex 6. Given that the CAU is currently being
established, an advertisement for the position of Financial Management Specialist has been posted in
appropriate newspapers and the appointment of the staff is underway. The external auditors will be
appointed to undertake an interim review of the internal controls in place once the action plan is
completed. They will present their findings in a management letter to be received by the Bank prior to
effectiveness. Any proposed improvements by the auditors to the internal control system will be
implemented prior to effectiveness. The IDA team will also review the quality and completion of the
actions implemented before effectiveness to ensure that a satisfactory financial management system is in
place prior to any disbursement from the Credit.
A management consultant is being hired to help the CAU staff develop adequate financial management
systems and procedures, and to ensure that the project is capable of generating IDA reporting
requirements prior to Credit effectiveness. TORs of the management consultant have been discussed and
agreed with the borrower and are included in the OM.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
In addition to the strategic choice presented in section B.3, the following project alternatives were
considered:
The range of services to be supported: The low public spending on health required that a defined
package of health services be supported to ensure its sustainability. Given the high morbidity and
mortality among women and children, it was envisaged to support a package of cost-effective
12



interventions that would eventually reduce child and maternal morbidity and mortality. Hence, a notional
package of integrated maternal and child health services was developed to be supported in this project
(Annex 2).
The level of health service delivery to be supported:  The health service delivery consists of three
levels. At the primary level, it was conceived to support the health centers as these serve a larger
population (average of 20,000 citizens) than the health units. General governorate hospitals, representing
the tertiary level, were not considered because of their location in urban areas, therefore, their support
would not improve accessibility to underserved areas or the remotely situated population. It was,
therefore, decided to support the district hospitals, given their proximity to the underserved population.
District hospitals cover on average 160,000 citizens, and their bed capacity ranges between 40 and 80
beds. Supporting district hospitals and health centers will thus improve accessibility to the population.
This approach is an integral part of the DHS conceived by the MOPHP, which would be extended to other
levels and replicated in other districts once a critical mass is established.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Improve the delivery of health services Family Health Project     S            U
in the 7 project districts and strengthen (Cr. 2525-YEM); US$26.6
management of health resources more  million
broadly.
Reduce poverty by improving living  Social Fund Development      HS           HS
conditions and providing income-  (Cr.2953-YEM); US$30.0
generating opportunities to the poor.  million
Improve the health and nutritional  Child Development Project     S            S
status of children under five and  (Cr. 3326); US$28.9 million
educational status of girls in primary
schools in districts that are currently
under-served in the areas of health and
education.
Improve the range of services and  Second Social Fund             S            S
options available to the poorer sections Development (Cr. 3353);
of the Yemeni population through a  US$75.0 million
combination of comnmunity
development, capacity building, and
micro-finance programs.
Other development agencies
Please see next page.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
13



Support from other development agencies
Following is a brief description of the support relevant to the HRSP provided by the key health sector
development partners in Yemen:
World Health Organization (WHO). The WHO program in Yemen is composed of more than 30 projects
covering a wide scope ranging from health sector development, policy planning and management to
health programs such as malaria, tuberculosis, water supply and sanitation. The total budget of the
current three-year program is estimated at US$3.8 that support consultants, training, seminars,
fellowships, and equipment.
United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF). The health and nutrition
program of UNICEF comprises five projects, namely, strengthening the EPI, control of diarrheal diseases,
control of Acute Respiratory Infection (ARI), safe motherhood, and nutrition. The focus of UNICEF
program implementation is an Area Based Approach through community participation. UNICEF core
funding for its current program (1999 - 2001) is estimated at US$15 million in addition to another US$12
million to co-finance the IDA supported Child Development Project.
United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA). UNFPA's "Program of Assistance" (1998-
2001) has a strong component on Reproductive Health (RH)/Family Planning. The approved total
amount is US$13.5 million. The program aims at improving quality and increasing utilization of RH
services/information through strengthening existing primary health care facilities by integrating RH,
expanding basic RH services/information at community level, and strengthening RH management and
policy development at the central level.
European Commission (EC). The EC program is directed towards supporting health sector reform and is
primarily focused on strengthening the role of the MOPHP, particularly in human resources development,
in addition to implementing the district health system including extensive technical assistance. The
program will be implemented in two phases, preparatory and support, in at least six districts. The total
budget is e6.7 million over five years.
Dutch Aide program. The current support of this program is directed towards reproductive health and
pharmaceuticals. Future support, estimated at US$1.5 million per year, will be provided to health sector
reform mainly as a sector wide approach program, but it is expected to continue in line with the current
program and proposed IDA activities.
Gernan Technical Cooperation (GTZ). GTZ supports the MOPHP decentralization plans and the
current program funding is estimated at US$5.0 million to provide technical assistance and training.
Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA). The program supports the EPI through the
provision of vaccines and strengthening of the cold chain system with a level of funding estimated at
US$2 million. Also, it supports the tuberculosis control program with a level of funding estimated at V2.5
billion.
The above support provided by the other donors was carefully considered in designing each component of
this project to ensure complementarity, as discussed in section C.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The key lessons learned from prior IDA experience in the health sector and reflected in the design of this
project are the following:
14



Unsustainable capital investment: Decision on capital investment in health, whether through donors or
MOPHP, did not include a careful assessment of the public finance implications of these inputs, thereby
creating unsustainable scenarios in the long run. This project will support financial management in
MOPHP as well the analysis of public finance implications of the proposed interventions to secure
adequate recurrent expenses in the long run.
Weak proiect management capacity: The overall implementation of the Family Health Project was not
satisfactory due to the weak capacity in the Project Management Unit (PMNU) in particular, and in the
MOPHP in general. The project design has, therefore, eliminated the PMU concept and envisaged the
implementation of the program directly through the respective MOPHP departments. In order to assist
the MOPHP in effectively implementing the project, extensive technical support for MOPHP systems
development and capacity building will be provided as an integral part of the project.
Slow implementation of complex proiects: The extended duration that was required to complete the
FHP activities, including project restructuring after the mid-term review, suggested that complex projects
are more difficult and slower to implement. The MOPHP health reform program is an ambitious and
complex program which will require experimentation with pilots and new modalities. It was, therefore,
conceived to focus IDA's financing on sector investments in support of the District Health System and on
the development of critical management systems, which would be considered in the HSR "initiation
phase." This phased manner would ensure the development of the learning curve for the new modalities
that can then be extended and replicated nationally, which would constitute the "consolidation phase" of
the HSR.
Lack of donors' coordination: There are a number of development partners who are actively involved
in supporting the health sector and the HSR program in particular. Neither the MOPHP nor the donors
made a concerted effort to actively coordinate the health programs. This has resulted in duplication of
interventions and waste. Unlike previous projects that supported vertical programs or focused on a
particular approach or geographic area and, therefore, did not require much coordination, health sector
reform is influencing all programs, systems, and service delivery levels and is affecting all population
groups. The project has addressed this aspect by endorsing and supporting the MOPHP's initiative to
organize regular periodic meetings with all donors to ensure effective coordination, synergism and
complementarity of technical assistance and program interventions.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has endorsed major Conventions protecting children and women, including the
Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention to Eliminate Discrimination Against Women.
The Government's National Five-year Plan expresses keen interest in the human development sector.
Furthermore, the Government has made every effort to fund the education and health sectors, even during
budgetary constraints, as it progresses with the adjustment program.
In 1998, the MOPHP had launched a comprehensive sector reform initiative aiming at improving equity,
quality, efficiency, effectiveness, accessibility, and the long-term sustainability of health services. Its
"Health Sector Reform in the Republic of Yemen: Strategies for Reform" (December 1998) provides a
framework for this reform. The reform is to be done in the context of the Government's broader reform
strategy, which supports public expenditure rationalization and restructuring, management
decentralization, and civil service reform. The long-term goal of the health sector reform program is to
improve health status by fundamentally changing the existing system's approach to meeting the health
care needs of the Yemeni people. Overall, the reforms concentrate on greatly improved management
15



systems, decentralization of management functions to the level of the district, a stronger policy and
management role for the MOPHP, and a smaller role in direct service provision.
In 2000, the MOPHP prepared its second Five-Year Plan (2001-2005) which included detailed
implementation plans and cost estimates for the different health programs.
The HRSP is fully consistent with both the MOPHP's health reform strategy as well as the second Five-
Year Plan, as it supports many of their critical components. The project has been discussed with both
Ministers of Planning and Development, and Public Health, and has received their full endorsement.
Moreover, a Project Preparation Advance (PPA) had been submitted by the MOPD and approved by IDA
to ensure proper and timely project preparation, including the development of the financial and
procurement management system, as well as preparing the procurement packages for the first year of the
project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The HRSP will address a number of inter-sectoral issues such as financial management and infrastructure
planning, which will require extensive interactions between MOPHP, MOPD and Ministry of Finance
(MOF).
MOPHP will benefit from the Bank's comparative advantage over other donors in overall Public Sector
Management and coordination with several central ministries. The Bank is already engaged with GOY in
budget restructuring, public expenditures reviews, civil service reform, and the rationalization of MOPBP
infrastructure. The Bank will be, therefore, in a strong position to help MOPHP in its dialog with the
MOF to streamline the budget process and improve financial transparency and with the MOPD in health
infrastructure planning.
Moreover, the GOY is preparing a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) supported by the Bank/IMF
and several other donors. The health sector is an integral part of the PRSP, hence the importance of the
continued involvement of the Bank in supporting the health sector to ensure that health interventions are
adequately targeting the poor. This project will also lay the foundation for sector work required for any
potential Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit (PRSC).
This project will also bring to MOPHP the benefit of the Bank's experience and access to expertise in the
areas of public expenditures analysis and restructuring and health management information systems,
which are highly specialized technical areas that are not supported by any other donor.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
Cost-Benefit Analysis       NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
Cost Effectiveness Analysis
/      Other (specify)
Economic Analysis: The issues in Annex 4 stress the need for rationalizing investment expenditures, and
ensuring adequate recurrent expenditures. MOPHP is moving towards adopting strategies for health
sector reform. Some of the steps underway are: (i) rationalizing budget for investments and their
implications on recurrent budgets; (ii) prioritizing recurrent expenditures, and allocating resources for
preventive health care, and to under-served areas; and (iii) decentralizing resource management to the
district level, and allocating resources between districts on needs and priority basis.
16



The project will provide support to the MOPHP at two different administrative levels. At the central
level, it will provide support in capacity building for policy making, and tor management in the areas of
finance, human resources, and information systems. At the district level, it will provide support in two
areas: capacity building, and civil works. For the former, support will be provided for the district health
system management, recurrent expenditure distribution, and public health interventions. For the latter,
districts will be selected for infrastructure (district hospital and health center) rehabilitation, equipment
and for ambulances. No new health facilities will be constructed.
The main issue of concern is whether health facilities are adequately financed, and whether they are
meeting their recurrent costs. Some recurrent cost estimates for primary level health facilities were
assessed through an Operations and Maintenance study. Recurrent cost estimates were simulated for
secondary level health facilities (see Annex 4). During project implementation, additional in-depth data
will be collected to provide costing and recurrent cost implications of the district health delivery system.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The project would not be a revenue eaming operation and would target primarily the provision of basic
public health services for the rural poor, especially for women and children. The project would improve
access and health outcomes, and would reduce inequity in health care. The project would attempt to
improve the use of existing health facilities by rehabilitating existing facilities in lieu of building new
ones. The project would also attempt to create demand for such facilities through improved quality of
services. The project would result in cost-savings through: (i) early detection of illness at Primary Health
Care (PHC), and proper referral; (ii) reduced travel time and costs incurred by travelling to distant health
facilities where better services may be provided; and (iii) improved effectiveness in the allocation of
public sector resources. Therefore, no Financial Rate of Return, nor Net Present Value can be calculated
for this project.
Fiscal Impact:
The project's infrastructure developments would result in an annual capital expenditure of about US$2.8
million during the project cycle. This is about 4 percent of the MOPHP's annual budget, or about 15
percent of its capital and development investment budget of 1999. MOPHP currently does not rationalize
capital and development investments. In addition, public sector spending on health is extremely low; in
1999, the public sector spent about US$87 million. This is only 1.3 percent of GDP, 4.1 percent of the
total government expenditure, and US$5 per capita. The project is, therefore, justified in rationalizing
MOPHP's capital and development investments.
The recurrent budget implications of this additional investment would be about US$1.1 million annually.
This is about 1 percent of MOPHP's annual budget, or about 5 percent of MOPHP's annual non-salary
recurrent budget of 1999. Most of this additional recurrent cost should already be a part of the MOPHP
budget, given no new construction is planned. However, the public sector health facilities are currently
under-funded by at least 50 percent. MOPHP is commnitted to increasing the share of non-salary recurrent
costs in the overall budget. The incremental cost of this project to MOPHP would be small and,
therefore, sustainable beyond the project cycle.
17



3. Technical:
There are no technical issues associated with the project. The project was designed for the realities in
Yemen based on the findings and recommendations of several technical reports and studies by the Bank
and donors, such as: the GTZ studies financed by the FHP (on file); technical reports financed by Policy
and Human Resources Development (PHRD) fund (on file); National Health Accounts, 1999; Situation
Analysis of Children and Women, 1999; Health Public Expenditures Review, 2000; Health Sector
Strategy Note (Draft), 2000; and Strategies for Strengthening, Integrating, and Sustaining Public Health
Programs, 2001.
The project was developed in cooperation with the relevant Government counterparts and drew on best
practices to ensure that its design is appropriate for the Yemeni context and consistent with Government
policy. In addition, the project concept was discussed with and endorsed by several donors' experts such
as the EC, GTZ, WHO, and UNICEF.
The investment cost estimates for civil works are based on the actual costs incurred for similar work
under the FHP, which include provisions for physical and price contingencies. Several measures are
being taken to expedite the preparation works to start the rehabilitation of health facilities shortly after the
project becomes effective.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The MOPHP would have overall responsibility of HRSP implementation. The various MOPHP
departments and programs will be responsible for implementing their respective project components. The
MOPHP institutional capacity has two aspects: technical and managerial.
Overall, the MOPHP has the technical capability to implement this project, with some departments
possessing excellent expertise in program implementation such as certain public health programs. Some
departments, however, will need technical assistance such as in financial management and information
systems, which is already incorporated in the program design.
On the managerial side, the MOPHP would need support in systems development and management
training. The project addresses this aspect by institutionalizing a national training program to develop the
managerial skills of all MOPHP staff at all levels. Particular emphasis is placed on the governorate and
district levels in support of the Government's policy of decentralization.
To facilitate implementation, a Steering Committee, chaired by the Minister of Public Health, will
oversee the project and provide guidance. A Project Coordination Committee, also chaired by the
Minister and composed of the heads of the different departments and programs, will be established to
coordinate the implementation of the project.
4.2 Project management:
The financial and procurement management of the project will be handled by a Credit Administration
Unit, which will be established and staffed with experienced personnel to administer the Credit in
accordance with IDA's established policies and procedures.
The project, therefore, incorporates the necessary mitigating measures to support the institutional capacity
and ensure effective implementation.
18



4.3 Procurement issues:
An assessment of the MOPHP's procurement capacity with regard to IDA's policies and procedures
concluded that the MOPHP would need extensive support.  Given the risks associated with the
procurement of almost US$10 million worth for works, US$12 million for goods and US$3 million for
services, this project includes comprehensive institutional provisions to cope with MOPHP's low
procurement capacity. In addition, the CAU will include the services of an experienced procurement
specialist who will be responsible for the preparation of procurement documents, participate in the
evaluation of proposals and assist in the process of contract negotiations and award.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The project financial management arrangements of the ongoing Family Health Project financed by IDA
Credit 2525 have been less than satisfactory to IDA for many reasons. First and foremost because of the
high turnover of financial management staff and difficulty in attracting and retaining staff with the
necessary financial management skills. Second, because of the lack of internal control caused by staff
turnover and absence of clear and written financial management procedures and regulations. Accounting
and budgetary control have been particularly weak. This situation, along with a weak financial
management culture at the MOPHP makes fiduciary arrangements rather risky. To mitigate this risk, an
action plan aiming at putting in place a satisfactory financial management system has been discussed and
agreed with the Borrower. The action plan encompasses the hiring of both a financial management
specialist, an accountant, a consulting firm to help put in place a procedures manual, a comprehensive
budgeting, accounting, and reporting system compliant with IDA requirements and other stakeholders,
i.e., governmental requirements, the training of staff on the system in place prior to Credit effectiveness,
and the appointment of a qualified independent external audit firm acceptable to IDA. The IDA Financial
Management Specialist in the field will monitor the progress closely towards the satisfactory
implementation of the action plan. An assessment of readiness of the financial management system and
compliance with IDA requirements will be undertaken prior to effectiveness. Towards the end of the
implementation action plan, the Borrower will appoint external auditors to undertake an early review of
the internal controls in place. The auditors will present their findings in an interim management letter
along with recommendations for remedial actions in case of detected weaknesses. A copy of the
management letter should be received by IDA before Credit effectiveness.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The only project components that have potential environmental impact would be the rehabilitation of
about 8 district hospitals and 16 health centers in 8 districts within 4 governorates. A desk review of the
environmental issues associated with hospitals and health clinics was carried out. The review was based
on information obtained during project preparation on similar works carried out under the FEP. Two
types of waste management issues were identified, each requiring its own mitigation measures: (i)
wastewater collection and disposal; and (ii) solid waste collection and disposal. Regarding solid wastes
management, two parallel mitigative measures have been identified, one for infectious waste and the other
for common household waste. It should be noted, however, that specific EMPs will be undertaken for
each district hospital and health center to take into account the site specific conditions. Each EMP will
follow the generic EMP carried out during Project Appraisal (Annex 11).
19



The generic EMP was prepared based on guidance agreed upon with the Middle East and North Africa
Region Rural Development, Waster and Environment Group (MNSRE) for the Environmental
Assessment of Health Care Sector Projects. The EMP provides specific recommendations to address the
main issues of hospital waste pollution abatement. At the source, the recommendations would include
provisions to address the management aspects through capacity building of concerned staff and provision
of necessary handling and storage facilities and resources. At the disposal end, it would address the
provisions for environmentally sound treatment disposal facilities and capacity building of concerned
operational personnel. The project cost estimate include provisions for investments in appropriate waste
management and waste disposal programs.
Stakeholders in this project include: MOPHP, Environmental Protection Council (EPC) and its Technical
Secretariat (TS), concerned governorates, district health facilities, local governments and beneficiary
communities, and concerned NGOs.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMP for each health care facility under the project will address mitigative measures, monitoring
procedures, investment and operational costs of the proposed mitigation measures and capacity building
of responsible implementing agencies. The mitigative measures being considered under such a program
include: (i) training at various levels of the health care facilities, namely: management (at the health care
facility, municipality officials, health care policy officials, and sector staff); professional health care
service providers (medical doctors, nurses, and nursing assistants); and maintenance and waste
management personnel (hospital cleaners, waste handlers, transportation workers, solid waste
management staff and monitoring and enforcement officials); (ii) preparation of guidelines and
procedures for the safe management of health care solid and liquid wastes; (iii) review and update
existing training material; and (iv) upgrade the hospital solid waste and wastewaters handling disposal
facilities for the environmentally sound disposal of wastes. It should be noted that the training component
described above would facilitate the segregation of hospital wastes at the source to permit effective
control of infectious wastes. These measures are important to reduce the health risks of people exposed to
such substances (hospital patients and visitors, health workers and the general public).
The EMP recommendations would be an integral part of the rehabilitation works of existing health care
facilities, including the operation of the health facilities financed by the project. The EMP would include
recommendations to contractors for the execution of civil works, for the sustainable operation and
maintenance of the waste handling and disposal facilities, and a hospital waste management plan.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt offinal draft: January 31, 2002
The findings and recommendations of the EMP for each health care facility would be first discussed and
agreed upon with MOPHP, Environment Protection Authority (EPA), and the concerned governorates
and local government authorities. The final EMP would be disclosed at various places, such as, MOPHP,
EPA, governorate offices, concerned hospitals and clinics.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan?   Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The MOPBP, EPA, and concerned governorates, municipalities and community organizations will be
consulted during the preparation of the EMN for each health care facility, which will be made available to
the public at the MOPHIP, governorate and district health offices and local government offices.
20



5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the pro.ject on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP:
The EMP would provide the appropriate monitoring indicators at each stage of project implementation.
The MOPHP will be responsible for assuring compliance with these measures. Compliance with the
EMP would be reported in the semi-annual implementation progress reports and in the annual progress
reports. The IDA supervision missions will be staffed with an Environmental Specialist to review the
relevant procurement documents, and visit the facilities to review compliance with the objectives of the
EMP.
1. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Lessons learned from the social assessment carried out under the Child Development Project (CDP) and
the area-based program carried out by UNICEF have highlighted several issues of concern, of which, lack
of access to, and equity in, health services and high incidence of malaria were considered by beneficiaries
as the main social issues. Other health concerns associated with lack of awareness and general health
education, such as abuse in the use of drugs and lack of basic knowledge on sanitation, were also raised as
important issues by beneficiaries. Social assessments carried out under the Basic Education Expansion
Project also confirmed the beneficiaries' concern over the impact of health issues on child education,
which concluded that addressing the issues of poor mother and child health were essential to also
complement the efforts in the education sector. These social assessments concluded that one of the main
culprits to facilitating access to health services is the poor condition of health facilities, primarily of
district hospitals and health centers, which are in urgent need of rehabilitation, improved services and
provision of needed supplies. These studies also concluded that the poor management of the health
services and the inadequate resources provided have contributed to the deterioration of such outreach
services. The proposed project would give priority to addressing the issues affecting mother and child
health care in district hospitals and health centers in selected govemorates, and improved accessibility to
these health facilities through improved services and programs.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The MOPHP has benefited from the social assessments with beneficiary participation carried out under
ongoing IDA funded projects, as well as the social assessments carried out under programs funded by
other donors. To complement these efforts, MOPHP has carried out several workshops and seminars
during the development of the health sector reform strategy with the participation of key stakeholders.
Also, participatory social assessments would be carried out during project implementation to better assess
the development objectives and monitor performance. The MOPHP would be responsible for ensuring
that the views and concerns of the key stakeholders are reflected at different stages in the planning, design
and implementation of the project.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The project would support MOPHP management systems reform and service delivery at the level of
district hospitals and health centers. These interventions would not involve NGOs as they are usually
operating at the community and primary health care level, i.e., health units. However, the HRSP would
work closely with and complement the CDP, which involves concerned local communities and NGOs.
21



6.4  What .institutional arrangemnnts have been provide.d to ensure the project achieves its. social
development outcomes?
The project would achieve the social development outcomes (improved maternal and child health in poor
districts) through supporting the improvements to service delivery at the district level. To this effect the
project, in addition to supporting systems development and capacity building at the central level, would
also support similar efforts at the governorate and district levels. These measures would help ensure
adequate capacity to deliver the essential maternal and child health services to improve the health status
of women and children in the selected areas.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project's performance indicators related to social development outcomes would be monitored and
evaluated through different project implementation reports based on hospital and health centers utilization
reports in the project districts (see Annex 1 for details).
2. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy '                       , S   Applicability .
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            Yes
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                            No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*          No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The project includes an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) as described in Section E.5 above and in
Annex 1 1.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The challenges facing the sustainability of the health delivery system in the public sector are basically
financial viability and institutional capacity.
Financially, most of the project's capital investments will support civil works and medical equipment
targeting only existing health facilities, which will have limited recurrent costs implications. The
recurrent costs required to operate the newly developed systems, such as the information systems, will be
minimal compared to the capital investments costs, which will be financed by the project. Nevertheless,
the additional recurrent costs will need to be secured. To this effect, the project would support the steady
increase in the operations and maintenance budget as a key performance indicator to ensure the financial
viability of the project's outputs. Moreover, the project will also support the development of several
22



management systems, which will greatly reduce waste and improve the efficiency in resource utilization
in the public health sector.
The development of these systems, however, will heavily depend on external (international and local)
technical assistance. To ensure sustained institutional capacity, the project will couple the systems
development with extensive capacity building activities aiming at upgrading the skills of MOPHP staff.
Overall, the systems development and the increased management capacity will improve policy decision
making in resource allocation and utilization.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth columnn of Annex 1):
Risk                  Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
MOPHP commitment to increase the           H       Continued policy dialog and endorsement of MOF
O&M budget
Capacity of the MOPHP departments and      S       Capacity building activities, technical assistance,
programs involved in the project                   and development of staff skills
implementation
Allocation and mobilization of the required  M     Strong monitoring and evaluation system of project
resources for the HMIS and other systems           performance and ensuring that counterpart funding
(site, staff, and operating expenses) by the       is available on time
MOPHP
Implementation of the Local Authority      S       Strong support and capacity building for the
Law (No.4 for 2000) and mobilization of            governorate and district health offices under the
adequate resources to district level               project
Major malaria outbreaks                   M        Provide support to malaria control measures on a
priority basis
From Components to Outputs
Selection of qualified personnel for the   S       Ensure competitiveness in the employment package
CAU                                                and transparency in the recruitment procedures
Timely availability of counterpart funding  S      Ensure opening of an account for counterpart
funding and the deposit of funds at the time of
project effectiveness
Health staff in district hospitals utilize the  M  Hospital staff training and motivation, and capacity
new equipment and systems effectively              building for district health office staff for
performance monitoring
Proper maintenance of building and         S       Provision of declining operational costs from the
medical equipment                                  project funds and gradual increase in MOPHP's
O&M budget
Overall Risk Rating                        S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
23



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No possiblecontroversial aspects.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
* Selection of at least 2 districts fulfilling the eligibility criteria acceptable to IDA
* Establishment of the CAU with professional key staff acceptable to IDA
* Establishment of financial management system satisfactory to IDA
2. Other
none
H. Readiness for Implementation
1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
/ 1. b) Not applicable.
2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
/ 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
/ 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
C = A4.A A-a"
Sameh El-Saharty              Jacques F. Baudouy                 Mahmood A. Ayub
Task Team Leader               Sector Director                   Country Director
24



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Health Reform Support Project (HRSP)
Hierarchy of Objectives       Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy     Critical Assumptions
Indicators
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank
Mission)
To alleviate poverty by    Improved health status as  MOPHP Annual Statistics    Political and economic
creating a stream of health  reflected by the reduction of  and Five-year health plan  stability
benefits and services, which  selected morbidity and
directly address poverty and  mortality child and maternal
fortify the benefits of other  health indicators such as:
sectors.                   -Infant Mortality Rate, and
-Maternal Mortality Rate
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators
Annual utilization of      Continued political
1. Increased access for    a. Increased birth deliveries  statistics of district hospitals  commitment of the
women and children to a    attended in district hospitals  in the intervention areas  Government in general and
package of health services  and health centers in                               the Ministry of Public Health
provided in district hospitals  intervention areas by 10                         and Population particular to
and health centers in selected  percent by 2006                                  health sector reform
governorates
Effective use of the new
equipment and systems in
district hospitals
2. Improved effectiveness of  b. Increased knowledge of  Knowledge, Attitude, and  Continued support of other
public health programs and  married women about       Practice Surveys (three    development partners to
resource allocation within the  modern contraceptive  surveys: Baseline in 2003,  health sector reform
public health sector       methods by 5 percent by    then subsequent surveys in  particularly WHO, UNICEF,
2006                       2005 and 2007)             and the EC
c. Increased Operations &  Annual Public Expenditures  Active engagement of senior
Maintenance (non-salary    Review Reports             MOPHP officials in the
recurrent) share of total                             HSR-CG meetings and
MOPHP expenditures by 6                               decision making related to
percent by 2006                                       health sector reform
25



Key Performance
Hierarchy:of Objectives         Indicators          Data Collection Strategy    Critical Assumplions
Output from each Component:  Output Indicators:      Project reports:         (from Outputs to Objective)
1.0 Strengthening Service
Delivery
1.1 Operational management  a. At least six district health  District Health Offices  Implementation of the local
decentralized              plans developed annually  reports                   authority Law (No.4 for
2000) and mobilization of
adequate resources
1.2 A Package of Integrated  b. At least six district  Project progress and    CAU staffed with qualified
Maternal and Child Health  hospitals and 16 health   disbursement reports      personnel
Services provided          centers in intervention areas
rehabilitated and equipped by                        Timely availability of
2005                                                counterpart funding
2.0 Strengthening Public
Health Programns
2.1 Malaria diagnosis     c. Sensitivity and specificity  MOPHP Statistics     Mobilization of required
improved                   of blood slide microscopy  NMCP reports             resources (staff and operating
increased by 10 percent by                           expenses) by the MOPHP
2006 (reading performed at
health facilities as compared                        Technical support of WHO
to reading at reference                              provided
laboratory)
2.2 Health education       d. Number of national and  MOPHP statistics         Mobilization of required
campaigns conducted        sub-national health education  NCHEI reports        resources (staff and operating
campaigns conducted                                  expenses) by the MOPHP
3.0 Improving Health
Systems Management
3.1 Human resources capacity  e. Number of participant/  Annual NCHMT reports  MOPHP commitment to staff
in health management and  training weeks conducted in                          and support the NCHMT
finance improved          the National Center for
Health Management Training                           Assignment of qualified
(NCHMT)                                              personnel from MOPHP to
work on this task
3.2 Health Management     f. Number of governorates  Annual HMIS reports       Allocation and mobilization
Information System        and districts covered by the                         of the required resources
operationalized            Geographic Information                              (site, staff, and operating
System                                               expenses) by the MOPHP
3.3 Credit Administration  g. Project Progress Reports  CAU quarterly progress  CAU staffed with qualified
Unit established          produced quarterly        reports                    personnel
Technical progress reports
provided from MOPHP
I_departments
26



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objeclives         1lndicators        _ Data Collection Strategy     Critical Assumptions
Project Components / Sub-  Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:           (from Components to
components:                component)                                            Outputs)
Component 1:
Strengthening Service
Delivery
1.1 Decentralization of    Training, technical
Operational Management     assistance, and office     FOR ALL PROJECT            FOR ALL COMPONENTS:
furniture (US$1.03 million)  COMPONENTS AND SUB-
COMPONENTS:                Assignment of qualified
1.2 Provision of a Package of  Design and supervision                           personnel for the different
Integrated Maternal and Child  engineers, construction  Semi-annual Project Progress  health sector reform
Health Services            contractors, construction  Reports (monitoring        committees and task forces
costs, medical equipment,  performance indicators and
and furniture, training, and  disbursement rates), annual  Selection of qualified staff
technical assistance       audit reports, Bank        for the CAU
(US$19.54 million)         supervision reports, project
Component 2:                                          Mid-Term Review (MTR),     Timely availability of
Strengthening Public Health                           and Implementation         counterpart funding
Programs                                              Completion Report (ICR)
2.1 Malaria                Laboratory renovation,
equipment, vehicles,
technical assistance, training,
computers, and vector control
equipment (US$2.20 million)
2.2 Health Education       IE&C materials, IE&C
campaigns, vehicles,
technical assistance, training,
and computers,
(US$1.54 million)
Component 3: Improving
Health Systems
Management
3.1 Health Finance and     Renovation and equipment
Management                 for the NCHMT, technical
assistance, training, studies,
computers, office furniture
and equipment
(US$1.73 million)
3.2 Health Management      Hardware including
Information System         computers, software
development, technical
assistance, training, studies,
office furniture and
equipment, (US$2.49
million)
3.3 Credit Administration  Office furniture and
Unit                       equipment, project staff, and
operating costs (US$1.07
million)                   _
27



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Health Reform Support Project (HRSP)
The HRSP will support three components. The first component will strengthen the service delivery at the
district level, as part of the MOPHP's policy to operationalize a District Health System (DHS) by
upgrading district hospitals and health centers in eight districts to ensure the effective delivery of a
Package of Integrated Maternal and Child (PIMAC) health services together with supporting the
decentralization of resource management. Two other components will support systemic interventions at
the national level in public health and health systems management.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$20.57 million
Strenathening Health Service Delivery
The objective of this component is to strengthen the operational management at the district level and the
delivery of the PIMAC health services in about 8 district hospitals and approximately 16 health centers in
8 districts within four governorates, which would serve approximately 1.5 million Yemenis. This is part
of MOPHP's HSR strategy to implement a DHS, which is supported by several donors such as GTZ and
EC.
The govemorates will be selected based on a number of criteria. The first criterion will be health status
using Infant Mortality Rate (IMR). All govemorates will be ranked according to IMR and the 10-12
governorates with the highest IMR will be identified. The second criterion will be the proportion of
poverty. Among the governorates with the highest IMR, the 5-6 governorates with the highest percentage
of poor population will be identified. Governorates supported by major development partners, such as the
European Commission, will be excluded to ensure that other governorates would benefit from Bank
support. Within this pool of 5-6 governorates, the districts that have a district hospital and that have the
greatest population will be the primary candidates for selection. To ensure efficiency in project
management and supervision and effectiveness of project interventions, selected govemorates should
have at least two districts fulfilling the above criteria.
Sub-component 1.1: Decentralized Operational Management ($1.03 million)
The objective of this sub-component is to improve management systems and procedures at the level of the
Governorate and District Health Offices in the selected governorates/districts in support of the
decentralization of resource management to have an operational DHS in accordance with the Local
Authority Law No. 4 for 2000. This sub-component will be implemented under the Deputy Minister for
Planning and Development or his designee.
Typically, Governorate Health Offices are composed of 10 - 20 staff that supervise a number of districts.
District Health Offices are usually staffed with 3 - 6 persons, forming the District Health Team (DHT),
who will supervise and provide technical support to health workers on the provision of the PIMAC health
services. To ensure effective implementation of this approach, the project will support the development
of supervision guidelines and the provision of management training for the DHT to carry out their
responsibilities.
28



The project will finance civil works to rehabilitate the health offices, the provision of goods such as
computers and office equipment, training and technical assistance for the development of staff
management skills, and operational cost.
Sub-component 1.2: Provision of a Package of Integrated Maternal and Child Health Services
(US$19.54 million)
The PIMAC health services will build on the clinical service delivery elements of Integrated Management
of Childhood Illnesses and expanded Reproductive Health services including Family Planning and
Essential Obstetric Care. A notional PIMAC health services was tentatively developed for guiding
further discussions on its development (Box 1).
Box 1: A notional Package of Integrated Maternal and Child (PIMAC) health services by level of health
facility
Level of                                                                    Non-pregnant Women in
Facility            Children             Pregnant Women and Newborn            Reproductive Age
Health       * Periodic examination and  * ANC including HgB & urine      * FP counseling & provision
Center         growth monitoring &        analysis                          of all methods (except
(HC)           promotion                * PNC                               IUD and Norplant)
* Vitamin A & iron/folate   * TT                             * Syndromic STI treatment
supplementation           * Breast-feeding  promotion  and    & counseling
* Iodine supplementation      weaning practices               * HIV/AIDS counseling
in risk areas             * Iron/folate (daily) &  multiple  * Partner treatment, &
* Immunization plus           micronutrient  or  low  dose     provision of condoms
* Management of               vitamin A supplementation       * Malaria treatment
diarrhea, acute           * Obstetric first aid and referral  * Iron/folate
respiratory infections,   * Syndromic  STI treatment &        supplementation
malaria and other           counseling                      * Targeted food
infections including      * HIV/AIDS counseling               supplementation to correct
referral                  * Malaria treatment                 for low pregnancy weight
* Management of referred    * Post abortion  first aid  and   * Counseling on Qat and
complicated cases such     referral                          smoking cessation and
as marasmus,              * Post abortion follow up with FP  indoor air pollution
pneumonia, malaria and      provision                       * IUD insertion
xerophthalmia             * Counseling on Qat and smoking   * Referred FP and STI
cessation and indoor air pollution  complicated cases
* ANC and PNC of referred cases
* Care of normal delivery
* Care of normal newborn
* bEOC and full post-abortion care
in selected HCs.
District     . +                        . +                               . +
Hospital     * Severe dehydration or    * ANC and PNC of referred cases   * Norplant implantation
(DH)           persistent diarrhea      * cEOC for complicated cases      * Sterilization
* Severe pneumonia          * Care of complicated newborn     * Referred FP and STI
* Severe febrile diseases   * Full post-abortion care           complicated cases requiring
* Other complications                                           hospitalization such as
such as mastoiditis                                          missed IUD or PID
* "+" indicates all interventions in box above plus...
Source: World Bank. 2001. Strategies for Strengthening, Integrating, and Sustaining Public Health
Programs. Draft Report, July 2001, Washington DC.
29



The objective of this sub-component is to support the effective delivery of the PIMAC health services in
district hospitals and health centers.
This sub-component will be implemented in close collaboration with other projects, such as the Child
Development Project, to avoid duplication and ensure that national standards are being adopted and
applied. Under the Project Coordination Commnittee (PCC), a Task Force will be established to finalize
the contents of the PIMAC health services. The Task Force will be composed of representatives from the
different public health programs such as IMCI, Reproductive Health, and Malaria, in addition to
representatives from the selected govemorate and district health offices and health facilities, as well as the
departments of Engineering & Maintenance and Medical Equipment & Supplies.
The project will support the development of clinical standards and protocols, service delivery guidelines,
and upgrading the skills of health care providers. Based on the content and clinical protocols of the
PIMAC health services, an assessment of the needs for drugs and medical supplies will be conducted and
the logistics system established to ensure their availability. Moreover, the medical equipment required for
the delivery of the PIMAC health services will be identified and acquired. Finally, the project will
support the civil works and consultancy services required to rehabilitate the health facilities, which may
include expansion to existing facilities to provide the needed space and replacement of medical and office
equipment in support of the PIMAC health services.
The project will, therefore, finance the civil works and the consultancy services to design and supervise
the rehabilitation of about 8 district hospitals and approximately 16 health centers in 8 districts within 4
governorates, and the provision of medical equipment, ambulances, medical supplies, drugs,
contraceptives, training, technical assistance, and operational costs.
Project Component 2 - US$3.74 million
Strengthening Public Health Proerams
Strengthening public health programs could dramatically improve the health status in Yemen. Several
development partners are providing support to different public health programs at the national level. For
example, UNICEF and WHO are supporting the Expanded Program on Inmunization (EPI) and IMCI,
and UNFPA is supporting Reproductive Health/Family Planning. However, malaria, which has a huge
burden of disease, and Health Education, which supports almost all public health programs and increase
their effectiveness, are not receiving adequate support. The objective of this component is, therefore, to
improve the effectiveness of public health programs by strengthening two critical programs, namely,
malaria and health education.
Sub-component 2.1: Malaria (US$2.20 million)
It is estimated that 2 million cases of malaria are diagnosed each year in Yemen, resulting in
approximately 20,000 deaths. The government has endorsed a five-year strategic plan (2001-2005)
developed by the National Malaria Control Program (NMCP), consistent with the goals of the global Roll
Back Malaria (RBM) initiative.
The objective of this sub-component is to strengthen the NMCP activities through the application of cost-
effective interventions, consistent with the strategies of the global RBM initiative, towards achieving the
RBM goals. This sub-component will be implemented by the NMCP and the National Center for
Epidemiology and Disease Surveillance (NCEDS) and in close collaboration with WHO.
30



2.1.1 Improved Diagnosis and Case Management: A national system for assessment and review of
national malaria treatment policies will be developed. In addition, referral laboratories will be revitalized
in seven govemorates. These laboratories will be responsible for quality control of blood slides collected
from health facilities and clinical training and supervision of laboratory staff in the governorate.
2.1.2 Integrated Vector Management, including Promotion of Personal Protection Measures: The
package of vector control interventions will include residual house spraying, use of Insecticide Treated
Materials (ITMs), environmental management, and larviciding and will be targeted to high-risk and
epidemic-prone areas.
2.1.3 Epidemic Detection and Response: Mobile teams will be formed and equipped with vehicles and
necessary supplies and equipment, including stocks of essential drugs and ITMs, for responding to
suspected epidemics.
2.1.4 Disease Surveillance: The capacity of NCEDS will be strengthened at the central and governorate
levels in support of malaria disease surveillance as well as other communicable and non-communicable
diseases with particular focus on the selected project's districts.
This project will finance the carrying out of civil works for minor renovations of referral laboratories; and
the provision of equipment and supplies for laboratories and vector control activities including ITMs;
computers for disease surveillance; vehicles for vector control and disease surveillance; emergency stocks
of essential drugs and ITMs; training of laboratory, vector control, and disease surveillance staff;
technical assistance; and operational cost. Support for long-term technical assistance and for most of the
epidemic preparedness plan is being provided by WHO/EMRO.
Sub-component 2.2: Health Education (US$1.54 million)
Health education is one of the most cost-effective public health interventions, as it supports healthy
behavioral changes and increases demand on preventive services. Under the IDA-financed Family Health
Project, health education was supported by strengthening a mass communication program.
The objective of this sub-component is to strengthen health education in order to improve the
effectiveness of public health programs by: (i) increasing the demand for the PIMAC health services; (ii)
increasing public awareness about priority public health programs; and (iii) changing selected key
behaviors that can have substantial effect on the health of the population, especially mothers and children.
The implementation of this sub-component will be carried out by the National Center for Health
Education and Information.
The project will support two key activities:
2.2.1 Strengthening Institutional Capacity: The organizational structure of the health education program
will be revised and a human resources development plan to upgrade the skills of all levels of health
personnel developed. Training and working manuals will be developed.
2.2.2 Developing a Communication for Behavior Change (CBC) Program: The CBC program will
address the priority health problems, primarily reproductive health/family planning, malaria, nutrition,
and HIV/AlDS. A formative research will be conducted and an implementation plan developed, which
would provide, among other things, the scope of training of health workers. Mass and interpersonal
communication campaigns will be also conducted.
31



The Project will finance health education equipment, printed materials, health awareness campaigns,
training,_technical assistance, and operational costs.
Project Component 3 - US$ 5.29 million
Improving Health Systems Management
Much of the failure in ensuring availability of health services to the population is attributed to the lack of
management capacity. The objective of this component is, therefore, to improve the MOPHP's capacity
in the effective allocation and efficient use of available resources. This conforms to the Government's
broader reform strategy, which supports public expenditure rationalization and restructuring, management
decentralization, and civil service reform. To this effect, the HRSP will support the following critical
systems.
Sub-component 3.1: Health Finance and Management (US$1.73 million)
The objective of this sub-component is to support human resources development in the areas of financial
analysis and health systems management. This sub-component will be implemented under the Deputy
Minister for Planning and Development or his designee.
3. 1.1 Health Finance: the support of health finance will build on the work that was previously undertaken
by the MOPHP. There are three activities that will be implemented by the MOPHP/Financial Affairs
department.
* Public Expenditures Programming. An analysis of public expenditures on health will be conducted in
order to improve resource allocation, particularly increasing the operations and maintenance budget.
* The National Health Accounts (NHA). NHA will be conducted to provide a detailed analysis on total
health spending including public and private sectors, breakdowns by source and user of funds, and flow of
funds.
* Health Insurance Studies. Studies will be conducted to assess the feasibility of developing a health
insurance program. These would include, but are not limited to: unit cost studies, developing a benefit
package, assessing the sources of revenues, cost-sharing schemes, modalities of provider payments,
management and legal framework, and information systems requirements.
3.1.2 Health Management: A National Center for Health Management Training (NCHMT) will be
established and a national training program will be developed to provide short-term training courses to all
the MOPHP managerial levels. The MOPHP would compile the existing management training curricula
developed and delivered by different institutions and donors to avoid duplication and build on the existing
work already achieved. An institutional analysis of the MOPHP and a training needs assessment will be
conducted to update and/or develop the training curricula.
The project will finance civil works to carry out minor renovations of the NCHMT; the provision of
furniture and equipment; technical assistance for institutional analysis, financial analysis and studies,
training needs assessment, and curriculum development; the cost of producing the training materials; the
cost of delivering the training courses; and operational costs.
32



Sub-component 3.2: Health Management Information System (US$2.49 million)
The objective of this sub-component is to improve management decisions in resource allocation and
utilization by automating the information related to budget preparation and expenditures, human
resources, and infrastructure in addition to the development of the information infrastructure for the
collection and analysis of basic morbidity and mortality health indicators and service utilization. This
will build on the HMIS framework and GIS developed under IDA financed FHP, which is also being
supported by WHO and EC. This sub-component will be implemented by the Department of Information
and Biostatistics.
The project will support the development of the following sub-systems:
3.2.1 Management Decision Support System (MDSS): The principal activities of the MDSS are the
creation of tables representing the major assets of the MOPHP such as its finances, human resources,
facilities and equipment, and the creation of certain queries and applications to access that information.
3.2.2 Health Information System (HIS): The HIS collects utilization and disease prevalence statistics as
reported by health venues on a periodic basis, which would be used actively in planning and quality
improvement activities.
3.2.3 Geographic Information System (GIS): The GIS would help present the available information
graphically, including infrastructure and human resources distribution, disease prevalence, and health
utilization statistics.
The project will finance the software development, computer equipment, networking and site preparation,
technical assistance, training, and operational costs.
Sub-component 3.3: Credit Administration and Project Coordination ($1.07 million)
This sub-component will finance the Credit Administration Unit (CAU), which will be responsible for
project financial and procurement management and supporting the Steering Committee (SC) and Project
Coordination Committee (PCC). The project will finance CAU staff, office furniture, computers, office
equipment and supplies, and incrementatl operational cost. For more details on functional relationships,
please refer to section C.4.
33



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Health Reform Support Project (HRSP)
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component          US $million   US $million  US $million
1. Strengthening Health Service Delivery      5.04          12.21       17.25
2. Strengthening Public Health Programs       1.01           2.25        3.26
3. Improving Health Systems Management        2.79           2.08        4.87
Total Baseline Cost                           8.84          16.54       25.38
Physical Contingencies                       0.41           1.41        1.82
Price Contingencies                          0.68           1.72        2.40
Total Project Costs              9.93          19.67       29.60
Total Financing Required              9.93          19.67       29.60
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category          US $million   US $million   US $million
(1) Works                                      3.86          5.94         9.80
(2) Goods                                      1.20         11.18        12.38
(3) Consultants' Services                      1.84          1.13         2.97
(4) Training                                   1.87          0.73         2.60
(5) Incremental Operating Costs Incurred by:
MOPHP                                    0.80          0.54         1.34
CAU                                      0.19          0.14         0.33
Project Preparation Advance (PPA)             0.17                        0.17
Total Project Costs    9.93          19.67       29.60
Total Financing Required    9.93          19.67        29.60
Figures may not add up due to rounding. The amount of PPA is US$165,000.
34



Annex 4: Economic Analysis
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Health Reform Support Project (HRSP)
1.    Strengthening Health Service Delivery
This project component attempts to improve access to quality health services for the rural poor,
especially women and children. The criteria for selection of the project area are justified on poverty
grounds. The project supports the overall objective of poverty alleviation, and of equity in health care.
The fundamentals of the selection of the four governorates are high IMR and high poverty rates.
Rationale for public financing.
The health needs of the entire population are not being addressed. Most health concerns in Yemen are
communicable, which can be easily prevented through safe and clean water, sanitary and hygienic
practices and conditions of living, safe birth, vaccinations, and basic health knowledge and care. Yemen
has one of the highest maternal mortality ratios (MMR) in the Middle East and North Africa Region.
Complications of pregnancy and childbirth, most of which are easily preventable, are the leading cause
of death and disability among women of reproductive age in developing countries. At least 20 percent of
the burden of disease among children below age five is attributable to conditions directly associated with
poor maternal health and nutrition, and the quality of obstetric and newborn care. Urban-rural disparities
possibly result in restrictions to easy accessibilities to quality and appropriate health facilities, especially
in rural areas. Although high incidence of illnesse are being reported, utilization remains low.
The primary reasons for low health service utilization and poor health outcomes are four-fold: (i)
inadequate physical access to services, particularly in the rural areas; (ii) inappropriate and low quality
service available to the population; (iii) inequitable resource distribution to the governorates; and (iv)
inefficient resource use.
The improvement in health care of the population can be achieved not only through improved access to
roads, transport and facilities, but also through increased availability of appropriately trained staff,
maternal beds, and equipment and supplies for majority of the population's health care needs. The health
care needs can be easily provided by primary health facilities, and by a strong referral network. These
interventions are "pure public and merit goods," and the adequate financing of such interventions
requires public sector support.
Fiscal impact and financial sustainability of project alternatives.
This project component will cost US$19 million over 5 years, or approximately US$4 million per year.
US$15 million (or 80 percent) will be allocated for capital and development investment.
The public sector annual expenditure for 1999 was approximately US$87 million, 86 percent of which
was allocated by MOPHP, and the balance by the two autonomous hospitals. About US$24 million (28
percent) of the public sector expenditure was allocated for O&M, and about US$21 million (24 percent)
was allocated towards capital and development investments. Given Yemen's low public sector spending
on health, this project component should be affordable at an additional approximately 5 percent of the
public sector annual budget.
35



The non-salary recurrent budget for the 18 upgraded health facilities would be approximately US$1
million annually. This project component is sustainable as it will make up about 5 percent of the
MOPHP non-salary recurrent budget annually.
Cost-benefit analysis of project interventions.
The beneficiaries of this project component are the poor and under-served rural populations. The project
is expected to improve access and health outcomes, and to reduce inequity in health care. The project
attempts to improve the use of existing health facilities by rehabilitating rural facilities rather than
developing new facilities. In addition, the project attempts to create demand through improved quality of
services and by addressing the needs of the population, especially women and children.
The project is expected to save lives, reduce disability and improve equity in health care through: (i)
improved physical access to health facilities; (ii) targeted primary health care services; and (iii) a
functioning referral network. In addition, the project is expected to improve efficiency by means of
improved quality of care through: (i) trained staff; (ii) availability of drugs; and (iii) upgraded equipment
and buildings.
While it is difficult to quantify the savings, the project is also expected to result in cost-savings through:
(i) early detection of illness at PHC, and proper referral; (ii) reduced travel time and costs incurred by
traveling to distant health facilities; and (iii) improved efficiency and effectiveness in the allocation of
resources to address the health needs of the poor.
2.    Strengthening Public Health Programs
This project component attempts to reduce the disease burden of malaria on the population, and mainly
on the disease that burdens the poor, who primarily live in these rural malaria infested areas. As a result,
the project will improve equity in this population's health care. This project component focuses mainly
on malaria prevention aspects, epidemic and outbreak preparedness, and health education.
Rationale for public financing.
Sixty percent of Yemenis are at risk of contracting malaria. About 2.8 million (or 165 cases per 1,000
population) were diagnosed with malaria in 1999. The situation is said to have deteriorated over the
years. It is known, however, that malaria affects all age groups, especially children, pregnant women,
the elderly and the vulnerable. Malaria is more prevalent in rural and under-served areas, and in areas
with poor sanitation, water, housing, and environmental conditions. Since malaria-control is a "pure
public good and a merit good," public financing is justified. The private sector can partner in this
endeavor.
Fiscal impact andfinancial sustainability of project alternatives.
This project component will allocate about US$4 million over 5 years; about 30 percent of the funds will
be to purchase vehicles and equipment for vector control and for epidemics and outbreaks. At least 10%
of the capital cost should be allocated for the annual O&M share, which is about US$0.1 million (10% of
US$1 million). This is less than 0.5 percent of MOPHP's non-salary recurrent expenditure for 1999, and
is sustainable beyond project life. Therefore, the incremental cost of this project component to MOPHP
is negligible, and sustainable.
36



Cost-benefit analysis of project interventions.
The beneficiaries of a malaria control program will be those populations living in the rural malaria
endemic regions. Multiple benefits can be accrued from investment in a malaria control program, and
these are summarized below.
A malaria-controlled area can result in cost-savings through: (i) reduced costs incurred by households on
malaria prevention, and treatment. For example, in sub-Saharan Africa the prevention costs were about
US$ 0.09 per capita per month, and the treatment costs were about US$ 0.61 per capita per person; (ii)
reduced losses in earnings and productivity for adults in the households and breadwinners due to
sickness, care of the sick, and death; and (iii) improved learning and performance for children in school.
A malaria-controlled area can result in reducing the risk of mortality and morbidity, especially among
children and women.6 A large component of malaria control is through efforts to improve public
awareness and modify personal behavior. The health education program can, therefore, positively
impact health care behavior of the population towards primary health care concerns.
Equity in health can be improved through investments in a malaria control program, as the poor are
mostly afflicted by malaria.
3.    Strengthening Health Systems Management
The project will increase the efficiency of resource allocation, and improve the effectiveness of the
health delivery system.
Rationale for public financing.
Resources are constrained in Yemen, therefore, the efficient use of resources is of utmost importance,
especially in the public sector for health, which only received about 1.3 percent of the country's GDP, or
about 4.1 percent of the total government expenditure in 1999. An increased share of recurrent budgets
will improve the quality of services offered by the health care system. An efficient allocation and use of
resources will reach the poor and the underserved, thereby resulting in welfare improvements for the
population.
Fiscal impact andfinancial sustainability of project alternatives.
This project component is about US$5 million over 5 years (US$1 million annually), and about 20
percent (or US$1 million) is allocated towards capital and development investment. The project
provides part of the recurrent budget for the maintenance and supplies of computers for the project life.
The maintenance costs of a newly refurbished building should be low especially during the first ten
years. Some studies suggest that about 0.5 percent of capital investment should be allocated for building
maintenance annually. The O&M requirements for this project, therefore, are sustainable by the
MOPHP well beyond the project.
6 For example, in sub-Saharan Africa, regular use of an insecticide-treated bed net reduced mortality in children less
than 5 years by as much as 30 percent.
37



Cost-benefit analysis of project interventions.
The beneficiaries of this project component could indirectly be the entire population of Yemen, as it
improves management and delivery of health care resources. The direct beneficiaries of the improved
health system will be the MOPHP, the private sector and the NGOs.
While one cannot quantify the savings, the project is expected to result in cost savings through: (i) more
cost-effective health interventions; (ii) efficient management and use of resources for O&M; and (iii)
informed decisions on use of resources.
The project is expected to result in saved lives and reduced disabilities through: (i) more effective health
surveillance, and more controlled outbreaks and epidemics; (ii) targeted and timely health interventions;
and (iii) increased utilization of the public sector health facilities.
38



Annex 5: Financial Summary
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Health Reform Support Project (HRSP)
Years Ending
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
| Year2              | Year2  1 Year3  | Year4  I Year5  |  Total
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           2.2        7.1      10.2        7.1       1.2      27.8
Recurrent Costs            0.2        0.3       0.4        0.4       0.4        1.7
Total Project Costs          2.4        7.4      10.7       7.5        1.6      29.6
Financing
IBRDfIDA                  2.3        7.0       10.0       6.9        1.3     27.5
Government                 0.1       0.4        0.7       0.6        0.3      2.1
Total                        2.4        7.4      10.7       7.5        1.6      29.6
Total Project Financing     2.4        7.4      10.7       7.5        1.6      29.6
39



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Health Reform Support Project (HRSP)
Procurement
1.    Procurement in Yemen is currently governed by Law No. 3 of 1997 for Government Tenders,
Auctions and Stores and by Comprehensive Regulations, introduced by the Prime Minister's Decree No.
234 of 1997. This legal framework provides for decentralized procurement in the central and local
government, in state enterprises, and in the governorates. Within this framework, the project will create a
Credit Administration Unit (CAU) to manage all procurement within the mandate of MOPHP. The CAU
will function as a technical secretariat to provide the administrative support from preparation of
procurement documents to evaluation of tenders and contract award and signing. It will also provide the
technical support to manage the execution of contracts. The design and supervision of civil works
contracts for rehabilitation of the District Hospitals and Health Centers will be carried out by consultants.
The GOY will enter into a contract with the UNFPA for the specific procurement of contraceptives,
which will be arranged through an ongoing program for the periodic supply of contraceptives in
accordance with demand.
Use of Bank Guidelines and Standard Documents
2.     Procurement of Works and Goods will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (World Bank, January 1995, Revised January and
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) will be
used for the procurement of Works and Goods under ICB and NCB (with modifications acceptable to
IDA). The Bank's Standard Bid Evaluation Form--Procurement of Goods or Works (April 1996) will be
used to evaluate bids.
3.     The procurement of Services will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for the
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September
1997 and January 1999). The standard Request for Proposals (RFP) for the Selection of Consultants (July
1997, Revised April 1998 and July 1999) and the Standard Form of Contracts will be used for contracts
above US$200,000 equivalent. A simplified version of the standard RFP and contracts will be used for
contracts below US$200,000 equivalent, short-term assignments and individual consultants. For the
selection process of firms, the Sample Form of Evaluation Report for the Selection of Consultants
(October 1999) will be used.
Advertising
4.     A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in  United Nations Development
Business (UNDB) and in at least two national newspapers. The GPN will provide a description of the
Project and will list all contracts for Goods to be awarded under ICB and for consultancy services
estimated at more than US$200,000. The GPN will be updated annually for all outstanding procurement.
5.     Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) for the main contracts will also be published in UNDB and
in at least two national newspapers with wide circulation. The SPN will provide a description of required
works, goods and services and invite expressions of interest for the consultants' long list from which the
short lists will be composed for IDA's no objection.
40



Procurement Capacity and Implementation Arrangements
6.     MOPHP already has experience with Bank procurement, which was obtained through previous
and ongoing IDA funded projects. Procurement under the Family Health Project (FHP) is being managed
by a Project Implementation Unit (PrIU) and the project also provided capacity building to the Ministry
Directorate of Purchasing and Storage (DPS) under the Directorate General of Finance (DGF).
Procurement under the proposed project will be carried out with the support of a Credit Administration
Unit (CAU) in lieu of the PIJ. The CAU will be staffed with a procurement specialist with qualifications
to manage IDA-funded procurement. The CAU administrator and the financial management specialist
will also participate in the process of procurement management.
7.     Approval of procurement recommendations will be done by the procurement Supervisory
Committee at MOPHP, which is legally authorized to approve contracts up to YR 125 million (or about
US$750,000 equivalent). Contracts above the MOPIIP's limit up to YR 450 million (or about US$2.75
million equivalent) will be referred for approval to the Supreme Government Tenders and Auctions
Committee also called High Tender Board. Contracts above the YR 450 million will be referred to the
Council of Ministers for approval.
8.     The key CAU staff (financial management specialist and procurement specialist) will be
employed by Credit effectiveness and will be funded by the Project Preparation Advance (PPA).
Capacity building workshops will be conducted for the CAU staff on Bank procurement guidelines and
disbursement procedures prior to Credit effectiveness. Establishment of the CA U with professional key
staff acceptable to IDA will be a condition for Credit effectiveness..
Procurement Plan
9.     The preliminary procurement plan was completed during project appraisal and a final
procurement plan would be agreed upon at Credit negotiations. The procurement plan will include all
activities prior to Credit effectiveness, as well as for the first year of project implementation. The
procurement plan will be updated annually for the outstanding activities.
Procurement methods (Table A)
10.   Works and Goods. Procurement of goods and works will be carried out using the following
methods:
Works: Civil works will consist of the rehabilitation of about eight district hospitals and about sixteen
district health centers in eight districts within four different governorates in different parts of the country.
The average size of each contract for the rehabilitation of district hospitals is estimated at about
US$500,000 equivalent, and the average size of contract for district health centers is estimated at about
US$150,000 equivalent. The packaging of these works, due to the geographic location, to the extent
feasible will include at best one hospital and one or two district health centers. Also, the preparation of
the bid packages will be programmed over a period of about one year as the design and bidding
documents are developed. Such contract packages, with a total contract value of less than US$1,000,000,
will probably be too small to attract the interest of foreign construction companies. Therefore, all civil
works contracts will be awarded under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures packaged
together, to the extent possible, with interested foreign bidders still eligible to submit bids. Contract
packages with a value above US$100,000 equivalent will be required to be advertised in at least two
national newspapers. Small works and incidental equipment below this amount up to an aggregate amount
41



of US$1.0 million equivalent, will be procured using simplified bidding procedures and documents, and
announcements through posting in public areas will be used.
Goods:   Goods will primarily consist of medical equipment and supplies, essential drugs and
contraceptives, lab equipment and supplies, furniture and office equipment, computers and soft-ware,
training equipment and printed material, and vehicles with a total estimated cost of about US$12.5 million
equivalent. Goods with an estimated contract value above US$300,000 equivalent will be procured
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Goods with an estimated contract value
below US$300,000 equivalent, and up to an aggregate amount of US$1.0 million equivalent, will be
procured through National Competitivbe Bidding (NCB) procedures with advertisements in at least two
national newspapers. Goods with an estimated contract value below US$100,000 equivalent, up to an
aggregate amount of US$2.4 million equivalent, will be procured through International/National
Shopping (IS/NS) procedures by soliciting at least three competitive quotations from suppliers.
Contraceptives up to an aggregate amount of US$600,000 equivalent will be procured through the
UNFPA, through competitive procedures acceptable to IDA.
11.   Consultant Services. Consultant services to be contracted include long-term and short-term
consultancies, such as: technical experts; architectural and engineering firms; financial, accounting and
administrative specialists; auditors and trainers. For consultancies with estimated contract values above
US$100,000 equivalent, Quality-Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) and IBRD's Standard Request for
Proposals (RFP) will be used. For consultancies with an estimated contract value above US$50,000
equivalent and for all specialized consultancies, the Quality-Based Selection (QBS) method and a
simplified invitation for competitive proposals will be used. For all other consultancies, the Consultants'
Qualifications (CQ) method will be used. Single-Source (SS) selection will be used only under
exceptional circumstances, with IDA's prior concurrence. Auditors will be selected using the Least-Cost
Selection (LCS) procedures. For contracts with individual consultants, the Selection of Individual
Consultant method according to IDA's Guidelines will be used.
42



Table A: ProJect Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category                                                              Total Cost
2/      NBF
ICB           NCB          Other        N.B.F.
9.80
1. Works                            0.00          9.80          0.00        0.00
(0.00)         (8.81)       (0.00)      (0.00)       ((8.81)
2. Goods                            8.31          1.07          3.03         0.00        12.41
(8.17)         (1.05)       (2.98)      (0.00)       (12.20)
3. Services                         0.00          0.00          3.12         0.00        3.12
(0.00)         (0.00)       (3.12)       (0.00)      (3.12)
3. Training              0.00           0.00         2.60         0.00         2.60
4. Training
(0.00)         (0.00)       (2.60)       (0.00)      (2.60)
5. Incremental Operating Cost
(a) MOPH 4/                       0.00           0.00         1.34         0.00         1.34
(0.00)         (0.00)       (0.53)       (0.00)      (0.53)
(b) CAU                     0.00          0.00          0.33         0.00         0.33
(b) CAU                          (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.27)       (0.00)       (0.27)
Total                            8.31          10.87         10.42        0.00        29.60
(8.17)         (9.86)       (9.50)       (0.00)      (27.53)
1/  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
Figures may not add up due to rounding.
2/ Includes: goods to be procured through UN agencies, international and national shopping, consulting
services, services of contracted staff of the Credit Administration Unit, training, and technical assistance
services.
3/  Includes: trainees' per diem and travel expenses; training materials and supplies; and tuition charges.
4/ Includes: maintenance of vehicles, fuel, office supplies, communication services, local travel costs
(including transport and per diem), and maintenance of buildings and equipment in the Project departments
and the eight (8) selected districts, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower.
5/ Includes: utility charges, maintenance and insurance of vehicles, fuel, office supplies, banking charges,
communication and translation services, audit costs, local travel costs (including transport and per diem),
CAU driver salary, advertising, mailing and shipping costs, labor costs, but excluding salaries of officials
of the Borrower.
*N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
43



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
12.    Prior review thresholds (Table B). The following procurement will be subject to IDA's prior
review and concurrence:
* all contracts for Works with a value above US$100,000 equivalent procured using NCB
procedures, and the first two contracts regardless of the value procured using Simplified NCB
procedures.
*  all contracts for Goods procured using ICB procedures, all contracts above US$100,000 procured
using NCB procedures, and the first three contracts regardless of the value procured using
shopping procedures.
* all consultancy contracts with a value exceeding US$50,000 equivalent, and all Single-Source
contracts.
* all consultancy contracts with a value below US$50,000 equivalent only TORs, short-lists and
cost estimates will be subject to prior review.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
-Expenditure      .Threshold:-          Procurement-'            Prior Review
Category            (US$)                Method                    (US$)
1. Works
=> US$ 1,000,000           ICB                    All contracts
>US$100,000              NCB               All contracts>US$100,000
<US$100,000          Simplified NCB            First 2 contracts
Total value US$8.8 m
2. Goods
>US$300,000               ICB                   All contracts
>US$100,000              NCB               All contracts>US$l00,000
<US$100,000              IS/NS                 First 3 contracts
Total value US$9.9 m
3. Services
Firms and Individuals       QCBS             All contracts >US$ 100,000
>US$100,000
Firms and Individuals        QBS              All contracts >US$50,000.
>US$50,000
Firms and Individuals    CQ, LCS, SS            All SS contracts and
<US$50,000           INDIVIDUAL       TOR, short list and cost estimates for
all other contracts
Total value US$2.0 m.
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$20.7 million
44



Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
13.    The first year will require three missions to ensure proper implementation start-up and familiarity
of the CAU and Ministry staff with IDA's procedures. Two ex-post review missions per year will take
place to review randomly selected contracts below the prior review threshold. At the end of the first year
of implementation, a procurement assessment will take place to decide whether the above arrangements
will be continued or if the procurement arrangements in the Credit Agreement should be amended.
Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
14.    The Credit of US$27.53 million will be disbursed over a 5-year period in accordance with table
C. All project activities are expected to be completed by June 30, 2007, and the Credit will close on
December 31, 2007.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category      Amount in US$million          Financing Percentage
1. Civil Works                       8.52                         90%
2. Goods (equipment, medical        11.12           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
supplies, and vehicles)                              local expenditures (ex-factory costs),
and 85% of local expenditure for other
items procured locally
3. Services                          2.66                         100%
4. Training                          2.34                         100%
5. Incremental Operating Cost
(a) MOPH                           0.52             50% from November 1, 2002 until
December 31, 2004; 40% from January
1, 2005, until December 31, 2006; 25%
from January 1, 2007 until December
31, 2007 and 0% thereafter
(b) CAU                            0.20                          85%
6. Unallocated                       2.00
7. PPA (PPF)                         0.17          Amount due pursuant to section 2.02 (c)
of the Credit Agreement
Total Project Costs                 27.53
Total                               27.53
Services US$2.66 million also include: architectural and engineering fees for design and construction
supervision of the rehabilitation of District Hospitals and Health Centers (about US$0.90 million); salaries for
CAU staff (about US$0.50 million); and national and international experts (about US$1.60 million). The
amount of PPA is US$165,000.
45



Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
15.    Disbursements for Goods and Works contracts below US$100,000 and Services contracts below
US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals, training, operational costs, and CAU incremental
operating costs will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation will be
maintained by the CAU and made available for review by members of IDA supervision missions and
verified by the external auditors annually. Documentation relating to SOEs will be retained for up to one
year after the final withdrawal from the Credit.
16.   Documentation for Withdrawals. Withdrawal from the Credit proceeds will be based on IDA's
traditional disbursement methods such as reimbursement and Special Account (SA) replenishment,
special commitment, and direct payment. The latter will be based on receipt of appropriate documentation
(in English). Applications for reimbursement and SA replenishment for contracts for works valued at
more than US$100,000; for goods of more than US$100,000; and for consulting services of more than
US$100,000 for firms, and US$50,000 for individuals, will be presented with full documentation (in
English) for disbursement.
Special account:
17.   To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government will establish a Special
Account (SA) in the Central Bank of Yemen, to be operated by the CAU under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. The authorized allocation of US$1.5. million represents IDA's share of the estimated
four-month average of project expenditures through the SA. Initially, the allocation will be limited to
US$0.8 million, while the full allocation can be claimed when disbursements and commitments entered
into reach SDR3 million. The CAU will submit replenishment applications for the SA on a monthly basis.
The replenishment applications will be supported by a bank statement of the SA and a reconciliation of
the SA against the bank records.
Project Preparation Advance (PPA);
18.   To advance the preparation of the project, a PPA in the amount of US$165,000 was approved on
February 15, 2002. Disbursements under the PPA are made using traditional Bank disbursement
methods.
46



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: HEALTH REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT ASSESSMENT
(January 2002)
A procurement assessment of the MOPHP was carried out during project appraisal mission by Mario
Zelaya, Procurement Accredited. Currently MOPHP is implementing the Family Health Project (FHP)
through a Project Implementation Unit (PIU). However, in view of the poor performance of this Unit,
MOPHP has decided to implement the Health Reform Support Project (HRSP) by the heads of
departments and programs of the Ministry. The program directors will compose a Project Coordinating
Committee (PCC) to coordinate the various project sub-components under their responsibility. The PCC
will operate under the oversight of a Steering Committee (SC) formed by the Minister and Deputy
Ministers of MOPHP, and representatives from the Ministry of Planning and Development (MOPD) and
the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The PCC will manage the project with the support of a Credit
Administration Unit (CAU) for financial and procurement functions.
The appraisal mission was unable to assess the FHP/PIU because the MOPHP decided to close the PIR
and instead contract the services of a qualified procurement specialist (PS) to manage all HRSP
procurement. The PS will be required to be familiarized with IDA procurement guidelines and
procedures. The MOPHP requested IDA assistance in providing training on Bank/IDA procurement
guidelines and procedures to the PS to ensure compliance with such requirements. Furthermore, MOPHP
requested from IDA a Project Preparation Advance (PPA) as bridge financing to contract out the services
of the PS by the time of Credit negotiations.
The mission met with the programs directors of MOPHP and discussed the procurement responsibilities
they will have under the project, and how they will work with the PS on procurement management. On
the basis of these discussions, the mission, together with the PCC, drafted a procurement plan for the
HRSP. This plan will be reviewed and updated with the assistance of the PS, based on a detailed work
plan to be developed by the PCC for the implementation of each sub-component. Similar plans will be
developed for each subsequent year for IDA review and concurrence.
In view of the conditions under which the HRSP is being started, the mission has recommended that a
subsequent IDA mission be programmed to review and discuss with the PCC and the PS a revised
procurement plan. The mission further recommends using this proposed mission for conducting a
procurement workshop to build capacity of both the PCC and the PS. This workshop should be
coordinated with a similar workshop to review and discuss the proposed financial management system.
In conclusion, in view of the substantial work to be undertaken prior to Credit effectiveness, the appraisal
mission recommends that two follow-up workshops be carried out by IDA in the ensuing six months.
In order to comply with the increased role of MOPHP on project execution, the following Action Plan has
been discussed and agreed with MOPHP.
47



Procurement Assessment Action Plan
Issue          Remedial Action     Responsibility       Due Date             Remarks
CAU staffing        Recruit PS          MOPHP             2/28/2002          TORs agreed and the
position to be
advertised by 1/26/02
Lack of detailed    PCC to draft        MOPHP/PCC         4/1/2002           Procurement plans
Work Plan by        detailed plan                                            were discussed and
Component                                                                    agreed and a draft plan
prepared for updating
by the PCC and the PS
Weak procurement    Hold two            IDA/MOPHP         First workshop by  MOPHP/IDA to
capacity of PCC and  procurement                          4/30/2002; second  follow up
PS                  workshops                             workshop by
.____ _____ _____   __ _ _7/31/2002
Lack of manual of   The PS and PCC to   PCC/PS            First draft by     MOPHP and IDA to
procedures for      develop a manual of                   4/30/2002 for      follow up
procurement         procedures                            review at workshop
management
48



ANNEX 6(a): Assessment of Financial Management System
Financial Management Arrangements
1.    Staffing, Accounting and Internal Control.   The CAU   will manage the day-to-day
administrative aspects of the project on behalf of the MOPHP, and will interface on financial management
with IDA, the Ministry of Planning and Development (MOPD), and the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The
CAU will provide the needed support to the project in the area of financial management, i.e. maintain
accurate, timely and up-to-date accounting records and related supporting documents; ensure that
payments are properly authorized and budgeted for in accordance with IDA's financial and procurement
procedures and regulations; periodic reports to IDA, the GOY, and other stakeholders as required, i.e., the
quarterly financial monitoring reports and performance reports for decision making.
2.     The execution of the project is the responsibility of MOPHP who will be assisted by the CAU
engaged for the day-to-day project administration. The flow of the Credit funds will be through the SA
opened by MOPHP at the Central Bank of Yemen under its name and jurisdiction. Withdrawal
applications and SA replenishments will be remitted by CAU on behalf of MOPHP to IDA under
authorized signatures. A detailed Action Plan has been discussed and agreed with the Borrower, and is a
condition of Credit effectiveness. A PPA is being used to allow the implementation of the actions. Once
fully implemented, the Action Plan will allow the CAU to have the financial management capacity to
manage the project's funds and report on their use. The CAU will be responsible for the overall
supervision of the activities including project planning, budgeting, invoice clearing, consolidating project
information and reporting on these activities to IDA, MOPHP, and other stakeholders as needed. The staff
selection process will ensure that the financial staff recruited for the CAU (full time financial
management specialist and an accountant) will have adequate experience and be provided with the
resources (adequate accounting software capable of being configured to the project reporting needs) to
administer the financial management aspects of the project. The financial management specialist will be
responsible for ensuring satisfactory internal control at the CAU and will supervise the work of the
accountant. The terms of reference for both positions are detailed in the project Operational Manual.
3.     The CAU accounting system should be able to provide accurate, reliable, and timely accounting
information on project funding and activities, and for each individual component and sub-component in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. It should also provide periodic reconciliation
of the CAU transactions with the project SA. The CAU will have fiduciary responsibility towards the
MOPHP. To fulfill these requirements, the CAU will have to ensure that the systems provide the
necessary financial and physical progress information to the project management at all levels during
implementation.
4.     Financial Monitoring Reports to be Submitted to IDA. Forty five days after the end of the
first quarter following effectiveness and not later than forty-five days from the close of each quarter
thereafter, the CAU will submit reports on the sources and uses of funds, cash flow projections and needs
known as the Financial Monitoring (FMR) section of the report, a procurement monitoring section, and a
section on the activities physical progress. The FMR will summarize the financial position of the project.
5.     A draft FMR format is provided in the Project Implementation Plan. The report should comprise
(i) a summary cash flow table showing revenue and expenditure for the project as a whole, regardless of
the source of financing, for the quarter just ended and the accumulated totals up to the date of the report;
and (ii) a detailed breakdown of revenue and expenditure by project component for the quarter just ended
and the amounts accumulated since the start of the project, plus the projected figures in the project
49



appraisal report. The report will also include an analysis of the discrepancies between the projected and
actual figures.
6.     The CAU financial management specialist, with the help of a consulting firm, will be responsible
for the preparation of the Manual of Procedures (MOP) detailing the following:
* Flow of documents and the timeframe/invoice clearance and levels of authority.
* Supporting documents retention and safety.
* Periodic reconciliation procedures of SA records.
* Transparency of the project activities and the audit trail for the review of auditors.
* The chart of accounts adapted to the project.
* Budgeting process and budgetary control.
* Financial reporting, including formats of FMRs.
* The TOR of the annual external audit.
7.    It is expected that the CAU accounting system will be in place by effectiveness. The current
accounting system, used by the Family Health Project will be transferred to the CAU. It represents an
application made by local representative of Dell computers for use by IDA funded projects. It was
designed as an accounting software and reporting based on the Project Management Reports. A number of
projects have been using this software and have satisfactory results. Among the Human Development
sector projects, the Child Development and the Basic Education Expansion Projects are using it. By
Credit effectiveness, the CAU is expected to have acquired the budgetary control module of the software,
tested it, and trained staff on its use. The system is also expected to have integrated the FMRs in the
system by effectiveness.
8.     Annual External Audit The Borrower is expected to present annually to the Bank and not later
than six months after the close of each fiscal year, an audit report containing: Audited Project Financial
Statements (APFS), an opinion on the special account, an opinion on the use of SOEs, and a management
letter. The report will be prepared by independent external auditors acceptable to IDA. APFS will
include:
* Statement of sources and utilization of funds, indicating funds received from various sources,
project expenditures.
* Appropriate schedules classifying project expenditures by components, expenditure and Loan
Categories showing yearly and cumulative balances.
* Special Account Reconciliation Statement.
* Statement of Project Expenditure.
9.     MOPHP will remit to IDA, not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year, an audit
report of the project. The external audit report shall encompass all project activities and shall be in
accordance with internationally accepted auditing standards, e.g., International Standards on Auditing
(ISA). The annual audit report of the Project Accounts shall include a separate opinion as to whether the
SOEs submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures of internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support related withdrawals. Also, the audit report shall include a
separate paragraph on the SA reconciling opening and year-end balances. In addition to the audit reports,
the auditor will prepare a "management letter" identifying any observations, comments and deficiencies,
in the system and controls, that the auditor considers pertinent and shall provide recommendations for
their improvement. The TOR for the auditor will be prepared and submitted for IDA's no objection
during the first quarter of each fiscal year being audited. For the first year of operations, the borrower will
appoint the auditors before Credit effectiveness. The auditors will undertake the preliminary work of
reviewing the internal control established based on the action plan. They will issue an interim
50



management letter in which they will present an opinion on the internal control in place and present any
recommendation for improvement. The management letter should be communicated to IDA before Credit
ettectiveness. Draft TORs containing IDA's audit requirements are included in the Operational Manual
for use in the selection and appointment of auditors.
Action Plan for Setting up a Financial Management System
10.   The actions contained in the following Action Plan for setting up a project financial management
system (except for the Financial Monitoring Reports) should be finalized before Credit effectiveness:
* By negotiations, recruit a qualified Financial Management Specialist and an Accountant based on
competitive recruitment process.
* By negotiations, appoint a management consultant to propose and install a financial management
system with procedures, chart of accounts, accounting system, reporting requirements, and train
staff on the system in place. The management consultant should be selected from the shortlist of
consultants approved by IDA for this type of assignment. These consultants are familiar with
Bank operations and some of them have undertaken similar assignments. That will allow cost
reduction but also fast implementation given their knowledge of Bank requirements and the fact
that they have prior experience with this task.
* By March 15, 2002, acquisition, installation, and integration with the project specific
requirements of the accounting and budgetary control modules of the Dell Software.
* By April 30, 2002, the financial management system is in place and running. The consultant will
then undertake the training of staff on the use of the system and the software. The consultant will
remain responsible for the satisfactory completion of the internal control system and procedures,
accounting and reporting system. Thus, she/he will have the responsibility of implementing
and/or making any required changes to the designed system following the external auditors
recommendations (see next bullet).
X By May 30, 2002, appoint an external auditor acceptable to the Bank, to audit the first year of
project operations, and to conduct a review of the internal control system and procedures being
developed. The auditors should prepare an interim management letter in which they detail their
findings following the assessment, and recommendations for the improvement, of the internal
controls. The interim management letter should be issued by the auditors by June 30, 2002.
* By July 30, 2002, implement all recommendations made by the auditors to improve the internal
controls.
* By Credit effectiveness, the Bank will review the financial management system in place to ensure
that the above actions have been satisfactorily implemented to allow loan disbursement.
11.   Forty five days after the end of the first quarter following Credit effectiveness, and not later than
forty-five days from the close of each quarter thereafter, the MOHP should submit to IDA financial
monitoring reports (FMR) of project operations per the module discussed.
Disbursement Arrangements
12.   To ensure that funds are readily available for project implementation, a SA in US dollars will be
opened at the Central Bank of Yemen and will be operated by the MOPHP. Initially, an advance for the
equivalent of about four months expenditures will be transferred by IDA to the SA upon Credit
effectiveness and receipt of a signed withdrawal application from MOPHP. The maximum amount of this
initial advance is estimated at US$800,000 equivalent. Replenishment applications will be prepared and
submitted to IDA by the CAU on behalf of MOPHP. Authorized signatories, names and corresponding
specimens of their signatures will be submitted to IDA. The SA will be replenished using traditional
methods of disbursements by means of SOEs for those expenditures below the threshold and direct
51



payments accompanied by supporting documentation for the balance as detailed above. A training
seminar on the above procedures will take place during the Project Launch Workshop.
IDA Project Financial Management Supervision
13.   The financial actions of the project will require intensive supervision of the CAU. The IDA
supervision will be provided by the Yemen Country Office. During the pre-effectiveness period, IDA
supervision will intensify to ensure that the action plan is on time, and the CAU accounting system has
been set up and is able to generate the required quarterly FMRs. After effectiveness, the first supervision
mission will take the form of a Project Launch Workshop where the CAU will be trained on IDA rules,
regulations and guidelines. The project will be supervised every four months for the first 20 months, and
every six months thereafter. IDA missions will consist of visits to the CAU and field trips.
52



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Health Reform Support Project (HRSP)
Project Schedule                             Planned             Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)   13                     12
First Bank mission (identification)        09/30/2000          09/30/2000
Appraisal mission departure                11/13/2001          11/13/2001
Negotiations                               03/04/2002          02/13/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness              10/31/2002
Prepared by:
Ministry of Public Health and Population
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant TF029657 (Bank executed, $321,000)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                           Speciality
Sameh El-Saharty        Team Leader/Sr. Health Policy Specialist
Mario Zelaya            Implementation Specialist/Civil and Environmental Engineer
(Consultant)
Hashem Awnallah          Health Operations Specialist
Alaa Mahmoud Hamed       Sr. Health Specialist/Health Education
Rafika Chaouali          Financial Management Specialist
Karima Saleh            Health Economist (Consultant)
Daniel Dupety           Implementation Specialist/Architect (Consultant)
Concepcion del Castillo  Sr. Social Scientist
Allan Rotman             Sr. Environmental Specialist
Dennis Streveler         HMIS Specialist (Consultant)
Atter Hanoura            MIS Specialist (Consultant)
Lawrence Barat           Technical Specialist (Malaria)
Mira Hong                Program Assistant
Hind Tawfeek             Program Assistant
53



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Health Reform Support Project (HRSP)
A. Project Implementation Plan
The PIP (January 2002) is located in the project files.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
The documents below are work of both Bank Staff and consultants.
* Strengthening, Integrating, and Sustaining Public Health Programs (2001)
* Health Sector Strategy Note (2001)
* Budget and Institutional Reform: Public Expenditure Review in Support of the Five-Year Plan
(2001)
* Public Expenditures Review of the Health Sector (2000)
* Health Facilities Operations and Maintenance Study (2000) - Crone & Koch
* Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Blood Transfusion Services in the Republic of Yemen (1999)
- Swiss Red Cross
* Consultancy to Improve the Provision of Health Services at the District Hospital Level (1998)
* The Yemeni Health Care Consumer: Out of Pocket Costs and Health Care Utilization (1998)
* Enhancing Policy Options - A Population Sector Study (1997) - World Bank
* Health Sector Reform Management Component (2001) - GTZ
1) Health Manpower in Yemen Preliminary Analysis
2) Quick Assessment of Resources and Performance of Health Offices in Selected
Governorates of Yemen
3) Communication for Development
4) Communication Research Methodology for Behavioral Change
5) Private Sector Involvement in Health Care Provision in Yemen
6) Health Manpower Planning
7) Situation Analysis of Health Education in Yemen
*Including electronic files
54



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Health Reform Support Project (HRSP)
' 03-Jan-2002
Ditference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                         Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig   Frmn Rev'd
P070092       2002 TAIZ MUNICIPAL DEVEL. & FLOOD PROTECTION          0.00      45.20                           0.00     45.04       0.00      0.00
P062714       2001 RY- IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT                        0.00      21.30                           0.00     19.88       1.39      0.00
P043255       2001 BASIC EDUCATION EXPANSION PROJECT                 0.00      56.00                           0.00     51.00      -2.21      0.00
P070391       2001 RURAL ACCESS IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM                  0.00      45.00                           0.00     44.84       2.36      0.00
P005906       2001 RY-RURAL WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION                0.00     20.00                            0.00     19.23       1.69      0.00
P050706       2000 RY-CIVIL SERVICE MODERN                           0.00      30.00                           0.00     26.76       7.27      0.00
P050483       2000 RY-CHILD DEVELOPMENT                              0.00      28.90                           0.00     23.92      -0.73      0.00
P068830       2000 RY-Second Social Fund for Development             0.00      75.00                           0.00     60.38      26.44      0.00
P057915        1999 RY-LEGAL&JUDICIAL DEV                            0.00      2.50                            0.00      1.22       1.42      0.00
P060132        1999 RY-PUBLIC WORKS 11                               0.00      50.00                           0.00     20.51      13.81      0.00
P005907        1999 RY-SANAA WS/SANITATION                           0.00      25.00                           0.00      7.62       3.15      0.00
P050530       1999 RY-SANAA EMERG. POWER                             0.00      54.00                           0.00     32.26      28.67      0.00
P039171        1998 SEEDS & AG. SERVICES                             0.00      12.50                           0.00      4.50       2.89      0.00
P005902        1998 RY-S.GOV AGRI PRIVATIZA                          0.0o     24.70                            4.01      12.07     10.15      0.00
P041199        1997 SOCIAL FUND DEVPT                                0.06      30.00                           0.00      0.12      -7.66      0.00
P041267        1996 RY-TRANSPORT REHABILITATION                   .   0.90     37.00                           0.00      4.47       9.09      8.94
P005912        1996 VOC. TRAINING                                    0.00      24.30                           0.00      4.43       6.18      1.78
P005911        1994 EDUCATION SECTOR                                 0.00      33.00                           0.00      14.90     16.77      1.35
P005910        1993 FAMILY HEALTH                                    0.00      26.60                           0.00      2.62       4.26      4.08
Total:       0.00     641.00                           4.01      395.79    124.95      16.16
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
OCT-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Com    iitted                               Disbursed
IFC                                        IFC
FY Approval               Company                                 Loan     Equity      Quasi      Partic      Loan     Equity      Quasi      Partic
1999                      ACSM                                   12.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       8.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
1998                      Radfan                                  3.17       0.00       0.00       0.00       3.17       0.00       0.00       0.00
Total Portfolio:                15.17       0.00       0.00        0.00      11.17       0.00       0.00       0.00
Approvals Pending Comnmitment
FY Approval              Company                                     Loan       Equity        Quasi        Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                    0.00        0.00          0.00         0.00
55



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Health Reform Support Project (HRSP)
M. East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          & North     Low,
Yemen      Africa  Income      Development dlamond
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                      17.0      291      2,417                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                    350     2,060      410
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                      5.9      599       988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                        2.9       2.1       1.9     G                               G
Labor force (%)                                       3.4       3.0       2.3     GNP                            pGross
per          '                 primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                             capita        x    /        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below nationalpoverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)               24        58       31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       56        68       60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               82        45       77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             46        15       43                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)      39        71       64
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   55        36       39
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)   70        95       96                 Yemen,Rep
Male                                                100       102      102                  Low-income group
Female                                              40         88       86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
EConomIc ratioa'
GDP (USS billions)                            ..       ..       6.0       6.8
Gross domestic investment/GOP                                  28.7      20.9
Exports of goods and services/GDP                              28.8      36.9                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                     14.3      12.8
Gross national savings/GDP                                     29.1      22.9
Current account balance/GDP                                     -4.3      1.5     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                                           0.7       1.0     Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                 69.1                a
Total debt service/exports                                      4.2
Present value of debt/GDP                                      52.4
Present value of debt/exports                                 104.9
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998      1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                          3.0      4.8       2.2       5.0                  Yemen, Rep.
GNP per capita                              -1.6      5.0      -3.9       2.2                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services               10.2     -5.2      21.1       0.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999     Growth of Investment and GOP (%)
(% of GOP)                                                                        30
Agriculture                                                    20.2      16 1
Industry                                                       35.4      46.2     is
Manufacturing                                                 12.2     10 4
Services                                                       44.4      37.7      0o         s5    9       9
Private consumption                                            70.4      71.9    .15
General govemment consumption                          ,,      15.3      15.3                   GDI       e-GDP
Imports of goods and services                                  43.2      45.0
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                           5.0      13.7       0.0    60      A
Industry                                              7.8       1.8       2.9    40 
Manufacturing                                       4.2        0.8      1 0     20 
Services                                             -1.8       1.0       3.4
Private consumption                                   0.6       3.6       2 5    20    9947                    9     99
General govemment consumption                        -1.4       8.3       0 3
Gross domestic investment                             7.7      10.9       44 4   40
Imports of goods and services                         1.7      -1.6      14.5                 Expons      .  Imports
Gross national product                                2.0       8.0      -1.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (In bold) compared with Its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
56



Yemen, Rep.
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989      1998     1999     Inflation
Domestic prkces                                                               Into    %
(% change)                                                                    so
Consumer prices                              ..      ..     12.2      9.6     so
Implicit GDP deflator                                                                         ..-38 -9.3  26.8  40
Government finance                                                            20
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                            0
Current revenue                             ..       ..     28.0     32.4    *20     94    95   9B    97    9
Current budget balance                       ..      ..      0.0       57           -GDP deflator 7CPl
Overall surplus/deficit                     ..       ..     -6.4      0.1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                            1979    1989      1998     1999     Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                         1,501   2,467     3 o
Crude oil (govemment share)                 .       ..     471      993
Crude oil (company share)                                  758     1,139
Manufactures                               ..      ..       87      144
Total imports (cif)                                        2,201    2,442
Food                                                       787      807     1.000
Fuel and energy                            ..      ..      117      176
Capital goods                                              479      521        o -
Export price index (1995=100)               ,.      ..        79      102          93   94   9so      97   98   99
Import price index (1995-100)               ..       ..       76      105               U Exports    U Imports
Terms of trade (1995,100)                    ..      ..      103       97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                            1979    1989      1998     1999     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                               1,724   2,640     lo
Imports of goods and services               ..      ..     2,818    3,103
Resource balance                             ..     ..     -1,094    -463 or
Net income                                   ..             -412     -747              94   as   9r   97
Net current transfers                                       1250    1,314    -l.
Current account balance                      ..      ..     -256      104    *20
Financing items (net)                       ..       .,      -61      355
Changes in net reserves                                      317     459      40
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      ..      ..       995    1,504
Conversion rate (DEC, localWlS$)            ..       ..     135.9   155.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989      1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                CompostlIon of 1998 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     1,174    5,593    4,138
IBRD                                                                                       G. 213
IDA                                      109     546      1,075   1,216             F: 178
Total debt service                          58     262       125       ..                              B: 1,075
IBRD
IDA                                        1       6        18       21
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                          186     138       125C
Official creditors                       138     143        91                 E 1891
Private creditors                        142     228
Foreign direct Investment                 23       ..     -210                                       : 445
Portfolio equity                          ..
World Bank program
Commitments                               47      31        60      138     A- IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             20      44       122      173     B - IDA  D - Other uiblateral  F- Prvate
Principal repayments                       0       2        11       12     C - IMF                   G - Short-term
Net flows                                 20      41       111      161
Interest payments                          1       4         7        8
Nettransfers                              19      38       104      153
Development Economics
57



Additional Annex 11: Generic Environmental Management Plan
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Health Reform Support Project (HRSP)
1.     Context
The Republic of Yemen lies at the southwestern tip of the Arabian Peninsula. The total land area is about
555,000 square kilometers (excluding the so called Empty Quarter). It is bordered by the Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia in the north, the Arabian Sea and Indian Ocean in the south, the Red Sea in the west, and the
Sultanate of Oman in the east. Yemen's landscape is characterized by low land coastal plains, a chain of
high and low mountain ranges and the highlands in the central and northern areas, the desert lands to the
east (the Empty Quarter) and islands.
The diversity of Yemen's topography has led to a diversity of climatic conditions. The coastal region is
characterized by high temperatures and humidity during the Summer and moderate weather in the Winter.
The interior and mountainous region is rather moderate during the Summer and cold in the Winter.
Moderate temperatures also prevail in the highlands and western plains in the Summer and cold weather
in the Winter, with the highest rainfall precipitation in the country ranging from 300-1000 mm per year.
The eastern desert region is characterized by hot Summers and cold Winters with low rainfall
precipitation ranging from 50-100 mm annually.
The population of Yemen has reached about 18 million inhabitants, and has been growing at an annual
rate of about 4 percent. About 25 percent of the population resides in urban centers, which have been
increasing rapidly in the last few years. Sana'a, the capital city, has already reached a population of about
1.4 million inhabitants. The remaining population live in rural tribal communities, most of which are
located in the highlands. Although it is difficult to identify an exact date for modern settlements in
Yemen, the archeological and cultural history of Yemen clearly shows a diverse tribal society. The
population of the coastal regions have mixed backgrounds with migrant populations from the Horn of
Africa and southwestern India. The population of the mountain region and highlands are of Arab stock,
and have been historically tied to the land along tribal boundaries; the eastern plains are mainly populated
by Bedouins.
Administratively, Yemen is divided into 20 governorates, in addition to the capital city of Sana'a.
Governorates are in turn sub-divided into 353 districts (to be reduced to 301), comprising about 2,080
sub-districts (uzlas). Sub-districts are further sub-divided into about 36,000 villages and about 64,000
hamilets.
The proposed Health Reform Support Project (HRSP) would complement the Government and donors
efforts to address a number of serious health problems through improved clinical health care facilities.
The Government health sector strategy proposes decentralizing the management of service provision with
more community involvement in support of their own health services. This process would also train and
equip the decentralized units (including secondary hospitals), and would expand preventive and
promotion services. The IDA would support this strategy with an emphasis on maternal and child health,
addressing both overall public health sector management reforms and service delivery needs.
A national policy to address the management of hospital wastes, particularly of medical infectious
wastes, is non-existent. Government concern, however, is being addressed at the project level. Therefore,
waste management issues associated with the rehabilitation of hospitals and health centers will be
addressed as an integral part of the HRSP. A consultant who worked on the functional studies for the
rehabilitation of health care facilities, will also conduct waste characterization studies to analyse current
practices in the selected project areas, paying particular attention to on-site and off-site waste disposal
options. The study will also look into waste segregation practices at source, waste packaging, handling
58



and storage in-situ, as well as off-site transport and disposal, and community waste management and
disposal practices.
2.     Description of the institutional/regulatory set-up relative to environmental management of
health sector related issues
Environmental management in Yemen was first conceived immediately after unification in 1990 with the
creation of the Environmental Protection Council (EPC) by Prime Minister's Decree 94/1990. The EPC
replaced the two separate institutions for environmental management that existed in both The People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen and the Yemen Arab Republic. The EPC was an inter-ministerial council
with broad responsibilities to manage the nation's environment. In 1992, the EPC was expanded with a
Technical Secretariat (TS). The tasks and responsibilities of the TS were determined by Prime Minister's
Decree 34/1992. Three Directorates were set up to implement the TS's functions, namely, General
Directorate of Environmental Protection, General Directorate of Planning and Data, and General
Directorate of Financial and Administrative Affairs. The mandate of the EPC is summarized below:
*  Propose general policies to protect the environment.
* Coordinate the efforts of national, regional and international agencies involved in environmental
protection.
*  Set up standards for control of air and water pollution and land degradation.
*  Formulate national environmental legislation and regulations, and develop recommendations for
ratification, of international environmental agreements.
* Set up effective international cooperation and accommodate international environmental funds.
*  Collect information, undertake assessments and monitor mitigation measures.
*  Promote environmental education and public awareness on environmental issues.
*  Monitor the nation's environment and report periodically to the Cabinet.
*  Prepare a national study and education programs to train Yemeni senior staff in environmental
affairs.
* Organize seminars and lectures on environment and represent Yemen at international
conferences.
The EPC was abolished in 2001 and its mandate, responsibilities and institutional framework were
transferred to the newly created Environment Protection Authority (EPA), which was placed under the
oversight of the Ministry of Tourism and Environment. The EPA was established by Presidential Decree
99, issued on June 30, 2001. EPA's by-laws have been drafted and are under review for the approval of
the Prime Minister. EPA took over the institutional structure and programs of EPC. EPA, however, is
operating under a limited budget and most resources and assistance is funded by donors and international
conventions for the protection of the environment, biodiversity and climate change. Although some
progress has been obtained with donor assistance in the development of environmental management, there
is, however, substantial work ahead to address key environmental issues in a comprehensive way. It
should also be noted, however, that implementation and management of pollution abatement measures are
not defined due to a lack of legislation, awareness and enforcement regulations.
Specifically, in the health sector, MOPHP, with the help of donors, has taken the initiative to address
environmental issues associated with hospitals and health clinics. In this context, however, there should
be a distinction between environmental aspects within the health services facilities and the environmental
impact of such facilities associated with solid and liquid wastes generated by them. Regarding the
environmental health within health facilities, the MOPHP Health Services Department is responsible for
ensuring that such service areas are adequately designed and maintained. Similarly, the Engineering
Department is responsible for the operation and maintenance of services for the disposal of wastewater
and solid wastes. It should be noted, however, that such services are very weak in terms of human
resources with adequate experience in addressing such concerns, and in terms of budgetary resources to
59



properly operate and maintain such services. These are areas which will require substantial investment in
human resource capacity building and properly designed facilities.
Hospital and health centers in urban areas are currently served by existing municipal wastewater systems
and solid waste disposal services, where they exist. Otherwise, such health facilities are provided with
installations for disposal in-situ. It should be noted, however, that such facilities do not meet any
internationally acceptable standards and are in need of substantial improvement. Solving these issues,
however, will require the intervention of the central and local government authorities. In some cases, on-
site disposal may not be feasible, and off-site disposal would be the only viable option. The latter
alternative would fall within the political bounds of local and central government authorities.
Donors such as IDA, the Government of the Netherlands and Germany (KfW and GTZ) have been
assisting the Government of Yemen for many years in addressing problems of wastewater disposal and
solid waste management. This assistance has been in the form of technical assistance and grant financing
of institutional and policy aspects, as well as projects in selected parts of the country. But the areas
without environmentally sound disposal of wastewaters and solid wastes far exceed the few areas where
pilot operations have been started or completed.
The EPA will require further support from donors to address the environmental concerns more broadly
nationwide. More coordination among donors will be necessary to strengthen synergies and complement
such initiatives. The proposed HRSP would coordinate its programs with those of donors working in the
same geographic areas, and would also cooperate with central and concerned local government authorities
in finding suitable and cost-effective solutions to the environmental concerns posed by health services
facilities.
3.     Identification and role of stakeholders
The main stakeholders are the MOPHP, the EPA, the concerned governorates and districts authorities, the
hospitals and district health centers, community organizations (including NGOs) and the directly affected
and beneficiary population.
The MOPHP will be responsible for implementing the improvements to district hospitals and health
centers, and will build the capacity of its staff in the proper administration of environmental concerns,
both in terms of occupational health hazards as well as for the welfare of the beneficiary communities. In
this regard, health education and public awareness campaigns will be undertaken.
The EPA will participate in the review of the recommended environmental pollution mitigation measures
in setting regulatory requirements, and in the coordination with the concerned stakeholders such as, the
governorate and local authorities, and in finding cost-effective and environmentally sound solutions.
Addressing pollution abatement outside the bounds of hospitals and health centers will require the
involvement of the beneficiary communities as they currently lack adequate facilities for the
environmentally sound disposal of community generated wastes. In solving such community issues,
efforts will be made for promoting beneficiary participation through cooperative initiatives.
To the extent possible, the involvement of existing NGOs and private sector organizations in the
concerned communities will be sought. These organizations could play an important role particularly in
sustainability arrangements and in the monitoring of environmental and health impacts. There is,
however, little experience in Yemen in promoting such participation at the community level. Therefore,
the HRSP will make provisions for technical assistance and funding resources to promote such initiatives.
During the feasibility design of the proposed rehabilitation works for hospitals and health centers, a
consulting firm will study the social aspects of the proposed services in the beneficiary community to
evaluate and recommend initiatives to promote community involvement. Such recommendations will
include the provision of programs to launch public awareness campaigns and holding public meetings, as
required, to ensure there is local participation and commlitment.
60



Main environmental impacts entailed by the project
Direct Impacts
The HRSP would finance the rehabilitation of about six to eight district hospitals (ranging from 40 to 80
beds capacity) and about sixteen health centers in about six to eight districts in about four governorates.
The HRSP would complement the programs initiated under the Family Health Project and donors
initiatives. The project would only address the needs of targeted poor areas. More investments would be
required to gradually cover the needs in the rest of the country.
Regarding the environmental health conditions within the health facilities, such needs would be addressed
as part of the design of the rehabilitation works. This means that the service areas, in addition to
addressing the space considerations, would also consider the separation of areas subject to contagious
diseases, and the provision of well-designed ventilation systems. Furthermore, capacity building of
concerned staff would also be considered by the project to ensure sustainability of preventive measures.
Regarding the impact of hospitals and health centers on the surrounding environment, the main aspects of
concern would be the collection, treatment and disposal of wastewaters and solid wastes, particularly
infectious wastes. In addition to the risks posed by such wastes to contaminate the environment, there is a
risk of cross-contamination within health facility areas, which could result in health hazards to people
working in such facilities, or to people visiting them either as patients seeking medical attention or their
families and friends accompanying them.
Wastewaters pose a serious threat to both land and water resources. Therefore, special attention will be
given to the assessment of the surrounding areas to the proposed health facilities. In terms of the risks
such areas would be subjected to by wastewater collection, treatment and disposal. Special consideration
will be given to study the impact on private and public property to ensure that proper mitigation measures
are included in the design of the rehabilitation works.
Solid waste disposal is also of concern as there are generally two major types of wastes generated by
health facilities: (i) common household wastes from cooking areas, office areas, etc.; and (ii) infectious
wastes, including sharps, scalpels, cultures, pathological wastes, blood bags, blood saturated swabs and
dressings. Both wastes are of concern from the points of view of public health and environmental hazard.
Of paramount concern is the proper collection, handling and disposal of infectious wastes, as such wastes
would present a threat to the health of people exposed to them at the source, as well as the people
responsible for the collection, handling and ultimate treatment and disposal. Also, improper disposal of
infectious wastes could present a risk to domestic animals that would be in contact with them or use them
as food. Similarly, vectors such as flies, rats, cockroaches, mosquitoes and others exposed to such
substances would present a major health threat to communities at large. These risks will be considered in
the design of the HRSP.
Indirect Impacts
Indirect impacts of the proposed facilities would be additional vehicular traffic due to increased use by
beneficiaries, or which may occur during rehabilitation works. However, such impacts are considered of
minor consequence since the rehabilitation works would be generally small in size. Also, the facilities
already exist in the selected communities and no new works have been considered. It should be noted that
the selected communities would be located primarily in small cities and towns where the vehicular traffic
conditions are of no significance.
61



4.     Mitigation measures to be implemented
Mitigation of Direct Impacts
The rehabilitation design of hospitals and health centers will take into account the following aspects:
* Segregation of areas within the facilities where contaminated ambient air and wastes can pose a
threat to both employees and the public.
* Areas that will generate infectious wastes will be provided with the proper means for the safe
collection and handling of infectious wastes.
* Staff who will be in contact with infectious substances and wastes will receive the proper training
and awareness to ensure such substances are handled with the proper care and disposed of
following the proper procedures.
* The design of the facilities will also include the preparation of an operations manual, which shall
provide in detail all the necessary step-by-step procedures and protocols for on-the-job safety
measures and for the proper disposal and handling of infectious wastes. The manual will also
address protocols and procedures associated with accidents in the work place, which could also
result in health and environmental hazards.
* An environmental impact assessment will be carried out for each hospital and health facility to
determine whether on-site disposal is feasible, or whether off-site disposal would be the only
environmentally sound option.
* Options for on-site treatment or disposal of infectious wastes, include high temperature
autoclaves or other thermal treatment techniques. Such on-site facilities will be the subject of
subsequent site-specific environmental analysis to ensure adequate environmental protection for
the hospital premises and nearby commnunities.  The alternative treatment and disposal
techniques would be discussed during the individual environmental analysis studies with
concemed local authorities and beneficiary communities to ensure that all risks posed by such
measures are properly addressed.
• Options for disposal of infectious wastes that cannot be thermally treated would be at specially
designed burial facilities located at the local community waste disposal sites. The special facilities
may consist of designated areas where concrete structures with adequate capacity and provisions
to control wastes on site would be provided. Other environmentally sound options may also be
considered. It should be noted, however, that most communities do not have any facilities for
environmentally sound disposal of solid wastes, and in such cases the local, regional authorities
and EPC will cooperate in the identification of sites and in the acquisition of land, whether it be
public or private property. The HRSP will fund the necessary studies for the identification and
selection of such sites and a final solution would be reached with the participation of local
communities and authorities.
* Common household solid wastes such as paper from offices and food wastes from kitchen areas
would be segregated at source and disposed of at community designated areas or recycled by the
private sector.
* Wastewater disposal would address both the health hazards as well as the land and water
pollution abatement aspects. Wastewater disposal would include on-site and off-site alternatives.
Wastewater streams would be separated at the source and rainwater drains will not be combined
with wastewaters. Wastewater from kitchen sinks, showers, lavatories and laundry rooms would
be collected and treated separately from sewage from toilets. Drains from laboratories, which
may carry chemical substances not subject to biological degradation, will also be collected
separately for neutralization and safe disposal at designated places.
• On-site disposal would be feasible as long as it would not contaminate an existing ground water
source or would not pose an environmental threat to the health facilities and adjacent properties.
Such facilities would consist of separate neutralization pits for non-sewage wastewater, septic
62



tanks for sewage with compartments for separation of solid from liquids, holding pits for clear
sewage, and percolation pits for clear wastewaters. The solids compartment in septic tanks or pits
would be designed with means for easy cleaning with suction equipment or manually. Septic
sludge thus removed would be disposed of at community facilities where proper sludge drying
beds and filtrate evaporation ponds would be built as part of the project. Dried sludge would then
be disposed of at the same community facility site. Liquid wastes would be disposed of on site.
Clear sewage will require a detention time of at least twenty days for further anaerobic treatment.
The on-site disposal would consist of percolation pits built to adequate depths to ensure deep
percolation. In cases where on-site percolation is not feasible, either due to environmental
conditions or poor soil permeability (such as rocky soils), the off-site disposal option should be
considered.
Off-site disposal would consist of transporting the wastewater retained in holding tanks on-site to
designated places in the communities. At these places, wastewater treatment lagoons, designed as
stabilizations ponds, would be constructed. The detention time at these stabilization ponds shall
be in accordance with WHO design standards. To the extent feasible, treated effluents would be
reclaimed for irrigation of approved lands in accordance with WHO guidelines. Options for final
disposal of treated wastewaters would be: (i) infiltration for groundwater recharge; (ii)
evaporation ponds; (iii) land disposal for irrigation of approved crops and plants.
Waste management would take into account the option of contracting out such services to the private
sector for ensuring that the proper funding and accountability for adequate disposal are provided for under
the project.
Training, as well as public awareness programs, will be included in the design of the rehabilitation of
hospitals and health clinics. The training programs will be designed for the health care, operation and
maintenance, and administrative staff. Public awareness programs will be designed for the benefit of the
public at large, but also for the local government and community organizations.
Training of health care staff, particularly of staff working in laboratories, emergency rooms, health clinics
and operating rooms where infectious material will be generated, will include the proper use and disposal
of materials to protect their own health, as well as the health of patients and people who may come in
contact with such substances. Proper receptacles, color coded and labeled as infectious materials, will also
be provided.
Training of cleaning staff on the proper use and disposal of cleaning substances that could pose infectious
risks to health and the environment will also be included in the design of the rehabilitation program. Staff
will also be trained on the safe handling and disposal of wastes at the designated places in the hospitals
and health centers, for further handling and processing.
Training of operation and maintenance and waste handling staff will also be undertaken to protect their
own health and to ensure they take the proper measures to protect the environment and public health.
Special training on the proper use and handling of infectious substances, and particularly in the handling
of infectious wastes, will also be included.
Training of administrative and supervisory staff responsible for the management of infectious substances
used in hospitals and in the management of wastes in general, and infectious wastes in particular, will also
be undertaken. Special daily reporting and logging systems will be developed in the hospital operations
manual, for supervisory staff to maintain and to ensure compliance with all the mitigation measures
provided under the project.
63



Regarding the proper operation and maintenance of waste handling and disposal equipment and facilities,
proper training programs will be included under the project to ensure sustainability of the systems. In this
context, assurances will be sought from the Government to provide the requiFred budgets for preventative
maintenance and proper operation.
Regarding monitoring and evaluation of environmental management, provisions will be made in the
design of rehabilitation programs to ensure the required protocols, procedures, resources, awareness and
capacity building is provided to the concerned people and organizations responsible for supervisory roles.
Mitigation of Indirect Impacts
The indirect impacts anticipated, as explained above, are of minor concern. Such impacts are related with
the rehabilitation works.  The mitigation measures will be included as part of the design and
complemented during construction management. In this regard, adequate provisions will be included in
the construction contracts to ensure compliance with such mitigation measures.
5.     Cost of the mitigation measures, source of funding and implementing parties
Mitigating action  Cost (US$) - investment    Cost (US$) - 0 & M       Implementation
Source of funding           Source of funding
On-site disposal   40,000/hospital             1 0,000/year/hospital    MOPHP
x 8 hospitals=320,000 IDA and  x 8 hospitals=80,000
GOY funded 100%             100% GOY funded
Off-site disposal of  50,000/hospital          15,000/year/hospital     MOPHP
solid wastes       x 8 hospitals=400,000       x 8 hospitals=120,000 and
and                         10,000/health center/year
15,000/health center        x 16H.C.=160,000
x 16 H.C.=240,000           100% GOY funded
100% IDA and GOY funded
(excluding land acquisition)
On-site wastewater  30,000/hospital            10,000/hospital/year     MOPHP
disposal           x 8 hospitals=240,000 and   x 8hospitals= 80,000 and
10,000/health center        5,000/health center/year
x 16 H.C.=160,000           x 16H.C.= 80,000
100% IDA and GOY funded     100% GOY funded
Off-site wastewater  50,000/hospital           20,000/hospital/year     MOPHP
disposal           x 8 hospitals= 400,000 and  x 8 hospitals=160,000 and
15,000/health center        5,000/health center/year
x 16 H.C.=240,000           x 16 H.C.= 80,000
100% IDA and GOY funded     100% GOY funded
(excluding land acquisition)
64



6.     Supervision and monitoring
Nlitigating action  Party responsible  Party responsible of  Frequency of  Frequency of
of monitoring     supervision           monitoring       supervision
Hospital waste     Concemed          Hospital Director     Monthly         Daily
management         Hospital
measures
Off-site waste     Concerned         Hospital Director     Monthly         Weekly
management         Hospital
measures           Regional and Local Governorate or District  Monthly     Monthly
Govemment         Environmental or
Health Official
Community         Community Leader or
Organization      NGO                   Monthly          Monthly
MZ 12/19/01
Rev.01/21/02
65






IBRD 30347R
42                  44                  46                  48                   50                   52  ._              54
SAUDI ARABIA~r
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
_Saddat 05h Shuqqoh  /  iO
o  TOWNS AND VILLAGES    PRIMARY ROADS                                                                                     18
T3  GOVERNORATE CAPITALS  SECONDARY ROADS                .                           4 !  /-
*  NATIONAL CAPITAL      WADIS           |                                                          7
~ AlIPr-)PnU   ~    w-~ GOVERNOPATEBOLJNDARIESj
-~ ~   ~    ~~~ ~~ "IElT .L  -                                                               '|'aa I ir ,i  .-''III  t/, i $, IIl i, 
/              ~~~~~~~~~~Thamud-, ~..        Nni !   / 'Hborut \
/                          <
:-Clt-if  -H  r                                                           r         -  -- .
f   a  6. _ H   _ . !     )'\   /                                  /            - |                 -~~~~- -  2ht40
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_I  fiTi- 
^ ,AA!i .-( ,.,p1
AIUIA,OA   i     rt    i       '   *                  ./*           -     ;     i      -  '    -rLb 
*|           'bh. r.1  ,5w,  ,, ;'  1 ,   - - * 
-->                              EHt            ±    I   : ;          *  $s.8K2?5~  .  V/__, __ :  M .r.y[  -
Arr. ir.iN.. .      r-        * '  Ul    -            4    /?v..  - A
_ fl .Z      ,|F-gK < /1-|- SL- 71 \ ~ > G uf                               of A d e n
/          £P;  C P £  r~ '-? ,¢.  } -!1-IS  l, 
'A     S-~~   N--JR            t    !--      -      ,.
\ <; ,J | ! iE - ~~~~~~~~-    . t*
\,~~~~~~~-              -    4,4.*.W.A.,4.4................ _t .., 1Th1  tiDl t  4e - L _;L .&fNws I S LOMrP!PS
I                                  1  I  s  .......... ;;d  f!D  w  .................... n. L_bresX:I- .b:- .I   I  I  I  ' I  -   -  -  - v._ 
f A HL:'ErJ                   24.lP 'V'*                                               W K.4 .  rl  s   I)  7   5',  ':  IbMi  & ,  - ;   --  -
ETHlOPIA \,.
.-   DJ  LTlD-                           .                                          9;                    -.   --    ---
;      -.I_.



