Page  1
November 19, 1996
H.E. Abdul Kader Ba-Ja'amal
Deputy Prime Minister and
  Minister of Planning and Development
Ministry of Planning and Development
Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Re:
Japanese Grant for Delivery of Health Care
Grant Number TF029657                           
Your Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association 
(Association) to indicate the Association’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds 
provided by Japan to make a grant in an amount not exceeding three hundred twenty-one 
thousand ($321,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of Yemen (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the 
Association carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this 
Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the 
said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by the Association of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, 
this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Inder K Sud
Director
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By /s/ Abdul Kader Ba-Ja’amal
Date: January 28, 1997
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The technical assistance activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is 
given are as follows:
The objective of the activities is to assist the Recipient in preparing a 
project to improve the delivery of essential curative and preventive services to the 
poor, particularly women of reproductive age and young children.
The proposed project will have four major components:
Page  2
(a)
institutional reform.  This component will provide the necessary support 
to reform the institutional and financial set up of the Ministry of Public Health 
(MOPH), including its organizational and staffing structure, its legal, administrative 
and managerial procedures, and the allocation of public expenditure for health.
(b)
referral system development.  This component will establish a basic 
network of front-line referral hospitals accessible to rural areas, including the 
needed decentralized administration and management, cost recovery mechanisms, 
incentive structure (e.g., for health personnel willing to serve in remote areas, and 
infrastructure improvements/upgrading.
(c)
preventive services.  This component will strengthen the management and 
financing of essential preventive services, particularly those related to safe 
motherhood, the immunization of young children, and health education programs.
(d)
community-level services.  This last component will support a number of 
new initiatives and interventions aiming at delivering essential curative and 
preventive services at the community level.  Priority will be given to increasing 
participation of the local communities and improving/expending the use of private 
health care providers (e.g., general practitioners, NGO’s, and local pharmacies).
The Activities will consist of the following tasks:
·
review and assess the situation in the health sector, particularly regarding:  
the institutional set up of the MOPH, past and current government policies for sector 
development, the main services and programs for service delivery, the key support 
areas such as health manpower development and management of essential drugs, and 
health sector financing,.
·
assess the determinants of health care behavior, with particular attention to 
consumer views on the system, utilization of services and costs and their implications 
for improving service delivery; dynamics of by passing.
·
identify the objectives and design the detailed scope of the four proposed 
components of the project, including the relevant requirements for institutional 
strengthening (technical assistance, training, administrative reforms etc.) and 
upgrading of building facilities and equipment.
·
estimate the costs of all activities proposed to be financed under the project.
·
develop suitable implementation arrangements, including identify a suitable 
executing agency within the government, develop a project management structure and 
outline the main procedure for procurement, disbursement, and day to day 
implementation in general.
·
develop a monitoring and evaluation system for the project.
The Activities will also include a workshop on the role of government in the 
planning and management, financing and delivery of services, and the national health 
strategy, in order to increase dialogue between the major players in the sector, 
including all government agencies involved, external donor agencies, the local 
communities, and the private sector.
The output of the Activities will be a detailed project proposal which could be 
appraised for funding by the Association.
2.
$305,400 of the Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services and $15,600 
of the Grant shall be used to finance a workshop on National Health Strategy required 
for the Activities.
3.
The Association shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The 
Recipient shall cooperate with the Association to the extent necessary to permit the 
Association to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the 
results of the Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify the Association against any 
costs or liabilities incurred by the Association as a result of claims against the 
Association in connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross 
negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by June 1997.  After that 
date, the Association may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
Page  3
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the 
Association and shall be done according to the Association’s applicable procedures.  
The Recipient agrees to assist in the identification of appropriate local consultants.  
The Recipient agrees to assist in the identification of appropriate local consultants.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ 
personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Association in writing to terminate 
the Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Association 
may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right 
of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of 
its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any 
other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to 
make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development or any development credit agreement with the 
Association shall have been suspended.
8.
The Association is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not 
have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right 
to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this 
Agreement.
