Page  1
LOAN NUMBER 4708 - BR 
 
Loan Agreement
 
(Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 23, 2004 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4708 -BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 23, 2004, between the FEDERATIVE 
REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) upon the terms 
and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“ANEEL” means 
Agência Nacional de Energia Elétrica
,
t
he Borrower’s 
regulatory agency for the power sector; 
(b) 
“FMR” means each report referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(c) “MME” 
means 
Ministério de Minas e Energia
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Mines and Energy; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(d) 
“PIU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and 
(e) 
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to twelve million 
one hundred twenty thousand Dollars ($12,120,000). 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of consultants' services and training activities required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(b) 
T
he Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in single currency 
for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of 
the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as 
a
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan, as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate and the 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower  
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.07.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09.  The Borrower’s Minister of Mines and Energy and any person or 
persons he or she may designate in writing are designated as representatives of the 
Borrower for purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, through MME, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, regulatory and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project. 
(b) 
In carrying out any activity under the Project, the Borrower, through 
MME, shall seek the collaboration of any entity (including, inter alia, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of the Environment and ANEEL) which may have a relevant interest in the 
carrying out of such activity, such collaboration to include, inter alia, assistance to the 
Borrower in the preparation of terms of reference of consultants and the formulation of 
training activities. 
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain during the 
execution of the Project a unit within MME’s Executive Secretariat for purposes of 
coordinating and managing the carrying out of the Project, and having responsibility for 
all disbursement, procurement and financial management activities under the Project (the 
PIU), such unit to have a structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and qualified 
staff in adequate numbers as required to carry out its responsibilities under the Project. 
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall: 
Page  6
-
5
-
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Annex 1a of 
the Bank’s Project Appraisal Document for the Project, the carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objective thereof; and 
(b) 
review with the Bank, on the 24th month after the Effective Date or 
when disbursements from the Loan Account have reached an amount equal to 50% of the 
Loan amount, whichever occurs first, the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of such review, based on the monitoring and 
evaluation activities referred to in paragraph (a) above, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said review. 
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the objective of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall, starting not later than two months after the 
Effective Date, and every nine-month period thereafter during the execution of the 
Project, exchange views with the Bank on the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
implementation of the Borrower’s ongoing energy sector reform program. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain a financial 
management system in the PIU, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures of the Borrower related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such financial statements, records, accounts and report of such 
audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
financial statements, records and accounts, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
Page  8
-
7
-
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
(d) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the annual audit referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section also includes a review of the procurement records (as hereinafter 
defined) and a separate opinion by said auditors on the compliance by the Borrower with 
the procurement procedures set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. For 
the purposes of this paragraph, “procurement records” means public notices for 
expressions of interest, requests for proposals and addenda, technical and final evaluation 
reports, formal appeals by firms and related outcomes, signed contracts, addenda and 
amendments; records on claims and dispute resolution, and records of time taken to 
complete key steps in the selection process of consultants. 
Section 4.02.  (a) The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial 
monitoring report (FMR), in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
Page  9
-
8
-
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
Section 4.03.  The Borrower shall, not later than six months after the Effective 
Date, furnish to the Bank a management letter prepared by the auditors referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement commenting on the adequacy of the PIU’s internal 
controls.
 
ARTICLE V 
Effectiveness; Termination
 
Section 5.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement, within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a)  the Borrower has established and staffed the PIU as provided in Section 3.03 
of this Agreement; 
(b)  the financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this 
Agreement has been established in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; 
(c)  the Borrower has furnished to the Bank terms of reference, satisfactory to the 
Bank, for the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement; and 
(d)  the Borrower has furnished to the Bank a proposed plan, satisfactory to the 
Bank, for the selection of consultants under the Project. 
Section 5.02.  The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion to 
be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan has been validly registered with the 
Central Bank of Brazil. 
Section 5.03.  The date December 23, 2004, is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 For 
the 
Borrower: 
 
Ministério da Fazenda 
 
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “P” - 8
°
andar 
 
70048-900 Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 412-1740 
 
With copies to: 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5
°
andar 
 
70040-906 Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 225-4022 
 
Ministério de Minas e Energia 
 Secretaria 
Executiva 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “U” - 7
°
andar 
 
70065-900 Brasília, D.F. 
 Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 319-5088 
Page  11
-
10 -
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
-
11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the city of Brasília, Federal District, Brazil, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
By 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and Caribbean 
 
Witnessed by: 
 
Mauricio Tiomno Tolmasquim 
 
Executive Secretary 
Ministry of Mines and Energy 
Page  13
-
12 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)       Consultants’ services 
11,500,000                                     84% 
 
(2) 
Training 
 
  498,800          
       100% 
 
(3) 
Front-end fee 
        121,200 
Amount due 
 
pursuant to 
 
Section 2.04 of 
 
this Agreement 
 
_________ 
 
TOTAL                  
   12,120,000 
 
========= 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "training" includes reasonable costs 
of travel and per diems of trainees, training materials, and other training related 
expenditures other than consultants’ services. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,200,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within twelve months prior to the 
date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditures for training, and for expenditures under contracts for 
consultants' services that are not subject to prior review by the Bank pursuant to Part D.2 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  14
-
13 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to ensure sustainable implementation of the 
Borrower’s ongoing energy sector reform program. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A
:
Energy Market Development and Regulation
Provision of technical assistance (including training, as required) on technical 
and coordination issues important for the efficiency of the energy market (including links 
between electricity supply and the natural gas industry, concentration of ownership in the 
electricity generation industry, wholesale electricity market rules, retail level electricity 
market competition, links between wholesale and retail electricity markets, and barriers 
to international power trade) and on improvement of the regulatory activities for the 
electric sector (including links among the relevant federal regulatory agencies, 
performance contracts between MME and ANEEL and possibly 
Agência Nacional de 
Petróleo
 (the Borrower’s regulatory agency for the hydrocarbons sector), regulatory 
accounting and the electricity tariff review process). 
 
Part B
:
Access to Energy
Provision of technical assistance (including training, as required) on matters of 
access and affordability of energy (electricity, liquid petroleum gas and natural gas) for 
poor consumers, including the development of: (a) comprehensive and consistent 
strategies for rural electrification, including policies and coordination of ongoing 
initiatives, baseline data collection, funding mechanisms, assessment and optimization of 
the development impacts and sustainability of the various electrification alternatives, and 
methodologies for monitoring and oversight of the implementation of new rural 
electrification programs; and (b) principles and eligibility rules to ensure that tariff 
discounts on electricity, liquid petroleum gas and natural gas are more effectively 
coordinated and better targeted towards the poor consumers on a sound economic basis. 
Part C
:
Environmental Management
Provision of technical assistance (including training, as required) for 
mainstreaming of environmental concerns under Part D of the Project, and for 
complementing institutional strengthening activities under Part E of the Project, covering, 
inter alia, environmental licensing, environmental change and social responsibility, 
Page  15
-
14 -
assessment of issues and options in the area of climate change and environmental 
services, monitoring and ex-post evaluation systems for environmental and social impacts 
of power projects, incentives for enhanced environmental and social responsibility, and 
institutional realignment and capacity building of professional cadres. 
 
Part D
:
Long-term Planning
Provision of technical assistance (including training, as required) for long-term 
planning regarding the Borrower’s energy sector, covering: (a) preparation and/or 
updating of methodologies for expansion of the energy system, including integration of 
environmental and social concerns; (b) preparation and/or updating of selected 
inventories of river basins and feasibility of sites for electricity generation projects; and 
(c) the carrying out of a macro-location study on thermal plants to define the general 
areas in which those plants should be built, taking into account location of demand, fuel 
supply, land availability, and pollution issues. 
Part E
:
Institutional Strengthening and Coordination
Provision of technical assistance (including training, as required) for: (a) the 
restructuring and institutional strengthening of MME, mainly in the areas of integrated 
planning, international energy integration, universal access to energy, energy efficiency, 
alternative technologies and technology utilization, mines and metallurgy, and oil and 
natural gas; and (b) the improvement of the institutional structures that support 
Conselho 
Nacional de Política Energética
,
the Borrower’s council for energy policy, and 
operationalization of the 
Conta de Desenvolvimento Energético
,
the Borrower’s energy 
development fund. 
*** 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007. 
Page  16
-
15 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)
*
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
beginning November 15, 2008  
 
through November 15, 2017 
 
 
        605,000 
 
on May 15, 2018 
 
 
 
       625,000 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
Page  17
-
16 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of 
this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Schedule, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Individual Consultants
Services of individual consultants, costing not more than $2,000,000 equivalent 
in the aggregate, for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines: (a) shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines; or (b) may be 
procured on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.3 and 
5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank, for its review and approval as provided in Section 5.01 (g) of this 
Agreement, prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals.  Such plan 
shall be updated every six months during the execution of the Project, and each such 
updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval.  Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as 
updated from time to time) as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
Page  18
-
17 -
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of the candidates, or the qualifications 
and experience of the candidate in the case of sole-source selection, as well as the terms 
of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said 
approval shall have been given. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  19
-
18 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of consultants’ services and training activities required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $1,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
Page  20
-
19 -
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
Page  21
-
20 -
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
