Report No. PID11028
Project Name             Brazil-Regulatory Power Sector Technical Assistance
Region                   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                   Institutional Development; System Reform &
Capacity Building; Electric Power & Other
Energy Adjustment
Project ID               BRPE76977
Implementing Agency
Address
Address: Esplanada dos Ministerios Bloco U
70065-900 BrasUlia, DF
Brazil
Contact Person: Dr Gilson Franca
Email: gilsonf@mme.gov.br
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        March 12, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      March 22, 2002
Bank Approval Date       July 30, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Brazil embarked upon a major power sector reform process in 1995, to
establish a modern, competitive, private sector operated system. Among
the major achievements, 239 of generation assets and 64t of distribution
were privatized, a National System Operator (ONS) assumed responsibility
for central cost-based dispatch for the interconnected system, a Wholesale
Energy Market (MAE) was created, and a new independent Federal Electricity
Regulatory Agency (ANEEL) was established. But after these initial
successes, reforms became increasingly paralyzed due to political
resistance to further unbundling and privatization of Government-owned
regional utilities , as well as lack of overall coordination. The system
remained in the dangerous position of no longer being centrally planned,
but lacking correct incentives for the companies (both public and private)
to operate in an economically efficient and equitable way. Among other
things, adequate incentives were never established for expansion of
thermal generating capacity, to provide insurance against the risk of
water shortages in the overwhelming hydroelectric generation system.This
lack of insurance became very costly when Brazil was hit in 2001 by a
severe drought, which sharply limited its ability to generate power. Once
the dimensions of the problem became clear to the Government of Brazil
(GOB), it acted rapidly and effectively to minimize the damage through
rationing, and to prepare measures both to reduce the risk of future
shortages and to complete the other reforms aimed at improving efficiency
and expanding coverage. GOB declared a crisis in June 2001, and
introduced rationing of electricity to 80t of the previous year's May-July
consumption levels. It has since drafted a comprehensive set of proposed
reforms, focused on 33 different priority initiatives, which have been
made public and are now being either implemented or discussed in Brazil.
2. Objectives
The central objective of the PSTAL is to help ensure the sustainable



implementation of the continuing power sector reform program. The two main
approaches to this are (a) studies to design appropriate measures as well
as develop organizational frameworks and strategic information, and (b)
development of institutional capacity to implement and monitor those
reforms.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
As in similar reform efforts in other countries, Bank support is helpful
in ensuring that the best worldwide expertise is made available to
Brazil. This is particularly true because of the size and complexity of
the power sector in Brazil. The Bank has been involved in similar reform
efforts in many other countries, including neighbors such as Argentina,
Bolivia and Peru, and can help inform the Brazilians of both the successes
and failures (in specific elements) of those cases.The special value of
Bank support in this case is to provide continuity during the transition
between administrations, as well as maintaining a steadfast vision of
reform targets in the transformation of the sector in the post-energy
crisis era. This could be very important in explaining the rationale for
undertaking the proposed adjustments and reform initiatives to the
incoming officials of the next administration, and for maintaining some
form of the institutional memory which might otherwise be lost in the
change of administrations.
4. Description
The Bank is proposing to support this continuing Brazilian power sector
reform effort through a medium-term program of assistance, starting with
this Power Sector Technical Assistance Loan (PSTAL). The PSTAL would be
followed soon by a complementary Power Sector Adjustment Loan (PSECAL),
which has been prepared in tandem with it, to be disbursed once GOB
completes the most urgent reform measures. The PSTAL is being processed
first because it would have to be signed by April 30, 2002, eight months
before the end of the current administration, so that expenditures could
be financed by the loan during year CY 02, while meeting requirements of
the Electoral Law (this deadline would not apply to the PSECAL, because
that does not require any GOB expenditures).The PSTAL would support
reforms in five areas: (a) strengthening GOB's institutional capabilities
in policy-making; (b) improving long-term expansion planning; (c)
enhancing the sector's environmental framework and management
capabilities; (d) increasing access and affordability for the poor; and
(e) correcting problems with the dynamics of the wholesale and retail
markets, with a view to expanding competition. Brazil is at an important
crossroad. The energy crisis has produced the political will to adopt
forceful measures to fix the system, and it is important to move rapidly
before that political will dissipates. GOB remains committed to its
original vision of a competitive power sector, where operating and
investment decisions are made by the private sector, and public oversight
is exercised through policy-making and regulation.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $8.00
IBRD $12.00
IDA
Total Project Cost $20.00
-2-



6. Implementation
The PSTAL would be implemented by a newly created Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) under the MME.
7. Sustainability
One way of looking at the objective of the PSTAL is that it would make the
reforms more sustainable. The experience in Latin America and elsewhere
has been that it is very difficult to reverse a power sector reform
program; however, if the aftermath of the reform was to be repeated supply
crises, this might become the exceptional case. In addition, spreading
the benefits to households without access to power or those unable to
afford it, would undercut the argument that the reform was mainly in the
interest of the wealthy and powerful. Furthermore, improving the
environmental management of the sector would make the new system more
ecologically sustainable as well.The main question regarding the
sustainability of the results of the project per se relates to the
strengthening of MME and operationalizing of CNPE. GOB did not give high
priority to this before the crisis, but this has changed. The recent
decision to make MME the coordinating agency for the PSTAL is an
indication of the commitment to strengthen that ministry. But this will
have to be backed up by the allocation of budget and personnel; the Bank
will have to give great attention to this as the project progresses.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
A number of lessons have been learned from other projects in the sector,
in particular from the implementation of the TA component added to the
Hydrocarbons Transport and Processing Project. (a) The new sector model
should be looked at as complementary to the expansion of the sector.
Probably the biggest mistake made in the first round of reforms was not to
pay adequate attention to expansion planning, on the grounds that the
private sector would take care of such expansion as required by system
needs. While that might have worked under ideal, or at least more evolved
conditions, it turned out to be a dangerously risky approach, because when
the private sector investment in generation did not materialize due to
some flaws in design and delays in implementation of the reform program,
there was no readily available fallback position.(b) Implementation of
complex reform requires a strong, high-level orchestration between MME and
the Ministries of Planning and Finance, as well as between ANEEL and ANP
on the regulatory side, inter alia. Only when GOB at the highest
executive level and across a broad spectrum of core stakeholder
institutions got involved via the Electricity Crisis Management Chamber
(CGC) was there rapid and effective progress in resolving the power
crisis.(c) Major power sector reform programs take years to be
implemented, and early success should not lead to overconfidence and
reduced top-level attention. Unanticipated problems may often arise due
to the complexity and dynamics of the sector, and there needs to be a
basic and consistent core of expertise available for analyzing them, and
an effective mechanism for resolving them.(d) It is very unlikely that
different actors pursuing their legitimate, individual agenda will be able
to make choices that will fit into the system optimum. An example is the
high (ship or pay) load factor for gas imports from Bolivia as negotiated
by Petrobras and transferred to the gas distribution companies, which
ended up being an obstacle for thermal power projects because it is not
compatible with the operational requirements of such plants in the
Brazilian system and lack of a secondary gas market.
- 3-



9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project is a technical assistance operation
that focuses on regulatory and institutional reforms in the Brazilian
power sector. The loan will not be used for investments or other budget
expenditures in the power sector, and thus will have no direct adverse
environmental or social impacts. In fact, it is expected to have positive
environmental impacts, because it offers the opportunity to address
regulatory, institutional, and methodological issues in the areas of
environmental and social planning and licensing, which will affect future
investments. Within the reformed structure, strengthening of the framework
for management of environmental and social issues is a priority. Expansion
of power systems increasingly will need to balance four objectives --
sustainable use of natural resources, social equity in dealing with
impacts, transparency in decision making, and responsiveness to the
dynamics of the private sector (e.g., clear and simple "rules of the
game", low and/or predictable transaction costs). To achieve these
objectives, GOB has proposed a "Program to Strengthen Planning and
Management of Environmental and Social Issues in the Power Sector". Draft
Terms of Reference of the Program were prepared by a working group of
senior power sector professionals, and have been agreed upon between MME,
MMA and the Bank. Detailed TORs will be prepared and discussed with a
broader set of stakeholders (including environmentalists, the private
sector and academia). The Program will be prepared in stages, with
consultations at each major stage (e.g., diagnostic, preliminary design
and overview of program priorities, formulation of a multi-year strategy,
formulation of the first phase action plan). An advisory board, technical
groups and a consultation strategy have been proposed, and will be
detailed and agreed upon during project implementation. This medium-term
program might be further supported by the Bank through subsequent
operations. The first phase, to be supported by the PSTAL, would focus on
the following areas:A. Environmental licensing This 'streamlining' of the
licensing process would be carried out jointly by MME and MMA. The team
would (i) evaluate the adequacy of the current licensing system; (ii)
revise and update, as necessary, Resolution 06/87 from CONAMA and (iii)
revise other requirements, procedures and mandates, as needed.B.
Environmental/social aspects of long-term system expansion Strategic
environmental/social assessments would be made of alternative expansion
paths, comprising: (i) preparation of a methodology based on a current
draft prepared by CEPEL and proposed by MMA to the electric sector; and
(ii) a pilot application. The project will finance international experts
in workshops with multiple stakeholders. Ideally, the revised methodology
should be applied and tested as an integral part of a real expansion plan
for the electric sector. However, given budget limitations, it should be
applied first on a pilot basis, and the results should serve as a basis
for further methodological refinement.C. Environmental/social impact
assessment of the thermal power program: The environmental studies for
the Thermal Plants Program need improvements. They have been developed on
an ad-hoc, almost case-by-case basis. Usually a developer proposes a site
and environmental assessments are made of the impact in the micro-region,
in terms of water usage, pollution, climate change and safety concerns. In
some states, the licensing process has become very contentious.      The
project would first look at past experiences in terms of design,
environmental licensing and operation of thermal plants in Brazil, to
- 4 -



extract lessons learned and best practices. Based on this, the guidelines
for locating green field thermal plants should be revised, with the
environmental impact examined on a regional, rather than site specific
basis, taking into consideration zoning recommendations, regional
constraints, and criteria for project and technology selection. Finally,
there should be a pilot application of the methodology.D. Climate
changeThe project would assess issues and options for: (i) incorporating
climate change into sector expansion and (ii) sector participation in
international carbon emissions reductions markets.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Nelson de Franco
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-0011
Fax:   (202) 676-1821
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 15, 2002.
- 5 -



