                                              Documentof
                                          The World Bank



                                                                                  ReportNo: 25999

                                      FOROFFICIALUSEONLY




                                PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                                ON A

                                          PROPOSEDLOAN

                              INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$12.120MILLION

                                               TO THE

                                FEDERATIVEREPUBLICOF BRAZIL

                                               FORAN

                      ENERGYSECTORTECHNICALASSISTANCEPROJECT

                                             May 29,2003




Finance,PrivateSector and InfrastructureDepartment
BrazilCountryManagementUnit
LatinAmerica and CaribbeanRegion


This documenthas a restricteddistributionandmay be usedby recipientsonly inthe performanceof their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosed without World Bankauthorization.

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange RateEffectiveMay 15,2003)
                                CurrencyUnit = BrazilianReal
                                        R$l = US$0.33
                                       US$l = R$3.00

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                       July 1 -- June 30

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGU       - Advocacia Geral da UniBo (Federal Govemment GeneralAtttomey 's Office)
ANA      - Agencia Nacional de Agua (Federal Water Regulatory Agency)
ANATEL   - Agsncia Nacionalde Telecomunicaqdes(Federal TelecommunicationsAgency)
ANEEL    - AgEnciaNacionalde Energia ElCtrica(Federal Electricity RegulatoryAgency)
ANP       - Agencia Nacional do Petr6leo(Federal HydrocarbonsRegulatory Agency)
BNDES    - BancoNacional de DesenvolvimentoEcondmico e Social
                (National Economic and Social Development Bank)
CADE     - ConselhoAdministrativo de DefesaEcondmica (Anti-Trust Agency)
CAS      - Country AssistanceStrategy
CCPE     - Comite Coordenadordo Planejamentoda Expando do SistemaElCtrico
                (Power SystemExpansionCoordinating Committee)
CDE
CEPEL     -- Contade DesenvolvimentoEnergCtico(Fundfor Energy Development)
                Centro de Pequisas de Energia ElCtrica(Electricity Research Center)
CGE       - Ciimarade Gestgoda Crise de EnergiaElCtrica
                (Electricity Crisis ManagementChamber)
CGSE      - Ciimarade Gestgo do Setor ElCtrico (Electric Sector ManagementChamber)
CHESF     - CompanhiaHidro ElCtricado SBo Francisco
                (Hydroelectric Company of SBo Francisco)
CNPE
CNRH      -- ConselhoNacional de Politica EnergCtica(National Energy Policy Council)
                ConselhoNacional de RecursosHidricos (National Water ResourcesCouncil)
COEX/MAE  - Comite Executivo do MAE(MAEExecutive Committee)
COFIEX    - ComissBode FinanaciamentoExtemo (External Financing Committee)
COMAE     - Conselhodo Mercado Atacadistade EnergiaElCtrica
                (Wholesale Electricity Market Council)
CONAMA    - ConselhoNacional de Meio Ambiente (National Environmental Council)
COPPE     - Programa de P6s-GraduaqBo de Engenharia da Universidade Federal do Rio de
               Janeiro (Graduate Engineering Programof the FederalUniversity of Rio de Janeiro)
CPAR     - Country ProcurementAssessment Review
DSB
DSM      ------ Demand-sideBidding
                Demand-sideManagement
EIA             Environmental Impact Assessment
ESFU           Energy Sector Reform Loan
ESTAL          Energy Sector Reform Technical AssistanceLoan (this project)
FERC           FederalEnergy Regulatory Commission (U.S.)
FMR      - Financial ManagementReports
FTR
GOB      -- Financial TransmissionRights
                Govemment of Brazil
IBAMA     - InstitutoBrasileiro do Meio Ambiente (Brazilian Environmental Institute)

                                                             FOROFFICIAL USEONLY



     ICB            International Competative Bidding
     IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
     LOA            Letter of Appointment
     L M P          Locational Marginal Pricing
     MAE            Mercado Atacadista de Energia (Wholesale Electricity Market)
     MAG            MinistCrio de Agricultura (Ministry of Agriculture)
     MMA            MinistCrio do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Renovaveis
                    (Ministry of the Environment and Renewable Resources)
     MME            MinistCrio de Minas e Energia (Ministry of Mines and Energy)
     MPO            MinistCrio do Planejamento e Orqamento (Ministry of Planning and Budget)
     ONS            Operador Nacional do Sistema (National System Operator)
     PPA            Power Purchase Agreement
     PPIAF          Private-Public Infrastructure Advisory Facility
     PROCEL         Programa de Conservaqiio de Eletricidade (Energy ConservationProgram)
     PRODEEM        Programa de Desenvolvimento EnergCtico de Estados e Municipios
                    (State and MunicipalEnergy Development Program)
     PROWFA         Programa de Incentivo 6s Fontes Alternativas de Energia
                    (Incentive Program to Alternative Sources of Energy)
     PSR            Project Supervision Report
     QCBS           Quality and Cost-Based Selection Method
     RE-SEB         Projeto de Reforma do Setor ElCtrico Brasileiro (Brazilian Electric Sector Reform
                    Project)
      SEA           Strategic Environmental Assessment
      SOE           Statement of Expenses
      SPOA          Sub-secretaria de Planejamento, Orqamento e Administrasiio
                    (Sub-secretariat of Planning, Budget and Administration)
     STN            Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional (National Treasury Secretariat)
     TCU            Tribunal de Contas da Uni2o (Federal Court of Accounts)
     TOR            Terms of Reference
      VN            Valor Normativo (Normative Value)
     WEM            Wholesale ElectricityMarket
      YPFB          Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos
                    (Bolivian Government-owned PetroleumCompany)


                                  Vice President:     David de Ferranti
                               Country Director:      Vinod Thomas
                       Sector Managermirector:        Susan GoldmarkDanny Leipziger
                                  Task Manager:       Nelson de Franco




This document hasa restricteddistributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                               BRAZIL
                    ENERGY SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page

   1. Project development objective                                                       2
   2. Key performance indicators                                                          4

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      4
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          6
   3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                  21

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                  22
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       24
   3. Benefits and target population                                                      25
   4. Institutional and implementationarrangements                                        26

D.ProjectRationale

   1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           29
   2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies         30
   3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                 31
   4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    32
   5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         32

E. Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                            33
   2. Financial                                                                           33
   3. Technical                                                                           34
   4. Institutional                                                                       34
   5. Environmental                                                                       35
   6. Social                                                                              35
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  35

F.Sustainabilityand Risks

   1. Sustainability                                                                      36
   2. Critical risks                                                                      36

  3. Possible controversial aspects                                                          38


G. Main LoanConditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                                                 38
  2. Other                                                                                   38

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                               39

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                                 39
                                                                                             39

Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                              40
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                        52
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                             72
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                       74
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                   75
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                        76
          (B)Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                              82
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                         86
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                       87
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                      88
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                                92
Annex 11:Energy Sector ReformLoan (ESRL) Summary                                             94
Annex 12: Improvementof Electricity Regulation and Market and System Operation Project       97
Annex 13: Brazilian Government Measures to Revitalize the Electric Sector                    103
Annex 14: Environmental and Social Issues in the Power Sector: Context and Proposed Program  108
          to Address Issues




MAP(S)
NIA

                                                   BRAZIL
                                   Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project
                                     Project Appraisal Document
                                     Latin America and CaribbeanRegion
                                                    PA9SS

Date: May 29,2003                                        Team Leader: Nelson De Franc0
Sector Manager: Susan G. Goldmark                        Sector@): Generalenergy sector (100%)
Country Director: Vinod Thomas                           Theme(s): Regulation and competition policy (P), Other
Project ID: PO76977                                      Public sector governance (s)
                                                         environmentand natural resources management (S), Other
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)
ProjectFinancingData
 [XI Loan      [ ] Credit    [ ]Grant      [ ] Guarantee         [ 3 Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): 12.12
Borrower Rationalefor Choiceof LoanTerms Availableon File:           Yes
ProposedTerms (IBRD): Variable-Spread Loan (VSL)
Grace period(years): 5                                Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: .75%                                  Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
                                                      Pavmentfor FEF: CaDitalizefrom LoanProceeds
FinancingPlan(US$m):        Source                                   Local           Foreign          Total
BORROWER                                                        I        8.00   I        0.00  I          8.00
BRD                                                                      5.01   I        7.11            12.12
rotal:                                                                  13.01   I        7.11  II        20.12
Borrower: FEDERATIVEREPUBLICOF BRAZIL
Responsibleagency: MINISTRY OF MINESAND ENERGY
Address: Esplanada dos MinistCrios Bloco U
70065-900 Brasflia, DF
Brazil
Contact Person: Carlos Augusto Hoffmann, Chief of Staff for the Executive Secretariat
Tel: 55-61-319 52 11              Fax: 55-61-225 8767                 Email: carloshoffmann@mme.gov.br
EstimatedDisbursements( Bank FY/US$m):




Projectimplementationperiod: 48 months
Expectedeffectivenessdate: 10/01/2003 Expectedclosing date: 12/31/2007

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
    The objective of this four-year Energy Sector Technical Assistance Loan (ESTAL) is to help ensure
sustainable implementation of the Government's ongoing energy sector reform program, through
technical assistance in specific areas, and by providing a mechanism for continuing dialogue with
policy-makers about longer-term sector reform. This operation focuses on the power and gas sector,
where there are more urgent reform needs. The hydrocarbons sector is also covered through some
special issues on gas and to a more limitedway on oil, although the scope of institutional strengthening
embodies all areas under the purview of the energy sector authority.

    The ESTAL would consist of five components, aimed at furthering reforms in five main priority
areas identifiedby the Government:
0       Market development and regulation correcting problems with the regulatory system and with the
        wholesale and retail markets, with a view to providing the correct incentives for contracting and
        expansion inthe sector;
0       Benefits to the poor - increasingaccess to and affordability of electricity, natural gas and LPG,
         includingthrough tariff reformwith targeted, smart subsidies focusedon those who need most;
0       Environmental management - enhancing the sector's environmental framework, management
        capabilities, and licensing procedures;
0       Expansion planning - developing a strategy and methodologies for meeting future demand,
         integrating multiple sources of energy, as well as demandand supply sidepossibilities;
0       Institutional strengthening - enhancing the Government's capacity for policy-making, and its
         ability to implement reformmeasures, coordinate multiple initiatives, and monitor their progress.

The ESTALelaboratedhere is part of an ongoing medium-term program of the Bank to Brazil's energy
sector, in keeping with the Government's long standing vision of an efficient sector characterizedby a
conducive environment for private sector investment and operations, as well as public oversight through
policymaking and independent regulation. This program initiated in response to the previous federal
administration's request for assistance following the 2001 drought-induced supply crisis in the power
sector, which depends primarily on hydropower. In 2002, the Bank completed the US$454.55 million
Energy Sector Reform Loan (ESRL). Still in 2002, the Bank started the preparation of this ESTAL,
discussingpriority areas and agreeing on the scope of the assistance loan. As the attempt to include the
Project in the 2002 national budget -- in time for effective use of its proceeds during the end of the
administration term - did not materialize, continuation of the Project processing was left to the next
administration, with its inclusion in the 2003 national budget. As it was felt at the beginning at 2002 that
a gap would necessarily exist between addressing urgent needs and the effective start of the ESTAL
implementation, the Bank obtained a grant from the Private-Public Infrastructure Advisory Facility
(PPIAF) to bridge such gap. These PPIAF funds were used to provide short-term support in specific
issues key to the revitalization of the reform such as tariff setting/assetvaluation, assessment of ANEEL
roles and relationship with sector players, auction of the energy (old energy) under the Initial Contracts
(vestedcontracts set at the beginning of the reformprocess), and pass-throughof energy costs.

As the current federal administration and the Bank resumed processing of the ESTAL, it offered an
opportunity to fine-tune the scope of work based on revised priorities in the energy area now being
established. ESTAL should serve as a vehicle to continue the dialogue between the MME and the Bank,
as well as to support the Government in the implementation of second-level energy sector reforms.
Outcomes from ESTAL funded activities will likely be available in early 2004 and will continue until
end 2007 (see Chart 1 below). ESTAL could lead to additional Bank assistance. To bridge the gap and


                                                    - 2 -

provide funds betweennow and the beginning of 2004, the Bank is now trying to obtain additional funds
from PPIAF, which will helpthe Governmentaddress some immediate issues such as the alternative pool
arrangements ,alternative uses for natural gas, organization of the planning function and follow up on
recommendationsrelated to the ANEEL's institutional assessment mentioned above. The exact scope of
this second PPIAF grant is currently being discussed with the Government and with PPIAF
administration.



       ,..~I..___....I" -      I. . . Chart
                                      . . .   1.Energy.I__._._...I____- ReformOperations,2001 2007
                                                          Sector                                       -                            I!                I!
                                                                           ...
          2001           II            2002                                            2004             2005
                                                                                                                        2o06                2007
                                                        I                          !

               reforms in:                               ESRL June 2001 -December 2002
               .Market developmentand                                                                                            ...........

               regulation                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                 (Approved 06/02)
               -Access of the poor                                                                                           [I.=      First Results
               .Environmental management
               -Long-term planning


                             Studies for second-level forms        j
                                                                   i
                          ~                                              PPIAF I Proiect - Januarv 2002 - March 2003
                         ,   -Market development and
                             reaulation                                                        (Approved04/02)
          A=06/02 ' miccess of the poor
                         1   Workshops wfth stakeholders to.       iI
                             -Discuss results of studies
                         ]                                         1ir.       A=04/02
                         !1; experienceconsensus
                             -Draw lessons from international                                   ESTAL - Januarv 2002 - December 07
                           -.Building                                                 JI/V
                                      .... ..            ..-i                                       (Approved 06/03 First Results 01/04)
                                                     iil




                             lmplementabonof second-level reforms /n
                             -Market development and regulation
                             -Access of the Poor
                         i -Environmental management
 A=06/03  - -                .Long-term planning
                             mlnstitutionalstrengthening
 FR=OI/O#                                        _ _
                              I                                                                 .
                                                                                                        I II                                       I_




                                                      Studies for Second-        1
                                                      levelreforms
                                                      =Poolarrangements                PPIAF Proiect II- April 2003 - December 03
                                                      -Regulation
                                                      -Natural Gas Market
                         -----.-p         A=06/03     -Energy planning




                                                                         - 3 -

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Indicators of the project's achievementswould be closely linked to its overall progress in meeting
Brazil's goals for the electric sector reform adjustments. The ultimate indicator for the success of
the program is an adequate and sustainable energy supply without rationing. The indicators for
eachoutcome would be as follows:

         A competitivepower market that includes opportunitiesfor a level-playing field private
         sector participation has been developed
         Increasedprivate sector investments andreducedmarket concentration.



         Modern energy sources are available hnd aflordable to poor
         Higher percentage of poor have access to, and can afford, modern energy services,
         including electricity, natural gas and LPG.

         Environmental sustainability of power sector is ensured
         Environmental concerns are estimated at project concept stage, licenses are granted in a
         timely manner, and incentives are inplace to internalize environmental responsibility.

         Long -term expansionplanning is an establishedprocess
         Long-term expansion plans, cyclically updated, are available and guide private sector
         investment decisions.

         EfSectivepolicy making and implementation capacity exists
         Energy and related environmental policies, regulations and procedures are designed and
         implemented through joint coordination by Government ministries, agencies and
         regulators, and are effective to foster competition, sustainability and increased private
         participation.

6. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: CASDocument: 22116-BR,dated03/06/00; ProgressRepork22116-BR,dated 05/01/01
Dateof latest CAS discussion:05/01/01

The 2000 Brazil CAS and the 2001 progress report emphasize support for continuing structural
reforms to address the key objectives of fiscal stability and renewed growth, while helping to
meet Brazil's external financing requirements. The recent energy crisis, which reduced GDP
growth by an estimated one percentage point in 2001, clearly illustrates the adverse
macroeconomic impact that can result from failure to implement energy sector reforms
adequately. Brazil will remain vulnerable to similar drought-induced crises, unless the underlying
institutional and regulatory issues are addressed so as to enable a more responsive market and
advance more efficient investment indiversified capacity additions.




                                                 - 4 -

Consistent with the CAS, the Bank has been responding to the energy crisis by designing a
package of assistance which includes the ESRL (already disbursed), and the first PPIAF funded
program. Both, which took place in 2002, helped Brazil implementkey immediate changes inthe
regulatory framework necessary to attract further private investment. The proposed ESTAL
focuses on longer term support to the agencies responsible for implementing these changes, and
has been designed to complement the ESRL and its major objectives. A similar approach has
been successfully adoptedin the financial sector, where an adjustment operation (Loan 7053-BR)
was accompanied by a technical assistance project designed to support the implementation of the
reforms in the context of a medium term program of Bank assistance.

The ESRLcontributed to related sector and macroeconomic objectives and helped Brazil to meet
its US$ 50 billion external financing requirements (some US$ 4 billion of this total were met
from public sector sources including multilateral disbursements). At the sector level, the
fulfillment of the conditions set forth by ESRL demonstrated GOB commitment to the reforms.
In the longer term, the sector and macroeconomic objectives of the ESRLwill converge, as the
power sector reforms are intended to promote economic growth, thereby easing external
financing requirements.

On the basis of the importance of the energy sector for growth, poverty reduction and
environmental protection, and given the reform progress achieved by the Government of Brazil
in 2001 and 2002, the Bank has confirmed that the sector is a priority area for longer-term
assistance, including possible further programmatic lending, subject to the continuation of a
quality sector dialogue and achievement of the reform goals supported by the ESRLand ESTAL         ,




Links to Poverty Reduction

By helping create the conditions to remove the power generation bottleneck, the ESTAL would
contribute to renewal of broad-basedeconomic growth - the prerequisite to poverty reduction, as
articulated in the CAS. Assured power supply i s especially crucial for poor northeastern Brazil,
which was also the region most affected by the power crisis, given its over-dependence on a
single hydro resource. The nine northeastern states are home to almost two thirds of Brazil's
poor, and have an average poverty rate of 48%, more than twice the national average. From 1998
till 2001, the region suffered its worst drought in 70 years, with rainfall levels in 2001 less than
20% of the long-term averages (compared with 30-60% in the Southeast). While the 2001
drought was exceptionally severe, droughts are a recurring phenomenon, especially in the
Northeast.

In addition, by addressing the deficiencies in the current regulatory framework for low-income
urban tariffs and expanding rural electrification, the operation would promote access by both
urban and rural poor to affordable electricity services.

Links to Environmental Protection

The CAS points out that environmental management needs to become an integral part of Brazil's



                                                - 5 -

overall development strategy, focusing on environmental policies that help reduce poverty and
are compatible with economic growth. It notes approvingly that GOB'S environmental strategy
emphasizes (a) using more economic instruments instead of command and control, (b)
decentralizing environmental management, with accountability, both to lower levels of
government and to sector agencies, (c) greater participation of the private sector and (d)
mainstreaming of environmental concerns. The ESTAL environmental emphasis is consistent
with this. Its objectives include building up environmental expertise in sector agencies, getting
private firms to internalize environmental considerations, and mainstreaming environmental
impacts in expansion planning.

2. Mainsector issues and Government strategy:
         Brazil is at a crossroads in its energy policy. The incomplete reform in key areas of the
energy sector (market          development, regulation,       environment,      planning,    institutional
strengthening) set the stage for the 2001 power crisis, in which institutions were unable to
respond to unforeseen shortages. That crisis, in turn, created the political will to address system
failures. During the crisis and its aftermath, the former administration has remained committed
to its vision of a competitive power sector, characterized by private sector operating and
investment decisions, and public oversight through policymaking and regulation. The current
administration also believes that the reform process i s not complete, and that some of its key
aspects need to be revised, particularly on how to promote the correct signals and incentives for
contracting and expansion. There i s also a general belief that the Government has to play a
stronger role in planning, coordination and, if necessary, being the provider of last resort, given
the public service nature of electricity services. The current administration would like to revisit
some of those aspects through the technical assistancefacilitated by the proposed Project.

Despite the incomplete reform in the energy sector, Brazil also made considerable progress on
the environmental and social aspects of the sector. Regarding the environment, the basic
framework i s sound, although the licensing process and planning methodologies need to be
adjusted to the new sector structure, and to requirements for integrated water resources
management established by the 1997 National Water Resources Policy Law.                      In addition,
institutional mandates need to be clarified, especially with regard to environment aspects of
longer-term expansion planning. Capabilities also need to be better aligned with responsibilities;
and emerging issues (global warming, environmental services, corporate responsibility, etc.) need
to be addressed.

Inthe social sphere, Brazil has donereasonably well inexpanding access to power, but needs to
develop more consistent policies toward achieving universal service, especially with regard to
definition and eligibility of lifeline tariffs or subsidized prices for electricity, natural gas and
LPG. Those should be pursued in an integrated fashion, to avoid perverse incentives for
inter-fuel competition.

Until 1995, Brazil hadacentralized, predominantly public sector power system, with most
generation and transmission owned by the Government through its holding company,
ELETROBRAS (and its four regional subsidiaries: ELETRONORTE in the north, CHESF in the
northeast, FURNAS in the southeast, and ELETROSUL inthe south); and by about half a dozen



                                                   - 6 -

state companies. ITAIPU,ajoint Brazilian-Paraguayan hydro undertaking, supplied about one
fourth of the southeasthouth demand through FURNAS and ELETROSUL. Almost all of the
distribution companies were owned by the individual states. In 1995, to establish a modem,
competitive, more efficient private sector-operatedsystem, the Government initiated a major
power sector reform, with support from Loan 3376-BR for design and implementation. The
major achievements of that effort, oftentimes referred as RE-SEBProject, included: (a) a
well-crafted blueprint for the reform, encompassinginstitutional, regulatory, and commercial
aspects; (b) privatization of 23 percent of generation assets and 64 percent of distribution assets;
(c) creation of a National SystemOperator (ONS), which assumedresponsibility for central
cost-baseddispatch for the interconnected system; (d) creation of a Wholesale Electricity Market
(MAE); and (e) creation of a new federal electricity regulatory agency (ANEEL).But after these
initial successes, the reform lost momentum, for two main reasons. First, there was a lack of
commitment and coordination on the partof the Government. And second, there was strong
resistance to the reform by: (a) major regional utilities, which did not want to lose control of such
economically and socially significant operations; and (b) political leaders inthe areas where the
utilities were located, who did not want to lose the political influence on many fronts of the
utilities' business. Furthermore, there was little sense of crisis, despite warnings that the lack of
investment, non-completion of market reforms, and progressive depletion of hydro reservoirs
were puttingthe power sector operations at risk.

As a follow-up to the assistance provided at the inception of the reform, the Bank planned with
the MME to provide a US$300 million loan to enhance the transmission system in some critical
areas, and to strengthen the Ministry and the new electricity sector institutions. However, the
proposed loan, as well as an associated loan from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB),
never came to fruition. This was due inpart to the financial market crisis of 1999, which caused
the Government to shift its priorities. Also, the Government believed that the electricity sector
reform was on track. As a consequence, continued Bank support to the power sector, as well as
support from IDB, was not deemed critical, and the dialogue between the Government and both
donors lost intensity. Furthermore, the politically charged issue of privatization of federally
owned generation assets was an obstacle to a serious breakthrough in resuming the reform
dialogue. Duringthis time, the Bank and IDB focused their attention on the hydrocarbons sector,
by financing the implementation of the Bolivia-Brazil gas pipeline and supporting other measures
to spur fuel liberalization. Imported natural gas from Bolivia indirectly helped the electricity
sector by providing a clean, abundant, and relatively cheap fuel to support a thermal plant
expansionprogram.

Despite these achievements, the power sector remained, for a few years, in the dangerous
position of no longer being centrally planned, while lacking the complete framework for a
competitive market to fully substitute for the prior system. Among other problems, adequate
incentives had never been established for expansion of thermal generating capacity, to provide
insurance against the risk of water shortages in the predominantly hydroelectric generation
system. By mid-1999, when a crisis seemed imminent, Brazil's attempt to promote the priority
construction of thermal power plants had little concrete results. Private companies were reluctant
to invest and unable to raise the necessary funding, while distribution companies were afraid to
conclude long-term purchasepower agreements (PPA), given the regulatory uncertainties relating



                                                 - 7 -

to contract indexation clauses, foreign exchange risk, pass-through issues such as the generation
price cap (known as Valor Nomzativo-VN),transmission cost volatility, and the non-functioning
of the wholesale market.

This lack of such insurance became very costly when Brazil was hit in 2001 by a severe drought,
which sharply limited its ability to generate power. Once the dimensions of the problem became
clear, the Government acted rapidly and effectively to minimize the damage through a well
designed rationing program, and to prepare measuresboth to reduce the risk of future shortages
and to complete the reforms aimed at improving efficiency and expanding coverage. The
Government declared a crisis in May 2001, and introduced rationing of electricity to 80 percent
of the previous year's May-July consumption levels from June 2001 untilMarch 2002.

Most of the specific issues discussed below can be linked to the non-completion of the reform
process and the resulting energy crisis.      These issues were discussed in the context of a
diagnostic of the crisis in July 2001, by a high-level committee of experts commissioned by the
Electricity Crisis Management Chamber (CGE); and of a February 2002 CGE White Paper
proposing 33 reform measures addressing the sector institutional, market, regulatory,
environmental, and social weaknesses. The electricity crisis has thus provided the momentum
for a second, more complete round of reform adjustments. The Bank was asked by the
Government to assist in this endeavor, as indicated in A.1, Project Development Objectives.

Several of the issues discussed below can be understood better by looking at the previous,
presentand proposed long-term structure of the sector, as shown inthe following chart:




                                               - 8 -

 The evolving si icture of the Brazilia energy sector
                    Pre 1995                    Current Situation           Long Term Vision
 Gas supply         Publicly owned vertically   Legally open access to      Petrobrhsfaces effective
                    integrated monopoly,        exploration, transportation competition inexploration,
                    Petrobrhs, responsiblefor   and bulk supply activities, transportation and bulk
                    exploration, transportation but in practicePetrobrhs    supply, with open access to
                    and bulk supply.            continuesto occupy a        existing pipelines and
                                                dominant position.          rights of way.

                    Publicly owned state        Some state distribution     All state distribution
                    companiesresponsiblefor     companieshave been          companies have been
                    distribution.               privatized.                 privatized and the supply
                                                                            infrastructure expanded
 Generation         Publicly owned, vertically  23% of generation           Public      and       private
                    integratedfederal          capacity inprivate hands,    companies operating on a
                    companies, for generation  but marketcontinues to be    level playing field.
                    and transmission.          dominatedby vertically
                                               integrated                   Competitive markets, with
                                               ELETROBRAS                   effective      control    on
                                               subsidiariesand Petrobrhs    generators' market power
                                               joint ventures.

 Transmission       All publicly owned,        Publicly owned,              Multiplecompanies
                    vertically integrated      vertically integrated-three  competing for new
                    federaland state           federal and three major      transmission concessions.
                    companies, for generation  state- companies for
                    andtransmission.           generationand                Independentnon-
                                               transmission, operating      discriminatory operation of
                                               underan independent          the power system.
                                               systemoperator.

 Distribution       Publicly owned, mainly     64% of the market is in      Privately operated.
                    state companies, with      private hands, but vertical  Separationbetween
                    some vertical integration, integration persists.        distribution and
                    including generation,                                   commercialization
                    transmissionand                                         activities.
                    3istribution.                                           Expand electrification to
                                                                            achieve universal access.



2.1      Institutionalframework for policy and crisis management

The crisis revealed major flaws in the institutions responsible for overseeing the implementation
of the new sector model - the inter-ministerial National Energy Policy Council (CNPE), the
Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME),the electricity regulatory agency (ANEEL), the National
System Operator (ONS) and the Wholesale Electricity Market (MAE). As the energy supply
situation worsened gradually from 1998/99, making the crisis foreseeable, none of these
institutions had the full information, capacity, incentives or clear legal mandate to address the
situation.

Until the reforms, most planning and, de facto, even policy-making was undertaken under the
initiative of ELETROBdS. However, following the progressive reduction in the mandate of



                                                   - 9 -

ELETROBRAS in 1998 and 1999, this body of expertise was largely dispersed, without a
corresponding increase in the capacity of the Secretariat of Energy within MME. Due to the
recognition that policy formulation should involve key central ministries in addition to the sector
one, CNPE was established by law in 1997 as an inter-ministerial body, to advise the President
on matters relating to energy policy; however, it only became operational after th ecountry was
hit by the rationingcrisis.

The crisis revealed major flaws in the institutions responsible for overseeing the implementation
of the new sector model - the inter-ministerial National Energy Policy Council (CNPE), the
Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME), the electricity regulatory agency (ANEEL), the National
System Operator (ONS) and the Wholesale Electricity Market (MAE). As the energy supply
situation worsened gradually from 1998/99, making the crisis foreseeable, none of these
institutions had the full information, capacity, incentives or clear legal mandate to address the
situation.

Until the reforms, most planning and, de facto, even policy-making was undertaken under the
initiative of ELETROBRAS. However, following the progressive reduction in the mandate of
ELETROBRAS in 1998 and 1999, this body of expertise was largely dispersed, without a
corresponding increase in the capacity of the Secretariat of Energy within MME. Due to the
recognition that policy formulation should involve key central ministries in addition to the sector
one, CNPE was established by law in 1997 as an inter-ministerial body, to advise the President
on matters relating to energy policy; however, it only became operational after th ecountry was
hit by the rationingcrisis.

Given the urgency to implement a rationing plan, GOB created a temporary high level
commission, the CGE, headed by the President's Chief of Staff and made-up of senior
representatives of the Ministries of Mines and Energy, Finance, Planning, and Environment, the
National Economic and Social Development Bank (BNDES), the Federal Attorney General
(AGU), ANEEL, and ELETROBRh. The CGE was charged with overseeing the immediate
response to the crisis, diagnosing its underlying causes, and identifying the reforms necessary to
prevent a repetition of the problem; it has proved to be both efficient and effective in discharging
these functions. In mid 2002, CGE was replaced by the Electric Sector Management Chamber
(CGSE), coordinated by the MME, which has been operational ever since.

The CGE moved swiftly to introduce an incentive driven, market-based rationing program,
thereby avoiding the need for much more damaging rolling blackouts. As insurance against
further rationing in the 2002 dry season, the CGE also organized the contracting of a combined 2
GW of thermal plants for periods of two to three years. Finally the CGE put together a US$ 4.6
billion compensation package to resolve pending contractual and financial disputes raised by
generatorsand distributors as a result of the rationing.

The CGE also established a high level revitalization committee for the electric sector, in charge
of identifying deficiencies in the regulatory and institutional system and proposing corrective
measured.The CGE set itself an ambitious target of addressing 33 reform measuresby the end of
2002. Some of them required changes the legal framework. PPIAF supported the government in



                                                - 10-

some of the critical tasks. Not all measures were addressed, but some important ones were
implemented, with tangible results, such as:

e       Regularization of some contractual disputes which were plaguing the proper operation of
the MAE, such as Annex V of the Initial Contracts and Itaipuexcess energy;

e       Establishment of an auction mechanism for the re-contracting of the first tranche of
energy to be made available inJanuary 2003, due to the first decline of the Initial Contracts;


e       Enforcement of new regulations governing the purchase of power by distribution
companies via competitive biddingand ensuing pass-through criteria;


e       Identificationof regulatory gaps inthe previous, "swiss-cheese" like regulatory
framework, proposing concreteactions (Laws, and other infra-legal regulations) to bridge those
gaps;

e       Creation of programs to foster the development of non-conventional sources of energy
(PROINFA and CDE), to provide incentives to the universalization of the electricity service, and
criteria to establish life-line rates. Enactment of specific legislation to foster energy conservation
and efficient use of electricity;

e       Operationalization of the Electricity Wholesale Market, which startedfunctioning in early
2003, after a delay of several years, and has beenoperating smoothly ever since, under current
administration.

To implement several of these actions, 4 major Laws, several Decrees and a series of supporting
regulations were enactedin2002. These are summarized inAnnex 13.

Despite its undesirable consequences, the rationing served as a sort of wake-up call to the
Brazilian Authorities, serving to underscore the importance of the electric sector as a key factor
for growth and sustainable development. Current administration i s perfectly cognizant on the
importance of this sector and i s fully engagedinputtingthe sector back on its feet.

The new administration faces important challenges:

    Despite the benefits brought up by the rationing, in terms of energy efficiency rationalization
    and demand side actions, there has been a spillover effect on the profitability of sector,
    particularly indistribution. Current consumption levels are now at par with levels observed in
    1998-1999, on a volumetric basis. Internal cash generation for the distribution business has
    fallen, as well as its ability to serve an increasing US$ denominated debt. To aggravate
    matters, ANEEL has started a process to review tariff levels for most utilities, which will
    likely imply transferring productivity gains achieved in the last few years back to the
    customers. While the process is legitimate, and has been carried out professionally, it further
    strains the financial condition of the distribution utilities;
    Second, generation companies are also facing a particularly difficult moment. Those plants


                                                 -11 -

   with long positions in the market (either becauseof the decline of Initial Contracts or because
   of their merchant nature by default) are selling their excess energy at a low spot prices,
   therefore also experiencing a reduction in their revenues. Due the modest level of retail
   competition in the sector, there i s not an automatic mechanism whereby the industrial sector
   can benefit from this cheap energy, by increasing its production and consumption levels. It
    will be a real challenge for the new administration to manage this temporary financial crisis.
   There is a key trade-off to be made between keeping the lights on and at the same time not
   diverting socially necessary government funds to provide a generalized bail-out to the
    industry;
0  Third, there are still many regulatory and institutional aspects which remain open, despite the
   effort made post-rationing crisis, and despite the laudable efforts of the current administration
   inthinkingthrough those issuesingreat detail, as part of President's Lulapolitical campaign.
   The new administration agrees that some aspects of the reform were never completed such as
   the development of planning and coordination capabilities, particularly those affecting the
   Ministry of Mines and Energy. The new administration also believes that some of the basic
   pillars of the reform deserve to be revisited, the most important of which being: (i)
   organization of the bulk generation market, with the consideration of possible new pool
    arrangements, (ii)the treatment of generation as a public service, (iii)prioritization of
   expansion of the power sector based on hydro plants, (iv) a cost-effective solution to the
    volumes of gas already committed and to the use of the infrastructure already in place.

There are some ideas, still at blueprint stage, which need to be detailed and worked out. ESTAL
should help the Government analyze those concepts in more depth, by bringing valuable
international experience, and by discussing how they have to be adjusted to provide the
corrective incentives for contracting and expansion of the power sector, on a sustainablebasis.

2.2    Frameworkfor expansionplanning

Prior to the reform, Brazil had a well-developed, centralized system for expansion planning, led
by ELETROBaS. The reform reduced the public sector's responsibility and capacity for
generation expansion; however, due to various impediments to private sector investment in
generation, it was never really replaced by a market-based system.

Given this new environment, GOB set up the Power System Expansion Coordinating Committee
(CCPE) in 1999, under the Secretary of Energy within MME, representing all the major
stakeholders.    It is responsible for producing 10-year expansion plans for generation and
transmission. However, unlike ELETROBRAS, the MMEdid not have (and still does not have)
the necessary cadre of high quality permanent staff to exercise leadership in the CCPE. The
MMEhas sought to offset this shortcoming by borrowing staff from the ELETROBaS group
and other utilities, but the CCPE has yet to become fully operational.

There are several issues regarding the preparation of river basin inventories, feasibility studies,
and basic projects, which need to be addressed as part of ESTAL. Currently, ANEEL i s
responsible for preparing the inventories and feasibility studies, which are legally mandatory
requirements for the granting of hydro concessions. ANEEL has been hiring special consulting



                                                - 12-

firms to develop those studies; those firms are paid for the services provided when the
concession i s granted, and the winning bidder reimburses the consulting firms for those studies.
This mechanism has worked satisfactorily so far, but allegedly it biases the inventory studies
towards the most attractive basins and projects - the ones which will certainly be put out for bid
and consultants will be reimbursed. Current administration believes that it would make more
sense to internalize many of the study costs within the government, to have a broader and more
accuratepicture of the hydro resourcesavailable for development.

Another issue raised by current administration i s to have the environmental license granted
before the hydro concessioni s put for bid (please refer to section 2.12). A recent resolution from
CNPE has established that this procedure should be effective in 2004. There are several issues to
be discussed and agreed before its implementation. The first i s what i s the level of detail of the
quasi-basic project that will meet environmental authority requirements to license the project.
The second i s that government does not want to limit, by any means, the developer's creativity to
make improvements in the project down the road, to make it more attractive and to minimize the
environment impact. However, the current level of detail contained in the feasibility studies does
not allow IBAMA to issue the environmental license. There i s a clear trade-off to be made and
more government resources will be necessary to carry out more detailed studies. Current
administration understandsthat there are benefits interms on "internalizing" those costs, interms
of reducing uncertainties and expediting the construction process. ESTAL should support the
government to address those challenges.

There i s also ambiguity of jurisdiction and inadequate coordination in policy-making and
regulation between the power sector and the water sector with regard to hydroelectric plants,
including environmental & social dimensions. The National Water Resources Council (CNRH)
and the Federal Water Regulatory Agency (ANA), in line with the 1997 National Water
Resources Policy, have overall joint responsibility for planning and licensing multiple uses of
water that affect more than one state, but their roles overlap those of CCPE and ANEEL with
respect to water use inthe power sector.
These institutional issues have hindered the expansion of hydroelectric capacity. The available
pipelineof projects will need to be revisited soon, because: i)ad-hoc granting of individual hydro
projects without a thorough study of the complete basin or even of the cascade may not optimize
generating capacity; ii)there i s a need to have a significant number of hydro sites ready to be
auctioned to support demand expansion; and           iii)multiple use of water resources, and
environmental and social impacts have gained importance. It i s urgent that responsibility for
river basin inventory work be clearly assigned, funds provided on a sustainable basis,
methodologies updated to fully incorporate environmental, social and multiple use costs and
benefits, and mechanismsfor institutional cooperationput inplace.

2.3    Technical capacity across sector agencies

The reform of the power sector shifted responsibilities, but did not automatically move the
personnel with experience in carrying out those responsibilities. This is particularly true with
respect to roles shifted from ELETROBRAS to MME. For example, the Environment
Coordination Unit of MME's Energy Secretariat currently has only two high-level staff. The



                                               -13-

technical capability in environmental and social issues developed by the sector over the past two
decades represents a tremendous investment in human capital. It i s still largely available, and
could be realigned under the new model. ELETROBRAS and BNDES, on the other hand, have
considerable environmental expertise. As potential investors and financing agents of power
system expansion, they could have a prominent role in assessing environmental and social risks
and mitigation in projects and programs in which they are likely to be involved. The situation i s
similar with respect to expansion planning, where ELETROBdS, its subsidiaries (CHESF,
FURNAS, ELETRONORTE) and a few state companies still have most of the expertise, even
though the responsibility now lies with CCPE within MME.

2.4.    Role of ANEEL

Established in 1997, ANEEL rapidly became a key player in the energy sector, but has been
affected by a number of institutional designproblems. First, due to the weaknesses of MMEand
CNPE, ANEEL i s over-burdened with functions that could be exercised elsewhere, such as
drafting new regulations or enforcing them country-wide, or that are inappropriate to a regulatory
agency, such as preparing tenders for and awarding concessions, and carrying out hydroelectric
inventories.   Besides, due to the fact that CNPE has not become operational, ANEEL has
preempted some of its policy-making roles, thereby blurring the boundaries between
policy-making, planning and regulation. Second, there i s no effective appeal system (other than
the slow and cumbersome ordinary judicial process) that allows operators to challenge ANEEL's
decisions. Third, the relative jurisdictions of ANEEL and the competition agency (CADE) for
dealing with anti-trust issues in the power sector are still unclear. Fourth, although ANEEL's
operations are supposed to be governed by a performance contract with GOB, which sets out,
inter alia, performance standards, this has never been used as an instrument for assessing and
improving ANEEL's performance. As an outcome of the PPIAF Project, it was recommended
that a more efficient vehicle for monitoring ANEEL (and other agencies) could be an in-depth
assessment of the institutional responsibilities, carried out on a regular basis, such as every 2-3
years, and by an independent party. And fifth, unlike the telecom regulator ANATEL, which has
regional branches, ANEEL is centralized in Brasilia. This makes it extremely difficult for it to
deal with the large volume of consumer enquiries and complaints.

One of the most serious immediate issues is that there i s no mechanism for ensuring consistency
between decisions taken by ANEEL and the Federal Hydrocarbons Regulatory Agency (ANP).
This is a significant problem, because the rigidity of gas supply contracts, together with the
absence of a secondary gas market, has seriously jeopardized a seamlessintegration between
hydro and thermal resources,therefore hindering the development of new thermal power
generation. ANP was createdin 1997 as the regulatory institution for the hydrocarbons sector
(after considerable debate about whether ANP and ANEEL should be a single agency). A
seamless treatment of the interfaces between the gas and electricity markets i s still important to
be achieved, in order to reach the desired natural gas-electricity convergence.

2.5     Competition in generation

A central objective of the reform was to introduce competition in generation; however this goal


                                               - 14-

has proved elusive. Most seriously, the reform failed to resolve the structural problems of the
generation sector. Although the new legal framework mandated vertical unbundling of electric
utilities, and encouraged subsequent privatization, progress has been limited. Vertically
integrated ELETROBRAS subsidiaries continue to control about 60% of generation capacity
nationwide, and as much as 90% in the North and Northeast sub-markets. This situation is likely
to remain, given current administration's stated objectives of not carrying out the privatization
program any further. Current administration i s also considering the implementation of a different
pool arrangement, including a single buyer pool, which, depending on its final configuration,
may be the single or major owner of all the energy produced by federally owned plants, therefore
aggravating concerns on market concentration. Great care has to be taken to guarantee that the
single buyer (or whatever format i s agreed) does not jeopardize the proper functioning of the
market.

A further structural problem impeding competition is the cross-ownership among both private
and public generators and distributors, leading to a significant amount of self-dealing in
long-term power purchase agreements (PPAs). It i s also possible to handle self-dealing issues by
obliging distribution companies to procure a significant part of their energy needs via
competitive procurement mechanisms (auction being one of them). As recommended by the
PPIAF Project, the price deriving from those bids should also be used as a basis for pass-through
purposes, gradually substitutingthe artificially set Normative Value (VN).

2.6     Revisingincentivesfor thermal generation

Brazil's geography makes hydroelectricity generally a cheap option for power generation, if
financed at reasonablylow costs of capital. Thermal generation, which has lower unit investment
costs but much higher operating costs, has traditionally been used only in isolated systems, to
provide a little extra capacity to protect against water shortages, and in a limited way through
specialized units for peak demand. The former government tried to pushingBrazil to increase its
thermal capacity, but results were short of initially stated goals. Reasons for encouraging the
development of natural gas were multiple. First, natural gas produced domestically or piped from
Bolivia could provide a clean and, for most locations, cheaper fuel than coal. Second, the private
sector generally considers it easier to develop thermal rather than hydro power, because the latter
requires lumpier investments and may have serious geological and resettlement complications
that thermal plants to a large extent can avoid. And third, the recent crisis and the resulting
greater appreciation of the risk of further droughts increased the desire to have the insurance of
extra thermal generation capacity.

However, the level and structure of the current pricing system made it unattractive to finance new
thermal plants.    Natural gas could only be obtained through quite restrictive `dollarized'
take-or-pay contracts offered by Gaspetro (Petrobris' subsidiary), which i s still the sole
significant importer of natural gas and which continues to dominate the upstream market for gas
supply. In addition, due to the low opportunity cost of water for most of the operation of
hydroelectric plants, thermoelectric plants are expected to be only occasionally dispatched, and
the resulting income stream were inplace. But distribution companies were reluctant to sign new
PPAs, due both to the uncertainties of the existing pass-through mechanism, and to their lack of



                                               - 15-

familiarity with the new market environment, under which they were fully accountable for the
energy to be supplied to their customers, and should purchase any shortfalls in the wholesale
market. Additionally, and contrary to many other countries, Brazil had no explicit payment for
capacity, which often serves as an extra incentive for developers to install new thermal plants to
provide reserves (or an insurance) to the system. This subject i s still being discussed, as part of
the overall wholesale market rules.

The new administration wants to take a fresh look at those issues. It has clearly stated that hydro
development should be the priority for expansion. However, it i s also cognizant that there is an
entire pipeline infrastructure and significant volumes of contracted gas which will remain idle if
the thermal program is abandonedcompletely, unless news uses for the natural gas can be found
in the short term. ESTAL should help the Government deal with those aspects and expand the
power system at minimum cost, taking into account long term priorities and the reality of the
existing infrastructure.

2.7     Functioning of the wholesalemarket

MAE failed to reach financial closure on a single transaction since its inception in September
2000 until January 2003. Failure was due to a series of financial and contractual disputes, mostly
between generators and distributors (such as the delay in commissioning of the Angra I1nuclear
power plant, imports from Argentina, a capacity contract between Furnas and CuiabB I,the
buy-back energy during the rationing period, and lastly, the entitlement to the energy generated
by Itaiputhat exceeds the nominal supply contract values). Those disputes were largely due to the
lack of sector expertise in preparing and enforcing power contracts, which are meant to be a
vehicle to assign and price risks among parties. Those disputes impacted market operations as a
whole. Resolving those disputes was beyond the scope of MAE, an organization mainly intended
to measure energy amounts and settle contract differences according to an agreed set of rules. In
many instances, those disputes involved several government agencies and there was not a good
level of coordination among those to clearly specify the property rights and energy entitlements
embedded ineach contract.

MAE also had governance problems, which have prevented it from finalizing the market rules
and implementing the necessary accounting and settlement systems in time to support trade. In
particular, MAE had a large, unwieldy stakeholder board (COEX), which had difficulties in
reaching consensus, as well as a tendency to intervene in the day-to-day operation of the market.
MAEalso sufferedfrom the absence of an adequatemechanism for resolvingdisputes among its
members regarding the interpretation of market rules and procedures, and thus has failed to be
self-regulating as was originally conceived. ANEEL intervened in MAE, reducing the size and
changing the composition of its board to five independent members. Criteria for selection o f the
future MAE board members on the basis of professional qualifications and neutrality need to be
formalized.

2.8     Transmissionand distributionpricing

There have been problems with the regulatory framework for controlling prices in the



                                               - 16-

non-competitive transmission and distribution segments of the market.            Distributors have
complained that they were not being allowed to pass through changes in uncontrollable costs
which include taxes, levies and special charges, and currency devaluation for the power from
Itaipu, as well as regulatory lags for the cost of energy purchased under Initial Contracts. For
their part, generators have complained that the regulatory price cap for the pass-through of energy
purchased under new long term contracts (VN) was significantly below the true long run
marginal cost of buildingnew thermal plant, and that the methodology used to change the levels
of the price caps was non-transparent, which diminished their interest in signingnew PPAs.

The distribution concessions call for tariffs to be reviewed every three to five years, depending
on the contract. The first such review, of ESCELSA (the distribution utility for the state of
Espirito Santo, which was the first distributor privatized, in 1995), and the debate over the
ongoing tariff revision process, have shown that the existing legal framework provides ANEEL
with very little guidance for setting distribution tariffs. There were major methodological gaps,
including lack of procedures for determining the value of the capital base, the weighted average
cost of capital, and the productivity factor (factor X), as well as no regulatory accounting
guidelines to provide a sound information basis for the revision. Those problems started to be
fixed in late 2002, in preparation for a two year review process, where tariffs will be reset for the
great majority o f distribution companies in the country. In addition, current distribution tariff
structures incorporate cross-subsidies from domestic to industrial customers. This undermines
the incentive for the latter both to conserve electricity and to take advantage of their right to
engage in direct purchase of power from generators. It i s therefore essential to consolidate a
cost-reflective, transparent, consistent and defensible methodology in advance of the tariff
reviews due during2003-04.

The transmission pricing system does not provide adequateeconomic signals to generators about
the cost implications of choosing different geographic locations on the transmission network, due
to its strong fixed price component (independent of distance). Furthermore, transmission
congestion costs have been "socialized" within each sub-market, via a System Service Fee
charged to all load. This mechanism distorts plant locationdecisions as they ignore transmission
constraints within the sub-market.As part of the Revitalization Committee effort, studies were
carried out in 2002 to evaluate the optimal number of sub-markets to minimize perverse
locational incentives. Studies have reduced the number of sub-marketseven further, even though
the "physical" constraints still remain, therefore aggravating the congestion problem. This issue
merits attention from the current administration.

2.9      Rural electrification strategy

Although Brazil's overall electrification rate i s reasonably high for a developing country (around
90%), some 2.5 million rural households (10-12 million people) lack access to electricity; about
three quarters of those live in extreme poverty. At present, neither public nor private
distributors, in general, have explicit connection targets to meet (although some have in their
concession contracts, and there i s a general but difficult to enforce obligation to meet requests
for service within 6 months). There are some special GOB programs such as Luz no Campo,
aimed at rural electrification and working basically with grid extension, and PRODEEMaimed at



                                                 - 17-

social development of states and municipalities through energy provision, and working basically
with off-grid supply in rural areas. However, both programs have encountered problems of
financial sustainability.

Moreover, the lack of a comprehensive, coherent rural electrification policy has likely fostered
conflicting practices and perspectives regarding institutional responsibility,              financing
mechanisms, and technological solutions. For example, according to Law 9,427 of 1996,
concessionaires are entirely responsible for the investment costs of service expansion within
their territory, and no connection charge should be required from the customer. However, this
law was never enforced, and current schemes generally maintain the principle that customers
should cover 90% of connection costs. Furthermore, in areas where rural cooperatives have
traditionally been active, it has been unclear whether they or the host concessionaires are
responsible for providing service in their overlapping territories. ANEEL has been trying to fix
this problem by redefining areas of responsibility, granting permissions or authorizations, and
setting ratesand subsidies between the cooperatives andthe incumbent utility.

There are no financial incentives for concessionaires neither to invest aggressively in rural
electrification, nor    to maintain and operate rural investments financed by other players.
Furthemore there are no adequate mechanisms to ensure efficient technology choices between
grid-based and off-grid solutions, including adequate differentiation among quality of service
options. Finally, there is a lack of clarity regardingthe potential role to be played by agents other
than the distribution concessionairesin expanding coverage.

GOB has been attempting to strengthen the service obligations of distribution concessionaires.
Law 10,438, enacted in 2002, specifies on its Article 14 that the incumbent concessionaire
should expand service in its territory and assume the ensuing connection and reinforcement costs
within a reasonable timeframe. Some of those connection costs, currently borne in a large
proportion by new customers, should gradually be tapered off. ANEEL has been in charge of
customizing a universal access plan for each concessionaire, taking into account existing
coverage, nature of markedserved, possibilities to use cross-subsidies within the concessionarea,
and other sources of funding. As part of the Public Hearing process, ANEEL publishedin April
2003 targets for universal access goals for each concessionaire, in terms o f percentage of market
served and dates for achieving these targets. Still along the lines of universalization, this Law
also specifies, on its Article 15, the possibility of GOB granting sub-concessions via a bidding
mechanism, to have other players serving particular areas where the incumbent is not able or
willing to do so, and the existing concession contract does not grant exclusive rights. The
objective of this Law regarding universal access i s laudable. Its success hinges upon a carefully
designed plan with a sound trade off between expanding the service and maintaining the
economic andfinancial equilibrium of each concessionaire.

2.10    Lifeline tariffs for thepoor

Prior to the sector reform, all residential customers received discounts on their electricity bills.
These becameprogressively smaller for higher consumption blocks, tapering away to zero above
200 kWh/month. In 1995, three changes were introduced. First, the magnitude of the discounts



                                                 - 18-

was reduced, to a maximum of 45%, so that those consuming below the subsistencethreshold
faced tariff increasesof 25-30%. Second, those consuming above the subsistencethreshold no
longer received any discount on their initial blocks of consumption. They consequently
experienced much larger tariff increases,of some 75%-100% overall. And third, eligibility for
tariff discounts was confined to those meeting low-income eligibility criteria.

However,      each distribution concessionaire was given the liberty to determine its own
subsistence threshold (they currently range from 140 to 220 kWh per month) and its own
eligibility criteria for these discounts. This provided perverse incentives to the concessionaires.
A wide range of different criteria were usedincluding the technological characteristics of the
connection, the installed load, the type of dwelling, and the geographic location. Moreover,
ANEEL reported that the proportion of customers eligible for low-income tariffs in any
particular state presented little correlation with the known levels of poverty in different states.
Some concessionaires even claimed arbitrarily that none of their customers were eligible to
receive low-income tariffs, which is implausible given that 23% of the population lives in
poverty.

Law 10,438 also dealt with this matter. It determined that all customers whose consumption was
below 80 kWh per month should 1 be treated as low income and therefore be eligible to tariff
discounts which might be as high as 65% for the first block of consumption of 30 kWh per
month. For consumption levels between 80 and 220 kWh per month, the Law determined that
ANEEL should regulate the eligibility for low income tariff discounts within one year, basedon
consumption and other factors to be determined and agreed with each concessionaire. Along the
same lines of establishing life-line rates for the poor, this Law exempted some categories of
customers from paying the additional fixed and variable costs of the emergency thermal plants.
This Law also exempted residential andrural customers whose consumption was below a certain
threshold level from paying the additional costs of generation faced by incumbent utilities during
the rationing period in 2001.

In sum, there were several clauses in this Law dealing with issues related with the tariff for the
poor, either providing outright discounts on rates or exempting some classes of customers from
paying some costs that the electric sector has incurred or will incur to increase system reliability
and to avoid future blackouts. However, a lot still has to be done interms of regulating the terms
and conditions of universalization. Concession areas are very diverse, in terms of percentage of
market served and particularly, the ability to provide cross-subsidies for the expansion of
coverage. Sources of funds for the different paces of universal access still have to be discussed
and agreed. There are policy and regulatory decisions which still need to be made. ESTALcould
help GOB inaddressingthose issues.

2.11    Strategic approach to environmental issues in the sector

Since the mid-eighties, GOB has been paying serious attention to the environmental and social
aspects of the power sector. It has introduced reasonable legislation and regulations, and dealt
with case-specific issues as they arose. What has been more difficult to achieve is a strategic
approach that integrates environmental concerns into overall sector development in the longer



                                                - 19-

term. The reform of the sector, with an increased emphasis on private-sector participation and a
reconfiguration of mandates across sectoral agents, introduced new challenges and the need to
redefine roles and responsibilities, methodologies, staffing needs, and coordination mechanisms.
Annex 14 provides a detailed description of the environmental and social issues in the power
sector, its context and the proposedprogram to addressthese issues.

To achieve these strategic objectives, in March 2002, the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME)
and the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MMA) signed an "Environmental
Agenda", setting forth nine broad areas of collaboration for the coming years. In line with the
Agenda, the Government proposes to implement a "Program to Strengthen Planning and
Management of Environmental and Social Issues in the Power Sector" (see Annex 14,
Attachment 1 for Terms of Reference). The program would be implemented in successive
stages, the first of which would be within a four-year timeframe, with support from the ESTAL.

Important approachesbeing considered are: strategic assessment of mediuidlong-term expansion
paths; environmental and social impacts of thermal power plants seen on a regional rather than
site-specific basis; and assessment of issues and opportunities for the power sector's participation
in carbon emission reduction markets, as well as in markets for other environmental services
(such as the protection of river basin headwaters). Given the increasing participation of the
private sector, it will also be more and more important for the electric sector to promote
voluntary compliance and the adoption of environmentally and socially responsible behaviors on
the part of power producers, as a complement to the compliance and enforcement of regulations
that are the responsibility of environmental agencies. And to better implement its environmental
policies, GOB seeks to realign staffing expertise with institutional responsibilities.

2.12 Frameworkfor environmental licensing of power projects

While there has been a reasonably solid framework in place since 1986 for handling
environmental and social issues in the power sector, licensing of power sector projects is guided
by norms that were adopted before the reform of the power sector and the establishment of the
National Water Policy. They thus need to be selectively revised to fit the current context.

The uncertainties and transaction costs associated with environmental licensing are perceived by
many to be a serious limitation to timely expansion of the system in a private sector-basedmodel.
During the recent supply crisis, changes were suggested ranging from centralization of the
licensing system at the federal level, to special task forces to support state agencies in critical
cases. But such "quick fixes" runthe risk of throwing away considerable advancesmade over the
past twenty years and of introducing ad-hoc measures onto a basically consistent framework.
Ultimately, potential environmental/social impacts of power sector projects need to be identified
and addressed in a manner that avoids unnecessary damage and that mitigates and compensates
for impacts when they occur. The environmental/social assessment and licensing processes are
essentialinstrumentstowards this end.

There is, however, room for making the licensing system more effective and responsive to the
dynamics of the private sector, for instance by institutionalizing the use of strategic



                                               - 20 -

environmental impact assessment (EIA), as in the oil and gas sector in the State of Rio de
Janeiro.

One of the potential areas for improvement beingconsidered by current administration has to do
with the granting of environmental license prior to the competitive bidding process for hydro
concessions (large plants). There are currently about 8,000 MW of hydro concessions already
granted without corresponding environmental licenses. In a few alleged cases, the prospects of
obtaining environmental licenses are unlikely. According to the existing concession agreement,
the risk of not obtaining proper and timely licenses resides with the developer. However, as the
perception of risk increases, fewer investors will be interested in participating in future ventures.
There i s a sense that by having the environmental license granted prior to the concession, the
investors' confidence could be restored, and chances of undesirable delays in the expansion plan
could be minimized. This subject should be studied in great detail.

Another promising development was the creation of the Environment Committee in CNPE and
the Energy Committee in CONAMA to facilitate coordination across sectors. These coordination
mechanisms need to be consolidated to help ensure that environmental & social issues are duly
addressedin a timely manner inthe planning and licensing processes.

MMA has recently assessedthe regulatory framework for the power sector. This, combined with
the findings of the Special Commission for Analysis of the Hydro-Thermal Power System, the
work of the CGE, and of other agencies, should form the basis for an in-depth evaluation (to be
supported by this operation) of the adequacy and possible improvements in the current
environmental licensing system for power sector projects.

Strengthening of the institutional framework for environmental licensing and enforcement is
beingsupported at the federal level by IDB's National Environment Project, and at the state level
by the Banks National Environmental Project (NEP) II,    as further discussedinAnnex 14.

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed ESTAL encompasses a broad-based agenda of knowledge generation and sharing,
consensus building, support for policy formulation, and institutional strengthening, to address
many of the issues discussed above. It is linked to the set of 33 measures proposed by the CGE
in 2002, as well as to the new priority areas set by the current administration. However, support
would be focusedon a subset of these areas, for two reasons:


0      A number of the measureshave already beenimplemented or are to be implemented in a
       very short timeframe, and the analytic work on them i s scheduled to be completed before
       the ESTAL would become effective.          In some of these cases, the Bank is making
       arrangements to provide a second grant to be provided by the Public-Private
       InfrastructureAdvisory Facility-PPIAF (see Annex 12);


0      The proposed operation has a strategic focus on the sector needs and on the basis of
       discussions with the Government, it prioritizesthe areas for support.




                                               -21-

Accordingly, the five areas chosen are all ones of high priority in which there i s need for a
substantial, medium-term program. Improving the regulatory system, the tariff structure and the
functioning of the electricity marketis a challenging area, and Brazil can now improve its design
based on its own recent experiences as well as the lessons from other countries. Expanding
service in rural areas and making tariffs more affordable for the poor are important parts of
Brazil's anti-poverty program. Improved environmental management i s important both for
ensuring minimization of environmental and social impacts and for ensuring that critical
network expansion i s       undertaken in a timely manner with due consideration of
environmental/social costs and benefits. It is also important in emerging markets for
energy-related global externalities, such as climate change. The recent energy crisis has shown
that strategic planning and coordination at the sector level remains essential even in the reformed
system. The strengthening of MMEand CNPE are central to the success of the reform effort.

In order to maintain focus and proceed rapidly, the ESTAL will not cover a number of other
important areas. First, although a full reform of the hydrocarbons sector would also be important,
this sector has not been in crisis, and there i s therefore less sense of urgency about this sector in
Brazil, as well as less consensus on how to proceed. Therefore, that segment of the energy sector
will be covered by the project only with respect to a few more pressingissues, like the supply of
natural gas for power generation and low-income population's access to LPG and natural gas.
Second, ESTAL will not be involved in the privatization of the ELETROBRAS' subsidiaries,
beyond the study on concentration of ownership in generation, since the current administration
has clearly stated that privatization of state-owned assets i s not a priority any longer, and that
both private and public capitals should participate in the expansion of the power system. Third,
although the environmental agencies have important roles to play in the ESTAL, strengthening of
those agencies per se will not be tackled here - largely because the Bank and the IDB are
addressingthis through projects more focused on that sector.

C. Project DescriptionSummary
1. Projectcomponents(see Annex 2for adetaileddescriptionandAnnex 3 for adetailedcost
breakdown):
The project components, and their cost and financing, are summarized inthe table below.
Detailed cost estimates are shown inAnnex 3.

The five specific project components are mutually supportive. Component 1, on the development
of the electricity market and regulation, would cover technical and coordination issues important
for the efficiency of the energy market and improvement of the regulatory operations. The
subcomponent on market development would include electricity-gas linkages, ownership of
generation issues, wholesale market rules, retail level competition, wholesale-retail links, and
barriers and opportunities for international energy integration. The subcomponent on regulation
would cover inparticular collaboration among federal regulatory agencies and a study on options
for appeals mechanisms, support to selected state public service commissions through ANEEL,
performance contracts between Government (MME) and ANEEL and ANP, and the tariff review
process, includingregulatory accounting.




                                                 - 22 -

Component 2, on energy access and affordability for the poor, would center on development of
comprehensive and consistent strategies for rural electrification (including policy and
coordination, funding mechanisms, baseline data collection, monitoring, and development and
sustainability), lifeline power tariff criteria, and mechanismsfor facilitating the use of natural gas
and LPGby low-income population.




 3.Environmental Management
 4.Long-termExpansionPlanning
 5.InstitutionalStrengthening and Coordination                                          3.05        25.2
                                                                                        0.00
                                                                                        1.20         9.9
                                                                                      12.00         99.0

                                                                                       12.12       100.0
                                                                                  ~




Component 3, for environmental management, would support the mainstreaming of
environmental concems under component 4 and would complement institutional strengthening
efforts under component 5. Inparticular, it would cover environmental licensing, methodological
improvements (for various stages of the planning cycle and for hydro and thermal plants and
transmission lines), strategic environmental/social assessment of alternative expansion paths,
assessment of issues and options in the area of climate change and other environmental services,
monitoring and ex-post evaluation, incentives for enhanced corporate responsibility, and
institutional realignment and strengthening of professional cadres.

Component 4, for long-term expansion planning, would reinvigorate an essential activity that
was one the main casualties of the first round of reforms. It would ultimately aim at developing a
Govemment strategy. Inparticular, this component would cover an updating of system expansion
methodologies, including integration of environmental and social concems.                In a hydro
dominated system, especially where much of the power comes from a few rivers, and where there
are competing uses for water, as well as environmental and resettlement issues, river basin
inventories need to be comprehensive and kept up to date. Additionally, a thermal plant macro
location study as well as a plant catalogue for hydro sites would provide key inputs for system
expansion.

Component 5, for institutional strengthening and coordination, focus on MME and CNPE, and is
central to building the capacity for implementing the other components. In particular, the
strengthening of MME units would cover the areas of integrated planning, international energy
integration, universal access to energy, energy efficiency, alternative technologies, oil and natural
gas, and mines and metallurgy. This latter area i s included to ensure that the MMEstructure has
all secretariesin good functional standing.




                                                  -23-

Ten percent of the Bank financing would be held in reserve, to be allocated either to the existing
categories or to new activities that might be identified later. Experience with technical assistance
projects has shown the importance of retaining such flexibility.

The project support would be in three forms:

e       Consultant assistanceto carry out agreed studies and help GOB personnel structure the
implementation plan, review organizational strategies and capabilities, build consensusaround
proposedreforms, and design TORSfor both personneland for studies that will be neededto
carry out the implementation plan, including support for selecting qualified candidates to directly
staff the programmatic and policy areas;


0       Direct support by individual or small teams of consultants duringa transition period for a
narrow range of tasks (e.g. complementary studies that are neededto clarify or evaluate certain
issues before proceeding with implementation) until GOB has staffed its institutions
appropriately for carrying out its own program;

e       Training for MME personnel, through, inter alia, regular courses and seminars offered in
Brazil, visits to other regulatory and government institutions abroad, and the temporary hiringof
recognized international experts to provide formal trainingor share specific knowledge with the
Brazilianworking teams.

2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
        The proposed ESTAL i s very closely aligned to the reforms required in order to bolster
efficiency of the energy sector. The GOB is committed to addressing the key detected
inadequacies in the implementation of the reform, mostly in the power sector, while preserving
its underpinning principles. Some of the main principles of the reform and a Government vision
as how to achieve the sought efficiency inthe energy sector are summarized in the table below.

The main institutional areas included in the ESTAL would be: a) across-the-board strengthening
of MME,as well as assistance targeted more specifically to its long-term expansion planningunit
(CCPE), and programmatic units for international cooperation, universal access, energy
efficiency, alternative technologies, and natural gas and oil; b) makingCNPE operational, so that
it can take charge of policy formulation and advice to the President; c) strengthening cooperation
and coordination processes between ANEEL, ANP and ANA; d) building up ANEEL's
state-level counterparts; e) makingANEEL's performance contract more useful and assessingthe
development of one for ANP; and f) clarifying responsibilities, and matching capacity for
mainstreaming of environmental and social concerns in power sector planning and ensuring
timely licensing of projects.




                                                - 24 -

                                   Efficiency of the Energy Sector

                  Principles                                        How to Achieve It
0       Increasecompetition                       0      Inthe Power Sector
                                                  -      For the market, to createcontestability
                                                  -      At retaillevel, if cost-effective

                                                         Inthe Hydrocarbons Sector
                                                  -      Across the entire supply chain
                                                  -      Monitor role of dominant players

0       Reduce poverty                           0       Universal access to energy services
                                                 0       Smart subsidies, in electricity, gas, LPG
                                                 0       Safety net andlong-term sustainability
0       Attract private capital to support       0       Create a non-discriminatory environment
        expansion                                - Independentsystemoperation
                                                 -       Third party access, with correct tariffs
                                                 - Strongregulatoryagencies


                                                 0       Revisit trading arrangements,to promote
                                                         contracting and proper risk allocation
0       Plan least cost expansion, with           0      Strengthen planningand coordination roles
concerns for the environment and social           0      Methodologies andportfolio of projects
issues                                                   Optimize use of existing gas infrastructure
                                                  0      Better knowledge of hydro potential

                                                  0      Streamline environmental licensing process




The policy reforms to be supported would include (a) establishing, for the first time, a
comprehensive approach to rural electrification, (b) setting consistent criteria for overall power
distribution tariff structure and for lifeline tariffs, as well as for pricing natural gas and LPG for
low-income population, (c) harmonizing the policies for thermal generation and natural gas, (d)
establishing correct regulations and monitor industry players' behavior, so as to minimize the risk
of abuse of market power, (e) broadening retail power consumers' ability to purchaseon the free
market, and (f) ensuring that environmental and social aspects are taken fully into account in
investment planning.

3. Benefitsand target population:
        The project would have the following beneficiaries:

0     the Brazilianpopulation as a whole would benefit from havingmore reliable power, at
      eventually lower prices (because of the various efficiency gains expected) and from
      improved environmental conditions (less air pollution, cleaner water, healthy ecosystems)


                                                  - 25 -

       resultingfrom more concertedattention to this indesigning systemexpansion;
e      the approximately 2.5 million, predominantly poor, rural households would get electrified
       sooner;
e      other poor families would havetheir tariffs reduced because of the introduction of
       consistent eligibility criteria for lifeline tariffs.

4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:
        The ESTAL would be implemented under full responsibility of the MME. The MME
would create a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under the MME Executive Secretary to
coordinate all technical and administrative aspects of project implementation. The placement of
the PIU under the MME Executive Secretary is because the ESTAL covers work of interest to
more than one of the envisaged Secretariats under the new MME structure, and also because it
provides a conveniently close link with the Minister. The PIU would be headed by an
experienced, full-time Project Manager, who would provide general oversight and inter-agency
coordination. The PIU would have a small technical and administrative group responsible for
preparing TORS, processing contracts, managing accounts, adjusting or developing control
systems as needed, preparing reports and providing general logistic support. The funds to staff
the PIU are already assigned by the MPO under an arrangement with the UNDP, which would
assist in procuring the requiredstaff and equipment. The establishment of the PIU i s a condition
of loan effectiveness.

The PIUwill be responsible to define the overall guidelines of the project program and the action
plan, and will approve, evaluate, monitor and control all phases of Project implementation. A
full-time team will be in place and also dedicated consultants will be hired, as required. In this
context, the functions of the PIU would be to:

        e  Act as the executive secretariat of the Project,
        e  Identify the technical studies required and prepare the relevant TOR and Project's
           Operational Manual, according to MMEguidelines,
        e  Perform the financial managementof the Project,
        e  Assist in procuring and contracting the required consultants, technicians and services,
           in liaison with the MMEBiddingCommission,
        e  Provide adequate facilities to the implementation team, consultants and technicians,
        e  Evaluate consultants and technicians performance,
        e  Review all documents andreports produced,
        e  Follow up on the physical implementation and Project deadlines,
        e  Adjust the Project operational plan, as required,
        e  Provide support to external independent auditors.

The PIU structure has already been designed. It will be headedby a Project Manager with overall
responsibility for Project implementation, with a basic staff of 9 (nine) people including a
Quality Controller, a Legal Advisor, a FinanciaUAdministrative Manager, a Procurement
Specialist, 4 (four) Technical/Operational Managers, and a Secretary. The Project Manager will
report directly to the Executive Secretary of the MME. The Quality Controller will have the



                                                     - 26 -

responsibility to assure that all Project actions adhere to the proposed principles and objectives,
and that state of the art methods are selected and implemented to support the modernization,
strengtheningand sustainability of all actions, both during and after the Project execution period.
The Legal Advisor will review and approve all contracts and agreements, and also interface with
MMELegal Department.

The selection of individual consultants will be done by the PIU, in accordance with the Bank
guidelines. The PIU would preparethe contractsfor signature of the assignedMMEauthority. In
the case of hiring consultant firms, MME current structure i s adequate to process the bidding
requirements, if the PIU supports the MME Bidding Commission (ComissZo de Licitagljes),
including     preparation of    the packages and the technical reports that will enable the
Commmission to eventually award the contracts.

Many of the Project activities to be carried out by the MMEwould benefit from the participation
of entities that play an important role in each specific activity. MME will seek the participation
of these entities and will make arrangementsfor their participation in key aspects of the activity,
as for instance, preparation of TORS for developing the activity and hiring consultants, and
design of training programs. This process i s most advanced for the environmental component,
where general TORSfor developing the component activities have already beenjointly prepared
by MME and MMA. The details of the arrangements for the participation of entities in the
Project would be spelled out inthe Operational Manual.

Inorder to structure the organization of the work under the Project, it is envisagedthe creation of
8 task forces, to deal with the key technical aspects of project implementation, covering the
following topical clusters:      1-Market Development; 2- Regulation; 3-Tariffs; 4-Rural
Electrification; 5-Environment and Social; 6-Expansion Planning; 7-River Basin Inventories; and
8-Institutional Strengthening. These arrangements would ensure that sector entities as well as
environmental, water and regulatory agencieshave a say in the components of relevance to them.




                                                - 27 -

Arrangementsof Componentsby Cluster                                                                           1

                                               transportationand storage             ELETROBRAS,ANEEL,




                                                                                      Petrobras, MAE, ANEEL,




                                               control systems
    3      1.8.4 Regulatoryaccounting          Accounting and Regulations             MME, ANEEL
           1.8.5. Tariff review                Economicand regulatory                 MME, MF, CNPE, ANEEL
           11.8. Life-linetariff criteria      Internationalbest Dracticeson Dricina  MME.. MF.. CNPE. ANEEL.
                                              land inter-fuelcompetition     *    -
                                                                                     ~ANP
           1II.C. LPGand naturalgas           ]Market penetration studies            IMME, MF, CNPE, ANP,
                                                                                     ~ANEEL
    4      III.A.1 to 5 Ruralelectrification  [Economicand technical aspects, and    IMME. CNPE. ANEEL.
                                               internationalbest practices           ELETROBRAS,
    5      1II.A. Environmentallicensing       Process reengineering                 MME, MMA, ANA, ANEEL
           111.8. Assessmentof                 Enaineerina/environmentaland social         MMA
           lenvironmental/socialimpacts of    lsciences   -                          IMME.                    I
           /systemexpansion
           III1.C. Climate change &           IWeather   science; environmental      IMME, MMA
           lenvironmentalservices             Ieconomics
           III1.D. Monitoringand ex-post      ]Environmental,social and computer     IMME, MMA
           /evaluation                        lsciences
           1III.E. Coroorateenvironmental/    IOraanization. incentivesand           II                       I
           /socialresponsibility              (governance;environmental economics    IMME
           III1.F. Institutionalrealignment & lorganization design
                                                  -              -                   IMME, MMA
           /capacitybuilding
    6      1IV.A. System expansion            IElectric system planning, supply &    IMME, CNPE
           methodology                         demand side economics
           1V.C. Thermal plant macro-location Expansionplanning and operations       MME
                                               research
    7      1V.B. River-basininventories        Engineering/environmentaland social    MME, ELETROBRAS,
                                               sciences                               ANEEL, ANA
    8      V.A. MME restructuring              Organizationdesign, process            MME
                                               reengineeringand management control
                                               systems
           V.B.l to 7 MME units strengthening Organizationdesign, process             MME units
                                               reengineeringand management control
                                               systems
            V.C. CNPE operationalizing         Organizationdesign, process            MME, CNPE
                                               reengineeringand management control
                                               systems
            V.D. CDE operationalizing          Organizationdesign, process            MME, CNPE,
                                               re-engineering,cost-benefit analysis,  ELETROBRAS,ANEEL
                                              control svstems




                                                - 28 -

These task forces would combine representativesfrom the Government, academia and the private
sector, in order to get different perspectives and foster cross-fertilization. Most of the members
would be seconded from their organizations. The task force leaders would coordinate closely
with the Project Manager.

The task manager will ensure that early in project start-up there will be a Bank sponsoredproject
launch, which will involve Bank specialists in procurement, financial management, and legal
issues. In particular, the first two areas require special attention, because the corresponding
assessments of the MME characterized the project as high-risk. This was due to the fact that
MMEhad no experience as an implementing agency of a Bank-financed project. Additionally, it
i s not expected that the PIU will be fully operational by loan signing. Supervision missions will
be undertaken twice a year, although it i s likely that additional field supervision activities will be
carried out given the task team leader's frequent missions to Brazil to work on other projects.
The supervision missions will periodically include a financial management specialist and a
procurement specialist. PSRs will be updated after each mission. When appropriate, these
reports will include coverage of all issues related to financial control and audit issues, and the
monitoring of the procurement plan. The major responsibility for procurement and financial
management supervision and client assistance in these areas will be provided through the C M U
Brasilia-based Implementation Team that is fully staffed to carry out these functions.


Project supervision would be front-loaded and focus initially on ensuring that the PKJi s able to
carry out its responsibilities, and on defining the terms of reference for key studies and
consultants, and ensuring selection of qualified personnel. Thereafter, supervision would focus
on indicators related to oversight of effective inter-agency coordination, market performance
signals, and private sector confidence levels. While a supervision frequency of two field missions
a year is planned, it i s likely that during the first year there may be an additional full supervision
mission or short missions focusing on specific areas, to respond to needs detected by the task
manager. The several measures described in this and preceding paragraph, including the
establishment of a well-staffed PIU, seek as part of the project design to mitigate the inherent
high-risk in project implementation due to the lack of previous experience of the MME as an
implementing agency.

In addition to regular supervision, and distinct              from the assessment of the project
implementation progress, the Bank would periodically review with the Government the progress
on the reform of the sector. These reviews would be scheduled every 9 months, the first one
takingplace not later than two months after the date of Loaneffectiveness.

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection:
        The main alternative considered was to make this a multi-sector TAL,, with a heavy
emphasis on the regulatory system. The logic was that many of the issues affecting electricity
regulation apply to other sectors as well, so it would be more efficient to address the various
sectors together. This is particularly true, for example, in terms of the methodology for tariff



                                                   - 29 -

revisions.      This would also have provided an opportunity to address comprehensively the
question of regulatory agencies at the state level.

This alternative was rejected for several reasons. First, based upon discussions with GOB, the
balance of the content of the TAL for the energy sector (basically power) shifted away from
regulation and more towards policy making, planning, environment and universal access. This
reflected the recognition that electricity regulation, while still having some problem areas, was
one of the best organized parts of the sector. Once the project was focused more on these other
aspects of the power sector, there was less synergy with other sectors. Second, having a TAL
that concentrated more on the power sector dovetailed better with the ESIU-Energy Sector
Reform Loan. Third, the Bank i s addressing regulatory issues inthe water and transport sector in
other operations limited to those sectors. Telecom i s the remaining important infrastructure
sector, and while it faces some regulatory issues similar to those in electricity, the Bank has not
been working closely with Telecom in Brazil, so there would have been a longer learning period
on both sides before the project could be designed, thus critically delaying the essentialassistance
to the energy sector. Further the Bank i s considering an adjustment operation geared towards
enhancementof competitiveness in Brazil that would include Telecom regulation.


2. Major relatedprojectsfinanced by the Bank andlor other developmentagencies (completed,
ongoingand planned).




                                                                        Implementation Development
 Bank-financed                                                           Progress(IP)  Objective(DO)
 Improvinginstitutional framework,       Energy Sector ReformLoan -
 increasing competition in generation,   adjustment operation fully
 fixing the wholesale market, removing disbursed in June 2002
 tariff distortions, developing a rural
 electrification strategy, makinglifeline
 tariffs more consistent, strengthening
the environmental strategy and
environmental licensing

Clarifying ANEEL's responsibilities,     Public Private Infrastructure
 improving the wholesale market,         Advisory Facility (PPIAF-
establishing a tariff review             A020402-L-ETY -W-BR)
methodology, and setting lifeline tariff grant: Improvement o f
rates                                    Electricity Regulation and
                                         Market and System Operations
                                         - completed in March 2003
Supportingenergy sector reform           HydrocarbonTransport and             S             S
including establishing ANEEL and         Processing Project (Loan
ANP, setting upthe wholesale market, 3376-BR) closed
and promoting competition in
generation (RE-SEB)



                                                  - 30 -

 Availability andpricing of gas for        Gas SectorDevelopment                     HS               HS
 development of thermalgeneration          Project (P006549)
 Promotingrural electrification            Northeast RuralPoverty                     S               S
                                           Alleviation ProgramProject
                                           (PO51701)
 Developingthe energy efficiency           Energy Efficiency Project                 U                S
 component of an environmental             (Loan4514-BR)
 strategy for the power sector
 Improvingenvironmentallicensing           SecondNational                            HS               S
                                           EnvironmentalProject
                                           (PO35741)

 Dther development agencies
 RuralElectrification with Renewable Japanese SpecialFundandthe
 Energy, with emphasison social            Inter-AmericanDevelopment
 aspects.                                  Bank-Support to PRODEEM-
                                           under execution.

 Strengtheningof environmental             IDB- NationalEnvironment
 licensing,enforcement and                 Program- under execution.
 post-licensemonitoringcapabilitiesat
 the federal level (IBAMA).
 P/DO Ratings: HS (HighlySatisfactory), S (satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory),HI Highly Unsatisfactory)

3. Lessonslearnedand reflectedinthe project design:
        A number of lessons have beenlearned from the above-mentioned projects, in particular
from the implementation of the TA component added to the Hydrocarbons Transport and
ProcessingProject, as well as from other TA operations:


(a)     The new sector model should be seen as complementary to the expansion of the sector.
Probably the biggest mistake made in design of the thermal plant packagewas to assumethat the
private sector would invest without a sound regulatory and commercial framework inplace.
When the private sector investment in generation did not materialize, due to some flaws indesign
and delays in implementation of the reform program, there was no readily available fallback
position;
(b)     Implementation of complex reform requires a strong, high-level orchestration between
MMEandthe Ministriesof PlanningandFinance, as well as betweenANEELandANP onthe
regulatory side, inter alia. Only when GOB, at the highest executive level and across a broad
spectrum of core stakeholder institutions, got involved via the CGE in 2002 was there rapid and
effective progressin resolving the power crisis;
(c)     Major power sector reform programs take years to be implemented, and "early-wins"
should not lead to overconfidence andreduced top-level attention. Unanticipatedproblems may
often arise due to the complexity and dynamics of the sector, and there needsto be a basic and
consistent core of expertise available for analyzing them, and an effective mechanism for
resolving them;
(d)     TA projects that only provide temporary consultants and do not ensurelonger term



                                                      - 31 -

institutional strengthening and policy reform, tend not to have sustainable benefits. Conversely,
T A projects are more successfulifthey are implemented in tandem with adjustment operations,
andifthey emphasize building up institutional capacity.
(e)      InTA projects, it is important to haveflexibility inthe allocation of funds, as by defining
the project components broadly and having a significant reserve (unallocated) category;
(f)      The PIU should have both technical and administrative managementfunctions under a
single umbrella. A strong PIUfrom early on, including a seasonedProject Manager, i s
particularly important inprojects where the capacity for support from elsewhere inthe
government i s likely to be limited. Its task forces should also be established very early, by
identifying and motivating the best professionals.

4. Indicationsof borrowercommitment andownership:
         GOB'S commitment to resolution of the problems of the power sector has been reinstated
unequivocal terms by the current administration. The power crisis entailed concomitant
realization that the economy can suffer badly from a mishandled electricity sector. CGE, the
former rationing chamber, has been reorganized and replaced by CGSE, still a multi-ministerial
organization structure in charge of coordinating and monitoring the implementation of electric
sector reform. CGSE i s chaired by the Ministry of Mines and Energy and provides suitable
cross-coordination and a liaison point between CNPE and the several Ministries whose decisions
affect the electric sector. On this basis, the GOB has also restored the central role in the sector of
MMEandit hasdesignatedthat Ministry as the coordinating agencyfor the ESTAL.

The ESTAL has been designed with the close cooperation of the Ministry of Planning; ANEEL,
MMA, ANA andELETROBRAShave also beeninvolved, in accordancewith their mandates,in
discussions of the regulatory, environmental and long-term expansion planningcomponents. The
necessity of a multi-year TA project was initially counter-posed by the hope that all of the key
issues could be promptly resolved in the aftermath of the power crisis. However, the more the
project preparation team looked at the scope and magnitude of the tasks ahead, the more it
realized the complexity of this undertaking and the need for high-quality, objective,
well-equipped implementation teams. The MME conclusion was that the ESTAL should help
design specific measures and implementation plans and even, in many cases, complementary
studies before proceeding to take decisions, as well as for the careful design and time-consuming
institutional capacity-building.

5. Value addedof Banksupport in this project:
         As in similarreformefforts in other countries, Bank support is helpful inensuring that the
best worldwide expertise is made available to Brazil. This i s particularly relevant because of the
size and complexity of the energy sector in Brazil. The Bank has been involved in similar
reform efforts in many other countries, including neighbors such as Argentina, Bolivia and Peru,
and can help inform the Brazilians of both the successes and failures (in specific elements) of
those cases.

The special value of Bank support in this case i s also to provide continuity during the transition
between administrations, thus maintaining some of the institutional memory, as well as
maintaining a steadfast vision of reform targets in the transformation of the sector in the


                                                 - 32 -

post-power crisis era. Also by doing the ESTAL intandem with the ESRL, the Bank can help in
taking a comprehensive look at both the policy and institutional requirements of the sector, and
can assist in consensus buildingaround proposedreforms.

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailedassessmentsare inthe projectfile, see Annex 8)

0Costbenefit
1. Economic(see Annex4):
                       NPV=US$million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0Costeffectiveness
   Other (specify)
Not applicable

Note: Quantitative economic and financial analyses are not applicable for TA operations such as
this. However, if carried out successfully, the project will improve the efficiency of the power
sector and reduce the risk of future shortages, both of which would have major economic
benefits. The current crisis is estimated to have reducedGDP growth by 1%.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= 5% (see Annex 4)

The proposed loan will be for US$ 12 million (plus front-end fees), to be disbursed over aperiod
of 4 years. The counterpart funding from the Government will be U$ 8 million. The required
allocation for calendar year 2003 i s in the national budget approved by Congress. In its
continuing macroeconomic dialogue with the Government, especially this year, the Brazil
Country Management Unit should ascertain that the project i s assigned the required allocation
and priority in the formulation of the Government budget proposal to the Congress for calendar
year 2004.

FiscalImpact:
The project would have negligible direct fiscal impact.

3. Technical:

The project involves addressing complex issues in terms of electricity market development and
regulation, that are essential for sustainability of the reform, especially the envisaged private
sector participating in generation expansion and alternative pool arrangements. These technical
issues are planned to be tackled initially with the assistance of international and local experts
under the new PPIAF-funded project, whose recommendations will be taken up by the ESTALto
settle the issues in close dialogue with the relevant sector players.

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executingagencies:
        The executing agencyis the MME.Itwill work closely with entities which arerelevant to
each specific activity, however the ultimate responsibility for the project execution rests with the



                                                - 33 -

MME.Relevant entities mayinclude ANEEL, ANP, ANA, MMA,IBAMA,ELETROBdS,
 and selectedstate public utility commissions. ANEEL will be requestedto participate in many of
the key activities of the project related to regulation. Likewise, MMA, and as necessary assisted
by IBAMA, will be requestedto support MME in the detailed preparation andexecution of the
Environmental Management component. The CNPE will be representedby the MME, which will
liaise with other CNPE memberson important issues affecting the functioning and mandateof
the CNPE.

Becausethe executing agencyhad no experiencein implementing a Bank-financed project and
the PIU was not inplace when the procurement and financial management assessments were
carried out, these assessmentsratedthe project as high-risk.Inorder to mitigate this risk, special
care should be taken by the Bankin assuringthat launching of the project is supported by a
special workshop, that the PIUi s properly staffed and trained inBank procurement and financial
managementrequirements, and that a concentratedsupervision effort is loaded up-front.
4.2 Project management:
         Project will be managedby aProject Implementation Unit (PIU), under the Executive
Secretaryof the Minister of Mines and Energy. Eight task forces will deal with key technical
aspectsfor topical clusters.
4.3 Procurement issues:
         The PIU will be responsiblefor overall procurement processing, and eachparticipating
agency for the technical specifications and the consultancy terms of reference. Procurement plan
to be updated every 6 months. Bank pre-approval will berequired for individual contracts
exceeding $30,000 and contracts with firms exceeding $50,000. These amounts may be increased
by the Bank duringproject implementation, ifthe Bank i s satisfied with the performance of the
PIU. Given the needfor jumpstartingthis project with hiringof (mainly) individual consultants,
retroactive financing up to 10%of the loan amount will be available for payments made within
twelve months prior to the date of loan signing.
4.4 Financial management issues:
         Financial management will be under direct responsibility of the Financial Manager and
team inPIU. The project preparation Team inMME will study and propose a financial system to
use, before effectiveness. National Treasury Secretariat (STN) will advance funds to the project
out of the national budget and special account for the project.
5. Environmental:                       Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMPpreparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
         As this project is aTechnical Assistance, it does not finance investments and therefore
does not entail direct environmental or social impacts. The TA program includes three
components that are of relevance to the strengthening of environmental and social planningand
management inthe energy sector: i)institutional strengthening and coordination. ii)
environmental management; and iii)long-term planning. The first includes the clarification of
institutional mandates, capacity building and inter-agency coordination. The last two comprise a
series of studies including strategic assessments of alternative expansion paths, river basin
inventories and macro-location studies for thermal development, all of which will include


                                                   - 34 -

 environmental and social dimensions
 5.2 What are the main features of the EMPand are they adequate?
 NIA
 5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
                    Date of receipt of final draft:
 NIA
 5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
 report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment managementplan? Describe
 mechanisms of consultationthat were used and which groups were consulted'?
         TORs for the Environmental Management component (presented inAnnex 14) were
 prepared by the Ministry of Mines and Energy working in close coordination with the Ministryof
 the Environment. Final TORs will be discussed with a broader set of stakeholders (other power
 sector agencies, academics and representatives o f environmental regulatory agencies) at the start
 o f project implementation. The TORs call for consultations at critical stages in the development
 of specific studies. The scope o f such consultation will be determined on a case by case basis,
 depending on the nature of the study.
 5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
 environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
 NIA
 6. Social:
 6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
 N/A (See 5.1 above).
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
 See 5.4 above.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
See 5.4 above.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
NIA
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
NIA

7. SafeguardPolicies:




I
     CulturalProperty (OPN 11.03)

                                                   - 35 -

                                                                     I                                        I


    IndigenousPeoples(OD4.20)                                                 0 0Yes     NO
    InvoluntaryResettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                       0 0Yes     NO
    Safety of Dams(OP4.37, BP4.37)                                            0 0Yes     NO
    ProjectsinInternationalWaters (OP7.50, BP7.50, GP7.50)                    0 0Yes     NO
    ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP7.60, BP7.60, GP7.60)"                         0 0NO
                                                                                  Yes


7.2 Describeprovisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
NIA

F. Sustainabilityand Risks
1. Sustainability:
        A fundamental objective of the ESTAL is to make the power sector reforms more
sustainable.    The experience in Latin America and elsewhere has been that while it is very
difficult to completely reverse a power sector reform program, lack o f commitment and
coordination from Government authorities may jeopardize continued implementation. It i s
necessary to have mechanisms in place to assure that decisions are made based on sound analysis
and ina timely way. The ESTAL should help Government achieve this goal.

        The main question regarding the sustainability of the results of the project per se relates to
the strengthening of MME and operationalizing of CNPE. GOB did not give highpriority to this
before, but this stance has changed since the crisis. CGSE, a multi-ministerial organization structure
which replaced CGE, is still in charge of coordinating the implementation of electric sector reform and
building awareness about some of its challenges. CGSE is chaired by the MME and provides suitable
cross-coordination and a liaison point between CNPE and the several Ministries whose decisions affect
the electric sector. The decision to make MME the coordinating agency for the ESTAL is an
indication of the commitment to strengthen that ministry. But this will have to be backed up by
the allocation of budget and personnel; the Bank will focus on this during implementation.


2. CriticalRisks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptionsfound in the fourth column of Annex 1):


From Outputs to Objective
Market Developmentand Regulation:
(1) Political support to: a) setting                 H          Bank involvement, transparentregulationsand
new rules to favor competition and                              tariff review process, competitive prices, and
economic pricing, b) regulators'                                training of key stakeholders, contribute to
administrative and operational autonomy                        provide sustainability to the regulatory effort.
and independenttariff reviews.
Review inpoliticalpriorities possibly
leadingto delays inthe reform process
and some contractualdisputes.
(2) Interests of ANEEL, ANP, ANA,                    M          Operational CNPE will provide a forum for
IBAMA,and state regulatorsare not                               policy coordination and consensus building.
reconciledand they are unwillingto work                        Bank plays catalytic role in harmonizationof


                                                   - 36 -

in a coordinatedmanner.                                conflicting views.

Energy Access and Affordability for the
Poor:
(1) Distributors dispute its legal basis        S      Transparent regulations and sustainable
and regulatory arrangements, or allege                 funding mechanisms, including allocation of
lack of financial and economic                         federal funds, special development credits, and
equilibrium,due to obligations to serve                cross subsidies to partially cover costs,
ruralpopulations; lack of utility                      minimize opposition to rural electrification
engagement in the effort to implement                  programs and targeted life-line tariffs.
more equitable lifeline rates for the poor.
(2) GOB and the private sector do not           S      Careful design of delivery mechanisms,
give priority or are unwilling to make                 dissemination of best practices, establishment
investments in rural electrification.                  of realistic goals for each concession area,
                                                       synergy with poverty alleviation programs help
                                                       materialize investments in ruralareas.
Environmental Management:
As environmental groups and power               S      A consultative process ledby MMEand MMA
sector disagree on approach to                         involving a broad set of stakeholders,
environmental licensing and location                   supported by the Bank, buildsconsensus on a
constraints, burdensome environmental                  balanced approach and leads to adjustment and
licensing process causes delays and                    expediting of the current licensing process.
increases opposition to environmental
protection.

LongTerm ExpansionPlanning:
GOB i s unable or unwilling to devote           M      The recent energy crisis has succeeded to
sufficient budget resourcesto this effort.             demonstrate the need to have the Government
                                                       planning in advance and providing close
                                                       coordination, with the adequate information
                                                       and policies to reduce social and economic
                                                       costs of rationing.
hstitutional Strengthening and
Coordination:
GOB does not give energy sector high            S      Society awareness raised by the energy crisis
priority and does not provide MMEwith                  of the need to appropriately fund the MME
:he necessarybudget. CNPE and CDE                      and ensure coordination with other
not operational, MMEi s unable to                      stakeholders, in order to support long term
3ttract and retain sufficient high-caliber             planning, policy development, and risk
?ersonnel,and PIU is discontinued.                     management. Focus of project in these areas
                                                       helps to maintain GOB support and obtain
                                                       participation of high-level specialists to ensure
                                                       continuity and effectiveness of PIU
3om Componentsto Outputs
iliscontinuity of power sector reform,          H      Bank involvement, bringinginternational
iarticularly due to a fundamental review               experience and best practices, and providing
if energy policy, which will take time to              support to a sustainable regulatory effort.
,e articulated, agreedupon and                         Project design aims to address fundamental
mplemented, increasing perception of                   needs and has built-in flexibility to


                                              - 37 -

 riskamongprivate investors.                                accommodatechanges inpriorities.
 Loss of momentumanddecreased                               CGSEcoordinates the implementationof
 perception of importanceof energy issues                   electric sector reform, buildsawarenessabout
 amongtop government officials.                             some of its challenges, and provides suitable
                                                            cross-coordinationandaliaisonpoint between
                                                            CNPE andthe severalMinistries whose
                                                           'decisionsaffect the electric sector.
 hadequate counterpart funding.                             Societyconsensusthat avoidingrepetitionof
                                                            the energy crisiscalls for ensuringappropriate
                                                            funding of the key activitiesearmarkedby the
                                                            project in the years to come.

 3verall Risk Rating                              S



It should be noted that the risks discussed above derive from conditions external to the project.
Riskswhich result from choices or factors internal to the project are inherently mitigated by
project design. An example is the highrisk inproject implementation due to lack of previous
experience of the MME as a Bank-financed project implementing agency. The mitigation
measuresare part of the project design (see C.4 and E.4.1 for discussion of these issues).

3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No controversial aspects, inaddition to those indicated above, are foreseen.

G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition


1.1 Establishment of the PIU, headedby a qualified Project Manager and including procurement,
         financial management, environmental as well as energy expertise.
1.2 Establishment of a financial management system in accordancewith the requrements laid
         out in Annex 6 B
1.3 Furnishingof TOR for the Project external auditor.
1.4 Fumishingof aplan for the selection of consultants under the Project.


2. Other [classify accordingto covenant types usedin the Legal Agreements.]


2.1 Monitoring, review, andreporting: i)standard Bank covenants; ii)the Borrower will provide
the Bank no later than 6 months after the end of each year procurement records audited by
independentauditors, acceptable to the Bank.
2.2 Project Execution:
2.2.1 Mid-Term Review
2.2.2 The Bank and the Government will review progress of the sector reform every 9 months,
the first review taking place not later than two months after the date of loan effectiveness.
2.3 Standardretroactive financing.


                                                - 38 -

H. Readiness for Implementation
2  1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
        start of project implementation.
   1. b) Not applicable.

E2.The    procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of

2     project implementation.
  3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory

E4.   quality.
      The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):

4.1 The PIU needs to be established.
  4.2 A financial management system needs to be put in place.

1.Compliancewith Bank Policies
8 Thisproject
   1.              complies with all applicable Bank policies.
   2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
      with all other applicable Bank policies.


 4-v
                          "

NelsonDe Franco                         Susan . G ldmark
                                              d.Gbldmark
                                                I   ,
                                                                                VinodThomas
Team Leader                             Sector M'9ager                           Country Director




                                                  - 39 -

                                      Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                           BRAZIL: Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project
                                      KeyIndicators
                                            Performance            DataCollectionStrategy

                                Sector Indicators:                Sector/ countryreports:   from Goal to Bank Mission)
Energy:                                                           ndependent evaluations.   dacroeconomic stability.
Further develop a competitive Energy i s available with           PEA reports.              Zontinued political and social
and sustainable energy market reduced environmental effects       3ank country and sector   upport to power sector
by improving its regulatory     and is more affordable for the    'eports                   eform.
framework and enhancing         poor.
competition, increase           Effectivecompetitive structure
commercial investments for      is operational with increased
system expansion, increase      private sector participation.
coverage of ruralenergy         Good practice models are
services, specially services to developed, disseminatedand
the poor, and improve energy    replicated.
efficiency.

Environmental protection and
management:
Modernize environmental         Methodologies and procedures
instruments and institutions,   to estimate and address
integrate environmental         :nvironmentaVsocial impacts,
concerns within sectors,        license and monitor projects,
increase private sector role,   are revised and widely used,
prioritize environmental        Facilitating the achievement
pollution problems, comply      ifnationalobjectives and
with international agreements   :ompliance with intemational
and develop and implement       igreements.
action plans




                                                            - 40 -

                                                              Data CollectionStrategy      I
 Hierarchyof Objectives                                                                    I   Critical Assumptions
project Development         Outcome/ Impact                   'roject reports:              (from Objectiveto Goal)
Ibjective:                  Indicators:
Ielp ensure the sustainable Adequate and sustainable          ndependent evaluations        Society supportsregulatory
mplementationof the GOB'S znergy supply (no more              PEA reports                   environment that favors
,ontimingenergy sector      rationing).                       'ublic consultation records.  competition, economic
eform program through                                         dAE, ONS, ANEEL, ANA,         pricing, and environmental
tudies andcapacity building                                   WP, and IBAMA reports.        and social responsibility.
ctivities aimed to:                                           3ank country and sector
                                                              eports.
   develop energy marketto  [ncreasedprivate sector                                         Governmentcreates a climate
   expandprivate sector     investments and participants.                                   conducive to new private
   participation and                                                                        investments.
   competition,                                                                             Contracts are honoredand
 0   make modem energy      Higherpercentageof poor                                         private and public investors
   sources available and    lave access and can afford                                      are treatedon a
   affordable to poor,      nodem energy services.                                          non-discriminatory basis.
 0 ensure   longterm        EnvironmentaVsocialimpacts
   environmental             3re assessedand appropriate
   sustainability of power  3ctionplansto avoid, mitigate
   sector development,      ircompensatefor impactsare
                            leveloped at project concept
                             stage; licensesare grantedina
                             imely and transparentmanner.
                            2nd incentives are ineffect to
                             Jromoteimplementation of
                             mvironmentallsocial action
                             Jlans by power sector utilities.


0  improve long-term        Zyclically updated, longterm
   expansionplanning, and   :xpansion plans, incorporating
                            mvironmentaVsocia1concems.
                            ire available and guide private
                            iector investment decisions.


 0 strengthenpolicy making  2nergy and
   and implementation       mvironment-related policies,
   capacity.                .egulations,and procedures
                             ire revisedl designedand
                             mplementedin a coordinated
                             'ashion by Government
                            ninistries, agencies and
                            ,egulators,and are effective to
                            oster competition,
                            iustainability and increased
                            rivate participation.




                                                         -41 -

                                      Key Performance               Data CollectionStrategy
 Hierarchy of Objectives                  Indicators                                           Critical Assumptions
htput from each                Output Indicators:                   'roject reports:        from Outputs to Objective)
:omponent:
.Market    Development and
tegulation
i.MarketDevelopment
{lectricity-natural gas linkage Revisedregulations,covering         'ameas above plus Bank  'olitical and social support to
tudy.                           the gas-electricity supply          'SRs and PIUreports.    iew model to increase
                                chain, that facilitate efficient                             fficiency and competition in
                                use of natural gas for power                                he power sector.
                               generation, andmeet gas and
                                electric sectorefficiency and
                                investmentrequirements.

   Study on ownership           Revisedpolicy on actualor                                   'olitical and social support to
   concentrationin              virtual split of generationto                               ncreasecompetition in
   generation, and potential foster competition.                                            :eneration.
   for abuse.                   Rules on self-dealing,
                                cross-ownership, marketshare
                                limits, which identify, monitor
                                and mitigate generationmarkel
                                power.

    Wholesaleelectricity        Wholesale electricity market                                Stakeholders' interests are
    marketrules revision,       functioning effectively, with                               uffciently reconciled and
    building upon and           transparentpricing, timely                                   nake them willing to continue
    implementing                financial settlements, and new                               iarticipatinginthe WEM.
    recommendationsof the       rules that increasedemand                                    Zontractualdisputesinvolving
    PPIAF study.                responseand mitigate risks to                                mergy entitlements are
                                power projects.                                              iandled outside of WEM and
                                Evaluation of the pros and                                   -esolvedsatisfactorily
                                cons of introducing new powei
                                pool and trading
                                arrangements, with
                                implementation plansdetailed
                                                                                             Zonsumers are increasingly
    Study on retail             Evaluation of benefits and                                   interested in participating
    competition.                costs of retail competition.                                 jirectly in power market and
                                Definition of new thresholds                                 insigning cortract (PPAs)
                                and pre-requisitesfor free                                   with IPPs.
                                customersfrom 2004 onwards                                   Perceptionof risks decreases,
                                Regulatory treatment of                                      andcontract sanctity is
                                strandedcosts, if any.                                       preserved

    Interactionbetween          Harmonization of wholesale                                   Powerpool arrangements
    wholesale and retail        and retail competition to fostei                             conducive to more affordable
    markets.                    demandresponse and energy                                    and reliable electricity cost,
                                efficiency                                                   reducing the risk of energy an(
                                                                                             capacityrationing.

     Studies of barriers and     Conciliation of basic market                                Interest of Brazil's neighbors
    opportunities for            structure and regulations                                   inenergyintegration.
    international energy        amongneighboring countries                                   Willingness from all parties to



                                                               - 42 -

    integration are carried    to foster economic energy             achieve some degree of
    out.                       trade.                                standardizationinterms of
                               A catalogue of potential              energy dispatch, trading
                               private investmentslinking            arrangements, and market
                               Brazil's energy grid with             rules.
                               neighboringcountries.
I.Regulation
 e Study on how to achieve a New proceduresto improve                Interests of ANEEL, ANP,
   collaborative process       coordination amongenergy,             ANA andIBAMAare
   among regulatory            environmentaland water                reconciled.
   (electricity, hydrocarbons regulatory agencies.
   and water) and
   environmental agencies,
   for issuesof mutual
   interest, building upon
   PPIAF-funded project.

e Establishing /               State utility commissions             Collaborative attitude among
   strengtheningstate utility reachlevel that enables                federal and state regulators.
   commissions to cooperate ANEEL to delegateto them
   with ANEEL.                 responsibilities for handling
                               matterssuch as service
                               oversight and consumer
                               complaints

e Review of ANEEL              Revision of ANEEL                     Political support to regulators'
   performancecontract and performancecontract and                   administrative and operational
   consideration of possible signing of similar ones for             autonomy.
   management contract for     ANP and ANA, if warranted.
   ANP.

e Study on regulatory         Establishmentof regulatory             Political supportto
   accounting and efficiency accountingsystem and                    independenttariff reviews by
   benchmarks.                efficiency benchmarksto be             ANEEL, basedon transparent
                               usedby ANEEL in tariff                rules and conveying efficient
                              revisions.                             signals to final customers.
                                                                     Actual application of the
                                                                     agreed tariff methodologies,
                                                                     minimizing political
                                                                     interference, and generalized
                                                                     subsidies.

e Study of distribution tariff ANEEL has consistentand               Tariff systemshould convey
   review methodology,        xonomically justifiable                correct price signals and
   building upon the          :riteria and proceduresfor its         provide safety net for the poor.
   PPIAF-funded project's      regularrevisions of
   results.                   jistribution tariffs.

[.EnergyAccessand
,ffordability for the Poor
,.RuralElectrification

e Elaboration of aRural       3ovemment ability to define            Distributors do not dispute
   ElectrificationPolicy and .argetsfor universal service,           legal basis and regulatory



                                                           - 43 -

    coordinatiodintegration     key milestones and                     arrangements for imposing
    o f ongoing initiatives for cost-effective implementation          obligations to serve rural
    achieving universal         plans.                                 populations.
    access, that incorporate
    development and
    sustainability issues.

0 Baseline data on rural        First set of estimates that have
    electrification.            a sound empirical basis and
                                are generally accepted to
                                support planning and decision
                                making purposes.

0 Evaluationo f alternative     Identification of sustainable           GOB gives this area high
    funding mechanisms for      sources of funds to support             priority to devote increased
    un-servedrural              rural electrification.                  budget resources.
    populations.                                                        Private sector is willing to
                                                                        invest inrural electrification
e Study on development          Design of tariffs that could be
    and sustainability issues.  affordable, foster economic
                                growth, and transmit correct
                                economic signals to rural
                                customers
                                                                       I
0 Monitoringand oversight. Designof objective criteria,
                                methodologies and procedures
                                to monitor implementation of
                                new programs.
i.LifelineTariffCriteria
0 Revisedtariff policies for    More equitable and                      Distributors participate inthe
    the poor                    economically efficient criteria         effort to implement more
                                to define thresholds for                equitable life-line rates.
                                life-line rates on a regional
                                basis, as well as a
                                methodology to establish those
                                rates, which involves the
                                identification of funds and
                                cross-subsidies.

:.LPG and Natural Gas
0 Revised pricing policies      Criteria to define life-line
    for the poor and for        prices for both LPG and
    market penetration of       natural gas potentialusers,
    natural gas                 taking into account inter-fuel
                                substitution aspects
                                Identification of natural gas
                                market penetration
                                opportunities.

11. Environmental
danagement

0 Revisionof                    Sound and timely licensing
    environmental licensing     process, revised and inplace,
    requirements, procedures


                                                             - 44 -

                            reflecting the recent reforms in      tpproach to environmental
  and mandates.             the power and water sectors,          icensing, which is approved
                            and allowing for proper               )y CONAMA, if needed.
                            coordination with relevant
                            agencies.

                            Improvedtreatment of                  Znvironmental agencies and
e Strategic assessment of   environmental/social impacts          Jower sector agree on
  environmentallsocial      in medium-long term                   ipproach to environmental
  impacts associated with   expansion plans, river basin          Issessment.
  alternative medium-long   inventories, thermal power
  term expansion paths,     development plans, and
 examining past             site-specific projects, helping       3nvironmental and systems
 experiences, to extract    GOB better balance expansion          :xpansion groups within MME
  lessons learned and best  and environmental goals.              mdCNPEcoordinate
  practices                 Methodologies and manuals             :ffectively .
                            for assessmento f
                            environmental and social
                            impacts of system expansion.

                            Power sector is better                World makes progress on
e Study onbamers and        prepared to incorporate               Kyoto Protocol.
  opportunities for the     climate change into sector
  power sector's            expansion, to participate in
  participation in carbon   carbon-trading markets and to
  emissions reductions and  explore markets for other
  other markets for         environmental services.
  environmental services.
                            Redesignedsystems to                  4NEELissues Monitoringand
e Updating of systemsfor    monitor/evaluate impacts.             Evaluation (M&E) guidelines.
  monitoring and ex-post    Improved knowledge o f the
  evaluation o f            impacts of power sector
  environmentallsocial      projects.
  impacts.                  Better feedback available for
                            the design and implementation
                            of alternative mitigation
                            strategies.

                            Approaches other than                 Corporations convinced of
e Assessmentof incentive    "command-and-control"                 benefits to them.
  systemsfor corporate      assessedand promotedto help
  environmentallsocial      induce responsible corporate
  responsibility.           behavior with respect to
                            environmental and social
                            issues.

                            Institutionalcapacity for             Power sector
e Assessmentof              environment management                agenciedleadership reach
  institutional realignment strengthened, coordination            agreement on institutional
  and capacity building for improved, and staff                   model
  management of             imbalances resolved.
  environmentallsocial
  impacts in power sector
  operations.



                                                          45 -

V. Long-TermExpansion
'lanning
    Revised systemexpansior Soundenergy expansionplans                Interests of power, water and
    methodologies.             ieingdeveloped, both for              ,environmentalagencies
                               :lectricity and hydrocarbons,          reconciled.
                               ncorporatingenvironmental
                               ind socialcriteria, taking into
                               iccount inter-fuel competition
                               ind both supply and demand
                               ,idealternatives.
    River basininventories     'ortfolio ("catalogue") of            `GOB willing to devote
    carried out or updated.    )ewer  projectsdeveloped at a           sufficient budget resourcesto
                               ninimum levelof                         this effort.
                               )re-feasibility, including
                               lnalysisof environmental and
                               ocial impacts.

    Thermal plant macro        Iefinitionof areas in which
    locationstudies carried    hermalplants should be built,         I

    out.                       akinginto account economic
                                nd environmentalaspects



l. Institutional
`trengtheningand
:oordination

1. MMERestructuring

 0  Strengthened               WEreorganization                        Continuity of PIU.
    policy-making capacity     :ompletedand effective.                 GOB provides MMEwith the
    for the Ministry of Mines  nstitutional roles and                  necessary budget and enables
    Energy (MME)               iroceduresfor medium-long               MMEto attract and retain
    Organization structure     erm planning within sector             1sufficient high-caliber
    and key processesrevised   indin coordination with water           personnel.
    to support energy, mining  esources and environmental              GOB continues to give energy
    and metallurgy policy      igencies clarified.                     sector high priority, so other
    goals.                     'rocesses inplace to detect             ministries participate in CNPE
                               inddeal with future                    `athigh level.
                               mergenciesin timely fashion.            GOB andMMEclosely
                                                                      ~

                                                                       monitor and coordinate the
                                                                       implementation of the power
                                                                       and hydrocarbons sector
                                                                       reforms.
                                                                       GOB and MMEgive priority
                                                                       to support Mines and
                                                                       Metallurgy efforts in
                                                                       strengtheningits organization
                                                                       and key processes.

    B.MMESpecific Units        !elevant MMEunits are                   Resourcesare made available

 0  MMEcapabilities            dequately staffed, and have             and internal capability is
    enhanced in a few critical nd follow strategic plans.              developed properly.
    areas, such as energy       pecial, ad hoc studiesare
                               evelopedto supportMMEin


                                                           - 46 -

  planning, intemational
  cooperation, rural          addressingkey issues in those
  electrification,            areas.
  environmental
  management, energy
  efficiency, altemative
 technologies, as well as ir
  mining concession
  granting processes

0 DevelopMME                  Availability of a
  capabilities do execute     comprehensiveenergy plan,
 Integrated Planning.         updatedperiodically, and
                              taking into account all source:
                              of energy as well as
                              possibilities bothon the
                              supply and demandsides.

 MMEorganization              Identificationof integration
 structureable to identify    opportunities on a regional
 and evaluate intemational    basis, and recommended
 integration opportunities,   commercial arrangements.
 and sign initial MOUs.

 MMEparticipating             Detailed plan for
 actively to define policy    universalization available,
 aspects and funding for      with identificationof sources
 universalization of energy   of funds and regulatory
 access, discussingand        arrangements to support it.
 coordinating
 macro-economicaspects
 with other relevant
 Ministries.

9MMEactively defining         Found, sustainableenergy
 and integrating energy       :fficiency program in place,
 efficiency programs.         ncluding new technologies,
                              lemandresponse to price
                               ignals, and necessarytariff
                              .ndregulatory arrangements.


1MMEknowledgeable             'rogram for the utilization of
 about new technologies        ltemative technologies,on a
 for the energy sector.       iilot or commercial basis,
                              Ikinginto account regional
                               iversities and covering both
                              he electric and the
                               ydrocarbons sectors.


1Mines and Metallurgy        Strengtheningof DNPMand
 Secretariatable to carry    CPRM agencies, with better
 out its duties efficiently. definition of policies,
                             knowIedge of mineral
                             resourcesand an streamlined
                             and expedited concession



                                                         -47-

                             granting process.


0  Development of an oil     Strategic plans developed,
    and gas organization in  particularly addressing
   the MME, able to          refining capacity issues,
   evaluateindustry issues   market power of Petrobrhs,
   and make soundpolicy      attraction of private capital,
   recommendations.          and permanentmonitoring of
                             market performancefor the
                             hydrocarbonsindustry.

:. CNPEOperationalizing      CNPE meets regularly and              3NPE takes a leading role in
0  Study on how to make the makes decisionsand                     lefining energy policy matters,
   National Energy Policy    recommendations, providing            vhich will serveas a basisfor
   Council (CNPE)            policy guidelines to the energy       ,egulationsand to guide
   effective.                sector.                               cgulatory agencies.
0
1.CDEOperationalizing        A balancedallocation of funds         ZNPE participates actively
0  Study to evaluatemost     among universalization and            tnd makesallocation of CDE
   efficient allocation from alternative sources of energy,        unds according to stated
   CDE resources, taking     reflecting energy policy              :nergy policy and long terms
   into accountenergy policy aspects as definedby CNPE.            :oak
   aspects.




                                                         - 48 -

                                Key Performance
 Hierarchy of Objectives             Indicators
Project Components I         nputs: (budget for each      'roject reports:             (from Components to
Sub-components:              :omponent)                                                Outputs)
                                  In US$ million
I. Developmentand
   Market                              3.6 1              'IUquarterlyreports,         MMEestablisheseffective
Regulation.                                               nid-termreview report, and   PrUto coordinate project.
                                                          inal report on investmentsand
                                                          ierformanceof project
                                                          omponents
11.Energy Access and                    I.43                                           Continuity of power sector
Affordability for the Poor.                                                            reform, building upon
                                                                                       accomplishmentsachieved
                                                                                       thus far and addressingkey
                                                                                       remaining problems.
111.Environmental                      2.34
Management                                                                             Adequate counterpart funding.

IV.Long-term Expansion                 6.48
Planning

V. InstitutionalStrengthening
and Coordination                       2.80

VI. Project Management                  1.13

VII. Reserve                            1.20

VIII. Front-endfee                     0.12

Total FinancingRequired                20.12




                                                    - 49 -

Key PerformanceIndicators Annex l a          -                  -
       Objective              Output Indicators                  Year     Year2   1 Year3




A. Market                 1. Electricity-gas       Completed
Development                 linkages                            -
                                                    implemented           Study 1-               Study 2 -
                                                                                                   2Q
                       I  2 OwnerShiDof            COmDleted     Study                                      F   2     1  QCBS Aug-04
                            generation                          -   - 4Q
                                                    Implemented                                  Study 3 -
                                                                            3Q        2Q

                                                                -
                                                                 Study
                                                                -   - 4Q            Study


                                                                -         Studv 1-                Study
                                                                                                  2-3Q
                                                                                                            F   2     I  QCBS  Aug-04

                                                                -                  Rules- 1C
                                                                 Study
                                                                    - 3Q                                   F    2     1  QCBS  Sep-04




                                                                                                 Study 3 -
                                                                                                   3 0
                                                                 Study
                                                                    - 3                                     1   2     1   CQ   Nov-03
                                                                       0

                                                                          7
                                                                -
                                                                      2                             12      F    1    I  QCBS  Jul-04


                                                                -                                           1    1    1   CQ   Feb-04

                                                                                   Contract
                                                                -
                                                                 Study                                      F    I    1  QCBS  Jul-04
                                                                -   - 4Q
                                                   Implemented
                          5. Tariff review process Implemented
                                                                                                ~




II.EnergyAccessand
Affordability for the
Poor
 A. Ruralelectrification
                       1  1. Policyand                                                                                   QCBS  Sep-04
                           coordination            ICompleted -
                                                   Implemented                     Study 1-      Study 2 -
I                      II
                       I                           I            -                                  1Q
                         2. Baselinedata                         Set 1 Set 2  - 30                          F   2     1  QCBS  Apr-04
                           collection             IICompleted   -    3 0
                         3. Fundingmechanisms      Completed     Study
                                                                -   - 4Q           Study 2 -                I   2     1   CQ   Feb-04

                         4. Developmentand         Completed     Desigi                                     I    1    1   CQ   Dec-03
                                                                          I
                           sustainability                       -- 3   0
                         5, Monitoringand          Completed     Desigi
                                                                          I
                           oversight                            -    3Q
                                                                    ~

 E. LifelineTariff       Revisedelectricity tariff Completed     Desigi
Criteria                   policiesfor the poor                 -- 3Q
                                                   No. of             5
                                                   participating
                                                   distributors -
 C. LPG& Natural         Revised LPG and natural   Completed     Desigi
Gas                        gas pricingpoliciesfor                - 3Q
                           the poor,and market
                           studies                              -




                                                                        - 50 -

       Objective     Output Indicators            Year 1 Year 2  Year 3 Year 4  Typeof Numberof Numberof Intended      immenceme
                                                                                Contract contracts contracts Selection1of Services
                                                                               (I-Idiwdu  (Four   (Year One) Method
                                                                                   all    Years)
                                                                                F-Fm)
111. Environmental




                                                                                                                      Nov-041




                                                                                                                        Oct-04




                                                                                                                        Jan-04




                                                                                                                      1 Oct-03




                                                                                                                        Mar-04


D. CDE                                  Completed       support-
                                                        General                     I        2         1        CQ      Mar-04
Operationalizing
                                                          3Q                                                          1

                                                       -51 -

                            Annex 2: DetailedProject Description
                    BRAZIL: EnergySector TechnicalAssistance Project

By Component:

Project Component1 US$3.61 million
                   -
I ElectricityMarketDevelopmentandRegulation
  -

A. Market Development

1. Electricity-gas linkages. The introduction of thermal generation has beenhampered by the
lack of competition in the natural gas industry. The only significant gas supplieri s still PetrobrAs,
which relies on additional domestic gas production and on imports from YPFB in Bolivia
through the Bolivia-Brazil gas pipeline to supply gas-fired thermal plants. The contracts between
YPFB and Petrobras are based on high load factor, and firm contractual conditions for
ship-or-pay and take-or-pay.

This risk taken by Petrobrhs i s transferred to the local gas distribution in the gas supply contracts
and by those to IPPs by mimicking the same load factor conditions. This results in unsuitable gas
supply contracts for power generation, given the specific economic mode of thermal plant
operation in the Brazilianpredominantly hydro system, with multi-year regulation reservoirs. The
thermal plants may not be required to operate at high capacity factors during long periods of
time, if the combination of storage in the reservoirs and expected stream-flows implies that the
operation of thermal plant would cause spillage.

An additional complicating factor is the lack of a reasonably sized secondarymarketfor gas and
the transportation of the gas. In order to seek a long term solution for this problem, it would be
important to look for alternative uses for gas and carry out studies for insertion of distributed
generation in the country. The existing gas contracts do not provide correct incentives for the
establishment of secondary markets by the local distribution companies. As the distributed
generation i s stimulated and facilitated, consumers have an opportunity to have their own
generation and independent producers can commercialize their generation. Additionally it
dramatically reduces transmission and distribution costs. As a form of distributed generation,
co-generation should also be stimulated, as from an energy standpoint it i s very attractive due to
its high thermal conversion efficiency.

To better understand the market dynamics, the entire energy supply chain for natural gas would
be analyzed. Particular emphasis would be placed on identifying those key regulatory and
commercial policies that create barriers and opportunities for enhancing competition, and
creating gas supply conditions that can support the construction and operation of thermal plants
and alternative uses for the available gas. Incentives and barriers, inclusive those of locational
nature, should be evaluated. The study should identify market imperfections, either structural or
induced, and proposemitigating actions.

2. Ownership of generation. The competitive model designed for the power sector in 1997
assumed that the power utilities would be unbundled, that is, its generation, transmission and


                                                 - 52 -

distribution activities would be separated, and further that generation would be privatized in
pieces. This action would contribute to reduce potential horizontal and vertical market power
from federally owned state companies. The premise assumed in the model design has not been
realized. Vertically integrated ELETR0BR.h'          subsidiaries continue to control about 60% of
generation capacity nationwide, and as much as 90% in the North and Northeast sub-markets.
This situation i s likely to remainin the foreseeable future, given current GOB'S stated objectives
of not carrying out the privatization program any further.

Currently, GOB is also considering the design and implementation of different pool
arrangements that could assure the investments required for system expansion, while preserving
the comparative advantages of hydroelectricity, and at the same time maintaining reasonable
tariff levels. It is engagedinseekinga sector structure that could ensure continued investment, to
avoid a repetition of the 2001 rationing crisis.        Different solutions for pool arrangements,
including single and multiple buyers, are currently under consideration. ESTAL would help
GOB to evaluate pros and cons of different pools arrangements, including aspects related to
potential exercise of market power.

ESTAL would help GOB to deal with market concentration issues, by examining two important
issues: (i)first i s to evaluate the incentives in place to make sure that some degree of
contestability is built into the generation market. The idea of competition for the market, upon
the granting process of hydro concessions, and other possible forms of competition should be
analyzed. (ii)second i s to help create a level playing field to attract private capital - this
involves, inter alia, a discussion on non-discriminatory treatment for private plants, dispatch
decisions, and criteria for reinforcements of the power grid. ESTAL would also help review
current structures and governance mechanisms for both ONS and MAE, in order to assure that
independenceand perception thereof is achieved.

Some other altematives may also be considered to mitigate market power of the federally owned
generation, or of a major buyer acting on its behalf. One possibility, used in other countries, is to
virtually slice generation capacity, by sharingthe title of the energy and ensuingrights among a
larger number of players. Blocks of energy may be auctioned by generators (or by the single
buyer) among multiplebuyers, who will then become the virtual owners of this capacity. Models
like this, with different variations, have been tested successfully worldwide, in places such as
France, and in a few states in the US, like Maine and New Jersey. An approach similar to New
Jersey is currently being proposed for Italy in 2005. ESTAL would help GOB to identify
potential market power and propose mitigation actions, basedon international experience.

Cross-ownership or affiliation between generators, transmission companies, and distributors
(which is not allowed in some Brazilian neighboring countries, like Bolivia or Peru) may create
both the incentive and ability for favored PPA deals among affiliates, as well as discriminatory
access to bottleneck facilities (e.g., transmission lines). This leads to a discussion whether stricter
cross ownership requirements need to be strengthened, which, in tum, require an assessment of
whether regulations that attempt to police discriminatory behavior are effective. Self-dealing
could possibly be handled by obliging distribution companies to acquire a significant part of their
energy needs via competitive procurement mechanisms (auction being one of them). Mandated



                                                 - 53 -

competitive procurement would also help to resolve a very controversial issue inBrazil related to
the pass-through of energy costs (VN). Prices deriving from those bids should also be used as a
basis for pass-through purposes, gradually substituting the artificially set VN, as recommended in
one of the tasks carried out under the PPIAF Project in 2002 and taken into account in Decree
4,562 of 2002. All those aspects, as well as their detailed implementation, would be revisited as
part of the scope of the ESTAL.

The feasibility of creating an independent market surveillance entity to propose changes in
market rules and to monitor for the exercise of vertical and horizontal market power should also
be analyzed. Such entities have beenestablished or proposed in the US, Europe and Panama.

All studies mentioned above will be coordinated by the MMEand will have the participation of
relevant sector institutions.

3. Wholesale Market Rules. The competitive model partially implemented in the Brazilian
power sector was based on competition in the market (contracts and spot) as well as on
competition for the market (granting of concessions). The GOB analysis maintains that short
time prices were taken as a reference for investment decisions, which would be inconsistent with
the predominantly hydroelectric nature of the Brazilian power generation market. Under its
review of the sector structure, the GOB i s assessing the possibility of limiting the concept of
competitionfor the market only. The ESTALwill assist the GOB to identify the advantages and
disadvantages of the new principle, as well the difficulties for its introduction. Additionally, the
Project could assist in the transition towards the new competition principle, if such decision is
taken.

As the GOB considers that the bulk of the generation expansion should be hydroelectric, it would
seek create more robust guarantee mechanisms for the investors in order to minimize risks for
such projects with long implementation and capital recovery, thus providing sustainability to the
sector's institutional arrangement. The Project would assist the GOB to analyze altemative
mechanisms for financing the expansion and minimizing investor risks, while ensuring
reasonabletariff levels for the final consumer.

The establishment of a wholesale market is a continuous process. GOB recognized this fact when
the Market Agreement was signed in 1998and the MAE rules were approved in September 2000.
When ANEEL endorsed the MAE rules, the several phases of this process were spelled out in
Resolution 290/2000. There would have been an initial phase, starting September 2000, with
monthly spot prices and other simplifications necessary to kick-off the wholesale market. There
would also have been a few additional phases in the future, such as an evaluation of the pros and
cons of establishing a capacity payment. ANEEL also established that the MAEboard should be
responsible for further refining the meteringsystems (in conjunction with ONS) and MAErules,
over a three-phase, two-year time horizon. Many tasks which were planned at the outset have
never been carried out, and those would have to be revisited.

Despite some progress, only recently MAE became operational and current rules are basically
those approved by ANEEL about three years ago. There were many problems that impeded the



                                              - 54 -

functioning of MAE, including disputes on contracts whose property rights were poorly defined,
the accounting of bi-lateral contracts and settlement of their differences, arrears and regulatory
impasses.

There i s a need to refine those rules, addressing issues such as Demand Side Bidding(DSB) and
capacity payments, as well as revisiting existing rules governing bidding, pricing (NEWAVE
model), the energy relocation mechanism (MRE) and many others. Recent proposals such as
moving from cost basedbiddingto price based biddingfor hydro plants will need to be carefully
evaluated to avoid possible exerciseof market power by large generators.

Revisiting MAE and ONS governance mechanisms may also be necessary. In the first two years
of operation, MAE has shifted from a stakeholder to a semi-independent board governance
mechanism, which has given MAE more agility and independence for decision making . The
stakeholder process, perhaps necessary to get buy in, proved to be very cumbersome, susceptible
to deadlocks and controversyl. In 2001, 5 independent board members were appointed. Changes
in governance are deemed to have achieved desirable results. After a few years of operation, it
will be necessary to evaluate MAE and ONS performance, particularly in terms of stakeholder
inputs and independence from the stakeholders. It may also be desirable to create a permanent
and independent Market Surveillance entity (See Section B above.)

A critical analysis of the existing concept of a congestion management system, based on zonal
pricing (and with costs socialized via a levy chargedto customers), should be developed, drawing
upon successful world experience with Locational Marginal Pricing (LMP) (such as the PJM
pool in the US). Correct locational pricing should be one, among many other correct incentives,
to promote distributedgeneration and give other large generators incentives for correct location,
which take into account all transmission constraints within the sub-markets. As an interim
measure, there i s the possibility of creating a larger number of sub-markets (a simplified and
limited form of LMP), thus alleviating some of the existing perverse incentives for plant location
which currently exist.

The adoption of LMP (or even a larger number o f sub-markets or clusters of similar prices) may
require market hedgingmechanisms such as financial transmission rights (FTRs) to reduce spot
price volatility and bring more certainty to new generation investments. In the existing package
of MAE rules there are no specific provisions to mitigate the spot price risk exposure of one
stakeholder trading across sub-market boundaries. Such mechanisms would not only reduce risk
for new projects, but also make the energy market more contestable. The benefits of FTRs, as
well as their implicit cost of complexity should be carefully evaluated.

In the second semester of 2002, the PPIAF Project assisted the CGSE in the general review of
some of these issues associated with the MAE. The GOB considers MAE an important element
in the sector's institutional arrangement that it intends to review. Two conclusions of that work
have broad implications:
"(...) it is required to consider the importance of a regulatory framework that lets the investors to
bringnew financial resourcesto promote the expansion of the power system."
"(...) themes as contract volume profiling, locational losses, energy reallocation mechanisms,



                                                - 55 -

financial guarantees, and penalties, among others, are considered critical elements for the good
functioning of the institutional arrangement."

Taking from this body of work, the ESTAL would assist the GOB to analyze the historical
evolution of the sector model and assess proposals for its adjustment, including prospective
studies to inform the choice of the commercial model most suited to the characteristics of the
national power system. This assessment of          alternative sector structures and institutional
arrangements should shed some light on the mode of participation of the several private and
public agents capable of investing in the different segments of the power system.

4. Retail-level Competition. Legislation in Brazil supports the concept of retail competition,
whereby an eligible customer (referred as free) has the option to choose an alternative energy
supplier. The intent i s to create a contestable market in both generation and retail activities. As
per Law 9,074/95, customers defined as "free" are currently the ones whose demand exceeds 3
MW and are servedat voltages equal or higher than 69 kV.Tariffs for the use of the transmission
and distribution system, allowing "third party access" were also established in 1998, as per Law
9,648. More recently, Law 10,604/02 and Decree4,562/02 determined that all eligible customers
who remain with the incumbent concessionaire, should substitute existing supply arrangements
by unbundled contracts, whereby the wire and the commodity              components are contracted
separately. The separationof those two components hasjust been reiterated by a Decree issuedin
2003. The objective has always beento give more transparencyto those cost categories.

According to the Law 9,074, the threshold limit which defines eligibility should be revised in
2003. There is a proposal being discussed to extend freedom of choice for some Group A
customers (above 1MW) as of July 01,2004, and to all Group A customers as of July 2005.

Despite the existence of the legal and regulatory apparatus described above, retail competition in
Brazil has been very modest. The main reason is that the "commodity" component embedded in
the supply arrangementsi s significantly under-priced currently - it is below the longrunmarginal
cost of energy (LRMC) by some US$ lO/MWh or even more. Therefore, there are no economic
incentives for customers to switch to alternative suppliers. No other supplier, pricing at LRMC,
could beat the currently subsidized component of energy, except under very special conditions.

The use of a single annual tariff percentage increase applied across the board over all customer
categories in the last few years has aggravated the cross-subsidies between small and large
customers, further reducing incentives for the latter to shift suppliers. This i s a situation very
unique to Brazil. In most of the other countries where retail competition has been introduced,
large customers were cross-subsidizing small ones, and retail competition, strongly advocatedby
large users, came to the detriment of the smaller customers.

Current and previous Federal administrations have been cognizant about this historic problem in
the tariff structure and have implemented several gradual solutions to provide a more efficient
and fair tariff system, without causing a major tariff shock to industrial customers. The decline of
the Initial Contracts, as well as the more recent unbundlingof the supply contracts were the first
measures, whose results were expected to take place over a long period of time. Currently the



                                               - 56 -

GOB i s also considering differentiated tariff increases, as opposed to one single annual tariff
increase     across the board. All those actions should contribute to eliminate existing
cross-subsidies and possibly create more "appetite" for customers to look for alternative
suppliers.

International experience has shown that the introduction of retail competition is not an easy task
and should be managed very carefully. Many countries have spent millions of US$ in changing
processes and systems to extend retail competition to the mass market, with questionable
benefits. California has backed off, after the well known energy crisis in 2001. Other states in the
US havepostponedthe implementation of retail competition.

However, there seems to be a growing consensus that some form of retail competition i s
beneficial to the electric system. On one hand, more buyers represent more opportunities to
contract and expand the system, as opposed to having distribution companies as the single, de
facto buyers in the market. Second, retail competition may facilitate the introduction of some
demand elasticity in the market, with significant benefits to all customers in terms of energy
reliability and affordability. Lack of demand elasticity, oftentimes referred as a plane flying
without one wing, is deemed as a major cause for some of the recent failures inpower pools.

ESTAL would help the GOB to examine in more detail a series of important issues, such as:


    0   Evaluate how to reconcile retail competition with the overarching concept of energy as a
    public service, an issueof major concern to the GOB;
    0   Analyze how to provide an orderly migration of free customers, with a correct tariff
    structure (including the wire and commodity components thereof);
    0   Analyze how to achieve an orderly unbundlingof the existing supply arrangements, for
    customers who prefer to stay with the incumbent utility;
    0   Determine the requisites for a customer to shift suppliers, without creating perverse
    incentives and distortions in the new institutional arrangements to be designed- for example,
    how to deal with the role of the incumbent as the provider of last resort, recovery of stranded
    costs (ifany);
    0   Assess expected costs and benefits of retail competition for several threshold levels - this
    analysis has to weigh the costs associated with the design and implementation of new,
    oftentimes complex processes, such as metering, billing, sector levies and others.
    Intemational experience has shown that costs tend to grow exponentially with the number of
    eligible customers and that a successful implementation of retail competition depends, inter
    alia, on a detailed planning and re-engineering of severalfunctions such as metering, billing,
    and collection, as well as the introduction of new functions such as registration of new
    sellers, "shopping credits" and clearance mechanismscustomer protection, and many others;
    0   Clarify interfaces with other agents, such as independent power producers, marketers,
    distribution companies, wholesale market (or single buyer, if implemented), etc.;
    0   Develop cost-benefit analysis to evaluate the introduction of real-time metering for large
    customers who decided to shift suppliers. This action can contribute to introduce demand
    elasticity, improving affordability and reliability for all customers. Most power pools in the
    world are working hard to explore those possibilities, inmost cases overlooked so far;



                                                - 5 7 -

     0   Identify international experiences in the utilities as providers of last resort services, and
     how to guarantee that they minimize the costs of procurement for their energy customers.
     Recent experiences in New Jersey and Maine should be discussed. Also, a revised version of
     the single buyer model beingproposed for Italy in 2005 should be examined;
    0    Examine unbundling requirements and codes of conduct among affiliates.

5.    Interaction between wholesale and retail markets. The ESTAL would examine the
necessary inputs for a harmonious, seamless market, involving the supply market, independent
producers, and the non-regulated (free) consumers. This would be undertaken paying due
attention to the GOB'S intent to review the whole sector structure. A scenario where free
consumers buy from independent producers or a pool of public service generators would be
examined with a special focus on potential conflicts that could arise from this negotiation.

International experience has demonstrated the benefits of joint design and implementation of
sector restructuring initiatives (retail and wholesale). For example, an active, competitive retail
market, with hourly metering for free $e.,        non-captive) customers, introduces a demand
response which may reduce spot prices and the need for expensive reserves, and makes it harder
for entities with market power to exercise that power. Large customers should have the ability to
express their `willingness to pay', or demand elasticity, as part of the design of the organized
day-ahead and possibly spot market.. An active demand response could, for example, be a
pre-requisite to allow hydro generators to freely bid prices into the pool. Conversely, a market
design where wholesale and retail are treated separately i s a recipe for disaster. For example, in
California, retail customersnever saw the highprices in the wholesale market, while distribution
companies were required to purchase all of their energy needs paying the spot price and with very
limited ability to pass on these high prices in their retail tariffs. This not only prevented an
efficient  demand response, but also forced one of the largest distribution utilities to seek
bankruptcy protection.

6. Barriers and opportunities for international energy integration. In the last decade there
has been a strong increase in energy trading between Brazil and its South-American neighbors.
Argentina and Bolivia supply Brazil with natural gas, Venezuela and Argentina deliver
electricity. Similar trade among Brazil, Uruguay and Peru is likely in the future. On the other
hand, Brazilian companies have shown interest in having a proactive role in such trade. On
another related dimension, the Kyoto Protocol opens a great opportunity for Brazil becoming a
strong market for renewable and clean energy, which i s a major driver for Clean Development
Mechanism - CDM trading.

The development of this international market will not only strengthen the South-American
economies, but can also promote the use of renewable energy, which will contribute to reducing
the use of fossil fuels and consequently on reducing the greenhouse gas emission and other
pollutants. All these features are recent and bring in themselves a large amount of uncertainty
which createsbarriers to the development of this market.

In order to promote this market, the barriers must be understood and actions should be
recommended.The ESTALwill help to coordinate international studies pursuingthe above target



                                                -58-

and to suggest actions to the Ministry of Mines and Energy toward the promotion of Brazil in the
international energy market.

B: Regulation

 1. Collaboration among Federal Regulatory Agencies. The collaboration among regulatory
agencies becomes very important as GOB pursues an harmonization of energy policies. In this
sense, it is very opportune that studies are conducted, considering as inputs policies and
guidelines established by MME and aiming at developing proposals for cooperation among the
agencies that would facilitate an ordering andintegration of their actions.

Common themes that involve the agencies and possibly other sector agents should bear a
common understanding to expedite the process of regulation and oversight and minimize
controversies. While ANEEL and ANP are both definitively established intheir areas, gas supply
for thermal power plants i s one of those common themes that require coordination.
Environmental and multiple water use issues affecting hydro and thermal power projects also
imply the need for collaboration between ANEEL, ANA and IBAMA. A general theme of
common interest to agencies and private operators i s the creation of an effective appeal
mechanism against regulatory decisions, following a study of institutional options. At present,
disputes between private operators and a regulatory agency must be heard in regular judicial
courts. It i s has been argued that this i s not an efficient system for resolving such disputes
because the courts lack the technical expertise, usually decide the dispute on whether the
regulator followed the correct administrative or legal process, and often take too long in
rendering a decision. An alternate approach that has been' adopted or proposed in several other
countries (Australia, New Zealand, England, Bolivia, India, Uganda and Chile) is to create a
special appellate tribunal comprised of technical, economic and legal experts to deal with such
disputes on a fast track basis for one or more infrastructure sectors and then limit further appeals
to narrow legal grounds. While some preliminary work has been done under the PPIAF grant, it
requires follow up actions.

The ESTAL would assist the GOB to steer this collaborative process of understanding and
integration among agencies, as well as bringing other relevant players into the process.

2. State Public Service Commissions. An assessmentof the institutional role of the regulatory
agencies i s opportune. The PPIAF grant produced such an assessment for the Brazilian power
sector. Regulation of the power sector is an exclusive responsibility of ANEEL in the whole
Brazilian territory. However, the law that created ANEEL gives it the authority to delegate some
of its functions to state public service commissions dealing with local energy matters. Only after
these commissions have been developed through the states' own initiatives, can ANEEL propose
such delegation of responsibilities to a degree compatible with their level of development, and
transfer resources accordingly. ANEEL has entered into agreements with seventeen such state
commissions. In general, these agreements provide for the state commission to monitor service
quality and respond to customers' complaints or requests. The effectiveness of this system of
limited delegated responsibility depends critically on ANEEL's ability to provide the state
commissions with technical, training and institutional support. The ESTAL would help ANEEL



                                              - 59 -

to provide such support to the establishedcommissions and to assist any interested states among
the remaining 10 states in establishing their own commissions. It could also explore the
desirability of delegating tariff setting authority to the state commissions (as is done, for
example, in Argentina, the US, Canada and India). It i s envisaged that the acceleration of the
studies and actions for delegation of services to the state commissions will strengthen ANEEL's
role.

3. Performance Contracts. The law that created ANEEL calls for a performance contract
between the agency and the Government, to enable the definition, monitoring and evaluation of
the agency's goals, programs and performance indicators. Such a contract was signed in late
1998, but in practice the mechanism lacked in effectiveness and usefulness.The ESTAL would
assist in reviewing this contract and identifying ways to improve this mechanism. While not
exactly for regulators, international experiences of successful performance contracts between
state-owned entities and their governments may provide valuable insights. The whole issue of
whether there should exist such a contract deserves to be explored. If this were the case, they
should be implemented as instruments for assessment of the performance of the agencies, and
establishment of applicable governmental guidelines and policies. Whether Legislative or
Executive branches of Government should be charged with this assessment, as well as its
periodicity, also deserves analysis. Recent studies developed under the PPIAF Project suggested
an alternative approach to the traditional Performance Contracts, whereby agencies would be
subject to a periodic, institutional performance assessment. This exercise, recently developed for
ANEEL in particular, seemed to be very promising as a process to be pursuedfurther and with
other agencies as well - perhaps including also MAE and ONS. Finally, the convenience of
having a performance contract for ANP (despite not being legally mandatory) or the alternative
performance assessment should also be examined.

4. Regulatory Accounting. Any rational and sustainable tariff setting system for the sector's
monopoly functions (e.g. high voltage transmission, low voltage distribution and system
operation) must be built on a foundation of a clear and consistent regulatory accounting system.
This has beenthe experience inother countries such as the United States where FERC (ANEEL's
counterpart) established a uniform Chart of Accounts in the 1930s, which is now the standard
accounting system for bothFERC and the 50 state commissions.

ANEEL needsto develop a similar accounting systemfor Brazil andESTAL could helpANEEL
to do it. This new accounting system must satisfy certain conditions: a) it must apply to all
entities that engage in transmission, distribution and system operation; b) it must accommodate
separatereporting for the distribution (Le., wires) and commercialization functions of distribution
utilities, as well as differentiate between energy transactions to serve captive and free markets; c)
it must promote uniform accounting determinations on particular components of overall cost that
can support future efforts to "benchmark" the operational and cost performance of the separate
public and privately owned distribution companies; and d) it mustbe flexible enough to
accommodate future changes in the structure of the sector.

5. Tariff Review Process. In the period which followed issuance of Law 8,631/93, which sets
the ground for sector reform, and upon the ensuing privatizations and concession renewals,



                                                -60-

specific tariff rules were created.The new concessioncontracts contained, in addition to rules for
tariff adjustment, definitions about periodic or extraordinary tariff revisions, as well an "X"
factor aiming at capturing productivity gains. The first concession contracts had tariff revision
periods from 4 to 8 years with an "X" factor equal to zero. The first tariff revisions are taking
place in 2003, under ANEEL's responsibility. Unlike most other Latin American countries,
Brazil does not have the benefit of detailed tariff setting guidelines in an overall electricity law or
inthe concessioncontracts.For accomplishing these revisions, it has been necessaryto establish
methodologies for the determination of the asset base for remuneration purposes, capital
structure, the specific rate of remuneration of such capital, and an adequate structure for
operation and maintenanceexpenses. For the first item, ANEEL presented a methodology, object
of Public Hearing 005/2002, which was validated by Resolution 493/02. For the other items,
ANEEL has been validating the methodology through Technical Notes of the revisions done or
under way, a process which always includes Public Hearings. The first tariff revisions have
shown the complexity, breadth and scope of regulatory, accounting and methodological issues
involved. Ongoing revisions carried out this year have reiterated this complexity and called the
attention for the needof a comprehensiveregulatory framework for tariff setting.

The ESTAL would assist ANEEL in addressingsome of the key issues, by bringing international
benchmarks and the most recent and accepted tariff-setting methodologies on the subject to
current Brazilian reality and to the specifics of the concession contracts. Particular attention
should be given to the asset valuation, rate of return (or WACC), and treatment of new
investments for tariff making purposes, on an ongoing basis. The development and refinement of
Brazilian benchmarks for efficiency would also contribute to this task. The work to be developed
under the ESTAL would build on the preliminary findings and recommendations from activities
supported by the PPIAF Project, as well as the ongoing experience being developed by ANEEL
and MMEon the tariff review processfor several important distribution utilities.




                                               - 61 -

Project Component 2 US$l.43 million
                     -
I1-EnergvAccessand Affordabilitv for the Poor

A. Rural Electrification (includingsomeperi-urban areas and small towns)

1. Policy and Coordination. The most prominent rural electrification programs are under the
MME (PRODEEM) and Eletrobrgs (Luz no Campo), but there are other federal, state-level
(notably in Minas Gerais, Bahia, Cearfi and SFio Paulo), private sector and international
initiatives.

The ESTAL would collaborate with the GOB in the elaboration of an encompassing
electrification policy, including evaluating and proposing integration or coordination of the
multiple existing programs, and propose a structure that allows information to be centrally
organized and disseminated. At the federal level, the ESTAL would primarily focus on the
federal government's two major programs, Luz no Campo (which i s primarily for grid
extensions) and PRODEEM (which focuses mostly on off-grid renewable energy options for
remote communities). It would also explore other existing proposals and approaches, as well as
ELETRONORTE andCHESFefforts, which include both grid and off-grid categories.

2. Baseline Data Collection. While rural electrification rates are uncertain, particularly in the
North, it is estimated that the national rural electric service coverage i s of the order of 73%. The
population without electricity i s some 2.5 million households (or 10 to 12 million people),
mainly in rural areas. There are huge geographic disparities, with rural electrification rates as
high as 94% in the southern state of Santa Catarina and as low as 27% in the northern state of
Amazonas. The vast majority of householdswithout electricity are living inpoverty.

The ESTAL would support data collection in order to more accurately determine the coverage
gap and concomitant resource needs.             These will then translate into targets for each
concessionaire, to achieve universal access. The above efforts will include urban and pen-urban
needs of smaller cities inthe interior as well.

3. FundingMechanisms. The ESTAL would evaluate several fundingalternatives. The options
include: a) at the federal level, an alternative or enhancement to the Global Fundfor Reversion of
Power Sector Asset Ownership (RGR), the Account for Energy Development (CDE) and
dividends paid by ELETROBRAS to National Treasury; b) makingdistributors fully accountable
for universal service within their concession area, with the additional costs cross-subsidized by
their existing clients through general tariff increases; c) modifications in the revenue formula to
provide specific incentives for rural electrification; and d) other mechanisms such as special
sector funding or regional lines of development credit.

4. Development and Sustainability. The ESTAL would also assess and attempt to optimize
the development impacts and sustainability of the various electrification alternatives. As most
unservedpopulations are not able to pay the full recurrent cost o f the energy, much less cover the


                                                 - 62 -

investments, some sort of subsidy is necessary. The goal is that electrification be accompanied
by other initiativesto accelerate sustainablelocal economic growth.

5. Monitoring and Oversight. The ESTAL would assist in designing objective criteria,
methodologies, procedures and a financing scheme to monitor implementation of the new
programs.     The results should both enable these initiatives to be improved and provide
informationto other countries, programs and institutions.

B. Lifeline Tariff Criteria

Until recently, it was up to each distributor to set the subsistence consumption level and
eligibility criteria for the poor. Law 10,438/02 has provided more objective definitions, but
several limits should still be differentiated on a regional basis. The ESTAL would provide a
rigorous and consistent set of principles and eligibility rules, to ensure that tariff discounts are
more effectively targeted towards the poor, and established on a sounder economic footing. The
principles would include:

0   ensuringthat low-income tariff discounts are financed in such a way that they do not
    undermine incentives for private operators to servepoor households, as tends to happen with
    traditional cross-subsidies.
0   harmonizing the social tariff policy for urban and ruralareas.
0  establishing eligibility criteria for tariff discounts that have a proven link with the poverty
    status of households, basedon an empirical analysis of the correlation between electricity
    consumption, poverty, and other observablehousehold characteristics that might potentially
    serve as screening mechanisms.

C. LPGand NaturalGas


The use of natural gas by low-income population can only be effected with the adoption of
subsidy programs, as for instance the ones adopted for LPG, and initially addressed to the cities
of Rio de Janeiro and S5o Paulo, where the existing natural gas distribution networks had been
used for decades for nafta gas distribution. There, the compulsory substitution of the LPG for
natural gas resulted in higher price per kJ for the residential consumer. The case i s more
complicated if the gas distributors have to invest in residential network expansion. They claim
that such investment in most cases i s not economically or financially viable. An exception may
be new, big residential developments, if the implementation of the distribution network i s
considered in the planning phase and some subsidy i s offered to the consumers in order to have
both affordable tariff and full remuneration of the service.

The ESTAL would assist the GOB to develop a thorough diagnosis of the problems concerning
natural gas utilization, and identification of measures that could be implemented for increasing
access to gas andinparticular by low income populations through affordable tariffs.

With respect to LPG, the GOB implemented a program for subsidizing cooking gas for low



                                                  - 63 -

income families ("Programa Auxilio-Gis"). This program i s partof apackage of social initiatives
directed to the poorest segments of the Brazilian society. wider social .The model for evaluation
of results and impacts of this specific program should consider the other social programs in their
entirety, and define the format of managerial and monitoring reports. In that sense, the ESTAL
would assist the GOB in the development and implementation of the evaluation methodologies.

Project Component 3 US$2.34 million
                     -

111. EnvironmentalManagement

Expansion of power systems increasingly must balance sustainable use of natural resources,
social equity in dealing with impacts, transparency in decision making, and responsivenessto the
dynamics of the private sector (e.g., clear and simple rules of the game, low and/or predictable
transaction costs). To achieve these objectives, the Government proposes to implement the
Program to Strengthen Planning and Management of Environmental and Social Issues in the
Power Sector.

Draft Terms of Reference for the Program were prepared by a working group of senior power
sector professionals, in close coordination with the MMA's Secretariat for Environmental
Quality and the Bank (see Annex 14, Attachment 1). Detailed TORs will be prepared and
discussed with a broader set of stakeholders (including environmentalists, the private sector and
academia) before the start of project implementation. The Program will be undertaken in
successive stages, with consultations carried out at each major stage (e.g., diagnostic, definition
of priorities, formulation of a multi-year strategy, formulation of the first phase action plan).. An
advisory board, technical groups and a consultation strategy have been outlined on a preliminary
basis, and will be detailed and agreed in the final TORs of the Program during project
implementation. This medium-term program might be further supported by the Bank through
subsequent operations. The first phase, to be supported by the ESTAL, would focus on the
following areas:

A. Environmental licensing

The project would finance the revision and adjustment, as needed, of the licensing process, to be
carried out jointly by MME and MMA. The team would: i)evaluate the adequacy of the current
licensing system as it applies to power sector projects; ii)revise and propose the updating, as
necessary, Resolution 06/87 from CONAMA; and iii)revise other requirements, procedures and
mandates, as needed. Special attention should be given to the implementation of a recent CNPE
Resolution, establishing that as early as in 2004, new hydro concessions can only be granted if
there is a corresponding environmental license. This will require a review in the licensing
process, as agreements with environmental authorities on the minimum specifications to be
contained in a pre-basic project, in such a way that the environmental license may be given
without a detailed, full-fledged basic project inplace.




                                                - 64 -

B. Environmentul/social impacts of system expansion

The existing methodologies and manuals for river basin inventories, thermal plant location, and
for design of hydro and thermal plants and transmission networks would be revised and updated
to reflect recent changes in power and water sector policies, as well as emerging concepts and
approaches to environmentalhocial impact assessment (EM). In the case of the assessment of
alternative expansion paths, the strategic EL4 methodology proposed by the MMA in general
terms i s beingadaptedto the power sector by CEPEL. The project will further support this effort
by financing international experts and promoting workshops with multiple stakeholders to review
and consolidate results. Ideally, the revised methodology should be applied and tested as an
integral part of a real expansion plan for the sector. The results would serve as a basis for later
methodological refinement.

In the case of thermal plants, MME proposes to carry out a study that would first look at past
experiences in terms of design, environmental licensing and operation of thermal plants inBrazil,
to extract lessons learned and best practices. Based on this, guidelines for locating green-field
thermal plants would be proposed, with environmental/social impacts examined on a regional,
rather than site-specific basis, taking into consideration zoning recommendations, regional
constraints, and criteria for project and technology selection.


C. Climate change and environmentalservices

The ESTAL would finance an assessment of issues and options for: i)incorporating climate
change concerns and objectives into sector expansion; and ii)sector participation in international
carbon emissions reductions markets. The potential for incorporating into power sector projects
the payment for environmental services, such as protection of river basin headwaters and of
riverine vegetation as a means to reduce siltation and minimize reservoir capacity reduction,
would also be explored.

D.Monitoring and ex-post evaluation

The ESTAL would review the current status of systems for monitoring and ex-post evaluation of
environmental and social impacts in the power sector, and propose, as needed, changeshpdates
in: i)monitoring and evaluation system design; ii)data management and access protocols; and
iii)resourceneeds.Specifically, theinterfacewithprivatepowerproducersshouldbeexamined.

E. Corporate environmental/social responsibility

Given the trend towards increased private sector participation in the sector expansion, it will be
increasingly important for the power sector to promote voluntary compliance and the adoption of
environmentally and socially responsible behavior on the part of power producers, as a
complement to the compliance and enforcement of regulations that are the responsibility of
environmental agencies. The project would assess issues and options to foster corporate
responsibility as a means of improving power sector performance, comprising: (i)   a survey of the



                                                - 65 -

priority of environmental/social issues for power sector managers, in a sample of utility
companies; and (ii)a review of emerging instruments and processes to promote
environmental/social accountability among corporate entities, and their relevance to Brazil.

F. Institutional realignment and capacity building

The ESTAL would assess the mandates and capabilities of agencies in the power sector (MME,
ANEEL, CCPE, ELETROBRAS) or involved in environmental management of power sector
projects (MMA, ANA, CONAMA, CNRH), to: i)identify any bottlenecks, inconsistencies and
overlaps, and recommend how to overcome them; ii)determine whether the allocation of
environmental expertise and budgets in power sector agencies i s appropriate; and iii)recommend
ways to reconcile dysfunctional arrangements, improve clarity of mandates and coordination
across agencies, and adjust sector staffing profile and budget allocations to the new sector
context. The project would also provide training for staff in the power and environmental sectors
and strategic strengthening of environmental licensing agencies in regionsktates where
expansion of the sector might be concentratedover the coming years.

ProjectComponent 4 US$6.48million
                    -

IV.     Long-termExpansion Planning

The GOB acknowledges the need to build up both its capacity and methodology for long-term
expansion planning, and its inventory of potential investments in the expansion of supply and
energy infrastructure. These should cover all aspects - technical, economic, environmental and
social. The GOB also has the vision that the expansion of supply in the energy sector should be
borne by joint participation of the public and private sectors, sharing risks and benefits. It
maintains that a strategic dimension of determinative nature should be added to the purely
indicative dimension, as currently prevails in the expansion planning of power generation, in
order to ensure the full satisfaction of the demand and avoid repetition of crises as the one
occurred in 2001/2002. In the case of transmission, the planning is determinative and the private
sector has responded satisfactorily by bidding for the specific facilities tendered and contributing
to expand transmission capacity. The development of planning capacity in MME i s dealt with
under item V.B.1 below. The component described here deals with the other two aspects -
improvingthe system expansion methodology, and expanding the inventory of projects.

A. System expansion methodologies

The ESTAL would support preparation and/or updating of methodologies and technical manuals
for: i)medium and long term energy system expansion, which would in turn support the
elaboration of plans for ensuring balance between supply and demand; ii)location of thermal
plants, taking into account fuel supply, water resources, environmental pollution, and location of
demand centers; and iii)feasibility analysis of large power plants and bulk infrastructure systems.
These methodologies would incorporate environmental and social criteria, and both supply and
demand side alternatives.     They would also clarify institutional roles and procedures for
medium-long term planning within the sector and in coordination with water resources and
environmental agencies. The elaboration of these methodologies and technical manuals for the


                                               - 66 -

expansion of the power systemis key to achieve the desirable supply-demand balance.

B. River basin inventories

The inventory and feasibility studies of the hydroelectric potential should be intensified as there
are still some 150,000 MW to study properly. Current federal administration believes that several
of costs incurred in the studies on inventory, pre-feasibility, environmental feasibility, and
possibly basic design should be funded by the government, at least until the projects are
developed. Two important reasonsbeing mentioned include: (i)a recent resolution from CNPE,
requiring that the hydro concession granting process be preceded by an environmental license -
this action will require more effort from the government in terms of preparing basic design for
many projects and getting the environmental licenses in place; and (ii)       the need to expand
geographical coverage for inventory and feasibility studies in new, unexplored areas. Current
administration also believes that the current cost recovery mechanism for inventory and
feasibility studies (paid by wining bidder upon granting of the concession), limits the interest of
the private sector in exploring the more attractive, better known rivers and sites. The ESTAL
could partially finance preparatiodupdate of inventories, with possibly detailed feasibility studies
for a few, selected sites. Those studies should take into account provisions of the new National
Water Policy regarding multipleuses as well as environmental and social impact concerns. These
are fundamental elements for the medium and long term expansion planning studies as well as
for keeping the stock of offers for the concessionauctions conducted by ANEEL. Because of the
magnitude of this work, the ESTAL would be able to finance only part of the most urgent of
these studies.

C. Thermalplant macro-location
A macro-location study of thermal plants would define in general terms the areas inwhich those
plants should be built, taking into account location of demand, fuel supply, land availability and
pollution issues. Incorporating the guidelines developed in Component ID, MME with support of
the ESTAL would carry out an assessment of the most promisingpotential sites of thermal power
plants, eliminating those where impacts might be unacceptable or mitigationkompensation
programs excessively costly, with a view to facilitating the preparation of feasibility studies and
the licensing of thermal power projects.

Project Component 5 US$3.81 million
                    -
V InstitutionalStrengtheningand Coordination
  -
A. MME Restructuringand Organization
MMEmustplay the roleof formulator of power sectorpolicies. A recent organizational study by
MME consultants concluded that the current organization must be strengthened to enable the
MMEto carry out such Government responsibility, with the adequatepersonnel in terms of size
and expertise. The TCU and the Senate, through its report about the recent electric crisis, made
similarrecommendations.A new structure is being implemented.

The ESTAL would help MME to critically evaluate the structure, to propose and supplement
training plans review internal processes, communication flows and other key features necessary


                                               - 67 -

to MME in its policy formulation as well as sector planning execution -- whether through the
structure of CCPE or, as established by CNPE resolution 16/2002, by implementation of an
organ directly linked to the MME, as a service provider for planning support, and detached from
any interest in the competitive market.. In light of the need for greater incorporation of energy
issues in broader GOB planning, the ESTAL will also support establishing the working plan,
mechanisms and systematic channels by which MME will interface with the sector agents and
specifically at executive and working group levels with MMA, MPO, MF, ANEEL, ANP, ANA,
CNPE, etc.

The ESTAL would also help MME to perform an overall needs assessment, to identify the
further resourcesand capacity-building efforts required, once the overall strategy and objectives
of the new organization are consolidated. The ESTAL would then help in preparing a plan and
the necessaryTerms of Referencefor obtaining the additional services.

B. MME Units Strengthening
Under the current MME organization, all coordinating units, which are responsible for Planning,
Energy Development, Electric Energy, Oil & Gas, and Mines & Metallurgy, would receive
support from ESTAL in elaborating and monitoring their strategic operational plans, structuring
the units and their procedures, identifying resource requirements and how to best obtain them,
developing specific studies, and responding to new obligations and challenges.                 Each
programmatic area would be first examined to ascertain that MMErequires the unit, to minimize
overlapping of functions, to seek ways to capture synergies, and to communicate effectively with
other MMEand non-MME units.Environmental Management i s being covered under component
III.BelowisasuggestedmenuofactivitiesforsomeoftheareasbelongingtoeachoftheMME
coordinating units.


1. Integrated Planning. Many of the sector planning responsibilities formerly undertaken by
GCPS under coordination of ELETROBaS are now assigned to CCPE, under coordination
from the MMEExecutive Secretary. CCPE has been making an attempt to improve the planning
process, by gradually integrating the fuel strategies and sector expansion alternatives, prioritizing
investment areas, and bringing into the picture energy efficiency and conservation options, and
the utilization of emerging and non-conventional technologies, such as photovoltaic, wind,
micro/small hydro and biomass energy and clean combustion techniques. Such new approach
should entail the development of alternative scenarios, incorporate pricing and demand response,
andinternalize environmental/social concerns. A monitoring system should also be developed.

The studies that will underpinthis new energy planningwould be developed under a new concept
of internal organizational structure, and would require the reinforcement of the MMEcadre with
skilled specialists or through the planning support organ mentioned in A above. In either case,
extensive trainingshould be considered given the complexity of this subject.

 2. International Energy Integration. The ESTAL will provide short-term assistance to help
organize this fledgling area with a work plan. Among the capabilities this area i s seeking are: a)
better understanding and use of international cooperative agreements; b) approaches for



                                                - 68 -

information exchanges with foreign public and private institutions; c) implications of bidding
documents and contract terms and standards for foreign investors, and how to deal with these
(public business relations); d) increase Brazil-Bolivia and Brazil-Argentina partnerships due to
the joint energy commissions recently created; and e) coordination of international aspects
dispersed in various MME departments. There are some ongoing bilateral cooperation efforts
between Brazil and Ukraine to exchange technological expertise ingas turbines. This area should
also be responsible for fostering the operational coordination of the power systems, to trade
energy in the most economic and effective way. This may require, inter alia, the establishment of
uniform market rules and grid procedures, as well as a strong interaction protocol between each
country power operator.

3. Universal Access to Energy. This program has suffered from institutional and political
weaknesses since its inception in 1995, which are well documented and were addressed by
previous TA activities supported by various donors. As proposed in its business plan, structural
changes would finally enable it to perform its tasks in a more sustainable and autonomous
manner.     The ESTAL would provide support to: a) resolve PRODEEM's structural and
operational problems; b) establish the funding mechanisms for the productive market projects it
i s launching; and c) clarify its relationship with the Luz no Campo Program. Indirect assistance
to PRODEEM i s also included under the ESTAL component IIfor Energy Access and
Affordability for the Poor.
4. Energy Efficiency. Although the Bank has a separate Energy Efficiency project in Brazil,
this component would help a relatively new MME area to establish the capacity to formulate
coherent, market-promoting policy initiatives. ESTAL would also support MME in the
implementation of Law 10,295/2001, by establishing specific regulations to 20 critical pieces of
equipment which represent a significant potential for energy conservation. Targets for maximum
standards for consumption or minimum level of energy efficiency should be established, taking
into account international benchmarksand manufacturing capabilities in Brazil and abroad.

5. Alternative TechnologiesAJtilization. The ESTAL would evaluate the objectives of these
two areas, seek opportunities for synergies with the Universal Access Program, and develop a
plan to acquire organizational, technical, training and other resources required to explore further
supply alternatives such as wind, solar, biomass, urban waste, and clean combustion for domestic
coal. ESTAL would also support the economic and environmental analysis of domestic coal,
both for current and non-conventional combustion techniques. Additionally it may support MME
ongoing efforts by developing complementary studies as required.

Given the availability of extensive agricultural land, the development of fuels from renewable
sources i s another theme of high interest for the GOB for which ESTAL could provide support
to the MME. The production of bio-diesel i s not commercially feasible on the basis of current
economic and financial parameters .However the share of the diesel in the energy matrix and its
weight in defining the petroleum imports, as well as the likely global demand increase for more
ecologically friendly fuels, point to the importance of revisiting the parameters that play in the
economic feasibility of bio-diesel development. O f interest i s also the analysis of policies that
call for a greater participation of renewable fuels in the demand, given that its environmental
benefits are not always captured by market prices.



                                                 - 69 -

 6. Mines and Metallurgy. The management of the activities of geology and mining at the
 national level i s a specific competence of the MME, which assigns to the Secretariat of Mines
 and Metallurgy-SMM the formulation and implementation of the policy for the mineral sector.
The current diagnosis of the mineral sector points to the progressive reduction of the
participation of public federal agents as effective elements for the elaboration and execution of
actions aimed at the development of the mineral production.

The SMM directives for resuming the development of the Brazilian mineral sector are based on
the consolidation of the organs directly under its responsibility - DNPM, the National Mineral
Production Department and CPRM, the Mineral Resources Research Company -as effective
agents for the integration of the geology and mining areas, under a more ample vision of
management of water and mineral resources, land use, environment, and territory occupation. In
terms of macro-functions, the DNPM is in charge o f concession grant, oversight and control of
mineral resources of the country, while the CPRM                executes the basic geological and
hydrogeological surveys. The absence of public policies that entails actions for execution by
these organs, has been key for the institutional vacuum during the last years. Furthermore both
organs had their financial resources subjected to national budget cuts, what compounded the
chronic insufficiencies for discharge of their constitutional mandates. Currently, there is a back
log of some 150,000 applications for authorization of mineral activities by DNPM, which can be
attributed to its organizational, personnel and financial deficiencies. The latter in turn impedes
proper oversight of mining activities all over the country. The drastic reduction of CPRM
financial resources has impeded the enhancement of geological knowledge of the Brazilian
territory and the ensuing investment in research and exploration of new mines. Brazil i s among
the large mineral producers in the world the one that least knows its subsoil. Finally, there i s a
lack of training and capacity building for both organs, a problem compounded by the urgent need
to replenish their professional cadres.

MME's strategy to revert the unfavorable reality of investment decreasein mineral researchand
miningconcentrates in the institutional strengthening of its two organs and seeks to increase the
information about the country's mineral potential, thus reducing the gap ingeological knowledge
and expertise and the underutilization of the mineral resources. The ESTAL would assist the
MME in formulating this strategy in depth and establishing the policies that would permit its
fulfillment. Additionally the ESTAL would assist the MME in launching the review of the
mineral code, procedures and legislation with an aim to remove any obstacles to private
investment.

7. Oil andNaturalGas
7.1 Oil. The GOB is concernedwith the lack of investments for expanding the refiningcapacity
installed in the country. While Brazil i s on the verge of becoming a net exporter of petroleum, it
i s progressively increasing its import o f derivatives, whose aggregated value i s larger. Differently
from the oil, there i s low availability of derivatives in the world, and therefore apossible pressure
for price increase. From a point of view of public policy, the GOB maintains that a new refinery
with no or minority participation of PetrobrAs would foster the competitive process for internal
supply of derivatives and possibly lead to a review o f the role of the distribution companies in the


                                                  - 70 -

Brazilian market. This would also contribute to reduce the dominant position of Petrobris in the
refiningmarket, which has causedsome discomfort to potential investors.
It is of ultimate importance for the GOB to equip itself with agile mechanisms for follow up of
the petroleum and derivatives market, thus facilitating the identification of abusive practices of
market power, and the defense of consumers . The ESTAL would assist the MME in carrying
out studies for the implementation of a national information network on supply and demand of
petroleum and derivatives, and the principles for its availability to the public.

7.2 Natural Gas. The MMEreckons the needto dispose of a robust databasefor enabling it to
establish policies related to the natural gas industry, which will require coordination of actions,
promotion of sustainable development and monitoring. A proposed national department for
natural gas would be the vehicle for performing this role, for which it must build a structure that
would perform data collection, storage and updating, and have capacity for analysis of the
market and industry structure, including forecast and guidance for the industry development.
This requires an agile mechanism, underpinned by modern information technology,                  for
supporting its active relationship with other planning areas within MMEand in other sectors of
the Government, as well as with A" and market agents - gas producers, transporters, shippers,
distributors, and consumers, and their associations.

The proposed department, as the envisaged manager of a database for the natural gas industry
and key player in the envisaged integrated energy planning,            should have personnel with
hands-on experience of the industry in the field and knowledge of economics, business practices,
equipment and operation of each segment of the sector - from the production well to the final
consumption of the natural gas. The ESTAL would assist the MME in the structuring of its gas
area.

C. CNPE Operationalizing
CNPE, a top-level inter-ministerial council responsible for energy policy-making and monitoring
of sector coordination and policy implementation, was established in 1998 but only (incipiently)
operative since 2000. It has an Executive Secretary and ad-hoc commissions, without own staff.
Its entire support i s provided by MME.The ESTALwould evaluate this arrangement and identify
options to improve the institutional structures that support CNPE, looking at the necessary
interfaces and key processes between CNPE and MME, as well as among other agencies
participating in CNPE.

D. CDE Operationalizing
Law 10,438/2002 created the CDE, a fund for energy development, and revoked energy
subsidies. CDE's income accrues from fines charged by ANEEL, from levies charged for the use
of public goods (hydro plants) and from special fees to be charged to all marketers selling to final
consumers.This fundmust be usednot only to cover the gap between the economic and the
competitive value for biomass, small hydropower plants and wind power plants, but also to
support the Universal Access Program. The EST& would support studies, workshops, and
simulations inorder to suggest ways to operate the CDE and how to allocate its funds in the most
cost-effective way.



                                                -71 -

                                          Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs
                           BRAZIL: Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project



                        Project Cost By Component
I. DevelopmentandRegulation
 Market                                                                                           1.60                2.01                   3.61
II.ElectricityAccess&AffordabilityforthePoor                                                      0.86                0.57                    1.43
III.
   EnvironmentalManagement                                                                        1.28                1.06                   2.34
IV.Long-TermExpansionPlanning                                                                     5.64                0.84                   6.48
V. Institutional StrengtheningandCoordination                                                     2.11                1.70                   3.81
VI. ProjectManagement                                                                             1.13                0.00                    1.13
VII. Reserve                                                                                      0.30                0.90                    1.20

NOTE: All costs above includephysicalandprice                                                     0.00                0.00                   0.00
contingencies

Total Baseline Cost                                                                              12.92                7.08                  20.00
 PhysicalContingencies                                                                            0.00                0.00                   0.00
 PriceContingencies                                                                               0.00                0.00                    0.00
                                                                                                 12.92                7.08                  20.00


                                                                                                                      0.12                    0.12

                                                                                                 12.92                7.20                  20.12


  IIdentifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m)and the total project cost. net of taxes, is 20.12 (US$". Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 60.24%
  of total project cost net of taxes.




                                                                  - 72 -

Component




             - 7 3 -

                           Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
                  BRAZIL: Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project

Note: Quantitative economic and financial analyses are not applicable for TA operations such as
this. However, if carried out successfully, the project will improve the efficiency of the power
sector and reduce the risk of future shortages, both of which would have major economic
benefits. The current crisis is estimatedto have reducedGDP growth by 1%.




                                               - 74 -

                                       Annex 5: Financial Summary
                        BRAZIL: Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project
                                              Years Ending
                                                June 30
                                                         IMPLEMENTATIONPERIOR                                1
                            I  Year1    I  Year2    I  Year3     1  Year4    I Year5     1  Year6   I Year 7
Total Financing Required
 Project Costs
   InvestmentCosts                   3.7       5.7          5.7          3.8         0.0        0.0      0.0
  Recurrent Costs                    0.3       0.3          0.3          0.2         0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs                  4.0       6.0          6.0          4.0         0.0        0.0       0.0
                Front-endfee         0.1       0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing                      4.1       6.0          6.0          4.0         0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
   IBRD/IDA                          2.5       3.6          3.6          2.4         0.0       0.0        0.0
   Government                        1.6       2.4          2.4          1.6         0.0       0.0        0.0
        Central                      1.6       2.4          2.4          1.6         0.0        0.0       0.0
        Provincial                   0.0       0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0
   Co-financiers                     0.0       0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries              0.0       0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0
Other                                0.0       0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0
 Total Project Financing             4.1       6.0          6.0          4.0         0.0        0.0       0.0
Mainassumptions:
1. All figures in US$ million equivalent
2. Recurrent costs borne by the Central Government correspond to Project management (Project Component
6, see Table under Cl)




                                                   - 75 -

                            Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                   BRAZIL: EnergySector Technical Assistance Project

Procurement

I. ProcurementResponsibility. Theprojectimplementationwillrequireprocurementof
about $12.0 million of technical assistanceservices for studies, other consultant assignments and
training. A centralized Project Implementation Unit (PIU), headed by an experienced full-time
project manager, will report to the Executive Secretary of the MME. The PIU will process the
selection and hiring of individual consultants, including preparation of contracts for signature of
the assigned MME authority. In the case of hiring consultant firms,     MME current structure is
adequate to     process the bidding requirements, if the PIU supports the MME Bidding
Commission (Comissgo de Licitqijes), including preparation of the packages and the technical
reports that will enable the Commmission to eventually award the contracts. The PIU will
coordinate as needed with each of the participating agencies in carrying out procurement
activities and will assist them in monitoring and reviewing the consultants' work. The details of
these arrangements would be spelled out in the Operational Manual. Inorder to enable the PIUto
perform such procurement duties, it will include at least one high level procurement specialist
with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank. The specialist will be provided with clear working
instructions closely reflecting the Bank's procedures and outlining all procedural aspects of
consultancy recruitment under the project. The working instructions, to be spelled out in the
Operational Manual, should be integral part of a "black book" containing standard requests for
proposals, forms of contract, model letters, timetables, model TOR and any other information
related to procurement.

2.      Procurement Plan. A procurement plan covering the first year of operation has been
submitted by the MME. An extended plan covering the whole duration of the project, and
including contract packaging, applicable procedures, and short lists selection criteria, will be a
condition of effectiveness. The plan will be updated every 6 months and include: i)the list of
contracts completed, under execution, under procurement, to be procured in the upcoming
calendar semester and, tentatively in the subsequent semester; ii)costs of completed and under
execution contracts, estimated costs for upcoming contracts; iii)schedule of bidding; and iv)
particular methodsof selection of consultants.

3.      Methodsfor the Bank FinancedProcurement. The Bank financed procurement will be
carried out in accordance with the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement and the
Guidelinesfor Selection and Employment of Consultants (published in January 1997, revised in
September 1997 and January 1999).The Banks Standard Request for Proposals will be used for
the Bank-financed consultant services. The arrangementsare summarized inTable A.

4.      The Bank-Financed Consultant Services and Associated Procedures. The proposed
project will finance consultant services and training for an estimated total cost of about US$12
million and consisting of (i)  technical studies; ii)institutional strengthening, coordination and
monitoring;     and (iii)specific project related training (which includes study tours and
workshops).



                                               - 76 -

5.      The project's selection and employment of consultants will be carried out under
arrangementsacceptableto the Bank(Table AI), using the Bank's StandardForms and Contracts.
The Project's studies will be executed by consultant firms and procured following the Quality and
Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) method. Individual consultants, included those for Training, will
be selected on the basis of their qualifications for the assignment as per section V of the
Consultants Guidelines. During project preparation, the MME Legal Department issued
clarification that consultants selected by the PIU and hiredby the MME in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines are not entitled to acquire public employee status.

6.      Procurement Review. The Bank's review of selection of consultants will be in
accordance with Appendix 1 of the Guidelinesfor Selection and Employment of Consultants and
the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. Consultant firm contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$50,000 or more per contract will be subject to the Bank's prior review whereas
consultant firm contracts estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$50,000 per contract
will be subject to post review. For employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$30,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of
employment of the consultants will be provided for prior review and the contracts will be
awarded only after the Bank's concurrence. Contracts for individual consultants estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of US$30,000 will be subject to post review. The Bank will post review
at least one in five contracts. Consultant contract documents to be reviewed will include TORS,
short lists and evaluation reports, and contract forms. Table A 1 summarizes the methods used for
hiring consultants under the Project. The aggregate amount for hiring individual consultants is
limitedto US$2,000,000.

7.      Advertising. A General Procurement Notice for procurement of consultant services will
be published in the United Nations Development Business paper, no later than August 2003,
assuming that the loan would be approved by end of June 2003. The Notice will be updated
annually for outstanding consultant services. In addition, detailed consultant services and
assignments will be advertised, as they become available, in at least one national newspaper of
large circulation. Furthermore, the PIU may also advertise some of the project's studies in an
international newspaper or a technical magazine. It may also seek "expressions of interest" by
contacting embassies, professional organizations, or firms that it knows or that are registered in
DACON (paragraph 1.15 of the Guidelinesfor Selection and Employment of Consultants). Inthis
case, the information required would be minimum, limited to make a judgment on the firm's
suitability. Sufficient time (not less than 30 days) will be provided for responses, before
preparingthe short lists.

8.      Procurement Records. Detailed procurement records, reflecting the project's supply of
consultant services, including records of time taken to complete key steps in the process and
procurement activities related to supervision, review and audits, will be maintained by the PIU.
These records will include public notices for expression o f interest, request for proposals and
addenda, technical and financial reports, formal appeals by consultants and outcomes, signed
contracts, addenda and amendments, records on claims and dispute resolution and any other
useful information.


                                               - 77 -

9.       Procurement Risk Assessment. There has been no Country Procurement Assessment
Review (CPAR) for Brazil. A Capacity Assessment of the MME was carried out before
appraisal. It has been approved by the RPA's office on June 6, 2002 and will be in the project
files. The CMUImplementation Team at B r a s h was retained to assist on this.

10.      ProcurementAudits. The PIU will provide the Bank, no later than six months after the
end o f each year, procurement records audited by independent procurement auditors, acceptable
to the Bank. The records will be in accordance with internationally accepted standards.

11. Action Plan
This action plan has been agreed with MME during negotiations to comply with all procurement
requisites.

                                 Action                                                     Due Date
   1) Submit a ProcurementPlanto the Bank.                                It was submittedby appraisalfor the
                                                                           first year of implementation; by
                                                                           effectivenesscovering the full period
                                                                           of implementation; to be updated
                                                                           every 6 months.
   2) Set up the ProcurementTeam of the PIU (including at least            By effectiveness
     one full-time professional experiencedinBank
     procurement) and arrange for its training in a seminar
     organizedtaking into account Bank requirements for
     procurement.
   3) Submit to the Bank the TOR for the first two assignments             Notional:30 and 90 days after
     with individual consultants, and TOR and RFP for the first            effectivenessfor firms and individual
     two assignments with firms.                                           consultants,respectively.
   4) MME Legal Department to issue clarification on the                   It was submittedby appraisal.
     possibility of the PIU selecting and employing individual
     consultants in accordance with the Bank's uidelines
     without running the risk of possible claims by such
     consultants to acquire public employee status employee
     status.
   5) Set up a procurement monitoring and information system,              By effectiveness.
     as part of a Financial ManagementSystem.
  6) Submit independentprocurementreviews to the Bank once                 June 30 each year starting in 2003.
     a year, producedby procurementauditors hiredin
     accordance with TOR acceDtableto the Bank.
Note 1: Action 3 is not deemedto be a loan covenant; it is recommendedto be a benchmark for supervision.
Note 2: For its best functioning, the ProcurementTeam would include: a) a full time procurementspecialist with
experience in hiring consultant firms and individualsunder the Guidelines; b) a part time high level consultant of
Bank-procurementto assist not less than 90 hours, per year, inthe procurement planningandproject implementation;
c) an engineer, with experience in contracting administration; and d) ad hoc specialists to help review terms of
reference, evaluate CVs and qualification criterion, prepare evaluation reports and assist in contract negotiations.The
TOR and profileof the individualswill be reviewedby the Bank.




                                                        - 78 -

  Procurement methods (Table A)



                          Table A: ProjectCosts by Procurement Arrangements
                                               (US$million equivalent)




                                             (0.00)               (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                                      0.00                 0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
                                             (0.00)               (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                                   0.00                0.00           18.37            1.13          19.50
                                             (0.00)               (0.00)        (11.50)          (0.00)        (11.50)
4. Training                                   0.00                0.00            0.50            0.00          0.50
                                             (0.00)               (0.00)         (0.50)          (0.00)        (0.50)
5. Front-endfee                               0.00                 0.00           0.12            0.00          0.12
                                             (0.00)               (0.00)         (0.12)          (0.00)        (0.12)
   Total                                      0.00                 0.00          18.99             1.13         20.12
                                             (0.00)               (0.00)        (12.12)          (0.00)        (12.12)
   Figuresin parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs includecontingencies.
   Includes consultingservices renderedby firms and individuals,the latterincluding consultantsfor Training; and
   expenditures relatedto Training, like travel, course fees, etc.
 Captions:ICB: InternationalCompetitiveBidding; NCB: National CompetitiveBidding; Other: includes Selection
 of Consultants; NBF: Not Bank-financed




                                                         - 79 -

                      Table A1: Consultant Selection Arrangements(optional)
                                         (US$millionequivalent)

                                                         Selection Method
   Consultant Services
  ExpenditureCategory      QCBS       QBS        SF6      LCS         CQ       Other    N.B.F.   Tota\cos(
A. Firms                   15.50      0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      15.50
                           (9.50)    (0.00)      (0.00)  (0.00)      (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (9.50)
B. Individuals              0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00      2.87      1.13       4.00
                           (0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)  (0.00)      (0.00)    (2.00)   (0.00)    (2.00)
                   Total I 15.50      0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00      2.87      1.13      19.50
                           (9.50)  1 (0.00)   I  (0.00) I(0.00)   I  (0.00)  I (2.00)  1(0.00)  1 (11.50) I
" Includingcontingencies

          Note:QCBS = Quality- and Cost-BasedSelection
                QBS = Quality-basedSelection
                SFB = Selection under a FixedBudget
                LCS = Least-CostSelection
                CQ = SelectionBasedon Consultants'Qualifications
                Other = Qualifications of individualconsultants (per Section V of ConsultantsGuidelines)
                N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
                Figures in parenthesesare the amountsto be financed by the Bank Loan.




                                                   - 80 -

Prior reviewthresholds (TableB)

                  Table B: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsand Prior Review'

                                   ContractValue                                           Contracts Subjectto
                                      Threshold                   Procurement                   Prior Review
                                  (US$thousands)                    Method                    (US$thousands)
  .Works

 !.Goods

 I.Services(Consu1tant                 >/=50                          QCBS               Firsttwo contractsinthe
 jet-vices)                            (firms)                                           First year and all contracts
                                                                                             >/=$50 equivalent
                                                                                           Aggregate amount for
                                                                                            contracts under prior
                                                                                         review threshold: $1,000




                                       >/=30               2ualifications of individual Firsttwo contracts inthe
                               (individual consultants)            consultants           first year and all contracts
                                                           (Section V of Guidelines)         >/=$30 equivalent
                                                                                           Aggregate amount for
                                                                                            contracts under prior
                                                                                           review threshold: $500

                                                                                            Post review, random
                                                                                          sample, on all contracts
                                                                                               below threshold.

15. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous

                Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$17.8 million
                          Overall ProcurementRisk Assessment: High
     Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:            One every 6 months
                                                                        (includes special procurementsupervision
                                                                        for post-reviewlaudits)
While the post-review/auditswill coincide with a supervisionmission, they will take place once a year

'Thresholds
!          generallydiffer by countryand project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacityto Implement
 Procurement" and contact the RegionalProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                   - 81 -

            Annex 6(B): FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
                      BRAZIL: Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project

FinancialManagement
1. Summaryof the FinancialManagementAssessment
Country Issues. According to conclusions of the Brazil's Country Financial Annual Assessment
currently under finalization: "Brazil has a well developed and centralized system of public financial
management. Overall it is able to reliably track budget expenditures. However the institutional
arrangements and processes are complex. While good results are achieved in terms of aggregate fiscal
control, the Government is less successful in achieving good expenditure prioritization and operational
efficiency". The Brazilian system of public financial management yields reliable information and
adequate management and tracking of the receipt and use of funds at national level, and is able to support
Bank's lending programs. The country issues that could affect the project's financial management
system and/or the fiduciary responsibilities of the implementing Agency are therefore manageable.

Strengths and Weaknesses. The MMEhas never been a central implementinglexecuting Agency for
Bank-financed projects. At the time the Financial Management Assessment visits were undertaken, there
was no Financial Management capacity in place to implement this Project. An action plan is included
below, to provide the PIU with capability to implement and manage the Project.
Flow of Funds. As per procedures currently being used by the Brazilian Federal Government, the
National Treasury Secretariat (STN) will advance funds to the Project for subsequent reimbursement by
the Bank of eligible expenses. The first Bank disbursement out of the Loan Account will be the Special
Account (SA) allocation, with an initial deposit of in the STN account of Banco do Brasil, New York.
The maximum amount of the SA will be US$l.O million (equivalent to 4 months of average projected
disbursement). STN cash advances to the Project, including counterpart funding, will be deposited in an
operational account in R$ managed by and under the responsibility of the PIU. The PIU will request the
funds in R$ to STN on basis of the Implementation and Procurement Plans. Subsequently the PIU will
prepare SOEs to be forwarded to STN to draw from the Special Account and subsequent replenishment
from the Bank's Loan account.
Staffing - FinanciaYAdministrative Team. The Financial/Administrative team will consist of a
Financial Manager plus three Administrative Assistants, including an IT specialist and an accountant.
They will be responsible for the accounting, financial planning, reporting through Financial Management
Reports-FMR, preparation of payment requests (Notas de empenho), preparation o f SOEs, and operation
of the Financial Management/Monitoring system. The Sub-secretariat of Planning, Budgeting and
Administration (SPOA) of the MME will provide support to the PIU in payments processing, accounting,
office administration and information technology, and will also enter the annual Project budget into the
Federal AccountingA3udgeting System - SIAFI. The Financial/Administrative team to be put in place,
together with the support of SPOA, will be adequate for the financial management of the Project.

Information and FinanciaYAccounting Systems. The MME will assign a group to study and
propose the Financial Management/Monitoring system to be used. The system must be fully integrated
with the FMR management system for monitoring and controlling project execution and financial
management, including accounting, reporting, special account control, disbursements, and SOE
preparation. It must be able to record budgets, estimates and objectives as per Government's Annual
Operation Plan (POA) and/or implementing plans and compare these with actual figures and
performance. The system must be able to produce the agreed formats of the Financial Monitoring
Reports: Sources & Uses of Funds, Physical Progress Report and Procurement Report. Adequate internal
controls must be implemented, including a financial administration chapter which will be part of the



                                                   - 82 -

Operational Manual.

As part of the GOB financial/accounting and administration system, all project transactions will also be
recorded in the Federal Integrated Financial Administration System (SIAFI). The SIAFI i s centralized in
Brasilia and is interconnected with GOB agencies nationwide and abroad. It was implemented in 1987
and is the largest and most global instrument of public financial management in the country. It makes it
possible for Brazilians to follow up and control the Government's financial activities on line and in real
time. By means o f a data extraction software, it will be possible to prepare specific reports from data in
the SIAFI and to compare these with other reports issued directly from the Project's financial system as
deemed necessary by the MME.The Project's system will be fed with the SIAFI data in order to prepare
the FMRs.

2. Audit Arrangements

External Audit.       Audits will be carried out yearly by the Federal Control Secretariat (SFC), in
compliance with a protocol of understanding signed between the Bank and the Government in 1998.
Terms of Reference (TOR) for project specific audits will be agreed between the Bank and Project
management, who in turn will instruct SFC to carry out the audit accordingly. The TOR will include
specific instructions to the auditors to audit the amounts applied in the Project and to certify the
eligibility of the expenditures financed by the Bank. The SFC audit will encompass all of the financial
transactions under all Project components. TOR will be issued on basis of the "Guidelines and Terms of
Reference for auditing of Projects financed by World Bank in Latin America and Caribbean Countries".
MMEreceivedacopy of this manual from the Bank.

The objective of the SFC audit is to judge the accuracy of the financial statements prepared by the PIU
for the year-end in the FMR format. The auditors will then express opinions on these yearly FMRs. The
auditor's report should also include an opinion on the eligibility of the Project's expenditures and the
adequacy of the internal controls. Any weaknesses should be reported in the auditors' management letter,
together with the recommendations for improvement.

The PIU and the overall Project are also subject to audit by the Federal Court of Accounts-TCU
(Tribunal de Contas da Uniiio). The following audit reports will be required, all within six months after
the end of the fiscal year:
0        Project accounts (FMRs)
0        SOE
0        Special account
0        Compliance with legal covenants
0        Management letter

Reporting and Monitoring. The MMEwill report in the format of FMR Financial Statements, on a
quarterly basis as per models agreed with the Bank during negotiatons. The reports will be generated
directly from the Financial Management System. Additional reports will be issued for physical progress
and Procurement. The year-end FMRs will be considered as the annual Financial Statements of the
Project to be certified by the Auditors.

3. DisbursementArrangements

         Following recently revised procedures for external financing in Brazil, STN will pre-finance by
advancing funds to the project. Disbursements will be made according to the Disbursement Letter


                                                  - 83 -

instructions released by LOA after compliance of all effectiveness conditions and completion of the
action plan. Disbursements will be transactions and not report based, and will follow standard Bank
procedures. All pertinent documentation will be filed at the PIU for inspection by the Auditors and
Bank's supervision missions. Withdrawal applications for the eligible expenditures will be supported by
SOEs/Summary Sheets as appropriate.
         In view of the "High" risk of this project regarding procurement matters, SOEs would be
prepared and submitted for individual consultants for amounts less than the equivalent of US$ 30,000,
and for consultant firms for amounts less than the equivalent of US$ 50,000. Above these limits,
reimbursement requests shall be submitted via SS (Summary Sheets), with full documentation attached.
         The Minister of Mines and Energy will designate the personnel authorized to sign the
applications and send in due course the relevant signature specimens to the Loan Department.
          Given the need for jumpstarting the project with hiring of (mainly) individual consultants,
retroactive financing of up to 10% of the loan amount will be available for payments within twelve
months prior to loan signing.

4. Action Plan. This action plan has been agreed with MMEto comply with all FMrequisites.

                               Action                                                    Due Date
1. Set up the FinanciaVAdministrative team (including at least one professional By effectiveness
accountant as a financial manager) of the PIU and arrange for its training in a
Seminar organized taking into account Bank requirements for financial
management.                                                                      I
2. Set up support systems and control processes, including:                      b y effectiveness


  (iv) agreed funds flow mechanism with STN
3. On Auditing submit to the Bank: (i)TOR for External Auditing of the           (i)byeffectiveness;
project; (ii)management letter prepared by auditors commenting upon the          (ii)monthsafter
                                                                                     6
PIU's internal controls adequacy; and (iii)audited yearly Financial Statements   effectiveness; and
                                                                                 (iii)June30eachvear




                                                  - 84 -

Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)

                                    Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds

           ExpenditureCategory                  Amount in US$million              Financing Percentage
Consultant Services                                      11S O                    Upto 84% per contract*
Training" *                                              0.50                               100


Total ProjectCosts with Bank Financing                   12.00
                               Front-endfee              0.12                               100

*** There                                      I         12.12            I
          will be contracts where the ultimate financing percentage will be lower than 84%.
    Refers to training logistics: travel, per-diem, course fees, etc. but not consultantsengagedin training

Use of statementsof expenditures(SOEs):

SOE-baseddisbursementwill be used.

Specialaccount:
The special account will have aceiling of US$l.O million.




                                                     - 85 -

                                Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule
                    BRAZIL: EnergySector Technical Assistance Project


 ProjectSchedule                                          Planned              Actual
 Time taken to preparethe project (months)              3                     5
 First Bank mission (identification)                    01/03/2002            01/23/2002
 Appraisal missiondeparture                             03/22/2002            0611712002
INegotiations                                           04/30/2002            05/23/2003
IPlanned Date of Effectiveness                 II       09/30/2002       II                II

Preparedby:
Nelson de Franco

Preparationassistance:
         Steve Ettinger (Cons.)         Luis Vaca-Soto (Cons.)
        Deborah Davis (Cons.)           SuzanneMaia (Cons.)
        Andre Ramalho (Cons.)

Bankstaff who worked onthe projectincluded:




Bernard Tenenbaum                       Regulatory Specialist
Vivien Foster                           Economist
Jayme Port0 Carreiro                    Energy Specialist
Tulio Correa                            Financial Management Specialist
Claudio Mittelstaedt                    Financial Management Specialist
Regis Cunningham                        Financial Management Specialist
George Bouza                            ACS
Fernanda Pacheco                        ACS
Peer Reviewers:
Mark Segal                              Economist
Jonathan Halpern                        Economist




                                                 - 86 -

                            Annex 8: Documentsin the Project File*
                   BRAZIL: EnergySector Technical Assistance Project


A. ProjectImplementationPlan
Preparedby MME,May 8,2002

B. Bank Staff Assessments
Financial Assessment and related working papers
ProcurementAssessment and relatedworking papers

C. Other
Procurement Plan, preparedby MME,May 8,2002 andrevisedMay 1,2003
Minutesof IdentificationMission
Minutes of Video Conferencewith MME
Minutes of PCN Review meeting
Minutes of PCD Review Meeting
Detailed Project Cost Table
Agreement betweenMMA and MMEfor the implementation of acommon Environmental and Power
Sector Agenda, March7,2002
MMEResolution277, March 13,2002, creatingWorking Groupto prepareESTAL
Letter from MMEto MPO ,April 17,2002, with request to COFEX ("Carta-Consulta") for approval
of proposedborrowing from the Bank for ESTAL
Bank's letter to MPOISEAINdated July 25,2002 with summary of appraisaland open invitation to
negotiate
MPO/SEAW's letter to Bank dated May 22,2003 confirmingnegotiations
Minutes of negotiationsdated May 26,2003
Papers relatedto the Project


*Includingelectronic files




                                               - 87 -

                                       Annex 9: Statement of Loansand Credits
                               BRAZIL: Energy Sector TechnicalAssistance Project
                                                       16-Apr-2003
                                                                                                Differencebetweenexpected
                                                                                                         and actual



                                                                           0.00    0.00    5.00         0.54       0.00

PO43869   2002 BR SANTA CATARINA NATURALRESOURCa P        62.80   0.00     0.00    0.00   61.56         4.34       0.00

PO57665   2002 BR-FAMILYHEALTHEXTENSIONPROJECT            68.00   0.00     0.00    0.00   67.32        24.82       0.00

PO57653   2002 BR- FUNDESCOLAIllA                        160.00   0.00     0.00    0.00   179.56       -11.63      0.00

PO55954   2002GOlAS STATE HIGHWAYMANAGEMENT               65.00   0.00     0.00    0.00   55.40        21.10       0.00

PO51696   2002 SA0 PAULOMETROLINE4 PROJECT               209.00   0.00     0.00    0.00   206.91        60.91      0 00

PO74085   2002 SergipeRural PovertyReduction             20.80    0.00     0.00    0.00    18.19         3.89      0.00

PO73192   2002BR TA FinancialSector                       14.50   0.00     0.00    0.00    11.70        -2.01      0.00

PO70552   2002GEF BR PARANABIODIVERSITYPROJECT            0.00    0.00     8.00    0.00    8.04          0.75      0.00

PO66170   2002 BR-RGN2ND RuralPoverty Reduction           22.50   0.00     0.00    0.00    22.03         2.53      0.00

PO60221   2002 FORTALUA METROPOLITANTRANSPORT PRO         85.00   0.00     0.00    0.00    95.70        21.02      0.00

PO50875   2001 Ceara RuralPovertyReductionProject         37.50   0.00     0.00    0.00    27.33         6.98      0.00

PO50772   2001 LAND-BASEDPOVERTYALLEVIATIONI (SIM        202.10   0.00     0.00    0.00   215.15       152.40      0.00

PO50880   2001 PemambucoRural PovertyReduction            30.10   0.00     0.00    0.00    26.16         8.99      0.00

PO50881   2001 PlAUl RURAL POVERlY REDUCTIONPROJEC        22.50   0.00     0 00    0.00    17.54         6.54      0.00

PO57649   2001 BahiaRural PovertyReductionProject         54.35   0.00     0 00    0.00    38.62         8.47      0.00

PO59565   2001 BR- EA BASIC EDUPROJECT(PHASEI)            69.60   0.00     0.00    0.00    15.08         4.18      0.00

PO59566   2001 BR- CEARA BASICEDUCATION                   90.00   0.00     0.00    0.00    83.95        -6.05      0.00

PO73294   2001 BR Fiscal8 Fin. Mgmt.TAL                    8.88   0.00     0.00    0.00     7.23         4.27      0.00

PO35741   2000 NATL ENV 2                                 15.00   0.00     0.00    0.00    10.70         9.20      7.47

PO50776   2000 NE MicrofinanceDevelopment                 50.00   0.00     0.00    0.00    33.11       -16.89      0.00

PO62619   2000 INSSREFLIL                                  5.05   0.00     0.00    0.00     0.36        -0.14      0.36

PO39200   2000 ENERGYEFFICIENCY(ELETROBRAS)               43.40   0.00     0.00    0.00    42.97        33.57      0.00

PO39199   2000 BR PROSANEAR2                              30.30   0.00     0.00    0.00    29.39        -0.91      0.00

PO06449   2000 BR CEARAWTR MGT PROGERIRHSIM              136.00   0.00     0.00    0.00   101.09        48.17      0.00

PO47309   2000 BR ENERGY EFFICIENCY(GEF)                   0.00   0.00     15.00   0.00    14.30        10.57      0.00

PO54120   1999 BR- AIDS & STD Control II                 165.00   0.00     0.00    3.50     7.46        10.96      0.00

PO58129   1999 BR EMER. FIREPREVENTION(ERL)               15.00   0.00      0.00   0.00     7.22         7.22      0.56

PO48869   1999 SALVADORURBANTRANS                        150.00   0.00      0.00   0.00   100.71        90.71      0.00

PO50763   1999 BR- Fundescola2                           202.00   0.00      0.00   0.00    22.87         0.37      0.00

PO43874   1999 BR- DISEASESURVEILLANCE VlGlSUS
                                           -             100.00   0.00      0.00  25.00    34.89        59.89      0.00

PO06559   1998 (BF-R)SP.TSP                               45.00   0.00      0.00   0.00     4.70         4.70      0.00

PO43421   1998 RJ M.TRANSITPRJ.                          186.00   0.00      0.00   17.17  128.95       146.12      0.00

PO51701   1998 MARANHAORPOVERTY                           80.00   0.00      0.00   0.00      2.77        2.77      0.00

PO38895   1998 FED.WTR MGT                               198.00   0.00      0.00   0.00   108.25       106.14      93.25

PO38947   1998 BR- SC. 8 TECH 3                          155.00   0.00      0.00   0.00   106.76       106.76      0.00

PO43420   1998 BR WATER S.MOD.2                          150.00   0.00      0.00  125.00   96.30       146.27     138.69

PO06474   1998 BR LANDMGT3 (SA0 PAULO)                    55.00   0.00      0.00   0.00    50.19        41.19      28.69

PO48357   1998 BRAZILCENBANK TAL                          20.00   0.00      0.00    0.00     0.02        0.02      -7.30

PO42565   1998 PARAIBAR.POVERTY                           60.00   0.00      0.00    0.00   21.44        21.44       0.00

PO57910   1998 BR PENSIONREFORMLIL                         5.00   0.00      0.00    0.00     3.06        3.06       2.25

PO35728   1998 BAHIAWTR RESOURCES                         51.00   0.00      0.00    0.00   22.41        22.41      22.41

PO43868   1997 RGSLANDMGT/POVERTY                        100.00   0.00      0.00    0.00   45.41        41.96      36.66

PO06532   1997 FEDHWY DECENTR                            300.00   0.00      0.00    0.00  143.09        143.09     33.41

PO34578   1997 RGS HWYMGT                                 70.00   0.00      0.00    0.00   49.34        49.34      47.34

PO43873   1997 AG TECH DEV.                               60.00   0.00      0.00    0.00   28.89        28.89      28.89

PO06562   1997 BAHIAMUN.DV                               100.00   0.00      0.00    0.00   37.25         37.25     26.45

PO06554   1996 BR- HEALTHSECTOR REFORM REFORSUS
                                            -            300.00   0.00      0.00   10.00   68.76         78.76      0.00

PO37828   1996 BR (PR)R.POVERTY                          175.00   0.00      0.00    0.00   64.25         64.25     64.25

PO06210   1996 GEFBR-NAT'L BIODIVERSITY                    0.00   0.00     10.00    0.00     2.42        3.42       4.04

PO06436   1995 Ceara UrbanDevelopment& Water Resource    140.00   0.00      0.00    3.00    I 4 97       17.97     17.97

PO06564   1995 BEL0 H M.TSP                               99.00   0.00      0.00    0.00   12.70         12.70      0.00

PO38882   1995 RECIFEM.TSP                               102.00   0.00      0.00    0.00     9.23        9.23       0.00




                                                           - 88

                                                                                                      Differencebetween expected
                                                                                                               and actual
                                                  Original Amount in US$ Millions                            disbursements'
ProjectlD  FY    Purpose                    IBRD           IDA                     GEF  Cancel. Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO06522    1994 BR ESP.SANT0WATER              154.00        0.00                  0.00   41.50    6.35       47.85      -6.15

                                     Total:  4744.38         0.00               33.00    225.17  2595.05    1700.33    539.24




                                                - 89 -

                                             BRAZIL
                                      STATEMENT OFIFC's
                                    Held andDisbursedPortfolio
                                          Jun 30 - 2002
                                       InMillions US Dollars


                                                        Committed                   Disbursed
                                                     IFC                          IFC
FY Approval     Company                         Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998            Fosfertil                       20.00    0.00  0.00  33.75  20.00    0.00   0.00  33.75
1998            Fras-le                          9.33    0.00  10.00  0.00   9.33    0.00   6.70   0.00
1994            GAVEA                            5.63    0.00  5.50   0.00   5.63    0.00   5.50   0.00
0               GP Cptl Rstrctd                  0.00    9.67  0.00   0.00   0.00    9.35   0.00   0.00
2001            GPC                              9.00    0.00  0.00   0.00   9.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
1997            Guilman-Amorim                  25.78    0.00  0.00  57.41  25.78    0.00   0.00  57.47
1998            Icatu Equity                     0.00  20.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   12.44   0.00   0.00
1999            InnovaSA                        18.75    5.00  0.00  55.00  18.75    5.00   0.00  55.00
1980187197      Ipiranga                        29.33    0.00  0.00  57.27  29.33    0.00   0.00  57.27
1999            Itaberaba                        0.00    5.34  0.00   0.00   0.00    5.34   0.00   0.00
1999            JOSAPAR                          8.00    0.00  7.00   0.00   3.00    0.00   7.00   0.00
1995            LATASA - Brazil                  0.00    0.00  5.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   5.00   0.00
1995            LojasAmericana                  12.00    0.00  5.00   0.00  12.00    0.00   5.00   0.00
1987192196199   MBR                             20.00    0.00  0.00   0.00  20.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
0               MacedoNordeste                   4.75    0.00  5.00   0.00   4.75    0.00   5.00   0.00
1996            Mallory                          4.36    0.00  0.00   0.00   4.36    0.00   0.00   0.00
1975196         OxitenoNE                        7.50    5.00  0.00   0.00   7.50    0.00   0.00   0.00
1994            Para Pigmentos                  19.35    0.00  9.00   8.21  19.35    0.00   9.00   8.21
1987196         Perdigao                        15.31    0.00  0.00   2.00  15.31    0.00   0.00   2.00
1989195         Politenofnd.                    4.38     0.00  0.00   0.00   4.38    0.00   0.00   0.00
1994100102      Portobello                       0.00    1.15  0.00   0.00   0.00    1.15   0.00   0.00
2000            Puras                           4.33     0.00  0.00   0.00   4.33    0.00   0.00   0.00
1998            Randon                           6.07    0.00  3.00   0.00   6.07    0.00   3.00   0.00
1991            Rhodia-Ster                      0.00    5.95  0.00   0.00   0.00    5.95   0.00   0.00
1995            RhodiacoPTA                      5.00    0.00  0.00   0.00   5.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
1990            Ripasa                          0.00     5.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    5.00   0.00   0.00
1997            Rodovia                         25.28    0.00  0.00  39.75  25.28    0.00
                S.A.I.C.C.                                                                  0.00  39.75
                                                0.00     0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
1994196         SP Alpargatas                   15.00    0.00  5.00   0.00  15.00    0.00   5.00   0.00
1987197         Sadia                           19.50    0.00  6.50  104.00 19.50    0.00   6.50  104.00
1994195197      Samarco                         10.80    0.00  0.00   5.33  10.80    0.00   0.00   5.33
1997            Samaritan0                      20.00    0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2000            Saraiva                         9.23     3.00  0.00   0.00   9.23    3.00   0.00   0.00
1998            SearaAlimentos                  0.00     3.88  0.00   0.00   0.00    3.88   0.00   0.00
0               Sepetiba                       27.00     0.00  5.00   8.00  12.00    0.00   5.00   8.00
2001            sucorrico                       6.00     0.00  0.00   0.00   6.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
1997            Sudamerica                      0.00   15.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   15.00   0.00   0.00
1999            Synteko                         18.00    0.00  0.00   0.00  18.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2001            TIGRE                           11.54    0.00  5.00   4.27  11.54    0.00   5.OO   4.27
1996            TRIKEM                          0.00     0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
1992193         Tecon Rio Grande                6.38     0.00  5.50  13.60   6.38    0.00   5.50  13.60
1998            Tecon Salvador                  3.50     1.oo  0.00   5.00   3.50    0.77   0.00   5.00
2001            Unibanco                      150.00     0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
1988194102      Vulcabras                      15.01    0.00   0.00   0.00  15.01   0.00    0.00   0.00
1999
                      Total Portfolio:       1009.81  169.26  133.50 761.94 618.53  145.41 115.20 591.57




                                              - 90 -

                                              Approvals PendingCommitment
FY Approval   Company                       Loan     Equity     Quasi    Partic
0              Net                           0.00       0.00    19.96     0.00
2002           Suape ICT                     6.00       0.00     0.00     0.00
2002           Microinvest                   0.00       0.00     1.25     0.00
2002           Net Servicos                50.00        0.00     5.00     0.00
2002           Macae                       65.00      10.00      0.00    275.00
2002          Amaggi                       30.00        0.00     0.00     0.00
2002          UP Offshore                  16.80        0.00     10.00   25.20
2002          Andrade                      30.00      10.00      0.00    120.00
1999          Cibrasec                       0.00       0.00     7.50     0.00
2000          BBA                          10.00        0.00     0.00     50.00
2001          Satipel                      15.00       15.00     0.00     0.00
2001          Unisul                       15.00        0.00     0.00     0.00
2001          BradTempleton                  0.00       0.00    20.00      0.00
2001          Cataguazes                   45.00        0.00     0.00    40.00
2002          Univali                      10.00        0.00     0.00     0.00
2002          Unibanco-CL                    0.00       0.00     0.00    150.00
2002          BancoItau                      0.00       0.00     0.00    100.00

              Total PendingCommitment:    292.80      35.00     63.71    760.20




                                        - 91 -

                                                   Annex 10: Country at a Glance
                               BRAZIL: EnergySector Technical Assistance Project
                                                                                Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                           America    middle-
                                                                 Brazil      &Carib.    income          1 Development diamond'
2001
Population, midyear (millions)                                   1726             524        504                          Lifeexpectancy
GNI percapita (Atlas method, US$)                                3,060          3,560     4,460
GNI (Atlasmethod, US5b/llions)                                   528.7          1,862     2,248                                 -

Average annual growth, 199501
Populationph)                                                       13            1.5         1.3
Labor force (y                                                      1.8           2.2         1.8         GNi                                       Gross
                                                                                                          per                                      primary
Most recentestimate (latest year available, 199501)                                                       capita                                  nroliment
Poveriyph ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)                     22
Urban population (%of totalpopulabon)                               82            76          77
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                      68             70         71
Infantmortality (per 1,000livebirths)                               30             29         24
Childmalnutrition (% of childrenunder5)                               6             9          9                   Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulat/on)                  87             85         87
Illiteracyph ofpopulation aqe 15+)                                  14             11         10
Grossprcmavenrollment (% of school-aqepopulation)                  154            130        127              -Brazil
    Male                                                           156            131        128                      Upper-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                         152            128        126

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                       1981       1991          2000       2001            Economic ratios'
GDP (US5b/llions)                                     263 6      407.7          593.8      502.0
Grossdomesac tnvestmenUGDP                              23 1      19.8          21.7        21.o
Exportsof qoods and servicesiGDP                         94         8.7          10.8       13.4                              Trade
GrossdomeshcsavinqsiGDP                                 22 7      20.5          20.1        19.9
GrossnationalsavingsiGDP                                                                                                         T
                                                        186       18.6           17.2       16.4

CurrentaccountbalanceiGDP                               -4.5       -0 3          -4.1        -4.6
Interestpayments/(; DP                                   3.1        0.5           2.2        2.1
Total debtIGDP                                          30.9      29 7          39.8        45 0
Total debtserviceiexports                               66.4      23 3          92.0        60.5
Presentvalueof debUGDP                                                          37.7
Presentvalueof debtfexports                                                     327.4
                                                                                                                           Indebtedness
                                         1981-91 199141           2000          2001    2001-05
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                         2.9          2.9        4.4           1.5        2.8               -Brazil
GDP percapita                               0.9          1.5        3.1           0.2         1.6                      Uooer-middle-incomeO~OUD
                                                                                                                  ~
Exportsof goods and services                68           64       114            12 1        3 7
STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                       1981       1991          2000        2001          Growth of investmentand GDP(       O h )
(% of GDP)                                                                                               1 % -
Agriculture                                             10.7        7.8           7.4         9.3
Industry                                                43.7      36.2          28.3        21.o
                                                                                            33.9           10
   Manufacturing                                        32.9      25.3           17.4
Services                                                45.5      56.1          64.3        56.8           0

Privateconsumption                                      68.0      61.6          60.6        60.1
Generalgovernmentconsumption                             9.3      17.9           19.3       19.9
importsof goods and services                             9.8        7.9          12.4       14.4

                                                   1981-91 1991-01              2000        2001        1
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                    Growth of exportsand imports(%)                  i
Agriculture                                              2.5        3.4           3.0         5.1
Industry                                                 2.2       2.5            4.9        -0.6
   Manufacturing                                         1.4        1.9           6.1        0.6
Services                                                 3.5       2.9            3.7         1.5

Privateconsumption                                       1.2                                 2.6
                                                                   -1.o
                                                                   5.0            3.7
Generalgovernmentconsumption                             7.5                      0.0        4.8
Gross domestic investment                                3.9       3.5          11.2         -2.0
Importsof goods and services                             2.9      10.0          12.4         0.7
                                                                                                                                            ~




Note: 2001 data are preltminaiyestimates.
*Thediamonds show four keyindicatorsinthe country(in bold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If data are missing,the diamondwill be incomplete,




                                                                            - 92 -

                                                                                                                       Brad

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                          1981        1991    2000    2001
Domesticprices
ph change)
Consumer prices                           101.7       432.8     6.0     7.7
ImplicitGDP deflator                      107.2       415.3     8.0     7.4

Governmentfinance/a
ph of GDP,includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                                               21.9    23.0              96     97     98       99    00      01
Currentbudgetbalance                                            1.8     1.8
Overallsurplusldeficit                                          3.2     3.8            -GDP       deflator   +CPi


TRADE
                                          1981        1991    2000    2001
(US$mi//ions)                                                                  1 Exportand lmpon levels(US$ mill.)

Totalexports (fob)                                   31,620  55,086 58,223   Ipl.ow T
  Coffee                                              2,870  3,048   2,932
  Someans                                     ......  2,031  2,188   2,726
  Manufactures                                ._     20,483  41,027 41,144
Total imports (cif)                           .. 21,041      55,783 55,581
  Food                                        ......  1,275   1,507   1,169
  Fuelandenerw                                        3,371  6,362   6,276
  Capitalgoods                                        5,966  13,591  14,803
                                                                                                                     w
Exportprice index (1995=100)                81           81      97     94             95   96    97     98    99          01

Importpriceindex (1995=100)                  70          68     118     114                  Expotts           Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   116         120      82     a2

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                          1981        1991    2000    2001     1 Currentaccountbalanceto
(US$millions)                                                                                              GDP(X)

Exportsof goods and services             25,522      34,333  64,584 67,545
Importsof goodsand services              27,200      26,142  72,443 72,652
Resourcebalance                          -1,678       8,191  -7,859  -5,107

Net income                              -10,272     -11,154 -17,886 -19,743
Netcurrent transfers                         10       1,556   1,521   1,638

Currentaccountbalance                   -11,940      -1,407 -24,224 -23,212

Financingitems (net)                     12,286      -3,272  31,904  19,468
Changesin net reserves                     -346       4,679  -7,680  3,744

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$millions)      6,693       8,763  33,011 35,866
Conversionrate (DEC, local/US$)        3.38E-11 1.48E-4         1.8     2.4

EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                          1981        1991    2000    2001
(US$ millions)                                                                   :omposition of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed      81,454 121,020     236,157 226,067
   IBRD                                   2,286       8,165   7,377   7,963                        A: 7 963

   IDA                                        0           0       0       0

Total debt service                       17,674       8,340  62,891  42,977
   IBRD                                     317       1,917   1,351   1,362
   IDA                                       0            0       0       0

Compositionof netresourceflows
   Official grants                           8           50      54
   Official creditors                     1,230      -1,062  -1,780     786
   Privatecreditors                       7,512       1,701  7,936    3,615
   Foreigndirect investment               2,520       1,103  32,779  22,457
   Portfolioequity                           0          803  3,076   2,481                   F 152,416
World Bank program
   Commitments                            1.039       1,348   1,290   1,609      \- IBRD                         E Bilateral
   Disbursements                           387          840   1,692   1,639      I IDA
                                                                                  -       D -Other muitiiateral  F Private
                                                                                                                  --
   Principalrepayments                      136       1,248    887      828      :-IMF                           G -Short-term
   Netflows                                251        -408      805     810
   Interestpayments                        181         669     464      533
   Nettransfers                             70       -1,077    341     277

ueveiopment tcoromtcs                                                                                                  911 mz
a. Datarefer to centralgovernment.



                                                           - 93 -

                                                 Additional
                                                  Annex 11

                              Energy Sector Reform Loan (ESRL) Summary

                           Brazil: Energy Sector Technical AssistanceProject


 1.      The ESRL will support the Brazilian Government with a US$454.55 million loan to initiate
a medium- term program of Bank assistance to the power sector. The program is designed to
support the completion of reforms started in 1995 and subsequently stalled due to political tensions and
an energy supply crisis. The Government remains committed to achieving the model envisioned in 1995;
that is, a power sector characterized by competition,private sector operations and investment decisions,
effective and independent regulation, and universal coverage.

2.       During 2001 Brazil experienced one of the worst droughts on record which affected vast
areas of the country. Because the production system is predominantly hydroelectric, power supplies
were disrupted causing serious economic and social hardship, particularly in the poorest, northeast
region. In 2002 precipitation returned to normal and the reservoirs are recuperating. The crisis brought
to light serious limitations inthe organization of the power system as a whole.

3.       The measures proposed in the ESRL reflect the Government's progress in addressing the
underlying causes of the hydroelectric crisis. While the recent drought has undoubtedly played an
important role in provokingthe crisis situation, the fundamental causes of the problemlie elsewhere. The
crisis can ultimately be traced to a series of regulatory deficiencies and pricing distortions created during
the early phase of the transition to the new power sector model (1995-2000). The Government managed
the crisis successfully insofar as preventing major rolling blackouts, addressedthe need to implement the
complete package of sector reforms as originally conceived, and established the foundational measures
for achieving them.

4.       The proposed operation will contribute to achieving the new sector model by pursuing
interlocking sectoral and macroeconomic objectives. The financing provided by the ESRL is not
earmarked to the power sector, but will go directly to the Ministry of Finance in the form of general
budgetary support. Hence, at the macroeconomic level, the operation will contribute to financing Brazil's
nominal public sector deficit and its US$50 billion external financing requirements. Some US$4 billion
of this total is expected to be met from public sector sources, including multilateral disbursements such
as the proposed ESRL. In the longer term, the sectoral and macroeconomic objectives of the proposed
operation will interlock, since the policy reforms to be undertaken in the energy sector will help to
promote economic growth, and thereby easethe external financing requirement.

5.       Brazil embarked upon a major power sector reform process in 1995. The Brazilian power
sector i s globally unique in that hydroelectric power represents 90 percent of its generation portfolio.
Generation and transmission activities in Brazil were historically the responsibility of the Federal
company Eletrobras, while distribution was largely undertaken by State utilities. In 1995, a sector reform
process initiated the vertical unbundling and privatization o f the sector. Due to political resistance, the
unbundling process was never completed, so that 58 percent of national generating capacity remains in
the hands of vertically integrated Eletrobras subsidiaries. However, 23 percent of generation assets and
64 percent of distribution were successfully privatized. As part of the reform process, the Government
introduced an independent system operator (ONS) to be responsible for central cost-based dispatch, and a
new regulatory agency (ANEEL) to supervise the sector. Parallel reforms in the upstream gas market


                                                    - 94 -

ended the legal monopoly of Petrobras,but inthe absence of any structural reforms, competition has been
very slow to develop.

6.      Against this background, the Government has requested World Bank support for a long-
term power sector program, with the ultimate objective of realizing the Government's original
vision for the sector. The Government's long-term objective i s to create a power sector that provides
universal access to reliable, sustainable and efficient electricity service. The Government believes that
the only realistic way to achieve this objective i s by opening up the energy sector (including power
generation and upstream gas supply) to effective competition, and promoting private sector participation
in the operation of the existing infrastructure and the development of new capacity. To function
effectively, such a sector needs to be supported by effective Government institutions. In particular, it
requires a well-resourced and expert body to provide strategic policy guidance; an autonomous regulatory
agency that makes transparent, consistent, and defensible decisions, and can be held accountable for
them; and an impartial system operator to ensure the efficient utilizationof generating capacity.

7.      The first step toward realizing this long-term vision has been to restore the normal
functioning of the power sector. Now that the sector is back to normal, the next step will be to
optimize the new power sector model by correcting remaining structural problems. Resolving the
pricing and incentive problems in the sector i s a fundamental prerequisite for restoring its normal
functioning and advancing toward the long-term vision. However, the full potential of power sector
reform will not be realized unless the original package of institutional and structural reforms is
completed.

8.      The World Bank proposes to support the Government's efforts to achieve its long-term
vision with a series of operations and a variety of instruments. Given that the original sector reforms
were supported by a World Bank operation (Loan 3376-BR), continued Bank involvement in following
through the reform process is particularly important. The new interventions will take the form of a
program, to begin with the proposed ESRL. This operation is designed primarily to support the
Government in its effective implementation of solutions to the energy crisis and its underlying causes,
which involved reactivating the wholesale electricity market, raising tariffs toward a cost-recovery level,
strengthening incentives for distributors to provide reliable energy supply, and undertaking the necessary
groundwork for the next set of structural reforms. These structural measures would be implemented
through one or more additional operations, thereby enabling the full realization of the original power
sector reforms.    Despite envisaging succeeding operations, the ESRL was not structured as a
programmatic loan because of the imminence of the Presidential elections, scheduled to take place in
October 2002; it would be inappropriate for the current administration to make commitments on behalf of
the future Government. The underlying continuity for the program will be provided by the proposed
Energy Sector Technical Assistance Loan (ESTAL). Whereas the adjustment operations will take the
form of general budget support, the technical assistance operation will channel resources directly to those
policymaking and regulatory institutions responsible for implementing the policy reforms. The proposed
ESRL has also benefited from support by the PPIAF (Private-Public Infrastructure Advisory Facility)
which has focused on studies and workshops sustaining the Government's achievements.

9.      The proposed ESRL would be disbursed upon loan effectiveness to reflect the
Government's effective management of the crisis together with the groundwork which established
the foundation for achieving power sector reform. This can be seen in a number of areas, including
the successful implementation of a socially and economically sensitive rationing program, the timely
resolution of the compensation dispute between generators and distributors, actions taken to resolve the
problem of cost-reflective pricing, progress towards normalization of the wholesale market, the removal



                                                   - 95 -

of tariff distortions, and the strengthening of incentives for distributors to provide reliable energy
supplies.

10.      The proposed operation is an important part of Brazil's poverty reduction strategy, as
supported by the CAS. The strategy considers the broad renewal of growth, based on macroeconomic
stability and fiscal adjustment, to be essential for large and sustainable poverty reduction." The proposed
operation will contribute to poverty reduction through two independent channels:
0   By restoring the energy sector to a sound footing, the operation will remove one of the key domestic
    constraints to economic growth in Brazil. It i s estimated that the energy crisis reduced GDP growth
    in 2001 by about one percent, and continued rationing and uncertainty could further hurt
    macroeconomic performance next year. Recent estimates suggest that in Brazil, each percentage
    point of economic growth lifts 300,000 people out of poverty.
0   By addressing the deficiencies in the current regulatory framework for low-income urban tariffs and
    rural electrification, the operation will ensure that both urban and rural poor have access to
    affordable electricity service.

11.      The operation has no negative environmental or social impacts, and supports the
preparation of a strategic program to strengthen planning and management of environmental and
social issues in the power sector. Although Brazil has a sound framework for environmental regulation,
a number of shortcomings in the institutional framework often prevent its timely and consistent
application, creating a potential impediment to private investment in the sector. The ESRL program and
the parallel Energy Sector TAL will support a series of interventions designed to address these and other
concerns related to the mainstreaming of environmental and social issues in the early stages of the
expansion planning cycle. Finally, the operation will also support a range of policy measures designed to
save at least 1 percent of electricity demand each year, thereby postponing US$300 million of
investments in generation capacity each year. The program comprises the following key elements. (a) a
review of environmental licensing requirements, procedures, and mandates for power sector projects; (b)
a clarification of institutional roles and procedures for medium-long term planning and improved
coordination with water resources management and environmental agencies; and (c) an assessment of
environmental and social issues associated with alternative medium to long-term system expansion paths.

12.      The adjustment program focuses on revisiting and updating as needed the overall
framework of environmental regulation and management, as the basis to ensure effective
environmental procedures in managing specific power projects and the sustainability of future
sector expansion. The two operations (ESRL and ESTAL) complement each other in supporting
preparation of a program comprising the following key elements: (i)a review of environmental licensing
requirements, procedures, and mandates for power sector projects; (ii)    a clarificationof institutional roles
and procedures for medium-long term planning and improved coordination with water resources
management and environmental agencies; (iii)      carrying out a set of studies on priority topics including:
project preparation methodologies; strategic assessment of longer-term system expansion paths; river
basin inventories; strategic assessment of the thermal power program; issues and options relating to
climate change; promotion of corporate responsibility; and (iv) support for the institutional realignment
and strengthening of professional cadres within the power and environment sectors. While the first two
activities are of relevance in the very short term, the last set of activities addresses issues related to the
future of the sector.




                                                    - 96 -

  Additional Annex 12: Improvement of Electricity Regulation and Market and System
                                      Operation Project
      (Supported by a Public-PrivateInfrastructureAdvisory Facility-PPIAFGrant)

                  BRAZIL: EnergySector Technical Assistance Project


A) Main Fatures basedon the Initial Proposal (as of March2002)

The World Bank implemented the project Improvement of Electricity Regulation and Market and
System Operation, supported by a recently awarded PPIAF grant, which provided short-term
advisory work in the power sector for the Brazilian Government's Chamber of Electric Energy
Crisis Management (CGE, or Ciimara da GestLio da Crise de Energia Elktrica ), established in
May 2001 to deal with the energy crisis at hand. The project's principal objective was to assist
the CGE in addressing urgent post-crisis market and regulatory framework issues that should be
resolved to restore the health and dynamism of the power sector. It supported several key
time-sensitive and critical revitalization measures formally identified by the GOB, which
included some proposed mid-course corrections of the power sector reform program launched in
 1995 with Bank support. The need for mid-course corrections was recognized in the 33 revitalization
recommendations publicly releasedby the CGEon February 01,2002, accompanied by a 100-pageWhite
Paper (see Annex 13). In particular, the project focused on the roles and institutional
responsibilities of key sector entities and second generation market and system operation
implementation problems that might have been contributing factors to the recent Brazilian power
crisis.

This PPIAF-supported project complemented two other proposed energy sector World Bank
operations launched in Brazil in 2002: an Energy Sector ReformLoan (ESRL-a sector adjustment
operation fully disbursed in June 2002) and this proposed Energy Sector Technical Assistance
Loan (ESTAL). The ESRL did not provide any financial resources to energy sector institutions,
but gave direct budgetary support for Brazil's balance of payments in returnfor implementation
of the most critical policy reforms in the power sector. The PPIAF project helped ensure that
these policy reforms were well designedand analyzed.

The initial scope of work undertaken through the PPIAF project was designed to result in
workable solutions that GOB and other sector entities would implement on a priority basis.
International experience was captured and presentedto Brazil decision-makers by pairing leading
international experts with local specialists, relevant to the PPIAF project's specific areas of
focus, as follows:

Task I: Reform of Electricitv Wholesale Market ( M A E )

The wholesale electricity market (MAE) was instituted in September 2000, but until the PPIAF
was prepared, it had been only notional trades, with no settlement of accounts, as well as a total
loss of confidence in its functions. Because of the failure of MAE to go operational, the PPIAF
had the objective of assisting the GOB inredesigning some critical functions of the MAE.



                                              -97-

Task2: Principles of Distribution Tariff Review Methodologv
This activity was included in the Project help identify the key gaps in the current regulatory
framework and to develop appropriate regulatory methodologies that could provide the basis for
the 60 or so distribution tariff reviews scheduled for the 2003-2004period. The overall goal was
to develop a defensible, predictable and transparent methodology for revisingtariffs in the future.
Possible issues to be addressedincluded:

      (i)   Procedures for valuing and rolling forward the value of the regulatory capital base;
            calculating the weighted average cost of capital; and using tracking and adjustment
            mechanisms for some cost components;
      (ii) Tariffbasketstopermitreadjustmentsintariffstructures;
      (iii)Regulatoryaccountingguidelinestosupporttariff-settingprocedures;
      (iv) Information requirements for         establishing cross-company and time          series
            benchmarking procedures to set efficiency targets in future tariff periods usingeither
            engineering estimatesor statistical and linear programming techniques;
      (v)   A methodology to set distribution tariffs by type of customer, in particular industrial
            versus residential categories.

Task 3: Reform of Power Purchase Pass-Through Arrangements
This activity considered how best to improve the current system of regulatory price caps for
power purchase pass-through, to more closely reflect the long run marginal costs of generation,
with transparent adjustment mechanisms to reflect changes in underlying costs; as well as a
separate task to examine possible alternatives to base the NormativeValue mechanism on market
benchmarks that would be more appropriate as the wholesale power market evolves.

Within the scope of this task were: evaluations to see if changes were needed to improve the
operation of the VN system in force; whether there are better regulatory alternatives to the
current VN mechanism that make better use of market information, as opposed to the current
method of administratively-set price caps, such as caps tied to actual or estimated spot market
prices with or without premiums for hedging; caps tied to the actual purchase power costs for a
comparable group of distribution utilities; prior review of proposed power purchases; post-facto
reviews of specific power purchases; and requirements for open, competitive procurement for
establishedamounts of power purchaserequirements.

Task 4: Independent Assessment of ANEEL's Key Regulatory Roles and Responsibilities

This task was conceived as an independent assessment of the effectiveness of the new Brazilian
electricity regulatory system with particular emphasis on ANEEL's roles and responsibilities
within it, including those vis-&vis other government entities (executive, legislative andjudicial
both at the federal and state levels) and different stakeholders in the sector (generators, market
and system operators, distributors and customers). Recommendations would be produced in
three areas: ambiguities that need to be clarified, functions that needed to be transferred to or
away from ANEEL, and processes and interactions that needed to be improved. Particular
attention were to be paid to how such changes would impact CGE's recommendations for
responsibilities to be assumed by the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME). PPIAF would also


                                               - 98 -

help to determine the need for any modifications of existing laws that would be required to
implement the recommendations.

Task 5: Regulation of TariffDiscounts for Low-Zncome Customers

Using an ongoing study by ANEEL on the current practice for low-income tariff discounts in
each distribution concession, this task aimed at assisting in developing suitable regulatory
guidelines to harmonize national policy on eligibility criteria and their application for
low-income tariff discounts. It would also establish principles to govern social tariffs in Brazil,
drawing upon the experience of other countries in the region that have used risingblock tariffs,
geographic subsidies, or targeted subsidies to make services more affordable for the poor.
Moreover, recommendations on low-income tariff discount policies derived from this activity
would: i)incorporate financial mechanisms that would not undermine incentives for private
operators to serve poor households; ii)harmonize social tariff policies for urban and rural areas;
iii)ensurethateligibilitycriteriafortariffdiscountswerebasedonpublicpolicyratherthanon
operator discretion. Such recommendations would also be relatively simple to administer and,
based on an empirical analysis of the correlation between electricity consumption, poverty, and
other observable household characteristics that could serve as screeningmechanisms, they would
demonstrate a clear link with the poverty status of households; and finally, establish tariff levels
that would be affordable for low-income households, including connection charges, with fully
transparent, carefully targetedsubsidy mechanisms that have fully developed phase-out plans.

Dissemination of Work Products

Given that the ultimate success of the PPIAF project would depend on both the quality and
credibility of the work produced by the consulting team, it was critical to enhance its
transparency by publicizing that the advisory work is being undertaken, making its reports and
assessments publicly available as soon as possible, publishing World Bank Viewpoints that
disseminated the concepts generated by this project, and promoting specific workshops relevant
to particular sub-tasks of the PPIAFProject.

Indicators

Some (longer-term) indicators expected to be applied in measuring the success of the PPIAF
project in Brazil included the extent to which the recommendations of the project are adopted by
the Government in sector rules, procedures or regulations; as well as Brazil's success in
increasing new private investment in thermal and hydro (or alternative energy) generation and
private ownership of distribution concessions currently under government ownership.

Recommendations were produced in three areas: ambiguities that needed to be clarified,
functions that needto be transferred to or away from ANEEL, and processes and interactions that
need to be improved. Particular attention was paid to how such changes would impact CGE's
recommendations for responsibilities to be assumed by the Ministry of Mines and Energy
(MME). The PPIAF Project would also help determine the need for any modifications of
existing laws that would be required to implement the recommendations.



                                              - 99 -

B) ResultsAchieved

        The project achieved its objectives by supporting in critical areas the GOB to put the
electric sector back on its feet. The key five task-forces were carried out, but resources were
re-deployed among them during the project, in response to the revised priorities set forth by the
Government. More resources where channeled to the area of tariff review process, and less
resources were made available to the determination of life-line rates, since this was an effort
being carried out by the GOB with its own resources.

        To ensure quick turnaround, the project intentionally avoided the commissioning of big
reports (with the exception of Task 4). Instead, the strategy was to hire international consultants
who could be brought to Brazil for short visits to work with our Brazilian government
counterparts (Committee for the Revitalization of the Electricity Sector Model) and their
consultants. A second element of the strategy was to pair the international consultants with a
local Brazilian consultant to ensure that the analysis and recommendations would be relevant to
Brazil. To ensure timeliness, the TORS were structured so that the two consultants would
produce short reports and presentationsor provide side-by-side implementation assistance to key
Brazilian government officials.

        Interms of accomplishments andresults achieved:

   o Helped to implement the first "virtual privatization" of publicly owned generation
   capacity in a developing country. This resulted in the sale of purchaseor marketingrights for
   about 1320 of "firm" MW of state-owned generation. A competitive auction mechanism was
   selected for the sale, o with 2635 tranches traded at an average price of R$ 5O/MWh
   (USD $15 to 16/MWh). This mechanism may set the basis for future competitive power
   purchasesin Brazil.

   o Helped the Brazilian government and electricity regulator to reconsider a proposed
   distribution asset valuation approach that would have been overly complicated and, if
   implemented, might have been perceived as a breach in the Concession Contracts agreement.
   The Project consultants suggested an alternative asset valuation technique used elsewhere in
   Latin America.      Once the Brazilian counterparts expressed interest in this alternative
   approach, the Project financed sample calculations for three Brazilian distribution companies
   that were scheduled for tariff reviews in 2003.        ANEEL adopted the alternative asset
   valuation approach in two technical notes publicly issued on February 17, 2003. It is
   expected that this new approach will serve as the regulatory model for tariff setting for all 60
   Brazilian distribution companies.


   o Conducted an in depth "second generation" institutional and legal assessment of the
   Brazilian electricity regulatory system, according to the original plan described above under
   A, Task 4. The final report and its 29 recommendations seemed to be well received at a
   December 2002 workshop in Brasilia attendedby about 40 government and industry officials.



                                              - 100-

    o Proposed to the government andto the regulator alternative ways to treat the pass-through
    of energy costs, and how to gradually replace the current system of administratively
    determined caps on the prices of power purchases (VN) with caps that are market determined.
    There was general recognition that the existing system of administratively determined price
    caps was having a negative impact on private investment in new generation plants.
    Therefore, the task focused on providing information on market based alternatives that have
    been used in other countries. These market based alternatives included, among others,
    mandatory competitive biddingfor power purchasesby regulateddistribution companies.

Dissemination of Work Products

Much of the output was confidential because it was advisory work for the government. In most
instances, the analysis and results were conveyed to government and sector officials in small
briefings and in discussions triggered by working side by side on particular tasks (e.g., the
auction of old energy from government owned hydro plants). The dissemination strategy was
based on the conclusion that the analysis and techniques developed in this project would be of
widespread interest to government and power sector officials in many other countries. Therefore,
the following dissemination plan was proposed:

    1. December 2002 workshop inBrasiliato discuss the specific recommendations of the Task
    4 report on "Strengthening of the Institutional and Regulatory Structure of the Brazilian
    Power Sector." Attended by cross section of about 40 people from the power sector and
    government.

    2. Presentation of the Task 4 recommendations to the top officials of the MMEand ANEEL
    on February 18 and 19,2003.

    3. Presentation to the Brazilian Chamber of Electric Sector, chaired by the Minister of
    Mines and Energy, about the benefits of improving current energy cost pass-through
    regulations, and moving towards a more market basedcriterion. October, 2002.

    4. Presentationat the World Bank's 2003 Energy Forum by the authors of the Task 4 report.
    February 24,2003

    5. A Bank Viewpoint publication describing lessons to be learned from Brazil's experience
    with the auctions of marketing and purchase rights from state-owned generators (Le., the
    "virtual privatization"). Late spring2003.


    asset valuation techniques for setting tariffs for electricity distribution companies . Late
    6. A Bank Viewpoint describing lessons to be learned from the controversy over different

    spring 2003.

    7. A Bank's Energy and Mining Sector Board discussion paper that describes the Brazilian
    regulatory approach to setting ceiling prices for the pass through of power purchases by



                                              -101 -

   distribution entities andpossible alternative approaches). Early summer 2003.

C) NextSteps

0      Pursuethe dissemination plan described above.


e      Continue discussions with MME about a possible application to PPIAF for a follow-up
grant that reflects the government's policy agenda. In principle, a preliminary scope has been
agreed, which would include the following topics:

       Task 1-      International Assessment of the Single Buyer Model and Other Pool
       Arrangements- Best PracticesApplicable to the Brazilian Case.

       Task 2-    Optimization of the Natural Gas Infrastructure - Expanding Possibilities in the
       Electricity Natural Gas Convergenceand inFindingAlternative Uses for the Gas.

       Task 3-    Enhancing the Energy Planning Function - Organization Structure, Processes,
       and Resources.

       Task 4-    Energy Policy, and Energy Regulations - Implementing Recommendations of
       PPIAF ITask 4.




                                              - 102-

 Additional Annex 13: Government Measuresto Revitalizethe Electric Sector in Brazil

                  BRAZIL: EnergySector Technical Assistance Project


Background

Immediately after the design and implementation of rationing program, the Electricity Crisis
Management Chamber (GCE) prepared a detailed diagnostic study to identify the major
underlying reasons for the electric sector crisis in Brazil. It became clear that the crisis, while
precipitated by the serious drought, was due to a combination of interrelated policy, regulatory
and commercial factors, which needto be tackled.

To address those factors and to propose corrective actions, the GCE established, on June 26,
2001, a high level task force, called the Revitalization Committee, coordinated by BNDES and
with representatives from MME, MF, MPO, ANEEL, ANA, AGU. The Committee agreed to
preservethe basic pillars on which the new model had been built in 1998. Those basic principles
included competition in the generation and commercialization ends of the industry, expansion
based on private capital, quality of service, and regulation of the "natural monopolies" of
transmission and distribution.

The Committee grouped and tackled the issues in four major areas: (i)     Regulatory; (ii)Market;
(iii)Contract and (iv) Planning, coordinated by BNDES, MF, AGUBNDES and MME
respectively. During five months of intense work, several representatives from the public and
private sector, industry associations and consulting companies were able to participate and
express their views and concerns in plenary meetings and focused discussions. The World Bank
had five meetings with the Revitalization Committee, to better understand the issues and help
preparethe ESRL, ESTALand PPIAFProjects.

As aresult of this effort, the Committee came up with a list of 18 priority measures, which were
subsequently expanded to 33 measures. The list involved some design and implementation
actions, and encompassed energy policy, regulatory, market and contract themes. It also
addressedissues such as lifeline rates for the poor and universal service.

The Committee realized that many of those measures were intertwined and that coherence needs
to be sought across the multiple efforts. To facilitate this coherence, the Committee created
umbrella themes or clusters, under which the proposed actions are grouped. A complete list of
the 33 measures, grouped by major themes i s as follows:




                                               - 103-

I           lREVlTALlZATIONPROCESSMEASURESARRANGED BY CLUSTER OF COMMONTHEMES
IMeasureNo. ICLUSTER
I            ----.-.    .
           IENABLETHE ENERGYMARKETTO FUNCTIONPROPERLY
             General Agreement for the sector (December 2001)
     1       Enhancements in the dispatchand price making rules
     6       Continuationof MAE restructuring
             STRENGTHENTHE MARKET
     2       Implementationof price biddingmechanismfor hydro plants
     3       Regulationof commercializationof public service energy
     16      Free and captive customers
            ASSURE SUPPLY EXPANSION
     11      Revision of Assured Energy
     12      Requirementsfor BilateralContracting
     13      Reserve energy contracting
     23      Incentivesto foster installationif peaking units
     25      Incentivesfor conservationand efficient use of energy
     31     Cooperation betweenMMEand MMA inthe environmentallicensing
            MONITOR SYSTEM RELIABlLlNAND ABILITYTO DELIVER FUTURENEEDS
     21     Safeguard proceduresto alert potentialsupply shortages
     22      MME processesand proceduresto monitor supply conditions
             IMPROVE INTERFACESBETWEENTHE REGULATEDAND UNREGULATEDSEGMENTS
     14     Changes inthe VN methodology
     9       Revisionof TransmissionTariffs
I    24
     -                                                                -
           I '
             lmorovement on transmissionexDansion Dlanninamethodoloaies
           !FOSTER INDUSTRYCOMPETITION
     7       De-verticalization
     18      Limits of self-dealing
     29      Unbundlingof D and C componentsin the customer tariffs
     30      Improvementsin the tariff revisionprocessfor D/C concessionaires
     33      Regularizationof the concessioncontracts
            ACHIEVE PRICWARIFF REALITYAND DEFENDCUSTOMER INTERESTS
     5       Electricservice universalization
     32      Low income tariffs (lifeline rates)
     4       Non conventional sources of energy
     15     Subsidies to natural gas transportation
     17      Eliminationof electric tariff cross-subsidies
             ENHANCEINSTITUTIONS
     8       Institutionalreorganizationof MME
     10     ONS Governance
     19      Improvementsin the ONS Grid Procedures
     20      Improvementsand fiinalizationof the ONS dispatcNpricing models
     26      Improvementin the MAE rules
     27      Improvementsinthe processto define submarkets and congestion management
     28      Improvementsin the MRE       - energyallocationrules


It should be noted that a general agreement on rationing compensation was achieved between the
GOB and the utilities on December 2001, prior to the issuance of the complete list of measures
by the Revitalization Committee, as indicated above. This agreement was deemed essential by
the GOB to implement the first cluster of themes (Enable the Energy Market to Function
Properly).


                                                             - 104-

Proposed Measures, PPIAFand ESTAL

Both the PPIAF and ESTAL projects considered the Revitalization list of measures in their
design- PPIAF more on short term support on some of the more pressing issues, while the
ESTAL 1 focusing on the medium and long term implementation efforts. A list of the 33
measures and how they dovetailed with the PPIAFandESTALproject design i s as follows:
I I  COMPARISON OF ELECTRIC SECTOR REVITALIZATION PROGRAM, PPIAF AND ESTAL
                               REVITALIZATION PROGRAM             I PPIAF 1    ESTAL




32 Low income tariffs (lifeline rates)                                P           P
33 Regulatization of the concession contracts
    P = Primary focus, to be fully addressed
    S = Secondary focus, to be partially addressed




                                                  -105-

RevitalizationEffort -Major Results

Due to their wide scope and complexity, not all the issues raised by the Revitalization Committee
were taken care in fiscal year 2002. Some of them were initially addressedbut further regulatory
details need to be agreed upon. However, significant progress has been achieved, in terms of
putting the electric sector back on its feet. The most important areas and achieved results are
summarized as follows:

a) Wholesale Electricity Market (MAE) - MAE was strengthened, its Board redesigned,
professional members appointed, and a new company was created to assume former
responsibilities of ASMAE. The governance system, including bylaws, was revisited and
streamlined. Some long-standing taxation issues have also been addressedbefore Tax authorities.
Market rules and procedures were clarified. Most of the contract disputes have been agreed and
settled upon. Several of the actions required legal changes, which were carried out. After months
of delays in contract settlement, MAEwas able to resume operations in early January, 2003, right
after the new Federal administration took over. MAE has been operating smoothly ever since.
Issues such as spot price determination, capacity payments, demand side bidding, bidding for
hydro plants, number of sub-markets, and others are still pending and need to be revisited by the
current Federal administration;
b) Conservation efforts - the rationing program itself was a "learning" experience in terms of
rational use of electricity, for all customer groups. Law 10,295, enacted in early 2002, specified
an energy policy for conservation. Government planned to provide assistance to medium and
small companies to foster conservation actions. Special performance indicators were established;
c) Alternative sources of energy - a special Program, called PROINFA was established, to
provide incentives and foster the development of alternative sources of energy, such as biomass,
solar, wind and others. Special regulations and sources of funds are currently being discussed.
The current supply excess has reduced the sense of urgency in havingthis extra capacity inplace;
d) Universal access - attention was given to increase access of electricity to all customers.
Universal access targets, pace of implementation, and sources of funds are currently being
discussed. CDE, a special fund created in 2002, should provide resources to partly support
universal access. Overall target is to have all country electrified by 2016. Target dates will vary
by concession area, depending on the existing level of coverage and on the incremental cost to
serve. Competing uses of funds between alternative sources of energy and universal access need
to be reviewed by current administration. Ditto for reallocation of RGR resources, which have
beenextended for 10years;
e) Lifeline rates - reform has paid attention to the need to regulate the issue of lifeline rates, and
how those should be implemented and funded. Some differentiated tariff increases were given to
poor customers in 2002, aligned with the macro objective of making electricity more affordable
for the poor. Much more is still needed in terms of defining detailed regulations governing the
definition of beneficiary groups and the design of smart subsidies for those who really need it
most;
f) Auction of bulk energy - the need of energy auctions was set forth, both on the sellers and
buyers' sides. On the sellers' side, transparent auctions were organized to allow federally owned
generators to re-contract the first tranche of energy under Initial Contracts (25% of the assured
energy), expired in January 01, 2003. Due to the current supply excess , not all energy was


                                               - 106-

re-contracted and currently generators are selling the surpluson a spot basis. Legislation was also
put in place to mandate distribution companies acquire their energy needs via a competitive
process. Competitive procurement was waived for energy acquired by distribution companies
from their affiliates and for energy sold by generators to their former large industrial clients.
Issuesof self-dealing and details on the procurement processby distribution companiesremain to
be resolved. Also, given the still limited extent of retail competition, some short term solutions
need to be found to make current cheap energy accessible to large users, at affordable prices
duringthis period of supply excess;
g) Unbundling- contracts with large customers have beenunbundled, separatingthe commodity
from the wire components of costs, and pricing them separately. This is the first step to give
transparency to the real costs to serve, paving the road for gradual elimination of cross-subsidies
between large (industrial) and smaller customers (residential and commercial);
h) Elimination of cross-subsidies - the unbundling of commodity and wire tariffs (see g above),
the decline of Initial Contracts, and differentiated tariff increases for large and small customers
have been important steps to gradually eliminate the existing cross subsidies between those
customer categories. More effort i s needed in this area, as the subsidies can not be eliminated
overnight and constant pressure i s expected from some customers to get special relief on tariff
increases;
i)RegulatoryLagonParceZaA-theeconomicandfinancialeffectscausedbythedelaybetween
distribution company's incurring and recovering "non-controllable" costs was mitigated by the
establishment of a regulatory account. This mechanism was a satisfactory solution to a
long-standing dispute between distribution companies and ANEEL, regarding the interpretation
of pass-through of non-controllable costs in the concession contracts, and it was essential in a
period of increasing costs of Itaipuenergy (due to exchange rate devaluation) and fuel covered by
CCC account (due to more thermal generation);
j) Pass-throughof energy costs - the mechanism of VN was revisited. Differentiationof VN by
technology has been eliminated. Policy decisions should be governed by special allocation of
funds via PROINFA or CDE, not by ANEEL's regulatory decisions. The administratively set,
controversial VN will gradually be replaced by a market benchmark based on the price levels
achieved at the energy auctions;
k) Reorganization of CGE - the energy rationing chamber was replaced by CGSE, a
multi-ministerial organization structure in charge of coordinating and monitoring the
implementation of electric sector reform. CGSE i s chaired by the Ministry of Mines and Energy
and provides suitable cross-coordination and a liaison point between CNPE and the several
Ministries involved in the reform of the electric sector.

In 2002, four Laws and about half a dozen important energy related Decrees were issued to
consubstantiat the reform and the actions described in the last paragraphs. Despite the significant
effort, a lot i s yet to be done in terms of detailing the necessary regulations. Some of the new
energy policies of the new administration may also entail some further changes in the existing
legal and regulatory framework. ESTAL should help GOB identify those needs and detail those
regulations in a harmonic and cohesive fashion.




                                               - 107 -

Additional Annex 14: Environmentaland Social Issues in the Power Sector: Context and
                            Proposed Programto Address Issues

                   BRAZIL: EnergySector Technical Assistance Project

The Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project (ESTAL) and the Energy Sector Reform
Loan (ESRL)

The ESTAL i s a four-year operation that will help ensure sustainable implementation of the
Government of Brazil's ongoing energy sector reform program, through technical assistance in
specific areas and by providing a mechanism for continuing dialogue with policymakers about
longer-term reform of the sector. The operation focuses on the power sector, where there are
more urgent reform needs and greater consensus around the reform agenda. The ESTAL was
designed to in parallel with and with the objective of complementing the ESRL, an adjustment
operation which focuses on the legal, regulatory and institutional reforms that are underway in
Brazil.

The project has no direct or indirect adverse environmental or social impacts, since it focuses
entirely on providing technical assistance to support the ongoing reforms. It i s accordingly rated
as C for environmental/social safeguards purposes. Nonetheless, the Bank and the Government
propose to take a proactive approach and have designed a strengthening program in line with the
ongoing sectoral reforms. Environmental and social planning tools and institutional
responsibilities will be revisited and updated as needed to fit the new, largely private
sector-basedmodel which has been adopted by the Government of Brazil, with the objectives of
(i)ensuringappropriate mainstreaming of environmental and social concerns in expansion
planning and operation of power sector projects, and (ii) facilitating the timely licensing of future
investment projects.

This Annex summarizes the findings of an environmental issues paper, interviews and
discussions conducted during preparation of the and the ESTAL with representatives of the
power and environment sectors in Brazil. (A full version of the issues paper i s available in
Portuguese in project files.) The annex also describes the program that has been designed to
strengthen the mainstreaming of environmental and social issues in the power sector and to
improve the licensing process.

Regulatory Framework
Power sector projects (i.e., generation plants, transmission and distribution systems), depending
on their nature, scale and location, can potentially occasion involuntary population displacement,
loss of livelihoods, impacts on indigenous peoples, destruction of natural habitats, displacement
of regional infrastructure (such as roads and bridges), and impacts on health, among others.
Generation also contributes to climate change, positively or negatively, depending on the source
of primary energy being used.


In accordancewith Brazilian legislation, all power plants with capacity above 10MW, whatever



                                              - 108-

the source of primary energy used, and transmission lines above 230 kV must be licensed by
environmental authorities. The licensing process (its scope, timing and procedures) i s regulated
by resolutions issued by the National Environment Council (CONAMA). Of special relevance
are Resolutions 001/86 (general licensing framework), 006/87 (licensing of power sector
projects), 009/87 (public hearings), and 237/97 (licensing of infrastructure projects). This
regulatory framework is complemented by extensive legislation pertaining to water, fisheries,
forests, wildlife protection, gaseous emissions, and water discharges, among others. Table A.14.1
inthis Annex provides a brief summary of the key pieces.

Three environmental licenses (Preliminary, Installation and Operation) are required at successive
stages of the project cycle (respectively, before the conclusion of feasibility studies, before
construction begins, and before filling of the reservoir, in the case of hydropower plants, or
commercial operation, in the case of thermal plants). A detailed and comprehensive
environmental impact assessment (EIA) should be presented to environmental authorities
approximately six months before conclusion of the feasibility study. An environmental impact
statement (RIMA), summarizing project objectives, impacts, and mitigation/compensation plans
presented in the EIA, i s also prepared and forms the basis for discussions with government
agenciesand the general public.

Review of power sector projects by environmental authorities and discussion with potentially
affected people may take place as early as the inventory stage, Le., before feasibility studies are
undertaken. The legislation stresses the importance of public participation and recommends that
the dialogue with stakeholders begin with a formal request for the Preliminary License, early in
the feasibility stage. It also requires public disclosure of all EIAs. Public hearings, although not
mandatory, have frequently been called for at the end of the feasibility stage to address public
concerns and other issues before the Preliminary License is issued. They may be called for either
by the licensing agency, an NGO, the Public Attorney Office (Ministe'rio Pu'blico) or by a group
of at least 50 people.

Specific technical guidelines for managing environmental and social impacts in power sector
projects have been developed, over the years, to instruct project preparation, licensing,
implementation and operation, notably: Environmental Impact Studies Manual (1986), policy
guidelines (for resettlement, indigenous peoples, flora and fauna, coal-fired thermal plants,
among others) featured in the Power Sector Environmental Master Plan (1990), methodological
guidelines for river basin inventory studies (1984; 1997 update), public consultation and
negotiation (1993), and environmentalhocial cost accounting (1995). Such guidelines, largely
developed by ELETROBaS working in close collaboration with regional and state utilities and
the power sector's researchcenter (CEPEL), continue to be used as technical references, although
not mandatory for plants being designed since the transition to the new sectoral model.

Institutional Framework
Licensing and enforcement by the environment sector.                   Primary responsibility for
environmental licensing and enforcement lies with the states. The Ministry of Environment,
through the Brazilian Environment Institute (IBAMA), has responsibility for licensing binational
projects, projects on national rivers or developed in two or more states, and projects which


                                                - 109 -

impact national protected areas. State agencies are in charge in all other cases. Box 1 describes
the basic components of Brazil's National Environment System.

An assessment of the effectiveness of the licensing system in Brazil was recently conducted by
UNDPand MMA. Overall, the results are positive, although there is considerable variation in the
capacity of agencies across states. Strengthening their capacity i s a long-term proposition. To this
end, a number of initiatives are currently underway, including the National Environmental I1
Project - NEP II(Loan 45240-BR), financed by the Bank. One of NEP ITScomponents i s
dedicated to institutional strengthening of state agencies and includes a sub-component focusing
specifically on environmental licensing, enforcement and post-license monitoring capabilities.
Activities financed under this sub-component include: (i)assessment of the current status and
future needs of state licensing systems; (ii)   priority setting; (iii) development of streamlined
procedures; (iv) production of technical manuals; (v) staff training; and (vi) the development of
improvedpost-license monitoringand enforcement techniques, among others. It i s also foreseen
that this sub-component could provide support for the development of innovative instruments
such as compliance agreements, self regulation, voluntary compliance and tradable permits.

At the federal level, the strengthening of environmental licensing and enforcement capabilities
are supported by the IDB's National Environment Project, US$ 7 million of which focus on
restructuring of IBAMA and its regional offices, and on the design of tools and manuals. The
Federal Government has recently authorized the contracting of 2,300 professionals through
competitive recruitment over three years. Within a first batch of 610 professionals, 50 staff will
be added to the Brasilia office and 20 to the Rio de Janeiro regional office. Subsequent batches
will reinforce teams in up to 10 regional offices. Priority i s being given to those offices serving
states where infrastructure investment plans are foreseen, mostly inenergy and transport.




                                              - 110-

Environmental management in the power sector. The institutional framework described above
for the environment sector i s supplemented by planning functions carried out within the power
sector itself. In the configuration that was in place prior to the reform of the power sector,
state-owned and operated utilities with extensive generation programs (roughly eight of the
nearly thirty companies that were inplace through 1995) had developed, over the years, in-house
capacity to design, implement and operate environmental and social programs to address
minimization, mitigation, and/or compensation of the impacts of power projects. Functions
carried out by utilities with regard to specific projects and expansion of their power systems were
complemented by others carried out by the Ministry of Mines and Energy (definition of sectoral
policy), ELETROBRAS (coordination of power sector expansion planning and operation;
generation of technical and methodological specifications for project design and operation), and
CEPEL (researchand modeling).

Under the new model of the Brazilian power sector, projects are concessioned to operators
(public or private), whose responsibility it becomes to design the project and carry out the
necessary impact assessments, develop mitigationkompensation plans, secure the appropriate
licenses from the environmental authorities, and implement the approved action plans. Annex 3
presents a summary of the power sector's institutional framework. Box 2 highlights the
responsibilities on the part of the relevant entities in charge or policy making, regulatory and



                                                -111 -

planning functions as regards environmental and social issuesinthe sector today.

The current pipeline of power sector projects was largely developed before the reform process
began. The licensing process i s being carried out much as before privatization, following
established procedures. However, ELETROBRAS no longer carries out technical reviews of
projects before submission to the sector regulatory agency (formerly DNAEE, now ANEEL) and
to environmental licensing agencies at each pertinent stage of the project cycle. Its former role
entailed prior screening, quality assurance, and clearance of compliance with licensing
requirements, especially at the feasibility stage. Thus, under the current model, demands on the
technical expertise of environmental licensing agencies have increased significantly, in a context
inwhich the quality of EIAsare still sub-optimal.




                                               -112-

The Power Sector in Transition: Issuesfor the Short and Medium-term
Since the beginning of the privatization process in 1995, the power sector has undergone
extensive revision of its regulatory and institutional frameworks. This process i s still ongoing
and, as part of the transition, some revision of regulations and significant realignment of
institutional responsibilities with regard to the managementof environmental and social issues in
the power sector will be needed. Because, as indicated above, a substantial pipeline of projects in
advanced stage of design was already available when the transition began, the need for such
changes in the regulatory and institutional frameworks did not immediately present itself.
However it has surfaced in the context of the current crisis and will be a potential bottleneck to
future systemexpansion if not addressedsoon. The sequence of adjustment operations of the and
the ESTAL are meant to support the completion of power sector reform as regards, among other
areas, the managementof environmental and social issues.

Key issues faced by the power sector can be grouped under four areas (which are also discussed
inthe main text):

(a)     During the current energy crisis, the licensingframework has come underfrequent
attack as being untimely and unpredictable.
While there is a reasonably solid framework in place for handling environmental and social
issues in the power sector, licensing of power sector projects i s guided by norms that were
adopted before the reform of the power sector and the establishment of the National Water
Policy. They thus need to be revisited and selectively revised to fit the current context. In
addition, some technical inconsistencies in the legislation also predate these changes and should
be addressed (e.g., with respect to the minimum area required for the protection of reservoirs or
for transmission line rights-of-way). O f special relevance i s the fact that the uncertainties and
transaction costs associated with environmental licensing are perceived by many to be a serious
limitation to timely expansion of the system in a private sector-based model. Suggestions for
changes have emerged, ranging from a possible centralization at the federal level of the licensing
system, to the institution of special task forces to support state agencies in addressing critical
cases. "Quick fixes" run the risk of throwing away considerable advances made over the past
twenty years and of introducing ad-hoc measures into a basically consistent framework. There is
however room for improvement, making the licensing system more effective and responsive to
the dynamics of the private sector, for instance by institutionalizing the use of strategic EIAs, as
has occurred inthe case of the oil and gas sector in the State of E o de Janeiro.

Another promising development was the creation in September 2000 of the Environment
Committee in CNPE and in June 2001 of the Energy Committee in CONAMA to facilitate
coordination across sectors. In March 2002, the Ministers of Environment and of Mines and
Energy signed a Memorandum of Understanding establishing the scope and terms of a technical
cooperation program covering nine broad areas relating to the mainstreaming of environmental
and social concerns inenergy sector activities, and placing special emphasis on the strengthening
of environmental licensing agencies, as well as on improved monitoring and ex-post evaluation
of the impacts of energy sector activities on the part of the energy sector. These coordination



                                                - 113-

mechanisms and agreements need to be fleshed out and consolidated to support effective and
timely planningand licensing of power sector projects.

A preliminary assessment of the current regulatory framework that applies to environmental
licensing was conducted recently by MMA, which, joined with the findings of the Special
Commission for Analysis of the Hydro-Thermal Power System, the work of the GCE, and other
agencies, should form the basis for an in-depth evaluation of the adequacy and possible
improvements in the current environmental licensing system as regards power sector projects.
This evaluation, the revision of Resolution 006/97 and other specific recommendations resulting
from the evaluation will be supportedthrough the proposed ESTAL.

(b)      There is considerable lack of clarity with respect to institutional responsibilities and
imbalance in the availability of technical capacity across agencies in the sector.
This is especially the case with respect to activities pertaining to the early stages of the project
cycle, e.g., river basin inventories, studies of alternative locations of thermal plants, and sectoral
expansion plans and strategies, for longer-term horizons. However it also applies to subsequent
stages, in which activities which were formerly the responsibility of utilities and ELETROBRh
have been transferred to operators, ANEEL and the MME.While this shift was meant to sort out
roles and avoid conflicts of interest within institutions, the new agents do not necessarily have
the technical capacity to respond to their mandates. For instance, the Environment Coordination
Unit of MME's Energy Secretariatcurrently counts only two high-level staff. Inthis regard, it is
important to note that the technical capacity in environmental and social issues developed by the
sector in the past two decades or more represents a tremendous investment in human capital. It i s
still largely available since the system i s in transition and could be realigned under the new
model so as to minimize the uncertainties and delays currently associated to the licensing
process. It would also be expected that ELETROBRAS and the National Social and Economic
Development Bank (BNDES), as potential investors and financing agents of power system
expansion, would have a prominent role in assessing environmental and social risks and
mitigation projects and programs in which they are likely to be involved.

As part of the ESTALassistanceto the Government in assessingthe collaboration among federal
regulatory agencies (see Annex 2, Component I.B.l), it would be appropriate to include the
clarification of the institutional role of MME, CCPE, ANEEL, ANA, and other government
entities, with respectto the handling of environmental/social issues.

(c)     I n the longer term, dealing with the environmental and social externalities generated
by power sector projects, requires coordination on thepart of energy, water resource
management and environmental agencies.
The available pipeline of projects will need to be revisitedsoon for a number of reasons, notably:
(i)theBraziliansystemisstronglyhydro-basedandad-hocconcessioningofindividualprojects
in disregard of a comprehensive study of the complete cascade has drawbacks in terms of
optimizing generating capacity; and (ii)optimal multiple use of water resources has gained
importance since the approval of the National Water Resources Policy in 1997 and the creation
of the CNRH and ANA; inventories of river basins will need to be systematically updated to



                                                - 114-

incorporate these as well as generally heightenedconcerns on the part of local communities and
Brazilian society with respect to environmental and social impacts. Several agencies (ANEEL,
ANA, MME and ELETROBRh) are currently advancing methodological and other studies to
respond to what they perceive as their mandate. It is quite urgent that responsibility for extensive
river basin inventory work be clearly assigned, that methodologies be updated so as to fully
incorporate environmental, social and multiple costs and benefits, and that a mechanism for
institutional cooperation be put in place. Updating the inventories for the country's major river
basins would significantly minimize risks associated to power sector development. Given the
potential relevance of thermal plants in future expansion of the generation system, strategic
macro-siting (regional) studies are also apriority as an instrument to assess options and risks.

The Memorandum of Understanding between MMA and MME, referred to previously, also
places special emphasis on better mainstreaming environmental and social concerns during the
early stages of the planning process, and on better integration of multiple objectives in resource
development. Furthermore, a model of the longer-term planningresponsibilities within the sector
has been proposed by MME. Broad-based discussion and agreement amongst the key
institutional stakeholders is needed but i s likely to extend beyond the timeframe of the current
operation. Thus, this process, as well as specific recommendations to strengthen planning
functions, would be supported in the proposed ESTAL. The ESTAL would also support an
updatehevision of river basin inventories, including the environmental/social impacts of
alternative cascade arrangements, as well as strategic EIA for the sitingof thermal power plants.

(d)     A vision of the environmental and social implications of longer-term expansion of the
power sector needs to be developed to reduce uncertainties and make best use of resources and
opportunities.
The power sector i s currently operating in a crisis mode, prioritizing immediate avoidance of a
major collapse in the supply of electricity. Beyond this phase however, both private sector
participation and consideration of the public interest in a capital intensive, long lead time sector
such as power require some strategic planning.

A clear identification of the likely expansion paths (e.g., fuel uses, comparative advantages
across regions), key issues and implications of alternative paths (e.g., likely impacts,
opportunities to participate in emerging markets for carbon emission reductions), and options for
addressing them (e.g., mitigation strategies, synergies with other initiatives, institutional,
regulatory and methodological requirements, financial implications, funding opportunities), is
needed. The ESTAL will support formulation of a methodology to conduct strategic EIA in the
power sector, based on a methodological proposal commissioned by MMA for strategic EIA
generally and on international best practice. It will also support the carrying out of a pilot
exercise to assess impacts and opportunities associated to alternative longer-term expansion
paths for the power sector.

The ProposedProgram
Within the new sectoral framework, managementof environmental and social issues will needto
reconcile public (i.e., societal) and sectoral interests (as previously was the case), but also private



                                                 - 115 -

interests.This entails balancing four objectives -- sustainable use of natural resources, social
equity in dealing with impacts, transparencyin the decision makingprocesses, and
responsivenessto the dynamics of the private sector (e.g., clear and simple "rules of the game,"
low andor predictable transaction costs).

Inline with the natureof the proposedoperation, which focuses on legal, regulatory and
institutional reforms inthe power sector, the issues identifiedinthe previous section will be dealt
with in the ESTALthrough a strategic, sectoralapproach, covering:

         review and adjustment, as needed, of environmental requirements, procedures and
         mandates for licensing of power sector projects;
         assessment of the performance of power sector regulatory agencies to clarify their
         institutional roles and coordination requirements vis-&vis other government entities, such
         as the MMA, the National Water Agency, and the MME;
         revision and realignment of key institutions with regard to mandates and procedures for
         mainstreaming of environmental and social issues in longer-term expansion planning,
         including coordination with water resourcesmanagement andenvironmental agencies;
         carrying out a set of studies on priority topics including: project preparation
         methodologies; strategic assessment of longer-term system expansion paths; river basin
         inventories; strategic assessment of the thermal power program; issues and options
         relatingto potential participation of the sector in markets for carbon emissions reductions
         and other environmental services; and promotionof corporate responsibility;
         strengthening (number and qualification) of professional cadres within the power and
         environment sectors, with special emphasis on the environmental licensing capacity in
         regionshtates where expansion of the sector i s likely to be concentrated over the coming
         years; and
         strengthening of monitoring and ex-post evaluation of environmental and social issues in
         the power sector.

While the first three activities are of relevance in the very short-term, the last two activities
address issues related to expansion of the sector in the longer term. Overall, these activities will
comprise a `Program to Strengthen Planning and Management of Environmental and Social
Issues in the Power Sector', to be implemented in successive stages, over the medium-term. For
the first four-year period, the program will be supported by the ESTAL.

Terms of Reference of the Program have been agreed between the MME, the MMA and the
Bank. (see Attachment 1) These terms of reference were prepared in coordination with a working
group of senior power sector professionals. Detailed TORs will be prepared and discussed with a
broader set of key institutional stakeholders (including representatives of the environmental
"sector", the private sector, and academia) before the start of project implementation of the
ESTAL. As currently envisaged in the TORs, development of the Program itself will be
undertaken in stages, with consultations/validation carried out at each major stage (e.g.,
diagnostic, preliminary design and overview of program priorities, formulation of a multi-year
strategy, formulation of the first phase action plan) and, as needed, in each one of the
sub-projects. An advisory board, technical groups and a consultation strategy have been outlined
on a preliminary basis and will be detailed and agreed in the final TORs of the Program during


                                                - 116-

  project implementation.This multi-year programwould extend over the medium-term,possibly
  supported by the Bankthrough subsequent operations.

       Table 1: Summary of Key Legal Framework with respect to Environmentaland Social
                                        Issuesinthe BrazilianPower Sector

Legislation     Brief Summary of Contents
Constitution 1I Enacted in  1988, it deals with the environment, inseveral o f its provisions, covering about 20 different articles, one
                o f which, no. 225, deals exclusively with this subject. For this reason, it has been called by some jurists the "Green
               Constitution." It defines the environment, biodiversity and ecological systems and services as public goods,
                assigning their guardianship to public authorities inthe country's different political and administrative units, to the
                Public Attorney Office (Ministhio Pu'blico), to communities and citizens. It prescribes instruments and means to
                this end: environmental impact assessments (EIAs) which will be publicized; concurrent federal, state and municipal
                legislation; and public participationinprocessesrelating to creation o f environmental regulations, inthe formulation
               and implementation of environmental policies and in actions camed out through the Judiciary.
Law 6938/8 1 .nstitutes the National EnvironmentalPolicy (PNMA), creates the National EnvironmentalSystem (SISNAMA),
             establishes as key instruments of the PNMA environmental impact assessments (EIAs) and the licensing o f projects
             and activities that are likely to have environmental impacts, and requires public disclosure at different stages o f the
             project cycle. SISNAMA i s comprised of: a Government Council (not created); the National Environment Council
             (CONAMA), a consultative and deliberative body, responsible for establishing national environmental guidelines and
             regulations; MMA, as central agency; IBAMA, as executing agency; state environmental agencies and entities; and
             municipal agencies or entities. This law was regulated by Decree 99.274/90, which confirmed the practices
             recommended by CONAMA with regard to environmental licensingthroughout the 1980s, as well as the diverse,
             collegiate composition o f CONAMA.
Law 7347/85 Regulates citizens' suits regarding responsibility for environmental damages and provides other measures. It
             emphasizes injunctions under the initiative o f the Public Attorney Office(A4iniste`rio Pu'blico), the federal
             government, states and municipalitiesand environmental associations. It calls for the Public Attorney Office be a
             law enforcement agent with respect to the environment.
Law 7990/89 Institutes financial compensations for states and municipalities for the development of water resources for purpose:
               o f power generation within their territories, as well as for mining.
Law 9433/97 Institutes the National Water Policy (PNRH), the National Water Resources Council (CNRH) and the National
             System o f Water Resources Management. It creates Water Resources Plans for watersheds (PRHB), inobservance of
             criteria for multiple use of water resources and priorities established through shared decision-making processes,
             highlightingRiverBasinCommittees comprised o f representativesof the country's various political and
             administrative units involved inthe basin under analysis, o f water users and other stakeholders. It creates various
             instruments for the PNRH, in addition to PRHBs, highlightingthe granting o f and charges for the use of water and
             compensation to municipalities.
Law 9605/98 Establishes, among other things, penalties for citizens, companies and their responsible agents who cause damage to
             the environment, as well as for public employees who commit crimes against environmental administration.
Law          Establishes the National System o f Protected Areas (SNUC), considering various categories o f sustainable
9985/00      management and integrated protection of natural resources. It provides the government with instruments for the
             effective implementation of the System, calls for the involvement o f populations residing within and outside the
             protected areas (conservation units), and establishes fines and penalties on offenders. It recognizes officially
             established private reserves, and institutes incentives for collaboration of the private sector with country's
            biodiversity conservation goals.
CONAMA       1 CONAMA establishedrelevant environmental concepts, practices and requirements, through numerous resolutions
Resolutions    issuedsince 1986. Those having major sectoral repercussions (and their relevance to the power sector) are as
               follows: OOU86, requiring EIAs for power plants larger than 10Mw;006/87, establishing guidelines for
               environmental licensing o f power sector projects; 009/87, regulatingpublic hearings; 005/89, establishing the
               National Air Pollution Control Program; 003/90, defining air quality standards; 008/90, definingemissions
               standards for various gases inpower plants larger than 70 MW; 002/96, requiring ecological
               compensatiordmitigation,in the amount of at least 0.5% of the plant's total investments; 237/97, updating001/86
               and 006/87 and seeking to define jurisdictions under the scope o f licensing agencies.



                                                             - 117-

                                           Attachment 1

           Programto Strengthen Planningand Managementof Environmentaland
                                 SocialIssues inthe Power Sector

                                        Terms of Reference

A. Context

Within the new sectoral framework, managementof environmental and social issues will needto
reconcile not only public (Le., societal) and sectoral interests (as previously was the case), but
also private interests. This entails balancing four key objectives -- sustainable use of natural
resources, social equity in dealing with impacts, transparency in the decision-making process,
and responsiveness to the dynamics of the private sector (e.g., clear and simple "rules of the
game," low andor predictable transaction costs).

To achieve these objectives, the MME and the MMA recently signed an "Environmental
Agenda," setting forth nine broad areas of collaboration for the coming years. In line with the
Agenda, the Government proposes to implement a "Program to Strengthen Planning and
Management of Environmental and Social Issues in the Power Sector." The program would be
implemented in successive stages, the first of which would be within a four-year timeframe, with
support from the ESTAL from the World Bank.

B. Objectives

To promote adequate planning and operation of the Brazilian power system with regard to
environmental and social issues, under a managementmodel in which participation of the private
sector i s expectedto increaseover the coming years. Thus, more specifically:

1) To identify the main short-, medium- and long-term bottlenecks for the proper functioning of
the sector and alternatives for resolving them.
2) To propose a medium-term strengthening program, to be carried out in stages, identifying
priority actions of a legal, regulatory, institutional, methodological and analytical (studies and
research) nature, with the respective responsibilities, timetables and budgets.
3) To design and carry out a select number of priority studies.
4) To promote consensus among the principal institutional stakeholders in the power,
environmental and other sectors, taking into account national, regional, local, public and private
interests.

C. Activities and Methodology

The process of preparing the medium-term Program and its first stage, the Priority Action Plan
(PAP) would unfold in the following manner:




                                               - 118-

1) Identificationor establishmentof coordination andconsultation mechanisms, including:

(a) an Executive Committee, coordinated by the Secretariat of Energy and comprised of
representatives o f institutions with relevant participation in the planning and management of
environmental and social issues in the power sector; the Committee would be responsible for (i)
supervising the preparation of the Program, (ii)seeking its approval by relevant authorities, (iii)
seeking the allocation of resources needed to implement the Program, and (iv) monitoring its
implementation;
(b) Technical Working Groups (for example, those of the CCPE), set up as needed by the
Executive Committee; the groups would conduct the identification and discussion of priority
problems, guide the work of consultants in preparing reports, recommendations and terms of
reference for subsequent works, and follow up on execution as needed; and
(c) Mechanism(s) for public consultation with collegiate bodies (for example, CONAMA,
CNRH, CNPE and other permanent or ad hoc forums), associations of representatives of
different sectoral agents (for example, ABRAGE, ABRATE, ABCE and others) and
environmental entities (for example, MMA, IBAMA, OEMAs, ABEMA and others); such
mechanism(s) would allow discussion of priority issues andproposals to solve them, as well as to
build consensus around proposed courses of action.

2) Execution of a rapid diagnostic of the sector's main problems with regard to planning and
management of environmental and social issues:

Priority will be given to issues that correct distortions already identified before the start-up of
sector reform, as well as to new challenges arising from the process of transition from a
predominantly state-managedmodel to a model based on private participation, among others:

a) defining the mandates of management agencies (within and outside the power sector) and
seeking operational reconciliation among such mandates;
b) balancing resourcesamong managementagencies;
c) promoting institutional consolidation; and
d) systemizing sectoral planning, with special emphasis on the strategic assessment of alternative
expansion paths and on promotingan integrated view of the use of water resources.

These issues transcend the scope of environmental and social concerns, implying that this rapid
sectoral diagnostic should be closely coordinated with other initiatives taking place in the power
sector that are also focused on or can contribute to addressingthe above four points.

3) Discussion and validation of the rapid diagnostic:

The following, at least, should be included in the consultationhalidationprocess:

(a) entities responsible for proper use of natural resources and for the fair treatment of those
potentially affected by power sector projects or decisions;
(b) entities responsible for decision-making and for allocating the (technical and financial)
resources needed to resolve problems relative to environmental and social issues in the power



                                              - 119 -

sector; and
(c) entities with knowledge and informationthat are relevant to suchproblem-solving,

4) Workshop on strategicenvironmental assessment methodolorzies:

Inorder to promote accessto international "best practice" andprovideexpert input to subsequent
activities, a workshop will be held with the participation of sectoral and environmental entities
and international specialists, focusing on strategic environmental assessment (SEA). Besides
reviewing the current thinking on approaches to SEA and relevant case studies illustrative of
such approaches, the workshop will discuss:

(a) the sectoral diagnostic;
(b) apreliminary view of issues that could bepotentially addressedinthe medium-term Program;
and
(c) study topics that, given their importance and relative urgency in the current context of the
sector, would configure a Priority Action Plan (PAP) to be carried out over 2-3 years.

5)       The topics that, in principle, are proposed as part of the PAP would be the following:

(a) revision and adjustment, as needed, of the legal, regulatory and institutional frameworks;
(b) formulation and/or revision of power system expansion planning methodologies, river basin
inventories, and macro-location of thermal power plants;
(c) strategic environmental assessment of sectoral expansion alternatives;
(d) river basin inventory studies;
(e) strategic assessment of the thermal power program;
(f) potential participation of the sector in markets for carbon emissions reductions and other
environmental services;
(g) training of human resources in the power and environmental sectors and strategic
strengthening of the environmental licensing capacity in regionshtates where expansion of the
sector i s likely to be concentratedover the coming years;
(h) strengthening of capacity for monitoring and ex-post evaluation of environmental and social
issuesin the power sector; and
(i)promotion of corporate accountability.

6) Preparation of a medium-term Strengtheninp Propram and of the Priority Action Plan (PAP)
(preliminary versions):

Based on the diagnostic and recommendations stemming from the consultation process and the
workshop, this activity would specify medium- and long-term objectives and goals, as well as
instruments to promote the strengthening of planning and management of environmental and
social issues in the power sector, identifying:

(a) priority actions of a legal, regulatory, institutional, methodological and analytical nature
(studies andresearch), as needed;
(b) implementation strategy for the Program, whose execution is planned in stages, over the



                                                - 120-

medium-term , with a tentative definition of respective institutional responsibilities, timetables,
budgets and monitoring arrangements; and
(c) terms of reference, methodology and indicators of expected results for the projects/activities
that would comprise the Priority Action Plan (PAP) to be implemented inthe first 2-3 years.

7) Discussion and validation of conclusions and recommendations:

An approach similar to that in item 3 (Discussion and validation of diagnostic) should be used.
Results achieved up to this stage (with emphasis on conclusions and recommendations) should
also be presentedto relevant ministerial authorities (within MME,MMA, Planning andFinance).

8) Detailed formulation of the Strengthening Program and Priority Action Plan:

The preliminary versions of the Program and the PAP should be adjusted to recommendations
stemming from their discussion, and final versions of the following documents should be
prepared:

(a) Medium-term Strengthening Program, including objectives, premises and general
implementation strategy (inaccordancewith item 5.b above); and
(b) Priority Action Plan for the first 2-3 years, with detailed terms of reference for all the
proposed projects and activities which are part of it, including institutional arrangements,
coordination mechanisms, budgets, sources of financing, timetables, results indicators, and
monitoring and evaluation mechanismsneededfor proper execution of projects and activities.

9) Approval of Medium-Term strengthening Program and Priority Action Plan by relevant
ministerial authorities (within-MME and MMA).

10) Execution of Proaam and of Action Plan: The Program will be implemented in stages, by
means of Action Plans agreed for each, according to the general process defined above.
Monitoring and evaluation of the implementation process and of the results of one stage should
provide informationfor the preparation of the next stage.

D.Timetable

The preparation of the Program and the Action Plan i s expected to take 6-8 months, and the
priority studies which are part of the latter are expected to take 24-36 months, depending on the
scope of some items (for instance, river basin inventories).

E.Modality ofExecution

Activities would be carried out with the assistance of consultants, under the guidance of the
Executive Committee and with the support of the Technical Working Groups mentioned in item
C.1.a and b of these terms of reference. Contracting of services would follow World Bank
procurement guidelines and the implementation arrangementsagrred for the ESTAL.




                                               - 121-




