Document of
The World Bank                                 PY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             FILE
Report No. P-3159-JM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
.TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO JAMAICA
FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL)
NOVEMBER 24, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Jamaican Dollar (J$)
Through April 1977        US$1.000 - J$0.909   J$1.000 = US$1.000
April 1977 - May 1978 -  Dual exchange rate system
May 1978                  US$1.000 - J$1.550   J$1.000 - US$0.645
December 1978             US$1.000 - J$1.695   J$1.000 - US$0.590
May 1979 - Present        US$1.000 - J$1.783   J$1.000 - US$0.561
Measures
1 square meter (min)       =     10.76 square feet
1 square kilometer (km2)  =       0.39 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                    2.47 acres
Glossary of Abbreviations
CAST    -    College of Arts, Science and Technology
CIDA    -    Canadian International Development Agency
ILO     -    International Labour Organization
IPCs    -    Industrial Production Centers
ITCs    -    Industrial Training Centers
JSA     -    Jamaica School of Agriculture
MOE     -    Ministry of Education
MOH     -    Ministry of Health
MOI     -    Ministry of Industry and Commerce
MOY     -    Ministry of Youth and Community Development
NDA     -    National Development Agency
UNDP    -    United Nations Development Programme
USAID   -    US Agency for International Development
UWI     -    University of the West Indies
VTDI    -    Vocational Training Development Institute
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
School Year
September - June



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JAMAICA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT (VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL)
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:     Jamaica
Amount:       US$6.8 million equivalent
Terms:        Payable in 17 years, including a grace period
of 4 years at   x interest per annum.
Project
Description:  The project would address the issues facing Jamaica's
technical and vocational education system by pursuing
three objectives: selective expansion, quality
improvement and improved management. These objectives would
be sought by means of:
(i)   expansion of the training capacity of the College of
Arts, Science and Technology (CAST) and the Vocational
Training Development Institute (VTDI) and the
establishment of two pilot Industrial Production
Centers (IPCs);
(ii)  development of new teaching programs, improvement in
the quality of teacher training, provision of learning
materials and establishment of an evaluation system;
and
(iii) creation of the National Industrial Training Board and
establishment of the Planning and Evaluation Division
at the Ministry of Youth and Community Development
(MOY).
The project consists of:
(a)   construction, equipment and furnishing to: (i) expand
the departments of Technical Education, Computer
Science and Science of CAST to provide an additional
245 student places; (ii) expand the Library/Resource
Center of CAST; and (iii) expand the capacity of VTDI
to provide an additional 70 student places;
(b)   construction, equipment and furnishing for two new
pilot Industrial Production Centers with a total of 260
student places;
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(c)   provision of technical assistance comprising about 84
staff-months of specialist services and about 207
staff-months of fellowships; and
(d)   a pre-investment study for the development of learning
materials for primary education.
Estimated Cost:                 Local   Foreign   Total
(US$ Million)
College of Arts, Science
and Technology                1.81      1.83      3.64
Vocational Training
Development Institute         0.28      0.37      0.65
Industrial Production
Centers                       1.32      1.66      2.98
Technical Assistance/
Fellowships                   0.04      1.17      1.21
Pre-investment Study            0.04       0.21     0.25
Base Cost                       3.50      5.24      8.74
Contingencies
Physical                      0.17      0.14      0.31
Price                         1.27      1.42      2.69
Total Cost(including taxes)   4.94         6.80    11.74
Less Taxes                    0.40       -        0.40
Project Cost Less  Taxes        4.54      6.80    11.34



- iii -
Financing Plan:                 Local    Foreign   Total
(US$ Million)
IBRD                             -          6.80      6.80
Government                      4.54         -        4.54
Total                           4.54        6.80    11.34
Estimated Disbursements (US$ Million)
Bank FY
1982    1983    1984    1985
Annual                          0.1      1.5      3.6     1.6
Cumulative                      0.1      1.6     5.2      6.8
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 2450-JM dated November 16, 1981.
Map: IBRD 13824 R






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO JAMAICA FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT (VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL)
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$6.8 million to Jamaica for a third education
project (vocational and technical). The loan would have a term of 17 years
including 4 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        An Economic Memorandum entitled "Jamaica's Short-Term Economic
Program" was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1980. An
Economic Mission visited Jamaica in March 1981 and is preparing its
report. The material below is based on the mission's findings. Annex I
contains the basic country data.
3.        After almost a decade of sustained decline, the Jamaican economy
is being prepared to resume a normal pace of growth and development. A new
government, elected in October 1980, is following policies targeted toward
bringing the economy out of its long depression, and correcting some
serious structural weaknesses. According to preliminary data, the
Government has halted the deterioration and the economy may register some
positive growth in 1981.
4.        The fact that the Jamaican economy deteriorated over nearly a
decade is particularly striking as the country is endowed with natural
resources, has well-educated and skilled manpower, enjoys the advantage of
proximity to the lucrative North American markets, and possesses a
developed financial system. By the same token, however, its advantages
are also its disadvantages. The openness of the economy makes it highly
sensitive to international prices and demand changes. In particular, given
the lack of exploited energy resources, the economy is very vulnerable to
increases in the prices of oil since imports of this fuel provide about 99%
of Jamaica's commercial energy consumption. Its labor and capital are



- 2 -
internationally mobile, and massive outflows of capital and emigration of
skilled labor have occurred. Recently, the larger burden of the external
debt at variable rates has also made the economy more vulnerable to
increases in the interest rates in international capital markets. In the
face of these external pressures, the careful management of the country's
resources for, simultaneously, promoting short-term economic recovery,
financial stability, and structural reform, is the central challenge to the
new Government.
A. The Jamaican Economy to 1980
Output, Unemployment and Inflation
5.        Jamaica's per capita real GDP peaked in 1972.  It has decreased
every year thereafter, the accumulated decline reaching 26% by 1980. The
performance of the agricultural sector was uneven and, overall, output
stagnated between 1973 and 1980. After leading growth in the early 1970s,
(domestic) value added in the important, foreign exchange earning, mining
sector declined by 37% during the period 1975-76. The drop resulted from
the tendency of aluminum producers to diversify sources of supply, the
1974/75 recession in the industrial countries, and the bauxite levy imposed
by the Government of Jamaica in 1974. In spite of some recovery in
production, 1980 output levels were still 15% below the 1974 peak.
Manufacturing production has declined every year since 1975, bringing the
1980 level 31% below the 1973 peak. Construction activity in 1980 was 64%
below the 1971 maximum. In spite of a substantial increase in Government
services, real value added in the services producing sectors was 11% lower
in 1980 than in 1973.
6.        The decline in economic activity increased unemployment from 22%
in 1973 to 28% in 1979 before it dropped slightly to 27% in 1980. Jobless-
ness is even more acute for some groups; the 1980 unemployment rates for
youths aged 14 to 19 and for women were, respectively, 60% and 39Z.
However, Jamaican statistics overestimate unemployment compared to data
from other countries because both the labor force and the unemployed
include non-seekers of work (those persons who although not looking for
work, wanted work and were in a position to accept work during the survey
week.) If this group is netted out, the official unemployment rate for
1980 would be nearly halved.
7.        Inflation was moderate early in the decade, but increased to 27%
in 1973. After a period of generally improved price performance, in 1978
the December to December inflation rate jumped to 50% reflecting the impact
of the devaluation of the Jamaican dollar and the elimination of subsidies
on some consumer goods. In 1980 the inflation rate was 29%.
Public Finances
8.        The financial performance of the Jamaican Central Government was
weak during FY73/74 - FY80/81, deteriorating sharply between FY74/75 and
FY76/77. Large increases in both current and capital expenditure outpaced
revenue growth. As a result, the current account, which registered a



-3-
surplus in FY74/75, showed a deficit equal to 6.4% of GDP in FY76/77; the
overall deficit increased from 8.6% of GDP in FY74/75 to 19% of GDP in
FY76/77. The Government relied increasingly on domestic financing, mosLly
from the banking system. During FY77/78 and FY78/79 the Government
increased consumption and import taxes, reinforced expenditure controls
and made the personal income tax more progressive in order to correct the
fiscal imbalance and stabilize the economy. By FY78/79 the current account
deficit had decreased to 2.4% of GDP and the overall deficit to a share of
14%.
9.        In spite of a program which aimed to further improve the finan-
cial performance of the Central Government in FY79/80, the fiscal position
weakened. The current account deficit rose to 4.1% of GDP and the overall
deficit increased to 14.3%. Current expenditures were 8.7% higher than
projected, in part owing to higher interest payments but also because of
larger than anticipated wage increases and spending on goods and services,
some of the latter to repair flood damage.
10.       The financial performance of the Central Government deteriorated
further in FY80/81.  Preliminary estimates indicate that although the
growth of current expenditures was limited to 18%, revenues rose only 11%.
Thus the current account deficit increased to 6% of GDP and the overall
deficit rose to about 17% of GDP.
External Sector
11.       During the 1973-1980 period Jamaica's balance of payments was
under continuous pressure. Poor export performance, a sharply rising oil
bill, mounting debt service, and net private capital outflows, led to an
acute scarcity of foreign exchange by 1976. In 1977 and 1978, the stabili-
zation program and the refinancing of commercial debt eased the shortage,
although the situation remained serious. In 1979 and 1980 the balance of
payments position deteriorated significantly.
12.       The current account of the balance of payments showed a substan-
tial deficit every year during the decade except 1977. The deficit reached
a high of US$335 million, 11% of GDP, in 1976, before declining to about
2-3% of GDP in the following 2 years. The principal reason for the
deteriorating current account was the decline in volume of the major export
commodities. Primarily as a result of the producing firms' reactions to
the bauxite levy, by 1976 the volume of bauxite and alumina exports had
dropped nearly 20% below the 1973 level when they had accounted for about
two-thirds of export value. In spite of some recovery in 1977 and 1978,
1980 export volumes of bauxite and alumina were still significantly below
the 1973 levels. The volume of sugar exports, a product which accounted
for at least 10% of total export value through 1976, declined continuously
after 1974. In 1980 the volume of sugar exports was less than half the



1970 maximum. By 1980 the volume of banana exports was less than a quarter
of the 1970 peak. The value of imports rose sharply in 1974 and 1975 to
nearly double their 1973 level, mostly a result of the 1973-74 oil price
hike which tripled Jamaica's fuel bill to US$215 million by 1975. The
implementation of increasingly tight controls, made necessary by the acute
foreign exchange shortage, lowered imports in 1976 and 1977. In 1978 the
US$ value of imports was more than 20% below the 1975 level.
13.       During the past two years the balance of payments again deterio-
rated. In 1979 the current account deficit rose to US$151 million, 6% of
GDP. Overall export performance was sluggish; the value of commodity
exports increased only 2.5%, reaching US$815 million. Commodity imports
rose 16% to reach US$1,003 million primarily because of a US$140 million
increase in the fuels bill. Non-oil imports remained stationary around
US$670 million, a decline in real terms. In 1980 the current account
deficit increased to US$193 million, 7.3% of GDP. The value of merchandise
exports rose nearly 18% to reach US$961 million, primarily owing to higher
alumina shipments.  On the other hand, the volume of both banana and sugar
exports fell significantly because adverse weather compounded each indus-
try's problems.  The value of commodity imports increased about 17%,
reaching US$1,173 million, once again largely because of higher fuel
imports.  Non-fuel imports grew only 7.4% from US$672  to US$722 million.
14.       The large and sustained current account deficits in the balance
of payments partially have been offset by inflows of official capital. As
a result, Jamaica's external debt increased from US$349 million at the end
of 1973 to an estimated US$1,209 million by the end of 1980, of which the
Bank held 14%. Expressed as a ratio to GDP, the external debt of Jamaica
rose from 17% in 1973 to 46% in 1980. The debt service ratio (debt service
to exports of goods and non-factor services) increased to 15% by 1979. The
ratio dropped to 12% in 1980, largely because of the deferment of about
US$100 million in payments due. Losses in net international reserves also
financed the current account deficits; at the end of 1980 these stood at
US$-574 million, including US$114 million of commercial arrears, compared
to US$37 million at the end of 1973.
B. The Program
15.       In the October 1980 general elections, the opposition Jamaica
Labor Party obtained 52 of 60 seats in Parliament. The new Government
negotiated an Extended Agreement with the International Monetary Fund that
was approved by the Board of Directors on April 13, 1981. The agreement
focuses on the stabilization and recovery of the Jamaican economy over the
next three years. The new Government also has begun to define its position
on longer term policy issues; the dialogue with the Bank has been active
and fruitful.



-5-
Overall Strategy
16.       The Government's objectives are to promote economic activity,
reduce the level of unemployment, and improve the efficiency of utility
services and social and economic infrastructure. The strategy falls into
two parts; firstly, to put unutilized capacity to work particularly in
those sectors that quickly and significantly can increase foreign exchange
earnings; secondly, to initiate adjustments in industrial and agricultural
policies in order to provide a basis for the export-oriented expansion of
productive capacity with concomitant increases in job creation.
17.       The Government anticipates that it will take at least three years
to get the Jamaican economy on a path of self-sustaining growth. A growth
rate of 1% is expected in 1981; the growth rate is expected to increase
afterwards, reaching 4% to 5% in 1983. The Government wishes to make the
private sector the main engine of growth, relying to a greater extent on
market mechanisms and creating an environment in which private initiative
can prosper. Consequently, the Government plans to remove progressively
all controls that inhibit such an environment, to promote domestic and
foreign investment, and to bring about the divestment of a number of
companies that were once private, but are today in the Government's hands.
To this effect, the Government has created a Divestment Committee that is
seeking the orderly transfer to the private sector of a number of
government-run operations.
Production and Investment
18.       The dominant task is the implementation of an export-oriented
production program to generate early incremental flows of foreign
exchange. Tourism can make a major contribution since this sector has sub-
stantial underutilized capacity. In the first year of the program, hotel
occupancy is projected at 48% of capacity, generating more than US$200
million. The objective is to attain 70% occupancy by the third year, which
should yield over US$400 million at today's prices.
19.       The Government considers that the levy agreements reached with
the bauxite/alumina companies in 1980 have restored the competitiveness of
that industry. Further, the Jamaican Government and the companies are
negotiating with the US Government the acceptance of levy payments to
Jamaica as a credit against US income tax within double taxation
arrangements. The companies are upgrading programs to attain rated
capacity which will increase the volume of production and export of
bauxite/alumina by 10%. Negotiations are ongoing regarding the doubling of
one company's plant capacity in a joint venture with the the Government of
Jamaica and private Norwegian interests. In addition the Government is
discussing with the companies the possibility of increasing exports of
bauxite from existing mining operations during the program period, and of
expanding alumina capacity.
20.       The Government also wants to exploit fully its guaranteed markets
in Europe for the traditional export crops, sugar and bananas. Current
exports for both products are only a small fraction of Jamaica's quotas
because of the adverse effects of disease, weather and poor management on



- 6 -
production. The objective is to increase sugar production from 260,000 to
330,000 tons and exports to 230,000 tons in 1983. For bananas, the target
is to raise exports from 31,000 tons in 1980 to 120,000 tons in 1983.
21.       Exports of manufactured goods are already supported by World Bank
and IDB resources channeled through an Export Development Fund (EDF).
The Government is undertaking a thorough examination and evaluation of
industrial and agricultural policies to identify the modifications and
structural adjustments which are necessary to support efficient production,
additional employment opportunities and increased foreign exchange
earnings.
22.       Private foreign investment flows, particularly for joint
ventures, are expected to be an important factor in the economic recovery
of Jamaica. Already groups of businessmen from several countries including
the United States, Canada, Korea, the United Kingdom, and Germany have been
brought together with groups of Jamaican businessmen to examine
opportunities for foreign investment. The Government plans to expand the
Kingston Free Zone, and numerous companies have expressed their interest in
establishing new enterprises in lines such as textiles, electronics,
chemicals, warehousing, and food processing. Outside the Free Zone area,
about 160 foreign investment inquiries are being processed, covering
agriculture and agrobusiness, manufacturing, mining, and tourism. An
increase in domestic investment is also a goal of the Government's
program. At the present, over 100 projects proposed by domestic investors
are being processed.
Fiscal Policy
23.       As part of its agreement with the IMF, the Government is
committed to prudent financial management of the Central Government aimed at
achieving surpluses on current account to fund a share of capital expendi-
tures. The objectives by the end of the program period are the reduction
of overall expenditures to no more than 30% of GDP; a turnaround of the
current account from a deficit of 6% of GDP to a surplus of at least 1%;
and a narrowing of the overall deficit to around 10% of GDP. Revenue
increases are expected from tax reforms, fiscal measures and incremental
bauxite levy collections and would help offset the expected decline in
the financial support provided by donor countries and institutions from the
very high level obtained for Jamaica's 1981-82 fiscal year.
24.       Within the current fiscal year, the Government will institute a
comprehensive fiscal reform. In addition, the goal is to reduce the share
of government expenditures in GDP, however, it is not possible at this
point to quantify the effect of these measures on the overall deficit.
In FY80/81 employee compensation accounted for 76% of tax revenue and 61%
of current expenditure excluding interest. Any policy to constrain current
expenditure must come to grips with this reality. The Government intends



- 7 -
to develop a three-year plan to moderate civil service pay subject to the
need to attract and retain skilled personnel. For FY81/82 the incremental
allocation for the pay plan will be limited to about J$65 million. In
addition, although the Government considers a cutback of staff unacceptable
given the existing high unemployment, the number of employees as of
March 31, 1981, will not be increased. Moreover, subject to the main-
tenance of operational efficiency, existing vacancies and those arising
from future resignations and retirements will not be filled.
25.       The Government intends also to manage the public debt conserva-
tively. The existing stock of external commercial debt is to be refinanced
and non-concessionary external borrowing will be restrained and confined,
by and large, to the foreign exchange costs of the public investment pro-
gram.
Monetary Policy
26.       During the program period, the objectives of monetary policy will
be to mobilize savings and ensure that there is sufficient bank credit for
priority sectors. The Treasury Bill discount rate will be the prime
instrument for influencing changes in the interest rate structure. Domes-
tic bank credit requirements of the Government will be met substantially
from the issue of such bills, and their yield will be determined by market
forces. The bank rate will be set at a level not lower than the Treasury
Bill rate. In order that building societies can maintain their competi-
tiveness in attracting deposits with a minimum impact on their mortgage
rates, the current tax concessions to their depositors will be enhanced.
Balance of Payments Policy
27.       The major obstacle to economic recovery is the acute shortage of
foreign exchange. In the early years of the program, large scale balance
of payments support from external sources will continue to be needed. The
Government has obtained special concessionary balance of payments assis-
tance from donor countries and institutions. Foreign commercial banks have
approved a deferral/refinancing of the bulk of government and
government-guaranteed debt to them maturing in FY81/82 and FY82/83, as well
as the provision of US$71 million in incremental credits.
28.       An enduring solution to the foreign exchange shortage rests on a
restoration of confidence in the economy and a quantum increase in earnings
from exports and tourism. The promotion of export-oriented production will
increase foreign exchange earnings over the program period. In spite of
the tight foreign exchange situation, commercial payments arrears are being
reduced in 1981. The elimination of arrears plus renewed confidence and
prospects for economic growth should restore trade credits to normal levels
so that financing will be available for the imports required to expand pro-
duction. Given the active promotion of direct foreign investment and the
interest already shown by overseas investors, private capital flows are
projected to provide additional resources.



- 8 -
29.       The Government has decided to maintain the present exchange rate
because it considers Jamaica's exports competitive at that level. The
Government has stated its intention, however, to review exchange rate
policy and take action if necessary.
Support of the International Monetary Fund
30.       The program described is supported by resources being provided by
the International Monetary Fund. The Agreement between the Government of
Jamaica and the International Monetary Fund envisages the purchase of SDR
477.7 million (approximately US$547 million) under an extended arrangement,
SDR 21.8 million (approximately US$25 million) corresponding to the balance
available in the first credit tranche, and SDR 37.0 million (approximately
US$42 million) under the compensatory financing facility. Total support
from the IMF would total SDR 536.5 million (approximately US$614 million).
31.       The performance criteria agreed between the IMF and the Govern-
ment of Jamaica are: (i) a set of ceilings on net domestic bank credit to
the public sector (defined as the Central Government, local government, and
a specified group of public entities); (ii) a set of ceilings on the net
domestic assets of the Bank of Jamaica; (iii) a set of balance of payments
targets, framed in terms of changes in the net international reserve posi-
tion of the Bank of Jamaica (including the external payments arrearages
among its international liabilities); (iv) a guideline for the portfolio
management of the international assets and liabilities of the Bank of
Jamaica, embodied in a set of ceilings on its gross international reserve
holdings; (v) a limit on the contracting of new external debt by the public
sector and the Bank of Jamaica and by the private sector covered by a
Government guarantee, in a maturity range from one year to twelve years,
with a subceiling for the maturity range from one year to five years; and
(vi) an injunction against the introduction of any multiple currency
practice, the imposition of any new or intensification of any existing
restriction on payments and transfers for current international trans-
actions, and the introduction of any new or intensification of any existing
restriction on imports for balance of payments reasons. The agreement also
contains provisions and review clauses relating to policies for FY82/83 and
FY83/84.
C. Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
1981 Performance
32.       It now appears that the recovery of the Jamaican economy will be
somewhat slower than originally envisaged. Preliminary data for 1981 indi-
cate that the declining trend has been stemmed, but only a marginal
increase in overall activity is expected. Production of the two important
export crops, sugar and bananas, has fallen sharply. Bauxite and alumina



- 9 -
output was up early in the year, but the major companies have announced
significant production cutbacks because of depressed world market demand.
Exports of goods and non-factor services are projected to rise to US$1,500
million, a nominal increase of only 7%. The nominal value of imports of
goods and non-factor services is projected to jump to US$1,762 million, a
24% increase, because of pent-up demand and some liberalization of import
and foreign exchange restrictions. Thus balance of payments performance is
projected to deteriorate significantly in 1981 with the current account
deficit more than doubling to reach US$465 million, 15% of GDP.
Medium-Term Prospects
33.       Output.  Growth is expected to pick up after 1981, rising to 4%
by 1983 and 5% annually in 1984 and 1985. The leading sectors would be
construction and manufacturing with projected average annual growth rates,
respectively, of 10% and 7.4% during the period 1982-85, in line with the
assumed expansion of investment and manufactured exports. Growth in the
agricultural sector is also expected to improve significantly. On the
other hand, value added by government services is projected to decline over
the period, reflecting the goal of reducing the state role in the economy.
34.       Balance of Payments.  Nominal growth of exports of goods and
non-factor services is expected to average 17.5% a year during the period
1982-85. By 1985 the volume of alumina exports is expected to be 28% above
the 1981 level reflecting the projected expansion of capacity. The quan-
tity of sugar exports is projected to rise by nearly 40%, while the volume
of bananas exported is projected for 1985 at more than five times the 1981
level. Reflecting their pivotal role in the Government's export-oriented
program, manufactured exports are projected to increase in real terms by an
average of 18% a year. This growth assumes that, over the medium term the
sector will undergo significant structural changes. Tourism is expected to
achieve average real growth of 16% per annum as capacity utilization
gradually is increased.
35.       Growth in the nominal value of imports of goods and non-factor
services is projected to slow to an average annual rate of about 13%
between 1982 and 1985. In spite of energy conservation which is expected
to generate oil import savings in the non-bauxite/alumina economy of about
20% by 1985, Jamaica's fuel import bill would rise from an estimated US$550
million in 1981 to US$846 million by 1985. In nominal terms, the current
account deficit will increase up to 1983 reflecting the assumed increase in
imports of capital goods associated with the expansion of alumina capacity;
its ratio to GDP is projected to rise slightly to 15.5% in 1982 before
dropping, also slightly the following year. Further improvement is
expected thereafter with the current account deficit falling to 6% of GDP
by 1985. Some of the external capital required to cover the current
account deficit, projected amortization payments, and the targeted growth
in net international reserves will come from private sources, both direct
investment and short-term capital movements. Public capital disbursements
are projected to fill in the gap, averaging US$490 million a year.



- 10 -
Creditworthiness
36.       Because of the rapid increase in public external debt in recent
years, Jamaica's debt service ratio is projected to rise to 23.5% in 1981.
The burden will then ease somewhat with the projected debt service ratio
fluctuating between 16% and 20% during the next four years. The continued
requirement for public external capital results in a rising ratio of public
external debt to GDP, from a projected 47.5% share in 1981 to a high of 58%
in 1983 before gradually falling in the following two years.   Neverthe-
less, the new Jamaican Government has defined a program to end the
country's long period of economic decline and to initiate economic recovery
which is supported by a three-year agreement with the INF. The Government
is also in the process of defining policies on public investments and
incentives for the private sector in close consultation with the Bank. On
this basis, provided Jamaica successfully carries out its economic stabili-
zation and recovery program and makes progress in defining a viable longer
term economic strategy, it should be considered creditworthy for continued
external assistance, subject to close monitoring of policy implementation.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
37.       The Bank has made 25 loans1/ in Jamaica totalling US$330.2
million after cancellations. Of this amount, US$117.4 million (36%) has
been for infrastructure investments in transportation, electric power,
water supply and sewerage; the remainder has gone into a revolving fund for
financing of inputs for export industries (21%), agriculture and
agroindustry (12%), program lending (19%) (out of which 10% to the
revolving fund for export industries), education (7%), sites and services
(5%), forestry (4%), population and nutrition (3%), small-scale enterprises
(2%), and petroleum exploration (2%). At the end of 1980, Jamaica's debt
to the Bank stood at US$171 million, or 14% of external debt outstanding
and disbursed; debt service to the Bank during the year amounted to US$16.7
million, or 10% total debt service. These shares are not expected to
change substantially in the next five years. The undisbursed amount of
Bank loans as of July 31, 1981 amounted to US$101.8 million. There have
been three IFC investments in Jamaica; a loan in 1961 to a pre-mix concrete
company, an equity/loan investment in 1968 in a hotel project, and a loan
in 1980 to a glass container company.
38.       Bank lending in Jamaica has covered a wide range of sectors and
development problems. Initially, the Bank lending program emphasized
infrastructure investment. Although financing for this purpose continued,
the emphasis of the lending program in the early and middle 1970s moved to
the social sectors, with projects in education, population and nutrition,
housing and employment for the urban poor and rural development. In
response to the changing economic situation, a further shift in Bank
lending took place in Jamaica in the late 1970s. The priority needs of
1/ Including a telecommunications loan made in 1967 to the Jamaica
Telephone Company and cancelled in the same year.



- 11 -
this most recent period have been the country's critical short-to-medium
balance of payments and production requirements. Thus, the FY78 lending
program contained a US$30 million program loan and an US$18 million loan
for the rehabilitation of sugar factories. The FY79 US$12 million forestry
project and US$31.5 million second program loan were directed at similar
needs. Most of the program loan proceeds were allocated to the financing
of import needs of export industries through the establishment of a
revolving Export Development Fund. Other FY79 lending operations included
a fourth highway loan of US$16.0 million and a small-scale industry loan of
US$7.0 million. No loans were made in FY80 due to the absence of a
medium-term economic program. In FY81, the Bank made a second loan for the
Export Development Fund and a loan for offshore petroleum exploration.
39.       Project implementation difficulties have been endemic to Bank and
other internationally financed projects. These difficulties have had three
principal causes: (i) shortage of key personnel; (ii) organizational and
structural problems in the public sector, including inadequacies in the
management systems used in planning and controlling projects; and (iii)
budgeting restraints resulting in shortages of local financing. The
difficult economic conditions of the last several years have affected and
intensified the problems in all areas. The Government, the Bank and other
international agencies are taking steps to deal with them in existing
projects and in the design of new projects, but it is too early to assess
the impact of these steps.
40.       Future Bank lending to Jamaica is predicated on an acceptable
economic program, including an export-oriented economic policy and a
satisfactory public sector investment program. The lending program for the
next three years emphasizes loans designed to contribute to a rapid
improvement in the balance of payments situation. Loans under preparation
include a loan to expand the Kingston Free Zone aimed at encouraging
additional foreign investment for export industries, and a loan for
technical assistance. The Government has also requested a structural
adjustment loan to finance imports of necessary inputs to expand industrial
and agricultural production. Other projects which have been identified for
future consideration include a third power project, a project in
agriculture related to sugar and banana rehabilitation and an export
industries project to provide long-term credits for capital investment by
export industries.
41.       Coordination with other external lenders and assistance agencies
has been given particular attention in formulating the Bank's lending
strategy. The Bank has taken a lead role in an international aid effort
for the Caribbean called the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development. The Group has met annually in Washington since 1978. The
Group has brought together the donor agencies and countries and the
recipient countries. Within the framework of the Group, individual country
subgroup meetings, similar to Bank consultative group meetings, have been
held. The subgroup meetings for Jamaica have provided an opportunity to
present a country project list and to coordinate overall assistance
efforts. As a result of the Caribbean Group and subgroup meetings, and of



- 12 -
related donor activities, Jamaica has received commitments, exclusive of
Bank and IMF assistance, for additional balance of payments and project
local cost financing of US$225 million in FY81 from several bilateral and
multilateral donors. This assistance financed inter alia the local cost
requirements of several Bank-assisted projects. The Caribbean Group has
also provided a basis for cofinancing foreign exchange costs with the OPEC
Special Fund in the Bank-assisted Second Power Project. In addition to the
close relationship established with the IMF and the UNDP in dealing with
Jamaican problems, the Bank has worked intimately with other sponsoring
agencies of the Caribbean Group--the Inter-American Development Bank and
the Caribbean Development Bank--as well as with bilateral aid agencies in
several major donor countries.
PART III - VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL TRAINING
Overview
42.       The Government's most urgent task in the education sector is to
expand and improve the vocational and technical training system to support
its policy of production expansion and employment generation. Jamaica
provides vocational and technical training at all levels--professional,
technician and craftsman. Men and women have equal access to training
institutions. Recurrent expenditure on vocational and technical training
amounts to 25% of the total public recurrent expenditure on education. The
training system has the potential to meet the country's manpower require-
ments, but important issues must be settled before this potential can be
fully realized. The system needs increases in output in response to
clearly identified needs; qualitative improvements to bring its trainees up
to standards of skill and productivity required by the economy; and
strengthening in management to ensure adequate planning, evaluation and
coordination of its various skill training programs.
Institutions
43.       The two most important institutions in the field of vocational
training are the College of Arts, Science and Technology (CAST) under the
Ministry of Education and the Vocational Training Development Institute
(VTDI) under the Ministry of Youth. CAST which was established in 1958
provides courses in Engineering, Building, Commerce, Science, Institutional
Management, Food Service, Computer Science, and Technical Education.
Students are graduates from secondary schools that have passed an admission
examination. Two, three and four year full-time courses are offerred. The
VTDI was founded in 1970 with assistance from UNDP and ILO. It is the
principal center for the training of instructors at different levels for
the Industrial Training Centers (ITCs), Government departments, the voca-
tional streams of the secondary schools and for instruction for in-plant
training and apprenticeship programs in industry. Entrants to the one-year
courses generally have 3-5 years of industrial experience. Courses are
offerred in construction, mechanical, electrical, wood and metal work and
hotel trades.



- 13 -
Issues in Vocational and Technical Training
44.       The Government, in its effort to reverse the downward trend of
the economy which has been prevalent since 1973, has adopted an
export-oriented program of economic revitalization aimed at self-sustaining
growth. The successful implementation of the Government's economic program
partly depends on the availability of trained personnel of the right
quality and quantity. A comparison between the projected manpower require-
ments of the 1980s and the corresponding flow from secondary, post-secon-
dary and nonformal skill training institutions reveals shortages of
professional, managerial and technical personnel, skilled craftsmen and
production line workers. This indicates that the Government needs to
improve its vocational and technical training system to make it capable of
responding effectively to the manpower needs of the economy and the employ-
ment needs of the population. Three issues face the training system and
have to be addressed: inadequate output, low quality and inadequate
management.
45.       Inadequate Output.  There is a need for a modest expansion of the
training system to meet identified shortages in specific technical fields.
Estimated annual manpower requirements for 1980-1990 indicate the need for
50 additional technical teachers of secondary schools, 15 computer techni-
cians, 20 advanced chemical technicians, and 70 instructors to train
workers and students of secondary schools and Industrial Training Centers
(ITCs) in certain specific trades concerned with repairs and maintenance.
CAST and VTDI lack adequate and appropriate facilities to meet the
projected manpower requirements. CAST requires extensions to workshops for
its Department of Technical Education. New accommodations are needed for
its Department of Computer Science, and additional laboratories are needed
for its Department of Science, which is responsible for the training of
chemical technicians. VTDI requires new workshop areas for instructor
training. Moreover, the Government recognizes that there is an urgent need
for a special program for self-employment in skill training, and
management, designed for graduates of secondary schools and Industrial
Training Centers (ITCs). This program is of an experimental nature and the
Government proposes the establishment of two pilot Industrial Production
Centers (IPCs) for the implementation of it. These would be operated under
the responsibility of the Ministry of Youth.
46.       Low Quality.  The quality of the training provided by the tech-
nical and vocational institutions is adversely affected by lack of quali-
fied staff, appropriate curricula, learning materials and equipment, and
evaluation services. Unqualified staff. A study conducted in 1978-79
shows that more than 40% of the technical teachers in secondary schools are
unqualified to teach technical subjects. As a result, the practical
aspects of training are improperly taught. CAST has a summer teacher
diploma progam for unqualified teachers, but the course lasts too long



- 14 -
(seven to eight summers) to be able to retain many students to completion.
Inappropriate curricula. CAST has become a training center for health
technicians, in response to the growing requirements of the Government's
health care programs. CAST needs, however, to update and develop appro-
priate curricula for its various allied health courses to fit local condi-
tions. Insufficient learning materials and equipment. Shortages of
appropriate learning materials for various courses are evident at both VTDI
and CAST. The present learning resources neither supplement adequately the
teaching of existing courses nor encourage research and individual
learning. Lack of evaluation services. There has been only one tracer
study related to vocational training, which was done for 1976 secondary
school graduates. The lack of systematic evaluation studies deprives the
training system of needed assessment and subsequent improvement of the
quality of its programs and their relevance to manpower requirements.
47.       Inadequate Managerial Services.  The efficiency of the vocational
training system suffers because there is no overall coordination of the
various skill training activities, and the Ministry of Youth and Community
Development (MOY) lacks planning capacity. First, there is no
comprehensive policy or common strategy for the development of the training
system. As a result of limited coordination among three ministries
offering vocational training, Ministry of Education (MOE), MOY, and
Ministry of Industry and Commerce (MOI)), there is no uniformity of
admissions, standards, curricula, staff, and duration, for vocational
courses. Left uncoordinated, these institutions are unable to prevent
duplication and waste. There has also been a lack of communication between
the training system and the representatives of industry and trade unions;
this undermines the efficiency, effectiveness and coordination of
vocational training activities. Secondly, the MOY, which has
administrative responsibility for most of the nonformal training activities
for out-of-school youth and adults, has no planning and evaluation
services. Such services are essential for the development of the
Ministry's policies, plans, programs and projects, and for the assessment
of their effectiveness.
Government Sector Policy and Strategy
48.       The Government's present educational policy emphasizes the
central role of education in the development of Jamaican society. The
policy envisages: (a) the improvement of existing training institutions;
(b) the provision of educational opportunities for all children through the
age of 16; and (c) the streamlining of the training system to make it capa-
ble of responding effectively to the manpower needs of the economy and the
employment needs of the population. In light of the Government's present
major objective to promote economic growth, through a major production and
export effort, with concomitant increases in employment opportunities, the
streamlining of the training system has become the immediate objective of
the Government in the education sector. The Government's major long-range
priority in the area of human resources development is the improvement of



- 15 -
primary education. Improved primary school curricula have already been
prepared, but their effective implementation is hindered by lack of appro-
priate learning materials. The Government intends to develop and test such
materials as the first step towards the production of better learning
materials for all primary school students. The Government has requested
Bank assistance for the improvement of its training system, and also for
the development and testing of learning materials for primary education.
Bank Lending Strategy
49.       Bank lending in Jamaica has included two education projects--
Loans 468-JM and 727-JM. Both projects provided substantial assistance
towards the development of secondary education (junior and comprehensive)
and post-secondary educational institutions (the Teacher Training Colleges,
the College of Arts, Science and Technology (CAST), and the Jamaican School
of Agriculture (JSA)). The projects added about 50,000 student places in
secondary schools, 1,175 student places in teacher training colleges, 390
additional places in CAST, 390 student places in JSA, and 320 student
places in the Industrial Training Centers (ITCs). The present actual
enrollments in these institutions exceed initial plans by 15%-30%.2/
50.       The Project Performance Audit Report for Loan 468-JM and the
Project Completion Report for Loan 727-JM (the PPAR is not yet completed)
point out a number of implementation problems that affected the two
projects. The major problems were the shortage of counterpart funds and
the frequent changes of key personnel. Proper budgetary arrangements for
the maintenance of the institutions covered by the projects were not
provided. The project implementation unit did not have any clear authority
and sufferred from frequent changes of key personnel. The proposed project
should benefit from the lessons learned. The Government has presented a
plan for its annual financial contributions to the project. The
utilization of the National Development Agency by the MOE and the MOY for
the implementation of the project should contribute to avoid many of the
problems faced by the previous projects.
51.       The present Bank lending strategy is to support projects to which
the Government attaches a high priority and which will have a direct impact
on the medium-term economic recovery of Jamaica. In the education sector
this means that the Bank should support the Government's objective of
upgrading the quality of the labor force both to increase production and to
reduce unemployment. Increasing the quality and capacity of the training
system and improving its management would make an important contribution to
meet the identified manpower requirements of the economy.
2/ In the case of CAST, enrollments increased by 160% between 1973/74 and
1980/81. Because of this, overcrowding has occurred and buildings
scheduled for replacement by the Loan 468-JM continue to be used.



- 16 -
52.       The Bank would also support the development and testing of
learning materials for primary education, without which the new primary
school curricula cannot be properly implemented.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
53.       A report entitled "Jamaica - Staff Appraisal Report on a Third
Education Project (Technical and Vocational) (No. 24502-JM, dated
November 16, 1981) is being distributed separately. The project was
appraised in May 1981. Annex III contains a timetable of key events in
processing the project and a description of the special conditions of the
proposed loan. Negotiations for the proposed loan took place in
Washington, D.C., from November 9 to 12, 1981. The Jamaican delegation was
led by Mrs. Maisie O'Reggio.
Objectives and Scope
54.       The proposed project would address the issues of Jamaica's tech-
nical and vocational education system by pursuing three objectives:  selec-
tive expansion, quality improvement and improved management.  First, the
project would seek to expand the output of the system selectively to meet
identified manpower demands.  Second, the project would seek to improve the
quality of training at CAST and VTDI. Third, the project would help
strengthen the managerial capacity of the overall training system by sup-
porting the creation of a National Industrial Training Board and the
establishment of a Planning and Evaluation Division of MOY. In addition,
the project would finance a pre-investment study to assist the Government
in preparing better teaching materials for primary education. Specifi-
cally, the project would include: (a) construction, equipping and furnish-
ing of extensions to CAST and VTDI, and two new Industrial Production
Centers (IPCs); (b) provision of technical assistance; and (c) a pre-
investment study for the development of learning materials for primary
education.
55.       The College of Arts, Science and Technology (CAST).  In order to
improve the quality and increase the output of the technician training
system, the project would finance the improvement of three departments at
CAST--Technical Education, Computer Science, and Science, as well as the
library and maintenance unit.
(a)  Department of Technical Education.  The Department would be
expanded to provide for the training and upgrading of secondary
technical and commercial teachers required in the 1980s. Enroll-
ments in construction, electrical, and mechanical technology,
business studies and secretarial studies would increase by 105.
In addition a year-long, full-time diploma course would be
established to enable 45 teachers who have attained credits equi-
valent to the second-year diploma course through summer courses



- 17 -
to acquire a diploma.   Increased student enrollments would
require 11 additional staff members. Project fellowships would
be provided for staff upgrading.   Agreement has been reached
between the Government and the Bank on a detailed staff develop-
ment plan, covering both recruitment and training, for the staff
required by this and all project institutions.
(b) Department of Computer Science. The project would convert the
present CAST library building into the Department of Computer
Science and provide appropriate furniture and equipment. CAST
already owns a computer with ancillary equipment, but also needs
a small educational computer and a small-business micro-computer
for demonstration purposes. The new arrangements would enable
the Department to increase its annual output of computer techni-
cians from 10 to 25, provide training for up to 250 Department of
Commerce students, and perform general administrative services
for CAST. By the completion of the project (1984-85) the
academic and technical staff would have to be increased by 5. A
project fellowship would enable a senior member of the academic
staff to undertake an upgrading course overseas in data
processing management.
(c) Department of Science. The project would construct, furnish and
equip a new science wing, which would include four laboratories
and auxiliary accommodations. With those facilities the Depart-
ment would no longer need to use off-campus laboratories. The
project would allow the Department to increase its workload by
20% within the Department and by 13% in its services to other
departments.  Within the Department, programs in chemical techno-
logy would be expanded and would provide third-year diploma
options in sugar technology, agro- and food industries, and the
manufacture of products for export or import substitution.
Enrollments in these programs would increase from 40 to 90.
Additional Department staff requirements would be 11 profes-
sionals and 2 laboratory technicians. Technical assistance would
be provided for the curriculum development of allied health
services. New and current staff would be able to improve their
knowledge and skills through fellowships under the project.
(d) Library/Learning Resource Center. The project would construct,
furnish and equip a new Library/Learning Resource Center which
would have a seating capacity for 300 persons and facilities for
about 45,000 books, periodicals and audiovisual aids. The center
would be used by more than 3,000 students of all the faculties
and 200 teachers. The use of educational technology for teaching
and learning at the learning resource center would become part of
the training of technical teachers. The new Library/Learning
Resource Center would require two additional junior librarians
and one audiovisual technician. The project includes fellowships
in educational technology and in polytechnic library administra-
tion and operations.



- 18 -
(e) College Maintenance Unit. The project would provide CAST with
fully furnished and equipped maintenance shops for the upkeep of
the College and its laboratories. The new facilities would
enhance the teaching of practical maintenance to students,
including science equipment maintenance, for which one fellowship
would be provided by the project.
56.       The Vocational Training Development Institute (VTDI).  The pro-
ject would help the VTDI to increase its output of instructors and workers
in specific trades, to develop new teaching programs and to establish sys-
tems to assess the effectiveness of its training. First, the project would
construct, furnish and equip five workshops, adding about 70 new places to
existing accommodation for the training of an equivalent number of voca-
tional training instructors every year. About 20 of the graduates of the
instructors' courses are expected to be employed by private industry and
the Government for the training and upgrading of workers, through
in-service, in-plant and apprentice training arrangements. About 50 others
would be used as training staff in industrial training centers, youth com-
munity training centers and secondary schools. The VTDI program would be
expected to train and upgrade about 10,000 additional workers between 1985
and 1995. Secondly, new courses of specialization given by the VTDI would
include mechanical repairs and maintenance, air conditioning/refrigeration,
radio/television, industrial electronics, and automobile repairs. Nine
senior instructors, together with six workshop assistants would be required
for the additional programs. Local staff are expected to be available for
the agricultural and automotive courses. The project, however, would pro-
vide technical assistance to train staff and develop curricula in the
subject areas of industrial electronics, radio/television, and air condi-
tioning/refrigeration for which local qualified staff is not available.
The third objective, evaluation of training outcomes, is described under
the section below entitled "Evaluation."
57.       Industrial Production Centers (IPCs).  Programs to promote
employment are urgently needed. The purpose of an IPC would be to train
people for self-employment. An IPC would consist of workshops for both
training and production. The proposed project would finance the construc-
tion, furniture and equipment for the establishment of the first two IPCs
in the country. The IPC in Kingston would train 140 students, and the IPC
in Montego Bay 120. Trainees should already have reached the skill level
of a junior craftsman. The one-year intensive courses offered by the IPCs
would be intended for persons interested in self-employment or small
cooperative ventures. The courses would focus on both the organization and
management of the small modern business or cooperative venture and the
development of knowledge and skills required by a senior craftsman. While
in training the trainees would produce and sell goods and services, espe-
cially maintenance services. This would enable the IPCs to meet a small
part of their training costs. The selection of crafts offered by each



- 19 -
center would be guided by local, regional and national needs. A total of
14 instructors and 14 workshop assistants would be needed for the operation
of both Centers. The teaching staff of IPCs would be recruited from among
experienced instructors and senior instructors trained by the VTDI. The
staff of each Center would be headed by a Production Manager, who would be
trained through the technical assistance program. The Production Managers
would report directly to the Director of Training of the MOY. Since this
is a pilot project, it is not possible to determine at this stage whether
it would lead to a larger future program. If the evaluation of this pilot
project is favorable, the Government intends to establish additional
centers financed from other resources.
Technical Assistance
58.       Management Improvement.  An important purpose of the project
would be to support the Government in strengthening the managerial capacity
of its training system by establishing: (a) the National Industrial
Training Board, and (b) a Planning and Evaluation Division in the MOY.
Specialist services would be provided through the project to help the
Government establish appropriate organizational, administrative and finan-
cial arrangements for the National Industrial Training Board. The Board,
to be actively supported by the Government, industry, trade unions and the
training institutions, would undertake an overall coordinating role for all
industrial training activities. It would promote the development of
industrial training curricula, the establishment of trade standards and
testing for certification, and the monitoring and evaluation of industrial
training programs. The Board would base its work on the staff resources of
the existing institutions and not acquire any staff of its own. The
National Industrial Training Board would be established on terms agreed to
with the Bank by December 31, 1983 (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
59.       Specialists and fellowships would also help the MOY to establish
a Planning and Evaluation Division. This Division would deal with the
collection and analysis of statistical data, the carrying out of research
and the formulation of the Ministry's plans, programs and projects, and the
monitoring and evaluation of their implementation.
60.       Overall, the project would finance the equivalent of about 84
staff-months of specialist services and about 207 staff-months of
fellowships. In addition to strengthening the managerial capacity of the
training system, the technical assistance program would support the
Government's efforts at improving the quality of the system. This would be
achieved through the training and upgrading of the teaching staff of CAST,
VTDI and IPCs in areas of specialization already indicated under each
project component.
61.       Evaluation.  A plan would be prepared by the Borrower, with tech-
nical assistance provided by the project, for the establishment of an eval-
uation system. The purpose of this system would be to assess the effect-
iveness of the training activities provided at CAST, VTDI and IPCs and
financed under the proposed project. The activities to be carried out by



- 20 -
the MOY and CAST would include evaluation of the effect of training on both
the trained technicians and workers and the industrial firms which provide
employment to graduates of the project institutions. The Government has
agreed that a plan for the evaluation of the performance of each project
institution, with special emphasis on the experimental work of IPCs, would
be prepared by MOY and CAST and submitted to the Bank for review and
comments by December 31, 1982 (Schedule 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
62.        Pre-Investment Study.  Experience in Jamaica has shown that
revised primary school curricula cannot be introduced effectively, and
student achievements suffer without appropriate supporting learning
materials. The project would help correct the present lack of teaching
materials by financing a pre-investment study for the development of new
textbooks and teachers' guides for primary schools. The study would
finance the salaries of researchers, writers and evaluators of the learning
materials and supplies required for their preparation, field testing and
editing. A condition of disbursement for the pre-investment study would be
a submission to the Bank of a detailed work plan for the execution of the
study. Although this component is not directly related to the vocational
training objective of the other components of the project, it represents a
very high Government priority in the education sector which may form the
basis for future investments in the preparation of primary education
learning materials.
Cost Estimates and Financing
63.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$11.3 mil-
lion net of taxes. It includes physical contingencies of US$0.3 million
and price contingencies of US$2.7 million. The proposed Bank loan of
US$6.8 million, equivalent to about 60% of total project cost, would
finance 100% of the foreign exchange costs. The balance of project costs
would be borne by the Government.
64.       In view of difficulties experienced under Loans 468-JM and 727-JM
in the provision of sufficient counterpart funds for timely implementation,
the Government has agreed to review with the Bank by January 31 of each
year, the adequacy of the counterpart funding proposals for the project
(Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
65.       Recurrent annual expenditures for the completed project are
estimated at about J$2.3 million (at May 1981 prices), which is about 0.7%
of the Government's total recurrent education budget in 1981-82. This
amount is not expected to cause an undue strain on the Government's
resources. The cost of consumable materials included in the
project-generated recurrent costs is expected to be partly met from income
received for services rendered at the Industrial Production Centers (IPCs).



- 21 -
Project Implementation
66.       The proposed project has reached an advanced stage of preparation
and could be implemented in three years (1982-84). The implementation of
civil works and the procurement of furniture and equipment would be under-
taken by the National Development Agency (NDA) on behalf of the Ministries
of Education (MOE) and Youth and Community Development (MOY). The NDA,
which comes under the administrative jurisdiction of the Ministry of
Finance, has already demonstrated its capacity for project work in the
implementation of the civil works of the Second Education Project (Loan
727-JM) and in the preparation of the proposed project. The implementation
of the educational aspects of the project, including the evaluation of
tenders for furniture and equipment, and the selection of education
specialists and candidates for fellowships, would be the responsibility of
the MOE and MOY. To ensure the necessary coordination between the two
ministries and the NDA for the timely execution of the project, each
Ministry has appointed a liaison officer to work closely with the NDA.
Procurement
67.       Construction.  Construction contracts would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, following the procedures
used in the Second Education Project (Loan 727-JM), and satisfactory to the
Bank. Foreign contractors are not expected to participate in the tenders,
but they would not be precluded from submitting bids. Construction
supervision would be carried out by the consulting firms responsible for
design as well as by the NDA's project architect and engineers.
68.       Furniture and Equipment.  Contracts for furniture, equipment, and
educational materials would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for
procurement. However, furniture, equipment and educational materials that
cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$100,000 would be procured
through local competitive bidding procedures (LCB) acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement under LCB is not expected, in aggregate, to exceed US$800,000
equivalent or about 20% of the total cost of furniture, equipment and
learning materials to be procured. Orders for furniture, equipment and
materials estimated to cost less than $10,000, but not exceeding a total of
$100,000 should be purchased after the solicitation of at least three
quotations from suppliers. Contracts for procurement of furniture and
equipment of less than US$50,000 would not require Bank approval prior to
the award of the contracts. In the case of procurement under ICB
procedures, domestic manufacturers would receive a margin of preference of
15% of the CIF cost or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower.



- 22 -
Maintenance
69.       In view of irregular maintenance of facilities financed under
previous projects, the Government has agreed that (a) maintenance manuals
for the upkeep of the buildings provided under the project would be pre-
pared by NDA, by the time each building is commissioned; (b) supervisors
for each project building would receive training in appropriate techniques;
and (c) a three-year budget proposal for maintenance of all project
institutions, approved by the Ministry of Finance, would be submitted to
the Bank for comment by March 31, 1984 (Section 3.05 of the Loan
Agreement).
Disbursements
70.       Loan proceeds would be disbursed over a three-year period.  This
rapid disbursement rate is justified by the advanced stage of project pre-
paration and the priority accorded the project by the Government.   Bank
financing would meet 100% of total expenditure for technical assistance,
fellowships and the pre-investment study; 100% of foreign expenditures and
85% of local expenditures for furniture, equipment and educational
materials; 35% of total expenditure for civil works, and 20% of total
expenditures for professional fees and project administration.  In general,
disbursements would be made against full documentation. Requests for
disbursements or reimbursements out of the loan account would be prepared
by each ministry separately and forwarded to the Ministry of Finance which
would transmit to the Bank these applications and receive all
disbursements/reimbursements from the Bank. Disbursements against small
local expenditures and by invitation of quotes' purchases, each less than
US$10,000, would be made against statements of exenditures (SOEs).
Supporting documentation would, however, be retained and made available for
review by visiting Bank missions. Disbursements against SOEs would be made
on the basis of a summary of quarterly expenditures; in any case, SOEs
would be aggregated to amounts not less than US$10,000 per withdrawal. The
two ministries would provide NDA with the funds required for implementation
out of their own special allocations. Retroactive financing up to
US$100,000 would cover expenditures incurred prior to loan signing for
professional services, technical assistance and project administration
after May 31, 1981.
Accounting and Auditing
71.       The MOE, MOY and NDA, whose accounting systems are acceptable to
the Bank, would each keep separate accounts by category for the project. A
quarterly summary of each account reflecting cumulative expenditures
incurred by the end of the quarter would accompany quarterly progress
reports sent to the Bank for information. Project accounts of the two
ministries would be audited annually by qualified officers of the office of
the Auditor General and a copy of the audit report would be sent to the
Bank by September 30 of each year during project implementation (Section
4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 23 -
Benefits and Risks
72.       Benefits.  The main objective of the project is to increase the
supply of skilled manpower. By training an estimated 1,500 technical
teachers under the project between 1985 and 1995 it is projected that
during the same period 35,000 students in about equal numbers of men and
women would receive substantially better training for employment than would
have been the case without the project. In addition the instructors of
VTDI in fields presently not available would be able to allow an estimated
10,000 workers by 1995, or around half the workers employed in these areas,
to improve their skills and employment prospects. The special training
provided by IPCs is expected to qualify about 260 workers every year to
become self-employed, improve incomes of graduates and provide a basis for
future expansion of the program. The project would also help strengthen
the managerial capacity of the training system. The National Industrial
Training Board should promote efficiency and help avoid duplication in the
future development of the training system. Out-of-school populations--male
and female and in all parts of the country--are expected to benefit from
the establishment of a Planning and Evaluation Division at MOY, which would
help ensure proper development of new youth training programs, such that
more youth can be trained with available resources.
73.       Risks.  Several risks are foreseen.  First, complications might
arise because of the involvement of three separate institutions in project
implementation. To avoid these complications, liaison officers have been
appointed by the client-ministries (MOE and MOY) to ensure necessary
coordination with NDA. Second, the training programs and production
activities of IPCs might require adjustment and modification in the light
of their experimental nature and changing conditions. The work of the IPCs
would be closely monitored by the evaluation services of the MOY and the
Bank. Third, Jamaica has for a long time suffered from the "brain drain"
caused by massive emigration. Whether this trend will continue or whether
a growing number of emigrants will return in the hope that economic
conditions are going to improve in Jamaica remains to be seen. However, it
is clear that Jamaican manpower at all levels is highly mobile and that a
future deterioration of the economic and social situation would lead to an
increase in emigration. The problem of creating sufficient incentives to
retain skilled technical manpower in Jamaica can only be dealt with through
policies leading to economic growth, personal security and tax policies
that recognize proper income rewards for skills. Thus, it is general
Government policies, rather than specific actions related to this project,
that will determine how great this particular risk turns out to be. The
pragmatic and undoctrinaire approach of the Government augurs well in this
regard. Two risks of a general nature, which have been experienced in most
Bank-financed projects in Jamaica in recent years, might be added; the
provision of counterpart funds and adequate staff. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that provisions would be made for training and
recruiting staff and providing sufficient counterpart financing.



- 24 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Government of Jamaica and
the Bank, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
separately. Special conditions of the loan are listed in Annex III,
Section III.
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
By
Attachments                                     Ernest Stern
November 24, 1981



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
- 25 -
JAMAICA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JAMAICA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE"GES
LAND AREA (THOUSANO SQ. 104.)                                                     - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             11.0                                MUST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       4.8              1960  1b    1970 A ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA 4 CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
GNh PER CAPITA (USM)                 470.0       830.0    1260.0                1616.2                   2609.1
ENERGY CUNSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRANS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     445.6      1298.6    1389.6               1324.1                    2368.4
POPULATIUN AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1629.0      1869.0    2159.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 33.8        41.6      48.9                 64.2                      53.2
POPULATION PRUJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       3.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MlLLIONS)                         5.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      148.1       169.9     196.3                 34.3                      80.6
PER SQ. KK. AGRICULTURAL LAND    327.0       392.0     448.4                 94.5                     133.9
POPULATION AGE STRuCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                         41.7        47.0      41.7                 40.7                      30.1
15-64 YRS.                         54.0        47.5      52.4                 55.3                     61.5
65 YhS. AND ABOVE                   4.3         5.5       5.9                  4.0                       8.3
POPULATION GROWTH HATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.5/c       1.4/c     1.6/c                2.4                       1.5
URBAN                              3.8         3.5       3.4                  3.7                       3.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    39.5         34.9      28.5                 31.2                      22.9
CRUDE DEATH BATE (PER THOUSAND)      9.4         7.5       6.5                  8.4                       9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.4         2.7       1.9                   2.3                      1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        19.3    ;,27.0
USERS (PEBCENT OP MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..      40.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          98.0        99.0      99.0                108.3                     119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   91.0       111.0     119.0                107.6                     125.7
PROTElINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         56.0        67.0      70.0                 65.8                     92.5
OP WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       28.0        33.0      35.0                 34.0                      39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MDRTALITY RATE      7.2         3.7       2.9                  7.6                       3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   64.2         68.9      70.8                 64.1                      68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           51.5        32.2      16.2                 70.9                      25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             20.9        62.0      86.0                 65.7
URBAh                             50.7       100.0     100.0                 79.7
RURAL                              5.7        48.0      79.0                 43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        94.0      94.0                 59.9
URBAN                               ..       100.0     100.0                 75.7
RURAL                                         92.0      91.0                 30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2589.8      2632.4    3523.0               1728.2                     973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     1990.01d    1717.8     547.0               1288.2                     896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            241.2/d     243.6     263.0                471.2                     262.3
URBAN                               ..       245.9        ..                558.0                     191.8
RURAL                               ..          ..
ADMISSIUNS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        17.0      19.0                   ..                      18.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              3.9         4.3
URBAN                              2.7          ..
RURAL                              4.8          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTIAL                             1.9         1.6
URBAN                              1.6          ..
RURAL                              2.0          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..        27.0
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
- 26 -
JAMAICA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JAMAICA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (IWEIGHTED AVERA IS
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOHE
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA A CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 92.0        119.0      98.0                  101.7                    105.9
MALE                  92.0       119.0       97.0                 103.0                    109.6
FEMALE                93.0       119.0       98.0                 101.5                    102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 45.0         46.0      58.0                  35.3                      66.3
MALE                  44.0        46.0       55.0                  34.9                     73.2
FEHALE                46.0        45.0       61.0                  35.6                     59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   9.0           5.5        2.3                  30.1                     28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            55.0         47.0      49.0                  29.6                      26.8
SECONDARY                          21.0         26.0      22.0                  15.7                      23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        82.0         95.4         ..                  80.0                     75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         20.0         39.0      45.0                  42.6                      83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         90.2        267.5     263.9                  215.0                    181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.0         37.5      57.1                  89.0                     131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  63.0        114.0      48.0                   62.8                    123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..       0.2                    3.2                      5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       606.9        631.5      762.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   37.2         38.8      39.7                  22.6                      32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              39.0         29.5      21.8                   35.0                     34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 24.9         25.6      25.2                  23.2                      28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                37.3         33.8       35.3                  31.8                     42.3
MALE                                 48.7         42.4       43.6                  49.0                     56.5
FEMALE                               26.7         25.6       27.4                  14.6                     28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2         1.6        1.3                   1.4                      0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
NIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   30. 2/e         ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.2T7          ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSgHOLDS    2.2Te          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    8.2/e          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     501.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     439.0                 187.6.
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     585.0                 513.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..     509.0                 362.2                     385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..      80.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Due to eaigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d 1963;  /e 1958.
May, 1981



ANNEX I
-27 -                                                                     Page 3 of 6
ntEFINTIoeS OP SOC-IDIAiliCfTOtS
totes'Althogh th  dscnate dooo iccc etcosa   enteely  loged te          ... .h.s..a...        oihl. -i-"     teha-id  aleha I nod trr  A>  o  'c  h
ntTionalIly coparale because .i the lack   fIstIddised  dfntosan   ocpsuedIbIiiren   cicilslc "Il                                              "Iin   thedcs  -cuInce   con-
belesa   -eful to describ   orerIf    oiud,            iOt a-  tredB, and che...ct-ri-  -ertain rulr d ifirr _c                   _
Thee!srne  gouseo lch-aaco-iiiYsrcotPcf thesubh-eotcnurry andd)   souney g-cupithsoeechac hgheca--gcsse   lotrhh-otht Cc--ygo
of the  ujc   aer    itr   o  'Capita"1411        Surylue Ol  toptr.iers'*    . gropher  ''Middle lo--e  M-ori  Africa and Middle Case'' fa  iher becase of --reger
tald ehy   (tosads_       a 
toleted hy acne  occara5cr Metho  as Acri  Mee Idla 1197-79hal) --_       i,bend nelie  cer                          oep-ae1l   nudbyapyiia    heh
f.IU ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dsIonbl and pebns  liisd e--ng                                                              _ ci                   hIdlial  fallsds Pn  tat-
ff10  fflaTf   h  CaPITA11,1-         -byulrocfto    itserlleeg   oa                                      atoa  porpess  una-      eyn      includ  hill.pnFilr_lfsesrs  hys.l.sla,
an  lgnt,   esceo,  aorl  s  ad   ydo    unerEodgotera  eec-diand rea  h..ap..s.. locl ndd                                       or   hosp Itas  n  medic        l and hafetly
nrsl.Iy) ccAlgan,          ica  edaLoleT per cApte; l... 119ff.b sod  19t9'                           cesr.Ieisie    optasaeItoldal   ee    mId.
POC IOd u979 lanid. iToIIC
Total                                                                                                              i.i-t, nidd'nar  thuatff    h,ot-hly1;190h197,hnd109foino
Ienscetnea   1907   _107IP7                            16,  90 andd1799daa,                     th  Inoseho ld  o   tisadh-ical. cudry-d a
Prolecttoc panananara for enrceltty  tacea~~~f  ~Iy 1 cos 960ee 1of 0three   1979eeon  nocoopndpet
denf isr- dferfti-it   fi  also .....  thre ff, e ons    bl      i g    log  ecie  In              nf renal, urban.go   t.a   In          T ire Reapecisosly
f -h-nctyis t96nt assigned con9 of        - thseniehoninfinsofnotadt fft.T
aetna constant,  Otisin entiened ocly afer tact lonsy ratesdicr  to p9n0ts-acr  a                     I.o- .. n0iat all; n~l   toc .d . pttadee        sdis
nba  ep hcennt lnei  rCsi- te  nrdgtiono..... ohm  eahgneeln                                  er  ho   d)a        inn dafreilegHsn -iay   dce  on-e
of sner cepecto  nseifrsachly.  Te statoosn    pnsdro  alsea                            eorinn          unien         11edcainoeag     ln  sey enre  101 pernen
sits has haoneached.                                                                            so_llyaTh.cpf  rsar"Io  "I crrsnnenanoeill,snral
an elara  100.190  nd199  ana                                                               ttlOcetIles,t...nil,enethriroess  hio oecnstaeped
lansan; 1900. 1971, sad 1979 data.h..                                                 Molt....h  II-- lteracy  -.I rnon 7I   - L.iteat  -dl    able. an rad-nd  etlnef
eIhn   for.... I9Sf-hf              I961-f  ,andh1971-79.iPasysoge  Cas  ye d                                          tha osafd rifulanof  Issgrcasn                 fp-e  a
ioultien; 19_ 1  19ff  and  1979-    dasa.        ff-il   eIt 1   ~Pa_                              ltnarnsttlhas-.                    -     S1        C..  l   .     -
crl-et.      aefa   hssn)-Asa   etepnshaed   ralya                                                 aI Iscetoer- fer   Ihnsn            f-relytor)   Iltyeof p       ncstand  ro  rady
perolalon   190, 19f, sd 197  laa.                                                       bnedcananogsaerl palTh.en i-assd-0rpcputtadn.sac.ud.s.an
moss    h..idu hanl c-nsaelahe   idaih-h                   an.adil   en  n1 cnaIfeseaalconnisan   n  ersae  ngenas_                                                         I f  gl
tIIny  rate; 196all  fie-er7       nsa0eedig  nldf  19ff7and1979astsco- ntls   eiise   ltcehnh..et..ec.p.
nf tr choornfdk tns  un.der sapi-e  of natona fam giy 1 plannIngprgd s                              aserl     a puhllc     ...t   .fuse   p.Ipalecoy  sei- de t lientdTieseter
resloPsnneisn    nrPn esrtlnot)iecetg-o etillc                                                            haresand-cn        ~      Y,,dy yersttetnaIon- C -   rtene1
ane e.       hldhaln.g   155.fss  saAhi d-   ose1y-) bikrgcb.(1-conld ie   no                       Mstys Coreda Iond-    I.-I  diias        dd   bynoltltnl     Obs  t-he Io 5  can-
all.%) earn dsee In ease age- group.d                                                               to..sl.r nf "daily gese  itrernepee"  drnl  apt oi
G00umeTITIh    n_c is  ..1-A.I   .I                              I            d                         "d Iy   Onfinepaat leasd.1  .tIfon ises e. seek.                  .
Petlnal aeref 19d6e0 pro  nigte1997-0,191  endd19799ddta.                                         fetaf.shn  P_c   noaadl-ionsciyemt   esns   sid
PerCa itasorly  f rinnas  rerA-1 dnfh nenoi       ...e.is        -ftopand fa                tedfnceed-nele    e  setladingahlosel toes  snd                    Fce   et. i
PerP da.1i.  A1960h 197 pplid19s dospels  Ineccpouoln   setels                                      O   esaerhT               19f   n   97    aa
ena ses  seleaed  y  tO  ase  o  ri h  i       pnsoe  needs fo  nos-afl acI-                                           I-h sprenaeo   ee  later, fence: 1901, 19f  and-197  date.
h _senl  ~isoed  191-7, 19ff,d an---di8I    90,17d 19ffdt9.1970 end 197  lana. d~
test seyly of  oed penday.  Me  soyplyof fon   Is  eie    ssne    e                   tllysessnptde  tcfbl , sale I.nd- feed     aba-dforc  as
a ineecho-6.       gas  o d-i nnediprno penI.   dIf   odl  grass..f afiiey   end196....   p1970, hed179dn.   Ths,                         esbae   onIL'  pn.c..scrae
dcnld Pool tonney; 1901-60. 1970 and 1977 dens.                                     to_nte octal labortooc..
rice   fre gseas sa  pusesci ase    etdy        h-t,1f  a-nl191  den.                 CI-flfhth,f
enhP   b   l,0ff ad lien date.                                                                      end she-al...d.d  al  .  II.I,.d ha  ftocenponoed  nttltroesl dernlnuoio..     di-II .
of age pe  thoosan   ion I birth.                                                                    Ahelde  p-enn  in-n   led   itho   fouerscel  nIofchnA    amss
At ds ocaesae  feneno  oond"aninnl-f- ta..uba.  sadil   ...e -d  e-ntinnslydqOR                                          ie   ie  eeeFORC-Ed   eateot  I   i
saersachit  as Pta .ieynennbrble   syrine, an  santroallel asf Oans                                                 I     ..elatoyoryitroIeleor dig e-hu-lofeereg- 1-ncpi
ernngsothI-   r  ea frnid -opalat ions.bTn en ura    ra pabi
foeIn, da r.Atsndpsninntedoosoresatoll_aesegi IIab IIsesyb                                              -p-bnn lcncne19t60 tnn-1979t daao.-ulnice relr
til   I-d Iiijdi:.1dibti%,.    qi,,-                                  Ind rnal- Pecentofb-yciFin  1rhd  sof                 ua)ea  n   esi
In no  ao ccsed aIayoonodt   anc  h  dy  nfthn   the                                               peor".
tarr  leca  I oo ....  uountn-os tan, and _                     tna  -1-tt,-                                 .     -.    .    -.I    ..    .-f
sasb... di.plib_i_ If           r.                         'P.lleecsifacei                                                                                                      196psale
ihe ref lhniod  andId1sp16i, ai70  ord 1977oc dre-n97o, ot  9cs9oaaatae
and sssie        P-ns ihres-er -hon IytsO  the) use            tI of   li ioeael ist-                                                          ..r<'..   P.It.lifston
lee        yIf,    -   a. Nt""                 'f    dIi'id. bestallesians.itco't_u'. 100< c-t fcr  r.c I'"Arrrs
Poolnis  a  Pbeng ... Pti-ae   hoOdei d by ID   ..os      ill cf pr  ntin9 physt-1   PP..'
cisc ..e    I   6   '" qoaffedfr ...loe    .t.e ati'P  " I    O9 unnriyee.....-                     'l.11,1    ::l .Il.                          -         L
Ponlacee  et lorbeePenan-Poplanandtndedby  osOr o  prr_iin
Id                                    E_eI andI                              .ff                           t__                         a Ifsl   acalhe 1.hndanshE   ....I1     I_;.d1s,.     -.



ANNEX I
- 28 -                                  Page 4 of 6
JAMAICA: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
Population:       2.2 million (mid-1980)
GNP Per Capita:  US$1,030 (1980)
Amount
(million US$ at
current prices)                                    Actual
1980                 1975      1976       1977      1978            1979    1980
PRICES
GDP deflator (1974-100)                                 .121.2     134.0      150.4     189.4         219.6    256.0
Exchange rate (J$ per USS)                                 0.91      0.91       1.25      1.48          1.77     1.78
Share of GpP at market prices (%)          Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)b/                  (at constant 1974 prices)
1975      1980       1985                    1975/80  1980/85
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS a/
Gross Domestic Product                2,654             100.0     100.0      100.0                      -3.0       3.6
Agriculture                         218              7.7        8.3        9.1                      - .1      4.5
Industry                           820              36.5       37.0      32.6                       -6.7      6.1
Services                         1,393              55.8       54.7      58.3                       -1.4      2.2
Consumption                           2,337             84.7       88.1       76.3                      -2.6        .2
Gross Domestic Investment               418              26.1      15.7       15.9                     -15.2       8.3
Exports GNFS c/                      1,317              34.6       49.6      48.0                       - .3      8.9
Imports GNFSSc                       1,418              45.4       53.4      40.2                       -7.5      5.1
Gross National Savings                  225             16.0        8.5         -                      -17.2        -
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__-------
As x of GDP
1975/76         1977/78          1980/81 e/
PUBLIC FINANCE d'
Current Revenue                                                                 252!              22.2            26.3
Current Expenditure                                                             23.5              27.9           32.2
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                       1.8              -5.7           -5.9
Capital Expenditure                                                             12.5              11.9            11.3
Foreign Finance (net)                                                            3.8               0.7             6.9
a/  At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net
indirect taxes and subsidies.
b/  Projected years at constant prices.
c/  Based on unrevised balance of payments data.
d/  Fiscal year - April 1/March 31.  Figures refer to Central Government operations.
e/  Estimated.



1975-80                 1980-85
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate ()                     - 5.1                     4.3
GNP per capita growth rate (7)         -5.7                      3.3
ICOR                                   -5.1                      4.1
Marginal savings rate                    n.a.                    n.a.
Imiport elasticity                      4.1                      1.5
Amount                                                        Annual Growth Rates (%)
(million US$ at                                                  (at current 1974 prices)
current prices)                          A c t u a 1                                                 P r o J e c t e d
1980        1976        1977         1978        1979        1980        1981         1982        1983         1984        1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                      961         -16.2         9.0          6.0       -10.7         8.8         6.7          7.3         9.9          5.6        12.1
Primary                              858          -18.8        11.4        -1.3        - 1.0        -1.7         7.1          4.8         7.7          3.2        11.0
Manufacturers                         103         - 2.4          .4         31.6       -45.3        66.2         5.0         16.0        16.0         16.0        16.0
Merchandise imports                    1,170         -24.1       -21.7         14.4       -11.0        -8.3        18.2          7.8        10.5         -2.2        -1.3
Food                                  72          -34.4       -29.6        29.0       -32.6         -2.5       100.0          1.0         3.0         3.0          3.0
Fuels                                450          -14.8        10.2       - 4.6         21.8       -17.6         0            0          -1.3        -1.3          3.1
Machinery & Equipment                 198         -37.3       -25.8       - 5.9          3.3       -19.2         6.4         38.2        40.3        -16.4       -18.8
Other                                450          -16.6       -23.6        32.5       -25.4          2.6        17.1          3.3         4.6         4.5          4.5
PRICES (1974=100)
Export price index                                   149.5       157.7       163.3        187.5       203.3       203.1        213.6       226.0        238.7       255.1
Import price index                                   122.9       128.4       130.0        169.2       215.7       233.1        253.3       273.5        296.5       322.9
Terms of trade index                                 121.6       122.8       125.6        110.8        94.3        87.1         84.3        82.6         80.5        79.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (7)                                     Average Annual Increase (7.)
(at current prices)                                           (at constant 1974 prices)
1975        1980        1985                                             1975-80      1980-85
Exports                                     100.0       100.0       100.0                                             -1.2          8.3
Primary                                  89.7         89.3        82.8                                              -2.3         6.7                                                 Al
Manufactures                              10.3        10.7        17.2                                               3.3        15.3                                                 c
Imports                                     100.0       100.0       100.0                                            -11.1          6.3                                                 0
Food                                     11.6          6.2         9.4                                            -17.1         17.2                                                 0,
Fuel                                     19.1         38.5        35.5                                            - 6.0           .1
Machinery and equipment                   30.8        16.9        17.0                                            -18.2          6.9
Other                                     38.5        38.4        38.1                                             - 8.2         6.7



BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(US$ millions at current prices)
Indicator                           1976      1977   ~~~~~~~~~~~A c t u a 1    190:/       191P r o i e c t e d                             18
Indicator                                             1976       1977       1978      1979        1980L       1981        1982        1983        1984        1985
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services                                916        987       1135     1218        1421        1513.2       1744.8      2094.6      2458.3      2877.0
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.                              630        724         795      815         961        1025.0      1155.9      1344.4       1500.5      1797.4
Imports of goods and services                               1257      1060       1252      1449        1705        2083.2      2407.4       2822.9      3060.9      3340.0
Of which: Merchandise  c.i.f.                             913        747        865      1003        1173        1499.9      1756.9      2096.2       2222.8      2388.5
Net transfers                                                  6         20         26       80          91         105.0       120.0        130.0       145.0       160.0
Current account balance                                     -335      - 53        - 91     -151        -193        -465.0      -542.6       -598.3      -457.6      -303.0
Private direct investment                                   -  1      -  7       - 29      - 26          -            8.0         75.0       204.0       100.0         -
Public capital                                                86         26        103      126          75         255.0       496.0        328.3       235.7       161.1
Other capital                                                  6      - 21        -96      - 75          28          67.0         70.0       130.0       200.0       220.0
Allocation of SDRs               a/                           -          -          -         10         10           10.0         -           -           -           -
Change in reserves (- increase)                              244         55       113       116          80         125.0      - 98.4       - 64.0      - 78.1      - 78.1
Gross International reserves (end year)                       32         48         59       62         105         100.0        212.9       328.9       388.0       451.6
Reserves as months imports                                     0.42       0.77       0.83      0.75      1.07           .80        1.45        1.88        2.09        2.3
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements                                          143        116        224      228         141         482.4        627.2       556.0       384.7       395.7
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed                             830       890       1000      1095        1209        1464        1960         2280        2524        2685
Official (end year)
O/W IBRD                                                  59        68        112       127         171
Undisbursed debt (end year)                                262        320        386      377         369                                                                                 OQ
O/W IBRD                                                 68        101         99       139          89                            
Debt service                                                                                                                                                                                o
Public service payments                                    111       148        189       193         170         353         291         416          388         492
Interest                                                  54        57         67        90         103         126         159          189         239         257
Payments as % of exports                                    12.1      15.0        16.7     15.8        12.0        23.3        16.7         19.9        15.8        17.1
a/ Includes commercial arrears.
b/ Preliminary



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
A. Statement of Bank Loans as pf September 30, 1981
-----US$ million
Amount
Loan   Fiscal                                              (less cancellation)
No.    Year    Borrower           Purpose               Bank      Undisbursed
11 loans fully disbursed 1/                             102.4
727   1971     Jamaica            Education             13.5          0.5
1003   1974     Jamaica            Sites & Services      15.0          2.6
1032   1975     Jamaica            Highways              13.5          0.5
1146   1975      The  Water        Sewerage/Water        15.0          3.3
Commission
1284   1976     Jamaica            Population             6.8          3.1
1464   1977      Jamaica           Rural Development    15.0           8.2
1516   1978     Jamaica Public   Power                   20.0          6.9
Service Co. Ltd.
1517   1978      Sugar Industry   Agriculture            18.0          7.5
Authority
1609   1979     Jamaica            Small Scale Industry  7.0           1.6
1715   1979     Jamaica            Second Program Loan  31.5           0.6
1716   1979     Jamaica            Forestry              12.0          7.7
1740   1979     Jamaica            Highways              16.0         10.3
1978   1981      Jamaica           Export Development   37.0          37.0
Fund
2017   1981      Petroleum Co.2/ Offshore Petroleum        7.5         7.5
Exploration
Total (net cancellations)               330.2
Of which has been repaid                 32.8
Total now outstanding                   297.4
Amount sold                   1.6
Of which has been repaid    1.6           0.0
Total now held by Bank                  297.4
Total undisbursed                                    97.3
1/  Including a telecommunications loan made in 1967 to the Jamaican
Telephone Company and cancelled in the same year.
2/   Not yet effective.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments3/ as of September 30, 1981
US$ million
Date      Borrower             Type of Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1961  Jamaica Pre-Mix Ltd.   Pre-mix concrete          0.2       -       0.2
1969  Pegasus Hotel of
Jamaica Ltd.           Tourism                  2.2     0.7       2.9
1980  West Indies Glass
Company Ltd.           Glass containers         2.3      -        2.3
4.7     0.7       5.4
Less cancellations, terminations
participations, sales and repayments            1.8      -        1.8
Total commitments now held by IFC                2.9     0.7       3.6
Total Undisbursed                                 .8      -         .8
C.  Status of Projects in Execution as of September 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1003-JM: Sites and Services: US$15.0 million Loan of June 13,
1974; Effective date: September 9, 1974;
Closing date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is about 4-1/2 years behind schedule due
to delays in establishing and staffing the project unit and problems with
contractors. These delays resulted in a substantial cost overrun of the
original project. In view of the Government's budgetary constraints the
project has therefore been restructured to allow for some reduction in the
number of lots to be developed and for a significant reduction in housing
standards. The Government has recently proposed additional changes
involving the provision of shell houses on uncommitted lots and the
conversion of one site into an industrial estate. The Bank will study
these proposals but has not yet taken a position. The revised project is
expected to be completed by mid-1982.
3/   Loan of $11.4 million for Jamaica Flour Mills Ltd. approved, but not
signed.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Ln. No. 1032-JM: Third Highway Project: US$13.5 million Loan of July 26,
1974; Effective date: September 27, 1974; Closing date:
September 30, 1981.
Construction has been delayed due to shortages of engineering
staff, reliable equipment, cement and asphalt. The project is now
completed, about four years later than the appraisal estimate.
Ln. No. 1146-JM: Kingston Sewerage and Water Supply Project: US$15 million
Loan of July 23, 1975; Effective date: June 24, 1976;
Closing date: December 31, 1981.
Project implementation is more than 3 years behind the appraisal
schedule but is now proceeding satisfactorily. The Borrower's financial
position has, however, continuously deteriorated. A 45% tariff increase
took effect August 1, 1981 but additional measures will be required of the
Borrower in order to comply with the Loan Agreement.
Ln. No. 1284-JM: Second Population Project: US$6.8 million Loan of June
12, 1976; Effective date: August 30, 1976; Closing date:
December 31, 1982.
Project implementation has progressed reasonably well. The civil
works on health center facilities are expected to be completed by the end
of 1981. Disbursements are however lagging behind. Completion of other
project components is expected to be delayed until early 1982.
Ln. No. 1464-JM: Rural Development Project: US$15 million Loan of June 29,
1977; Effective date: October 14, 1977; Closing date:
December 31, 1982.
Project implementation had initially been slow due to shortage of
funds, manpower problems and the difficult general economic situation.
Recent progress has however been encouraging; most project components are
now under implementation and are advancing satisfactorily. The first group
of settlers has been placed and a large share of the farm homes have been
completed.
Ln. No. 1516-JM: Second Power Project: US$20 million Loan of March 6,
1978; Effective date: June 1, 1978; Closing date:
September 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily after
considerable delays during the initial phase of project implementation, and
most of the loan proceeds have been committed. JPSC's operations have been
seriously affected by the limited availability of its most fuel efficient
generating units due to poor maintenance and operating procedures and a
lack of spare parts. The Government has requested a Bank loan for the
rehabilitation of these units, and for improvements to JPSC's transmission
and distribution system. Although JPSC's financial position has improved,
an increase in tariffs will be required to meet the agreed covenant.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Ln. No. 1517-JM: Sugar Rehabilitation Project:  US$18 million Loan of March
6, 1978; Effective date: June 1, 1978; Closing date:
June 30, 1983.
Although some progress in the rehabilitation of factories has
been made, implementation slowed down during the last two years due to the
extremely difficult financial position of the National Sugar Company,
executor of the project. The Government is now planning the divestment of
the sugar mills owned by NSC and the dissolution of the sugarcane
cooperatives that supply the cane. The future of the project will be
decided in negotiations with the Government.
Ln. No. 1609-JM: Small Scale Enterprise Development Project: US$7 million
Loan of August 2, 1978; Effective date: December 27,
1978; Closing date: June 30, 1982.
Implementation of the program for modern small scale enterprises
executed by the Premier Investment Corporation (PIC) is ahead of schedule.
Implementation of the sub-program for very small scale enterprises has been
adversely affected by the uncertainty concerning the institutional
arrangements. Subject to Government confirmation remaining uncommitted
funds from this project could be reallocated to PIC.
Ln. No. 1715-JM: Second Program Loan: US$31.5 million Loan of June 8,
1979; Effective date: August 27, 1979; Closing date:
December 31, 1982.
Loan proceeds allocated to the Export Development Fund to finance
imports of raw materials and components for expansion of nontraditional
exports have been fully disbursed. Implementation of the technical
assistance components financed with loan proceeds is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1716-JM: Forestry Project: US$12 million Loan of June 8, 1979;
Effective date: December 11, 1979; Closing date: June
30), 1985.
Project implementation is behind schedule but is proceeding
satisfactorily. Actual planting and clearing has been delayed as a result
of Government decision to reallocate some project land to coffee
production.
Ln. No. 1740-JM: Fourth Highway Project: US$16 million Loan of July 10,
1979; Effective date: September 20, 1979; Closing date:
March 31, 1983.
The project has encountered serious delays caused primarily by
extraordinary rains and floods in 1979, a hurricane in 1980, shortages of
key staff and of budget resources. In view of the Government's difficult



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
budgetary position and the need for urgent rehabilitation, the project has
been restructured to allow utilization of loan funds for essential
maintenance work by reducing targets for more expensive types of periodic
maintenance.
Ln. No. 1978-JM: Second Export Development Poject: US$37 million Loan of
May 15, 1981; Effective date: August 6, 1981; Closing
date: December 31, 1983.
The loan includes US$22 million for financing of imports of raw
materials and spare parts for expansion of nontraditional exports. In
addition US$10 million are allocated to provide medium-term financing to
exporters and their suppliers for capital equipment and working capital.
US$4 million are to be used for financing inputs of imports for the banana
industry and US$1 million is for technical assistance to JECIC and JNEC.
Ln. No. 2017-JM: Offshore Petroleum Exploration Project: US$7.5 million
Loan of June 16, 1981; Effective date: not yet effective;
Closing date:  June 30, 1985.
The project is directed at promoting exploration of Jamaica's
hydrocarbon potential by strengthening the Petroleum Company of Jamaica
both as a partner of private international companies and as an independent,
investor. This loan is not yet effective.



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
JAMAICA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Loan request made to Bank:                   June 1978
(b)  Appraisal mission:                           November 1978
(c)  Reappraisal mission:                         April-May 1981
(d)  Completion of negotiations:                  November 12, 1981
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:               December 31, 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
1.   During loan negotiations agreement was reached with the
Government on the following:
(a) a detailed staff development plan, covering both recruitment
and training for the staff required by the project
institutions (para 55);
(b) a detailed projection of counterpart fund requirements (para
73);
(c) the National Industrial Training Board would be established
by December 31, 1983 (para 58);



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(d)  the plan for the evaluation of project performance would be
submitted to the Bank for review and comments by December
31, 1982 (para 61);
(e)  maintenance manuals would be prepared, supervisors for
project buildings would be trained, and a budget proposal
for maintenance of all project institutions would be
submitted to the Bank by March 31, 1984 (para 69);
(f) project accounts of the MOE and MOY would be audited
annually by qualified officers of the Office of the Auditor
General, and a copy of these annual audit reports be sent to
the Bank by September 30 of each year during project
implementation (para 71);
(g) a condition of disbursement for the pre-investment study on
primary education learning materials would be the submission
to the Bank of a detailed work plan for the execution of the
study (para 62); and
(h) the Government will review with the Bank by January 31 of
each year, the adequacy of the counterpart funding proposals
for the project (para 64).






IBRD 13824R
WOO           11W                                                          "'                                                            #w         (            L77L717N7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  JULY lo
MONT ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ M
A R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA
~~~~~ THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Db
'4  UTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~       dR                                                                                                        L     A 
+    LOCAL AIRPORTS                                                                         3/                   N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A~~~~~~~E  .
THIR      RNATIONDA  BONDRIJESCTA Nr C                                                                                                                         YPMTEOV                                                             T H 0            



