LOAN NUMBER 2070 JM
Loan Agreement
(Third Education Project)
between
JAMAICA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                  1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2070 JM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    L      1    (-5          , 1982, between
JAMAICA (hereinafter cnled the B rrover) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully sLt forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "CAST" means the College of Arts, Science and Technology
referred to in Part A (1) of the Project;
(b) "VTDI" means the Vocational Training Development Insti-
tute referred to in Part A (2) of the Project;
(c) "IPCs" means the Industrial Production Centers to be
established under Part A (3) of the Project;
(d) "MOE" means the Ministry of Education;
(e) "MOY" means the Ministry of Youth and Community Develop-
ment; and
(f) "NDA" means the National Development Agency.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Loan


﻿-2-
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to six
million eight hundred thousand dollars ($6,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, engineering and educational practices.


﻿-3-
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ educational
specialists whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such
employment to be in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. No later than December 31, 1983, the Borrower
shall establish a National Industrial Training Board as agreed
with the Bank.
Section 3.04. No later than December 31, 1982, the Borrower
shall cause MOY and M3E to prepare and send to the Bank for its
review and comments plans for the evaluation of the performance
of the institutions included in the Project which are within the
respective responsibilities of MOY and MOE.
Section 3.05. The Borrower: (i) shall cause the National
Development Agency to prepare or provide maintenance manuals
for the upkeep of the buildings included in the Project before
such buildings are commissioned; (ii) shall cause all supervisors
of such buildings to be given adequate training in the maintenance
and upkeep of the buildings; and (iii) shall prepare and send to
the Bank no later than March 31, 1984 a three-year budget proposal
approved by the Mini3try of Finance for the maintenance and upkeep
of the said buildings.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall at all times cause the
buildings and equipment included in the Project to be adequately
maintained.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-4-
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire not later than June 30, 1982
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for
purposes related to the Project.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall review with the Bank by
January 31 in each year of the Project the adequacy of the Bor-
rower's counterpart funding proposals for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.


﻿-6-
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing,-the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditt,re; and (iii) enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have (A) the separate accounts
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and (B) the accounts
in respect of the Project of MOE, MOY and NDA, for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) shall until the completion of the Project, furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
September 30 in each year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including, without limita-
tion to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in
respect of the expenditures and records referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of the Loan
withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said separate accounts and said accounts of MOE, MOY
and NDA, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date                   ,* is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
*    A date approximately 90 days after the date of signature
of this Agreement will be inserted here.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purpos=s of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
30 National Heroes Circle
Kingston
Jamaica
Cable address:
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Kingston
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-8-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
JAMAICA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                  1,967,000        35%
(2) (a) Furniture,               2,321,000     ( 100% of foreign
Equipment and                         ( expenditures
Educational                           ( and 85% of
Materials                             ( local expendi-
( tures
(b) Costs of inter-            48,000      (
national procure-                     (
ment assistance                       (
under Part B (6)                      (
of the Project                        (
(3) Project Administration         152,000        20%
and Professional Fees
(4) Technical Assistance         1,386,000        100%
and Fellowships
under the Project
(5) Pre-investment Study           289,000        100%
(6) Unallocated                    637,000
TOTAL        6,800,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods and services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calcalated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals, in an aggre-
gate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 may be made
in respect of Categories (3) and (4) on account of payments made
for such expenditures before that date but after May 31, 1981;
and
(b) in respect of payments made for expenditures under
Category (5) until the Borrower has furnished the Bank with a
detailed work plan for carrying out Part C of the Project, includ-
ing a schedule of textbooks and teachers guides to be prepared,
staffing plan, sampling, testing and revision procedures and
estimated costs.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to


﻿- 11 -
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is designed to assist and strengthen the
Borrower's technical and vocational education system, consists of
the following Parts:
A.   (1) College of Arts, Science and Technology (CAST)
(a) Physical expansion, equipping and furnishing of CAST's
Department of Technical Education to provide about 105
additional places for new teachers in training and about
45 places for upgrading unqualified teachers.
(b) Conversion of the present CAST library building into the
Department of Computer Science including installation of
appropriate furniture and equipment, and purchase for
the Department of a small educational computer and a
small-business micro-computer for demonstration pur-
poses.
(c) Construction, furnishing and equipping of a new science
wing of CAST's Department of Science including about
four laboratories and auxiliary accommodations.
(d) Construction, furnishing and equipping of a new library/
learning resource center with a seating capacity for
about 300 persons, facilities for about 45,000 books,
periodicals and audio-visual aids.
(e) Construction, furnishing and equipping of maintenance
shops for the upkeep of CAST and its laboratories.
(f) Expansion of the Science Department's programs in
chemical technology to provide third-year diploma
options in sugar technology, agro- and food industries,
and manufacture of products for export or import
substitution.
(2) The Vocational Training Development Institute (VTDI)
(a) Construction, furnishing and equipping of 5 workshops to
enable VTDI to add about 70 new places to existing
accommodations for the training of about 70 vocational
training instructors every year.


﻿- 13 -
(b) Training and upgrading by VTDI of about 70 additional
vocational- training instructors annually between 1985
and 1995.
(c) Introduction by VTDI of new courses of specialisation
including courses in mechanical repairs and maintenance,
air conditioning/refrigeration, radio/television,
industrial electronics and automobile repairs.
(3) The Industrial Production Centers (IPCs)
(a) Construction, furnishing and equipping of two pilot IPCs
in Kingston and Montego Bay with a total capacity of
about 260 places.
(b) Provision of one year intensive courses in organisation
and management of small business or cooperative ventures
(including quality control, accounting, marketing
and credit and modern industrial production practices
and techniques) to train people for self-employment or
cooperative ventures.
B.   Technical Assistance and Fellowships
(1) Curriculum development of allied health sciences offered
at CAST's Department of Science; upgrading courses for
staff of CAST's Departments of Technical Education and
Science; courses in data processing management for a
senior staff of CAST's Department of Computer Science;
courses in educational technology and polytechnic
library administration for staff of CAST's new library/
learning resource center; a course in tracer studies/
evaluation; and a course in science equipment
maintenance.
(2) Training of staff, and development of curricula, of VTDI
in the subject areas of industrial electronics,. radio/
television and air conditioning/refrigeration and
pedagogy.
(3) Training of the Production Managers of the IPCs.
(4) Establishment and organization of a National Industrial
Training Board requiring assistance to the Ministry of
Youth and Community Development (MOY).


﻿- 14 -
(5) Establishment and organization of a Planning and
Evaluation Division in MOY including the preparation of
a plan for the establishment of an evaluation system to
assess the effectiveness of the training activities
provided at VTDI and the IPCs under the Project requir-
ing assistance to MOY.
(6) Assistance to NDA for international procurement of
furniture, equipment and educational materials.
C.   Pre-investment Study
A pre-investment study for the development of learning
materials for primary education including the develop-
ment of new textbooks and teachers' guides and the
preparation of future education projects by the Ministry
of Education.
Details of the technical assistance and fellowships required
for the Project are set out in the Annex hereto, said Annex being
subject to modification by agreement between the Bank and the
Borrower.
The Project is- expected to be completed by December 31, 1984. -


﻿- 15 -
Annex to Schedule 2
Details of Technical Assistance and Fellowships
Specialists                          Fellowships
Areas of              Staff        Areas of             Staff
Specialization        months       Specialization       months
(Approxi-                          (Approxi-
mately)                             mately)
CAST
(1) Specialists         12         Staff training         135
in allied                     fellowships in
health curricula              science; tech-
development;                  nology and com-
educational                   puter science;
technology                    library science;
science equipment
maintenance;
educational
technology; tracer
studies and
evaluation
VTDI
(2) Curriculum          36         Staff fellowships       42
development                   in electronics
specialists in                radio/TV
electronics;                  air conditioning
radio/TV;                     refrigeration;
air conditioning              pedagogy
refrigeration
IPCs
(3) Training specia-    12         Staff training          12
list in engineer-             fellowships in
ing production                production
management and                management and
engineering                   engineering


﻿- 16 -
Specialists                          Fellowships
Areas of              Staff        Areas of               Staff
Specialization        months       Specialization        months
(Approxi-                           (Approxi-
mately)                             mately)
MOY
(4) Consultant          12
assistance in
establishing
National
Industrial
Training Board
(5) Specialist          12         Staff training           18
services in                   fellowships in
planning and                  planning and
evaluation                    evaluation
and tracer
studies
TOTAL              84                                  207


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning May 15, 1986
through   May 15, 1998                     260,000
On November 15, 1998                            300,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                   2.05%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                                  4.10%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                  7.50%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen
years before maturity                           10.25%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                 11.60%


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" dated March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 20 -
Jamaica may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Jamaica if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Jamaica equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
ted bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 21 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or
more but less than $100,000 shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with local procuxement procedures after
competitive bidding based on local advertising.
2.   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$10,000 but not exceeding in the aggregate $100,000 shall be
purchased after the .solicitation of at least three quotations from
suppliers.
3.   (a) Civil works shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with local procurement procedures after
competitive bidding based on local advertising.
(b) Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified in
accordance with the Borrower's prequalification procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
(c) The Borrower shall before inviting bids, in addition to
the requirements of Part D, send to the Bank for its comments: (i)
a list of all contracts for civil works to be awarded in carrying
out the Project, indicating the estimated value of each contract
and the forecast timetable for awarding such contracts; and (ii) a
description of the proposed advertising coverage to ensure com-
petitive bidding.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility for
domestic preference under Part B above and of the reasons for the
exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for such
eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its
comments before the applicants are notified of the Borrower's


﻿- 22 -
decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions
from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reason-
ably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more and all contracts for civil works:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account


﻿- 23 -
in respect of such- contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shaIl
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoirig is a true
ctpy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day           198   .
FOR SECRETARY


