Decn.mt of
The World Bank
FOR OFICLAL USE ONLY
RputNo 9151
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1581-CA)
DECEMBER 10, 1990
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
CAADE           The External Debt Agency
CAR             The Central African Republic
CPRAC           Permanent Commission for Reform
of the Civil Service
DCA            Davelopment Credit Agreement
EMP            Economic Management Project
HCSEEM          State Enterprises High Commission
HINMEN         Ministry of Mines and Energy
HINPLAN         The Ministry Responsible for Plan
OPPER          Association of Private Road Maintenance
Entrepreneurs
PY              Project Year
SAL            Structural Adjustment Credit
TA              Technical Assistance
TA I           The First Technical Assistance Project
TA II           The Second Technical Assistance Project



Tb4 WOtLO 5AIK                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
W.I - ltof. D C 20433
U.S A
Office of Dlreetor-G.a.al
Operation EalIuatio
December 10, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:      Project Completion Report on Central African Republic
Second Technical Assistarce Project (Credit 1581-CA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Central African Republic - Second Technical Assistance
Project (Credit 1581-CA)," prepared by the Country Operations Division of the
Occidental and Central Africa Department with Part II of the report contributed
by the Borrower.   No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
Thi document ha a *rma dashbutam  and may be mm_ by ,upan onl to u pX wmam
of thew ofcfah dutan Is conmau may not ozh#m be dcosd witbht World Dak *atuoemma.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 1581-CA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ................................................   i
Evaluation Sumary                   ...... ii
I.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity                     .. .   1
Project Background              .       .       ............  I
Project Objectives and Description             .    .    .      2
Project Design and Organization              . . .    3
Project Implementation                  . . .    4
Project Results   B                 . . .   5
Bank Performance           .....................   11
Borrower Performance                    ..                     12
Conclusions and Lessons                  .          .          14
II. PROJECT REVIEW FkOM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
General Remarks           ......................   15
Training Activities           ...................   16
Conclusion            .......................   16
III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans             .       .       .............   17
Project Timetable ...  ................................   17
Project Costs and Financing .............        ..........   18
Credit Disbursements          ...................   19
Status of Credit Covenenants ..........................   19
Use of Bank Resources .       . ..........................     20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 1581-CA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.   This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Technical
Assistance Project in the Central African Republic for which Cr. 1581-CA in
the amount of SDR 8.4 million was approved in March 1985. The Credit
Closing Date, originally anticipated for December 31, 1988, was postponed
to December 31, 1989. Until June 1990, it was anticipated that a banking
sector study being financed under the Credit in preparation for a future
IDA-financed Enterprises Rehabilitation and Development Project would be
completed within the normal grace period allowed for disbursements after
Closing. Through no fault of the Borrower's, this has not transpired and it
iiow appears that the report may not be finalized until late 1990.  IDA has
therefore agreed to postpone the Closing date until December 31, 1990 for
the sole purpose of financing completion of this study. Since the Credit
account balance (SDR 157,000 equivalent) is adequate to cover the amount
remaining to be financed on the banking sector study (about US$ 120,000
equivalent) but does not greatly exceed it, and since all other Project
activities have been completed, this Project Completion Report is being
published as originally scheduled. When the financial sector report is
done, any residual balance on the Credit account will be cancelled.
2.   This PCR was prepared by staff of the Country Operations Division of
the Occidental and Central Africa Department (AFlCO). A PCR was also
prepared by the National Project Coordinator: it focuses principally on the
context and genesis of TA II and is too lengthy to be included here. Its
findings were taken into account in preparation of Part I and the entire
report is available in the Project file.   Part II contains the overall
conclusion of the Project Coordinator's PCR. The Project Coordinator's
report does not comment on project design, Bank performance or the quality
of project management and supervision.
3.   This report is based, inter alia, on the Report and Recommendation of
the President to the Executive Directors, the Development Credit Agreement,
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower,
discussions with the Resident Mission and internal Bank memoranda.



ii
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 1581-CA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.   The overall objectives of the Second Technical Assistance Project
(TA II) were to assist the Government: i) prepare and implement annual
recovery and development programs in the major productive sectors and
public finance; and ii) strengthen its capacity to formulate and implement
a medium-term development strategy. Specifically, the Project aimed to:
.ncrease absorptive capacity in the diamond and forestry sectors;
continue assistance to public sector management and reform of the
civil service begun under the First Technical Assistance Project
mobilize increased international support for CAR's recovery efforts;
and
*    strengthen the human resource base through national staff training.
The first three of these objectives were achieved. Results from project
training activities were mixed (para. 25 ff).
Implementation Experience
2.   Project start up was smooth and timely.  The Closing Date was
extended by one year in December 1988, by which time about 80% of the
Credit had been disbursed, a better-than-average performance under projects
of this kind. At the time of the first Closing date extension, it was
anticipated that an important banking sector ;tudy to be carried out under
Project financing in preparation for a future IDA-financed Enterprises
Rehabilitation and Development Project would be completed within the normal
grace period for disbursements after Closing. Through no fault of the
Borrowe;'s, this has not transpired. IDA has therefore agreed to postpone
the Closing C'ete until December 31, 1990 for the sole purpose of financing
completion of this study. All other Project activities have been completed
(see also Preface).
3.   The dialogue between the Central African authorities and the Bank
intensified in the first year of implementation and the Government
formulated a Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) which IDA has supported
with Credits for US$30 million approved in 1986, US$ 40 million approved in
1988 and USS 45 million equivalent approved on June 21, 1990. The
Governr.:nt and IDA agreed to reorient TA II activities to support SAP
implementation. Actual project activities therefore differed somewhat from
those described at appraisal:



Iiii
macroeconomic assistance was re-oriented from a Five Year Plan to
preparation of a three-year rolling public investment program;
additional resident advisers were recruited in project years 2 and 3
to accelerate implementation of SAP reform objectives; and
*    assistance to public sector reform was expanded and accelerated.
The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was sufficiently broad to allow
these changes without necessitating formal amendments.
Project Achievements
4.   Despite a difficult macroeconomic situation, the Government has been
able, with project assistance, to pro 'd with its adjustment program in
support of which two SALs have been fu. / disbursed and a third approved.
The Credit financed the establishment of five new ministerial staffing
plans and other important studies and research required for continuing IDA
support to the SAP. Project activities also contributed to preparation and
implementation of IDA's lending program in CAR. An achievement which is
diff ult to quantify, but is no less important for that, is a greater
realization by the Authorities of the need for sustainable rcform of the
economy and this has facilitated the mobilization of additional financing
for development in the CAR.
5.   Specifically, about 30 years of resident advisersr services were
financed. While the contribution of some resident advisers, those working
in the Centrale des projets of the Ministry responsible for Planning and
those recruited in mid-project (paras 15, 16 and 36), was of limited
practical value, others obtained outstanding results. The contributions of
the legal counsellor, the advisers in the diamond and forestry sectors and
the public administration specialist have brought significant, concrete
improvements in CAR's overall economic and financial situation (paras 18 to
20 and 23, 24). Government revenue from the diamond sector grew by over
50Z during the project period; the forestry sector is now positioned to
contribute strongly to GDP in an ecologically and economically sustainable
way; in the civil service, personnel files have been cleaned up and a
staffing plans este,blishpd while waste and abuses have been greatly
reduced; and the MLnistry responsible for Planning has a well-trained and
highly motivated core team of national legal specialists.
6.   The work of the external debt adviser (para. 17) was of great value
to the Government's recovery efforts and that of the adviser in the State
Enterprises High Commission was also positive (paras 17 and 21). The CAR
became, and remains, current with its debt reporting. Favorable
reschedulings were obtained with the Paris Club and bilateral donors. The
State's portfolio has been reduced from over 50 to about 35 enterprises and
losses by the parastatal sector are decreasing.



iv
7.   Computers purchased under the Project have been used to the full and
are well-maintained. The documentation center in cd b Ministry responsible
for Planning, built with Credit funds, the filing equipment purchased for
the Civil Service Ministry and the reorganization of the archives of the
Ministry of Energy and Mines have improved working conditions in these
agencies and enhanced their potential.
Findings and Lessons
8.   Some of the assumptions made at appraisal were optimistic, in
particular assumptions about technology transfer (para. 23). While IDA
supervision was extensive, the Project included very highly specialized
technical components and adequate provision for their monitoring by
suitably qualified persons was not made.
9.   Project management in the field was ineffectual.  Resident advisers
were not proper'y supervised and the Project was not pro-actively managed.
In consequence, it fell to other Central African officials and IDA staff
to coordinate the various activities financed under the Credit and
integrate the Project into Government's overall development strategy. In
the absence of central direction, each component developed its own trend
and the results obtained bear no relation to cost. Indeed, there is some
evidence to suggest that the most costly services were least productive.
Nor was Project management vigilant in dealing with consultants -- poo.
performance went unremarked and unchallenged (paras 40 and 41).
10. Project Sustainability. Project activities overall were timely,
necessary and, despite management shortcomings, productive. They were,
however, carried out in a country in transition. Judged against the
conditions prevailing when IDA's technical assistance program started in
the CAR, progress made in the civil service, the diamond valuation office,
the forestry sector, debt management and the parastatal sector is striking.
Real and immediate benefits have been secured but it is important to
emphasize that project activities were essentially of a kind to prepare the
ground for future growth. The successes of TA II are fragile, indeed its
greatest successes -- the reduction of abuses in the civil service and the
beginnings of a sustainable reform. the reduction of fraudulent exports,
support to key SAP trade liberalization and privatization reforms -- are
the most fragile. The ultimate wsuccess" of the Project will depend on how
well its gains are followed through and consolidated.



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 1581-CA)
PRQJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Prolect Identity
Names                Second Technical Assistance Project (TA II)
Amount:              SDR 8.4 million (US$ 10 million equivalent)
Credit Number:       1581-CA
RVP  Units            (Former West) Africa Region
Country:             Central African Republic
Sectors              Technical Assistance
Project Background
1.   3ank Ir.volvement and Strategy.   IDA commitments in the Central
African, Republic (CAR) at the time of project appraisal totalled about US$
80 million and covered nine projects: four in transport, two in education
and one each in livestock, agriculture and technical assistance (TA). The
Bank Group's country strategy aimed at helping the economy recover from the
pervasive after-effects of the mismanagement and neglect of the 70s. The
country dialogue was beginning to emphasize a medium term approach to
improving economic performance through policy reform beyond that already
included in ongoing projects. This strategy focused on: i) reaching a
consensus with the Government and other donors on development priorities
and measures to overcome development constraints; ii) helping the
Government elaborate a medium term recovery program; and iii) financial and
technical support for such a program.
2.   The First Technical Assistance Proiect.  The First Technical
Assistance Project (TA I, Cr. 1150-CA) was approved by the Executive
Directors in May 1981. It was a short term emergency program designed to'
speed the recovery of public and private investment in a country which wa.s
bankrupt and whose Government had lost all credibility. To do this, the
project included: i) resident and short-term technical expertise to help
prepare major investment projects; and ii) studies of key sectors with a
view to formulating more attractive policies and tax regimes; a:ud iii) the
services of an adviser to help improve public debt management. Project
activities also helped the Authorities to begin the process of streamlining
the public administration. The project was modest (US$ 4 million) and,
within the limits set for it, was a success. The Project Completion Report
for TA I concludes: 'The results of the Project were positive and the
improvements it sought were realized'.
3.   The Second Technical Assistance Project (TA II).  Credit 1581-CA was
approved by the Executive Directors in March, and became effective in
August, 1985. It was a response to the need to follow up on the
'emergency' measures of TA I with longer term action to address underlying
institutional and training needs. The Proiect was located in the Ministry



2
responsible for Plan (MINPLAN) 1/ as % support vehicle for the recently
created Interministerial Coordinating Committee for Economic and Financial
Policy.
Project Objectives and Description
Obiectives
4.   The overall objectives of the Project were to assist the Government
i) prepare and implement annual recovery and development programs in the
major productive sectors and public finance; and ii) strengthen its
capacity to formulate and implement a medium-term development strategy.
Specifically, the Project aimed to:
increase the absorptive capacity of the diamond and forestry sectors
both of which had untapped potential, and of the transport sector;
continue assistance to public sector management and reform of the
civil service begun under the First Technical Assistance Project
facilitate and coordinate increased lending by the international
donor community; and
train national staff to assume progressively more responsibility for,
and control of, national development;
The first three of these objectives were achieved. Results from project
training activities were mixed (para. 25 ff).
5.    Project Components.       The project as appraised consisted of:
i) short term institutional support through provision of the servit-cq of
resident advisers and short-term consultants in key government agencies;
ii) long-term institution building through-on-the-job and other training
for national staff; iii) preparation of future transport and technical
assistance projects; and iv) provisicn for other needs to be identified
during project implementation, housing and vehicles.
6.   The following resident adviser services were specified at appraisal:
a macroeconomist and a projects economist in MINPLAN to establish a
wCentrale des projets" and strengthen project preparation and
information systems, and a debt specialist in the Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement (CAADE, the debt agency) to improve debt management;
a forestry adviser to assist the Ministry responsible for Forests
review existing legislation with a view to stimulating investment and
rationalizing management of the sector, establish a statistics
service, and prepare projects for external financing;
4 The designation of several government agencies changed during the life
of the Project. The agency responsible for Plan, for instance, was
initially a High Commission, subsequently a Ministry, and is now a State
Secretariat. To avoid confusion, this report designates agencies with
ministerial functions as 'Ministry respconsible for" Planning, Commerce,
etc., with the exception of the High Comwissicn for State Enterprises which
has been so designated throughout the Project life.



3
a geological consultant and a diamond appraiser to help the 'Ministry
responsible for Mines (MINMEN) reorganize its archives, review
diamond tax legislation in such a way as to limit fraud and increase
receipts from exports of diamonds, and train national evaluators;
a legal counsellor in MINPLAN to assist the Government in
negotiations with financial institutions, help the diamonds and
forestry experts draft proposals for new legislation, and establish
and train a team of legal staff witnin Plan;
an adviser in the High Commission for State and Parastatal
Enterprises (HCSEEM) to help it gain more effective managerial
control over the sector, prepare an annual program for government
policy in the sector, and develop a system for regular auditing and
monitoring of the financial position of the sector;
an adviser in CPRAC (Conseil Permanent pour la Reforme de
l'Administration Centrafricaine) to help the Government devise and
implement measures to reduce the cost %nd increase the efficiency of
the Civil Service through establishing computerized government
personnel files and manpower budgeting systenm  snd to monitor these
systems and train national staff.
In addition, the Project financed the services of: i) four additional
advisers recruitri at the time of SAL I second tranche release; ii) a
visiting trainer to help the resident advisers elaborate training programs;
iii) a mechanical engineer in the Ministry of Public Works Equipment
Directorate and an enterprise Manager in the Organization pour la Promotion
des Petites Entreprises Routieres (OPPER) for 12 months. (This was done at
the request of the Authorities so that the services of these advisers could
continue after closing of the Fourth Highways Project, Cr. 1258-CA under
which they had been financed.); and iv) a national computer expert to
maintain project computers and train staff in their operation.
Project Design and Organization
7.   The project followed logically from the TA I operation on the
achievempits of which it built. The project file records lengthy and
intense internal Bank dialogue at the Issues Paper and Decision Memorandum
stages over: i) the lessons (if TA I and arrangements for project
implementation; ii) appropriate ways to supply CAR's TA needs; and iii) the
derivation of average annual cost for resident advisers. As a result,
project design reflected a consensus between Programs, Projects and Central
Bank staff arrived at through careful analysis of the project context, the
nature of CAR's TA needs and resource availability. Its design took
account of:
the need for treining to develop CAR's weak human resource base;
the immediate need for expatriate TA to assist national staff;
. the long term need to build up key national institutions.
The scope of the Project was ambitious for a country with such a weakened
institutional base but was justified by the urgercy of CAR's macroeconomic



4
situation; project activities were timely, appropriate, and in line with
the Bank's strategy.
8.   Project manazement responsibility was broken down into two functions:
a Project Coordinatot ind a Project Administrator. The Coordinator's
responsib.lities covered: i) liaison between the Government and IDA;
ii) the p eparation of proposals for new studies or project activities;
iii) moni':oring and coordination of the activities of the various resident
experts anid facilitating productive exchange between them and the decision-
making au:horities; and iv) ensuring timely reporting on progress, work
programs and training activities by the reEident experts. The
Administrator's responsibilities included: i) keeping project accounts;
ii) office management; iii) administration of contracts, correspondence and
preparation of withdrawal applications; and iii) general logistic support.
This system was well-conceived and the concept of a management team has
been retained in the Economic Management Project (EMP, Cr. 1971-CA,
approved December, 1988). Management shortcomings under TA II were
failures of implementation at the field level, not of the system.
Project Implementation
General
9.   Start up was relatively rdpid, partly because four advisers recruited
under TA I were retained and others were recruited within reasonable time
frames. The Project Closing Date was extended by one year in December
1988, by which time about 80Z of the Credit had been disbursed, a better-
than-average performance under projects of this kind. All project
activities have been completed with the exception of an important banking
sector study for which a preliminary report has been suDmitted tc the
Government and IDA who are now reviewing its recommsendations. At the time
of the first Closing date extension, it was anticipated that this would be
finalized within the normal grace period for disbursements after Closing.
Through no fault of the Borrower's, this has not transpired. IDA therefore
agreed to postpone the Closing date until December 31, 1990 for the sole
purpose of financing completion of this study (see also Preface).
10.  The dialogue between CAR and the Bank intensified significantly
during the first year cf Project implementation. Most notably, the
Government formulated a Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) which IDA
supported with Credits for USS30 million equivalent (SAL I, approved in
1986), US$ 40 million equivalent (SAL ,I, approved in 1988) and US$ 45
million equivalent (SAL III, approved June 21, 1990). In Project Year (PY)
1, the Government and the Bank agreed to reorient IDA-funded technWcal
assistsnce to supporting SAP implementation. Actual project activities
therefore differed from those described at appraisal in the following
principal ways:
the work of the advisprs in MINPLAN was re-oriented to preparation of
a three-year rolling public investment program and in PY3, a
macroeconomist was recruited to work exclusively on this;



5
two resident advisers were recruited, one in the Ministry responsible
for Trade (MINCI) and the other in the Ministry of Finance (MINFI) to
help the Government coordinate implementation of trade liberalization
and Small and Medium Scalp Enterprise (SME) promotion measures under
the SAP;
a second adviser was recruited to help HCSEEM accelerate preparation
of consolidated sector accounts and the settling of cross debts
within the sector and between the sector and the Government and to
assist HCSEEM restructure, privatize or liquidate selected
enterprises; and
assistance to reform of the Civil Service was expanded to include the
accelerated preparation and implementation of staffing plans for all
ministries (except defense) and of a Program of Voluntary Assisted
Departure (PDVA).
The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was sufficiently broad to allow
these changes without necessitating formal amendments.
11.      Amendments.  Two amendments were, however, made to the DCA. The
first, dated January 29, 1986, was made to allow the Administrator's salary
to be financed 10OZ from Credit funds and the second, made in June 1986, to
allow SDR 120,000 to be used to build a documentation center in MINPLAN.
Project Results
12. Each project component had its own characteristics and results range
from outstanding, with clearly identifiable, valuable benefits to the State
to disappointing. It is not possible to make one judgement valid for all
project activities but the overall balance is squarely positive. Support
provided under the Credit to implementation of the SAP has enabled two SALs
to be fully disbursed. A third was approved in June 1990. One significant
achievement is difficult to quantify. As a result of project activities
and the dialogue they occasioned, there is a growing awareness among CAR
decision makers of the need for radical reform of the economy. This, in
turn, has facilitated the mobilization of additional external support for
the CAR's development program. The specific results of the various
components are detailed below (para. 16 ff). rhe weak points of project
perfo-mance were:
expectations for training activities were largely unmet (para. 25);
project management in field was weak (para. 38); and
*    the average unit cost of expatriate assistance was high (para. 14).
13. The period of project implementation was one of significant chal.ge in
the CAR: a peaceful transition from military to civilian rule, the holding
of a constitutional referendum and legislative elections and the
establishment of a parliament. These changes brought rotations of senior
staff -- there were four ministers of Plan during the project's life --
exacerbating the administration's weakness and preoccupying key decision
makers. On the economic front, world prices for CAR's main exports dropped
sharply. Against this backdrop, it is noteworthy that TA II achieved so
much.



6
Resident Advisers
14.   General.  In all, about 30 manyears of resident advisers' services
were financed in seven government agencies: MINPLAN, MINFI, MINMEN,
Forestry, MINCI, CAADE and HCSEEM.  The cost for salaries, allcwances and
housing was over SDR 4.0 million (appLox. US$ 5.0 million) or about
US$170,000 on average per manyear. In addition, vehicle, utility and other
costs associated with these advisers were financed from the Credit. It is
difficult to isolate them from other expenses but it is clear that the
total average unit cost for expatriate services was very high. In some
cases this was clearly justified by results -- the value of diamond exports
through official channels was up by almost US$ 27 million in PY4 over PYl;
in others, assistance to the Ministry responsible for Commerce, for
instance, it is not clear what the return has been for the expense
incurred.
15. Four resident advisers in addition to those identified at appraisal
were recruited following SAL I second tranche review in April 1987. These
were a second adviser in HCSEEM, a macroeconomist to establish a
projections unit in MINPLAN and two complementary posts in MINCI and MINFI
designed to improve coordination and speed implementation of measures to
promote private sector participation in the economy. Results from these
additional recruitments were disappointing (see para. 36).
16. Macroeconomic Management. The role of the advisers in MINPLAN's
Centrale des projets was to help the Government improve its economic and
financial planning and administration capacities. A national investment
program was prepared for 1987 which, for the first time, contained all
projected government expenditure, both capital and operating, with sources
of financing. In addition, economic and financial evaluation procedures
for project proposals were formulated and Plan liaison units were set up in
other ministerial departments. These were positive innovations but they
were not followed through for a number of reasons: i) changes in strategy
brought about by the inception of the SAP, in particular, the shift from a
Five Year Plan to a rolling investment program; ii) the budget specialist's
poor health, which severely limited his ability to contribute to the
Project; iii) the projects specialist's resignation in PY 1 and his
replacement by an adviser who failed to integrate himself into MINPLAN.
Furthermore, these modest achievements were limited the initial stage of
Project activities and were overtaken by events; overall, the assistance
provided to the Centrale des projets achieved little.
17. The debt specialist, originally recruited under TA I, established an
efficient, functioning debt management system within CAADE. This was a
crucial factor facilitating the exceptional debt rescheduling accorded by
the Paris Club in 1987 and to the rescheduling, on terms favorable to the
CAR, of all its bilateral public debt. He also helped establish an
information system for debt monitoring and the CAR became, and remains,
current in its debt reporting. He and the legal counsellor (see below)
gave valuable assistance to the Government in negotiations with the IMF and
IDA.



7
18. Legal Counsel. The services of the legal counsellor, cofinanced with
GTZ, were highly considered by the Authorities and the Bank, particularly
his exceptional success in training national staff (para. 26). His advice
in debt rescheduling and in negotiations with financiers, including IDA,
helped lay the basis for CAR's stabilization and reform efforts. He
assisted the sector advisers in drafting proposals for new forestry and
diamond tax legislation. He encouraged the Authorities to analyze their
borrowing not only in terms of compatibility with existing legislation and
obligations but with developmental needs and implementation capacities. At
the time, this was a significant advance in official thinking. Finally, he
played a key role in helping draft regulations and legal texts in support
of the CAR's important trade liberalization and privatization efforts which
were the core of reforms enacted under the SAP.
19. Assistance to Key Productive Sectors. The advisers in the key
forestry and diamond sectors were also of the highest caliber and were
directly instrumental in obtaining significant benefits for the State. On
the advice of the forestry adviser, import duties on forestry equipment
were lowered, the system of prices and taxes on timber and wood products
was revised, two unprofitable forestry parastatals were closed and a
forestry statistics service, now regularly producing reliable data monthly,
was established. The adviser sensitized the Authorities to the need for
more ecologically sound and sustainable extraction rates of valuable, rare
species and helped them prepare the Natural Resources Management Project
expected to come on line in the second half of 1990. The volume of
forestry exports fell during the period 1986 - 89, owing to closure of the
parast.atal logging operations, but their unit value increased 11? and
project activities have positioned the sector to make a much greater
contribution to GDP in the coming years. Receipts are projected to recover
their 1985 level of about CFAF 20 billion in 1990, to double in five years,
and thereafter to show sustained growth.
20. The diamond evaluator and geologist in MINMEN helped establish sound
policies and practices and internal controls for the entire diamond sector.
This was also one of the project components which achieved excellent
results from training activities (para. 27). Among the significant advances
which these advisers helped the Government to achieve were the introduction
of more effective security measures and closer monitoring of buying and
selling transactions, improved classification and valuation systems and the
downward revision of the tax on diamond exports. These measures resulted
in a 25Z increase in the volume of official diamond exports and the unit
prices paid for CAR's diamonds outstripped the general firming of world
diamond prices. The value of diamond exports went from (about) CFAF 12.5
billion in 1986 to 15 billion in 1987, 16.5 billion in 1988 and 23 billion
in 1989. In addition, MINMEN's archives, in total disarray after the
Bokassa years, were put in order and improved record keeping systems
established.
21. The Public Sector and Administrative Reform. Principal results in
the State enterprises sector were:
reducing the State's portfolio from 52 to 35 enterprises;
reducing the payroll from over 10,000 in 1986 to under 7,500 in 1989;
identifying and settling or writing off cross-debts; and



8
the publication of annual sector economic and financial analyses.
At SAL I second tranche release, the Government and Bank agreed on the
recruitment of a second adviser under Project financing to accelerate the
implementation of sector reform, in particular the establishment of
consolidated sector accounts. This was done. It is not within the scope
of this report to judge the quality of those accounts but there is evidence
that monitoring and control of the sector has improved and for this, the
two advisers can take some of the credit.
22. The gains made under TA II appear to be sustained: consolidated
sector analyses continue to be published yearly by staff trained by the
advisers and most public enterprises are now audited within the prescribed
time limits. Although the sector continues to generate a deficit, the
trend is positive. The Government is committed to carrying through on the
reforms initiated under the Project and has recently appointed a new High
Commiiss toner.
23. Two civil service reform advisers were funded consecutively under the
Credit. The second left the CAR after a few months without contributing
materially to achieving the Project's objectives. The first, however,
originally recruited under TA I, made a crucial contribution in assisting
the Government define and begin implementing its public administration
reform program and meet conditions for release of the second tranche of SAL
I. His mission was carried out in the context of a Goverrment contract
with the Ecole Nationale d'Administration Publique of Quebec to reorganize
and rationalize government personnel management as part of a comprehensive
plan for administrative reform. This was a highly sensitive assignment and
the adviser and the Authorities showed great integrity and courage in
pursuing it. The adviser was supported by numerous task-specific short
term missions of other ENAP staff, in particular for preparation and
implementation of ministerial staffing plans and a program of assisted
voluntary departure as part of the civil service staff reduction plan.
The quality of these short-term missions was mixed and some of these tasks
were, in fact, done by national officials not strictly involved in the
Project with help from IDA staff (para. 47).
24.   The first adviser on civil service reform established excellent
working relations with the authorities and with the national staff
appointed to work with him. Concrete achievements in civil service reform
for which the adviser can take a large measure of credit have been:
the cleaning up of the public payroll and the consequent pruning of
beneficiaries eligible for family and other allowances;
the establishment, and general enforcement, of a "1 for 3" rule
where-by each franc of new recruitment must be compensated by 3
francs of savings;
the stricter observance of regular retirement; and
the enforced reimbursement of irregular payments.



9
The objective of reducing the civil service wage bill to 502 of government
receipts has not yet been achieved. Progress toward a wage bill which is
sustainable and reasonable will depend on improved fiscal performance and
the success of other measures under SAL III.   Nevertheless, TA II actions
have significantly reduced waste and abuse in the civil service while
measutes supported under the Project will, once fully implemented, result
in the wage bill being lower by 10Z than it would otherwise have tben. A
new awareness has been generated in some parts of Government of the need to
reorganize the civil service, a rew understanding of the usefulness of
reform, and finally, a new commitment to continuing this reform process.
It is possible that, without the savings and improvements achieved under
the Project, the burden of a grossly overstaffed and inefficien: civil
service on the economy and on the stability of CAR's nascent parliamentary
institutions would have been intolerable.
TraininR
25. Training was a heavily emphasized at appraisal and on-the job
training responsibility figured prominently in the advisers' ti!rms of
reference. It was envisaged that they would work with teams o counterpart
national staff during PY1 and that "technology transfer" would be such that
by PY3 the adviser's role would be purely supportive, with nat.onal staff
performing all operational tasks.   On-the-job training would be guided and
facilitated by the visiting trainer and supplemented with seminars for
national staff. This objective was never realized for a number of reasons:
i) the nressuire to meet immediate priority needs -- partirularly with a
weak administrationi trying to prepare, and subsequently implement, an
ambitious adjustment progr&m -- created a situation in which expatriate
advisers were inevitably used to substitute for the lack of suitably
qualified national staff; ii) in some cases counterparts were not appointed
or were not appropriately qualified and motivated to profit by the
adviser's training; iii) the system of a visiting trainer was not an
appropriate response to real training needs and this weakness in the design
of the project training activities was compounded by the poor performance
of the trainer and deficient management of the Project.
26. There were notable training successes: the legal adviser in MINPLAN
established and counselled a team of young lawyers who became the core of
the wCellule juridique". Even though some of the original counterpart
national staff trained by the legal adviser have been subsequently posted
to other responsibilities within the Government, MINPLAN's legal service
remains capable, motivated and productive. This suggests that project
activities succeeded in achieving a "multiplier effect" which has sustained
the original achievement beyond the tenure of one or two individuals. In
the Civil Service Ministry, HCSEEM and Forestry, national counterpart staff
trained by TA II-funded staff are also performing satisfactorily. But in
MINPLAN (other than the "Cellule juridique"), in the Mir stries of Finance
and Commerce there is little evidence of positive resulLt  from either the
resident advisers or the training adviser's activities. The debt adviser
in CAADE did not appear to interest himself in training activities and
produced only cursory training programs. Nevertheless, CAADE continues to
function efficiently, which suggests either that training '- fact took
place or that C.AADE staff were sufficiently well trained tk begin with and
needed only the leadership which the adviser undoubtedly did provide.



10
27. The training done in MINMEN is a special case. Theoretical courses
were organized in diamond valuing for twelve national staff and four were
selected for intensive training as expert valuers. This training was
provided by the resident geologist and by the expatriate valuer both in
Bangui (from 1985 - 87) and in Antwerp (1988).   In 1988, an
internationally respected diamond consultant was asked to evaluate the
Project's activities in the sector. His findings were encouraging --
overall, the results were positive particularly in light of local
difficulties. The consultant found the training results praiseworthy and a
necessary beginning for CAR to establish its own valuation service over the
long term, if that was the desired route. However, diamond valuation is a
very highly specialized art and the consultant found that only one of the
trainees had acquired it to a significant degree. He concluded that
'...while the valuation system _s an improvement over what existed
before ....  it would be preferable to conclude an arrangement with the
Central Selling Organization in London...". The Government has not made a
decision on this option but the large increase in revenue from diamond
exports is an important gain to the CAR (paras 14 and 20) ard is partly due
to the fact that national evaluators trained under the Project are now
present at buying sessions to ensure at least general ad valorem controls.
28. In addition to the above, overseas study courses and fact-finding
missions were financed for Central African officials. These included
c.urses in national economic management held in France, courses in
international development law held in Rome, visits to Bank Group-financed
projects in other African countries by Project management, to relevant
forestry projects by the Minister responsible for Forests, and
participation in an Urban Projects seminar at Harvard by senior staff of
the Ministry of Public Works, including the minister.
Studies
29. No studies were specifically identified at appraisal. In the event,
the Credit financed the establishment of five new ministerial staffing
plans and other important studies and research required for continuing IDA
support to the SAP. An important study of the CAR's banking sector in
preparation for and Enterprises Rehabilitation and Development Project has
been carried out and the report is now being finalized (see Preface).
Other useful studies financed under the Project include a study of the
costs and efficiency of the education system which provided input to the
formulation of a Ministry of Education strategy paper published in 1986 and
an aerial survey of the CAR's rich tropical forests. This latter study has
been an important input to formulation of a national strategy for future
forestry sector management and to preparation of the Natural Resources
Management Project scheduled to come on line in late 1990.
30. A Rural Water Supply feasibility study was also done. The contract
for this latter was of the order of US$500,000 equivalent. The preliminary
report was discussed with the Authorities and the Bank in June 1987 and in
the opinion of both, the work had been poorly executed. The contractor
failed to revise the report in timely fashion and the Government allowed
the contract to lapse. In the event, the proposed project was dropped from
the investment program. Payments to the contractor, however, total CFAF 97



11
million (US$ 325,000 approx.). While it may have been reasonable at one
point to have envisaged such a study, it is regrettable that so much was
spent to prepare a project for which financing was not secured.
Other
31. Project funds were used to acquire vehicles, computer equipment and
to construct a documentation center in MINPLAN. The center is operational
and was completed at a cost of US$135,000. The computer equipment financed
in CAADE, MINPLAN, HCSEEM and CPRAC was indispensable for Government to
implement the debt management, investment programming and public sector
reform measures of its structural adjustment program. Credit funds were
also used to finance computer training for senior staff of line ministries
and the Office of the President and the services of a local computer expert
to supervise maintenance of the equipment and train national staff in
computer operation have been financed. As a result of this comprehensive
approach, the equipment is being effectively maintained and operated.
Since February, 1989, the Credit has been used to finance start-up
activities of the EMP (para. 8).
Bank Performance
Project Design and Preparation
32. Bank preparation of TA II was thorough: the Project Brief, decision
Memorandum and other documents show intense exchanges between Programs,
Projects and Central staff on project content. The lessons of TA I were
successfully internalized and a better system of project management was
designed in the light of experience with that operation. As a result,
project objectives accurately reflected real needs and the scope of the
Project was appropriate to meet them.
33. Project design did, however, contain flaws:
in retrospect, it is clear that the arrangement whereby training was
handled principally by a visiting, as opposed to full-time, adviser
in daily contact with national staff was not a sufficient response to
the Government's serious training needs and seems inconsistent with
the importance accorded to this function during project preparation;
the Bank had no in-house expertise to supervise the diamond or
forestry sector activities and while satisfactory arrangements were
made during implementation for supervision of the diamond sector
activities, these were not envisaged in the appraisal documents; and
the large number (originally 11, amended to 12) of disbursement
categories specified in the DCA was unnecessary and led to confusing
errors of imputation.
In retrospect, it seems that IDA's expectations from project training
activities were perhaps over-optimistic. It may be that the success of TA
I was misleading. The disarray and demoralization of key institutions
immediately following the downfall of the Empire can hardly be exaggerated.



12
The successor Government's achievements, with assistance from TA I, were a
spectacular improvement over what had gone before and probably inflated
expectations for TA II. While the CAR's needs and potentia' were well
understood, the implications of its limited absorptive capacity, weak
administrative apparatus and poor human resource base were underestimated.
Nevertheless, the Project did have a significant impact in improving
Government performance in key areas with lasting results.
Supervision
34. In all, five different Programs (subsequently Country Operations)
staff had lead responsibility for supervising the Project. This lack of
continuity in Headquarters staff was largely due to the 1987 reorganization
which initially had a disruptive effect. However, by bringing Technical
Department staff into project supervision, in particular of the public
sector management components, its long term effects on Bank supervision of
TA generally in CAR are likely to be positive. The forestry and legal
components were never supervised by qualified IDA staff. An external
consultant supervised diamond sector activities once (para. 27). The
Country Economist monitored macroeconomic assistance within the context of
SAL supervision and Debt and International Finance Division colleagues
contributed to monitoring of the debt component. But formal supervision of
the Project was carried out by Task Managers. This is usual in TA
operations of this kind but it means that highly technical areas are less
regularly supervised than others.
35. IDA supervision missions tended to substitute for the lack of
effective project coordination. This is illustrated by the effort IDA
staff put into routine project management, for instance tracking and
monitoring commitments. This was a severe burden on staff and made inroads
on the time they could devote to substantive work.
36. It is also possible that IDA staff mistook the reason for slippage in
implementing SAP reform measures which was analyzed, at least in part, as
lack of sufficient qualified manpower. In fact, IDA staff may have
underestimated the Government's difficulties in establishing a consensus
among different groups and interests on the needs and modalities for
radical reform. This is partially borne out by the fact that the
activities of the additional project advisers recruited on the Bank's
recommendation did not have the significant impact on realization of SAP
objectives that IDA had anticipated. But overlapping mandates within the
Government and duplicative terms of reference were also among the factors
which limited the performance of these advisers.
Borrower Performance
37. Project Administration. From PY 2 on, the Project was administered
by a Central African national. She maintained a thorough system of manual
accounts. Her management of the project office, logistic support to
resident advisers and supervision of support staff (chauffeurs, etc.) paid
from government ccunterpart funds was timely and efficient. Because of the
profusion of disbursement categories (para. 33) errors of imputation



13
occurred but Bank staff rated her overall performance, in difficult
circumstanc;.s, highly. She had no decision authority.
38. Project Management. In contrast, every supervision mission save one
noted major problems of project management. Liaison between the project
management and IDA was sporadic and inefficient. One instance is
representative of this general problem: a short-termn consultant was unpaid
for nine months after satisfactory completion of his assignment despite
repeated applications to projact management and advice from IDA staff to
the Coordinator. This dilatoriness caused inconvenience and financial loss
for the consultant and unnecessary work for LOAAF and other HQ staff.
39. More serious still were the lack of monitoring and coordination of
project activities and consultants' performance.   The results were that:
i) progress under each project component depended on the resident advisers'
capacities and relationships with the Authorities; ii) the internal
coordination of project activities and their integration into Government's
overall strategy was left to other, over-extended national officials and
periodic IDA supervision missions; iii) the actual costs associated with
resident advisers and other consultant services were riot systematically
controlled.
40. Cost Control. One unfortunate result of ineffectual project
management is the lack of a discernible direct correlation between the cost
of certain activities and results -- in some cases it seems inverse. For
instance, the services of the visiting trainer cost about US$ 22,500 per
month of effective presence in Bangui. The trainer was expected to work
closely with resident advisers to help with on-the-job training. In
interviews with visiting Bank staff national counterpart staff in the
Centrale des projets and in CAADE expressed themselves very disappointed
with project training provisions. In contrast, the advisers in the
forestry and diamond sectors, whose contributions are important, undisputed
and well-documented cost on average about US$ 13,000 per month.
Furthermore, they, the legal adviser in MINPLAN and the adviser in CPRAC
who achieved positive training results, did so with little or no input from
the trainer. In 1988, the Bank task manager persuaded the Project
Coordinator to dispense with the trainer's further service.
41. Project management was weak in dealing with foreign consultant firms.
One firm held, among others, the contracts for the services of the adviser
in MINCI, the budget specialist in MINPLAN and the Water Supply study
(para. 30). The MINCI adviser contributed little if anything to achieving
project objectives in the opinion of Bank staff. His services, however,
were the most costly financed under the Project, amounting to US$ 630,000
equivalent over 18 months, or US$ 35,000 per month. The budget specialist
in MINPLAN was incapacitated by sickness from very shortly after he arrived
in Bangui yet the contractor never proposed, nor did project management
request, his replacement. Whate-er the literal contractual provisions, it
was clearly the responsibility of project management to question these
startling discrepancies between cost and performance. This was never done.
The Rural Water Supply feasibility study cost the CAR over US$ 325,000 for
no significant benefit. It would have been appropriate for project
management to review the performance of this contractor but no such
initiative was taken.



14
42. In cor,'espondence with the Government and informally, IDA frequently
expressed concern over such shortcomings and, in May 1988, requested that a
more pro-active management team be established. The Authorities, however,
were reluctant to take action on what they saw as a delicate issue. IDA,
for its part, was reluctant to invoke its remedies under the terms of the
DCA. IDA staff, however, persisted and in August, 1988, the task manager
and the Minister responsible for Planning reached agreement on general
principles for greater transparency in the terms and conditions of
consultants' contracts and these have been taken into account in design of
the EMP.
43.  Compliance with Covenants.    With the exception of those recruited
at the time of SAL I second tranche release and of the training adviser,
project advisors produced regular training programs and progress reports.
Covenants requiring the project Coordinator to forward six monthly progress
reports to the Association were honored but the reports were of limited
value. Two audits of project accounts were carried out, in March 1987 and
February 1988. A final audit has been substantially completed but will not
be finalized until the Credit account is definitively closed 2/.
Conclusions and Lessons
44. The Second Technical Assistance Project provided expertise and
training which have brought immediate, measurable benefits. The results in
the key diamonds and forestry sectors are particularly valuable to the
economy. Without the important reforms brought about in debt management
and the civil service -- reforms which are directly attributable to Project
activities -- and the important studies financed, it is unlikely that the
Government could have successfully pursued its structural adjustment
program. The cost of the services of the resident advisers involved in
these activities is more than justified by the benefits they helped the
Government to obtain.
45. Equipment acquired under the Project, the organization and cleaning
up of the archives of the Ministries of the Civil Service and of Energy and
Mines and the construction of much-needed additional facilities in the
Ministry responsible for Planning have greatly improved the potential of
these agencies.
46.  The main weakness of the Project was ineffectual management ir the
field. This had numerous negative repercussions and is at least partly the
reason that results from training activities were so mixed, that cost
control was poor and that the contribution of some resident advisers, in
particular advisers recruited in addition to chose envisaged at appraisal,
is poorly documented and difficult to identify.
47. There were flaws in the project design but they were relatively
minor. The scope of the Project was ambitious but this was justified by
the urgency of CAR's situation and the activities included in the Project
were timely, appropriate responses to urgent needs. The weakness of
2/ See Preface.



15
project management and of some advisers and consultants placed additional
burdens on a small number of dedicated Central African officials and IDA
staff. For instance, much of the civil service staff reduction program
(which has so far reduced the number of budgeted posts by 2,000 for savings
of over CFAF 2 billion per year and under which 725 staff have voluntarily
quit the public sector) was established and implemented through the efforts
of senior Government officials assisted by IDA staff (para. 23). In this
way, IDA staff fell into the same trap as resident TA advisers frequently
do, namely, yielding to the pressure of immediate task needs at the
expense, arguably, of long-term institution-building needs.
48. The lessons of TA II have been taken into account in the design of
the EMP (para. 41).  To facilitate cost containment, IDA staff and the
Ministry responsible for Planning have reached agreement on general
principles for greater transparency in the terms and conditions of
consultants' contracts under the EMP. The concept of a management team has
been retained but it has been significantly strengthened and reoriented.
The Government and the Bank have both emphasized the selection of
appropriately qualified and motivated national staff and the provision of
adequate training for them. In addition, each project component is being
implemented by the agency concerned and is supervised by a high-level
official designated by the minister to work in close collaboration with the
EMP team. Management information was left largely in the hands of the
Project Coordinator, and by default, of IDA staff, under TA II. Under the
EMP, a computerized management information has been set in plice and a
procedures manual has been drawn up with assistance from IDA staff.
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(The national Project Coordinator has submitted a long Project Completion
Report. Its contents were taken into account in Part I. The report deals
extensively with the genesis and context of TA II but makes few comments onr
major aspects of project implementation. No reference at all is made to
project management and monitoring, either by IDA or by the Central African
authorities although this latter function was the primary responsibility of
the Coordinator or to any lessons learned. What follows is a translation
of the report's general remarks, comments on formal training activities,
and conclusion. The full text is available in the projects file].
General Remarks
49. Following the first technical assistance project, the second took
effect on July 1, 1985 after signature of the loan agreement between the
Central African Republic and the World Bank on June 14, 1985 in Washington.
50. Early in 1986, in implementation of Structural Adjustment Program I,
the Government and the world Bank agreed to aim the work programs of the
resident experts at support of execution and follow/up of the State
adjustment program.
51. In conjunction with this second project, assistance in the form of
consultants and experts was furnished to the diamond and forest sectors, to



16
public debt management, to economic planning and public investment, and to
reform of the civil service and enterprises. The West German cooperation
agency (GTZ) moreover financed the services of a legal adviser to the State
Secretariat of Planning.
52. The importance of this project for the Central African authorities is
obvious inasmuch as it will help them to put public finances on a sound
footing, revive development and train the country's managers and
professionals. The project is also important to the World Bank inasmuch as
it strengthens the cooperation which has been steadily developing over the                4
years with the Central African Republic.
Training Activities
53. The Projects analysis and evaluation seminar (April 21 - May 10,
1986): Despite its short duration, the seminar attained its objectives.
Indeed, the participants were unanimous in saying that they had acquired
new insights and wished to deepen those insights further.
Conclusion
54. Generally speaking, the Second Technical assistance Project by and
large achieved its objectives and satisfied the Central African
Authorities.   The good results obtained in most sectors covered by the
project are due to the competence of the experts and to the availability
and collaboration of the Central African Authorities.
55. The achievements of the Project were appreciated by high government
officials, most notably those with whom the experts worked. Most of the
authorities made a point of expres-ing their satisfaction with the experts
performance on the job by requesting that their contracts be renewed in
conjunction with EMP. This applies to the experts working in Mining,
Commerce, CAADE and the High Commission for Government Enterprises 3/.
56. Nevertheless, some components of the project had somewhat
disappointing results. This applies most of all to the macroeconomic
management component, which should be strengthened in conjunction with the
Economic Management Project. Apart from that, it can be stated that the
Second Technical Assistance Project was highly instrumental in enhancing
the Central African Republic's ability to prepare and implement its
economic recovery and development program. In addition, it was
instrumental in strengthening the cooperation between the Central African
Republic and the World Bank.
3/ [In fact, only the geologist in MINMEN and the macroeccnomist in
MINPLAN have been retained under the EMP] -- AFlCO note.



17
PART Ill.       STATISTICAL INFOPMATION
Related Bank Loans
Credit Tltlq                 Purpose                               Approved  Status
SAL I                        Support for Government's steuctural   19"       Closed
Cre. A02S-0 and 1752-0       adjuatment prooram (PAS) to a*idren
Lky mcrowconomic and sectors1
SAL II                       Iues over tht medluu term.            19        Fully disburd
Thu objectlve  s oustainable CDP
SAL Ill                      growth o4 pa.  by 1991.                         BoJrd Prosntton in
Economic Management Project                                        1965      Ongoing
Natural Recources            Alm  to reinforce CAR' capacity      1990      Start-up lat 190
Manageoent Project           tg preSt tnd manage                                      ltoret end
wldlir resource. on   *ustai n-
able basis,
Enterprise Rehabilitation                                                    Under Preparati n for
and Dovolopmnt project       Contribute to economle growth and               Sord Prosntat on in
Income and _ployment genTration                   1       n
hruhprovision of ced t, t
lnncin  and working capital tor
untepiae development and  rehab-
ilitai on In the productive sectors.
Transport Sector Project     Will finnc  transport secto r         1900      Start-up late 1990
actlvities n 1n991-199 pub Ic
program.  I aclmp:i d by po icy
nur" orei   g *101 mods 
transport (rMver, road, aviat?on).
Education III                Support for Implementation of         1967      Ongoing
Government's sector strategy as
set forth under PAS.
2. Project Timetable
Date           Date
Planned        Revised         Actual
Identification                                                  1/84
Preparation                                                     2/84
Appraisal                       4/84            4/R4            5/84
Cr. Negotiations                3/85                            3/85
Board Approval                  5/85           3/85            4/85
Cr. Signature                   6/85                           6/85
Cr. Effectiveness               6/85            6/85           8/85
Completion                    12/88           12/88           12/89
Closing                       12/&3           12/88
12/89           06/90
12/90 1/
1/ For ill practical purposes the Credit closed in June 1990 but IDA has
agreed to honour withdrawal applications to allow finalization of an
important financial sector study which has encountered unexpected delays
and extended the Closing date until December 31, 1990 for this sole
purpose.



18
8. Prolect Cost. and Financing
A. ProJect Cost
Aneraisal Estimate          Revisw  EIstilmte             Actual
- MR '0O0-
LI-Is                      Foreign                     Foreign                   Foreign
Local  Exchange            Loc I  Exchang             Local Exchange
Coost    Costs    Total    Cost    Costs    Total   Cota   Costs         Total
1. Res Idet
Spc. IecaIIa     475      2,U4C    I,20      475      2,848    3,820    475    5,17?      8,8U
2. Housing           820        -       320      520        -       *20    t9         -        181
3. Vehicles           0         -         0     120         -           120    131   -         tee
4. Vehicle epea   40           -        40      40         -        40     54        -         54
S. Coosrdiator's     90         -        90      90         -        90     42       -          42
Sal ary
6. A&i.istrator'e  1C           as       50      15         36       50     10        -         10
Sal ary
7. offlce eup$1iee  s0          -        s0      s0         -        s0      U       -          U
3. Short-trn          -      1,740    1,740      -       1,740    1,740    736        -        76
Comm ltanto
9. T  l minIg         -        170      870      -         870      870     -        101       101
10. Good. A         100        700      SW      110       730       840     -     2,906      2,908
erv I ces
11. Special Account  -         U0       5        -        580       50      -       580          4
12. Doemntation       -         -        -      120         -       120    182       -         182
18. Unlallocated      -        994      994      -        800       800     -        -          -
Totals  1,160     7,840    8,400   1,450      7,065   8,400  2,052    6,717       8,248 1/
1/ Am amut of approx. SUR 17,000 reamlns on the Credit Account as of 5/30/90.
Th    funds will 6e usd for a Financial Sector study which has beo  don
bt for which the report Is not yet finalized. Any balonc  remaining after
paymt of this c1otreat will be canelled.
B. ProJct Financing
Source             l                   Actual
IDA                8.0                  6.0
Qoverneaet         0.4                  0.4
Total              8.4                  8.4



19
4. Credit Disbursements
1986       1987       1988       1989       1990
----SDR   illions-------------
Estimted at Appraisal                     2.1        5.3        7.4        874
Actual                                     1.3        2.9        5.3        7.6        8.4 1,
Actual S of Estimate                     62.0       55.0       72.0       90.0    100.0
1/ Projected: Actual  an of May 30,  1990  - SDR 8.25 million;
See footnote in Project Costs Table
5.     Status of Credit Covenanta
Covenant                         Subject                          Dc. d u                   Status
DCA Reference
Section  .08      by Deocember 31 of' each  cat , -4h*         Each yeT' * i.1       Superoeded by SAP and shift
Government would proparf an ann al                                to ro'ling invtestnt programs
recovery and development program.                                 which have ben submitted.
Section 8.07(o)   Availability of national counter-             Ongoing/Recur  v,   Compiled with.
parts to work with advisers.
Section 3.07(a)   Work plono ond progress ropcrta of             Quarterly/Year r   Conerally complied with but some
advisero  Coordinator's annual reports                           scippe        p  advisers recruited
n a*;-proJect
Section 3.06        IDA opproval of candidates for training Ongoing/Recurronl   Cmplied with.
proposals.                                                        with.
Section 4.02       Standard auditing and financial                    Yearly          First sudit (1907) retroactive
accounting requirmm_nts                                           to effective date.  Second (1988)
to timo of project completion
s*ubmitted 2/89. After some
clarifications  both reports
acceptable to iDA.
Special Disbursement ConMition
Section 3.02(n)   Recommendation of Coordinator and            Not specified          Complied with.
opproval of minioter responslble for
planning for activitie identified
during Mmp amentation.



20
6.    Use  of  Bank  Resources
A. Staff Inputs
*    -   -, -,         ,,C    2
'-t  ~  4 ;9-   -;~  '-k   ':'^  . ~ 'r       I  - 9                  '-4'  -'
* j.   .*;:. - r 4 . 
N  N           Ao;;A',-TE>, ;SSiTS    I                   Fi AND 3TA US      0-
2ENR94L AFK 0AN PEPSBLIC                     MANAGIN6 DI        2?, . 1!
'~ s  NiAGP   ': dAP4                                        !A5i  MSR  Dlv,    ..'4
-r ~ S7AFFWEEI  ,2ES  $L M!AR
ACTUAL   PLANNED
DErl.                                      i!RI6.          REt                   AS %   NO. OF            PLANNED        PLANNED      SOURCE
'>stIG    Cl,    'lwr,  .TE   r 'T ^KMMIT No.-NAME  RLAN             fLAN        ACTUAL    REV.   TRIPS              TRAVS          CONSS      Of FUNDS
-,4
,'hN'6  XR-  zfRAlEAL
LENA     22'3   0          I                               0 A                         7.3      .0         .0               0              0
LENA     22>10   9        ECN    -ECONOMIS                .0             .G             .4      .0         .0               0              0
'jTAL LENG8   PEFR.- APPRAISAL                            .0              0           '77       I0         .0               0              0
LENDING  PE ,- FPEAFPR.
.'NF     2'2170   A         MP                            .3             '            9.6                                  0
NE            l    H                      .0..G                          .G          20.3       .0         .0               O              0
9i .22:  II!     cCENh   -ECONOMIS               .0            .0            1.2       .O         .0               0             O
'A'K  LENINE CREK.- ;PEAPP.                              .uv           .0           'I.!       .0        .0               0k             0
C"L,T^, fi34                                             .,i'            .0          386,       .0         .0               0              0
<4 6 ,0.       E. - A.  ..EAP
..NA     22;>10   A       CPA'                            .0      .     ..      .    ... .O  .G   3.0      .0       .       0      O       0t
LNA       -       L         .                             .0             .0             .8      .0         .0               0              0
LENA     2;  10  r        ECN    -ECONOMIS                .0                           1.7      .0         .0               0              0
'%TAL LENDIN6 OPER.- APFRAISAL                            .0             .0          13.1       .0         .0               0              0
LENDING OfER.- NEGOT.
LEhN     223/10  A        CPA                             .0             .0             .8      .0         .0               0              0
LENh     223/10  C        MSP                             .0             .0           4.6       .0         .0               0              0
LENN     22i310  NH        SL                             .0             .0           4.8       .0         .0               0              0
LENN     223/10  N        ECN    -ECONOMIS                .0             .0             .5      .0         .0               0              0
TOTAL LENDING OPER.- NE60T.                               .0             .0          10.7       .0         .0               0              0
ITDTAL FY85                                               .0             .0          23.9       .0         .0               0              0
===Z=====       ;:                 =z =       ::         =::         =    =        ==
('PLEASE NOTE - INVALID TRS STAFF TYPES ARE INDICATED ABOVE BY A ''
AND ARE NOT INCLUDED IN ANY OTHER MIS REPORTS).



21
(TAIR21 -   LEND;KNS 5FE',:e N  !:S *  E';iL. - `'FFN.6  ETAfi.
RESIONs ;   DEPAFTIEN: :2:
ti excludts 'rjit cZrd #,- Rvseti:> ijopv': ,aritl*nts 
SECTION I  :EAr:N6 INfORMAT:tN
ID A4N  NAME   3CARFA012-TECH. ASSIST.11               FY AND STATUS :40-
COVUTRY      :ENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC                  4ANAGIN6 DIV  : ^t3110
TASK RAN6ER:   HAR4A                                   TASK MBA DIV.    2/1i)
E;TION 11: STAFfWEEK COST SUMMARV
ACTUAL PLANNED
OEPT                                   ORI6.         REV.                AS I   NO. OF         PLANNED      PLANNED    SOURCE
TASKID    DIv   TYPE  STAFFiCOMNIT NO.-NAME  PLAN              PLAN       ACTUAL   REV,  TRIPS            TRAY$        CONSS    OF FUNDS
.. ....  ...... . ....  _.,.................... ...... .  ........------ -----   .......            . -----                  .... .... .. .....
*... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~.~.
pROJECT SUPERVISION
SPN     .23/10  H       SlO                         .0            .0          1.1     .0        .0              0            0
SPN     223#I0  H       ECN   -ECONOMIS             .0            .0          3.5      .0       .0              0            0
.- -- -      .... ...     - -- - -    -  --       - --     .  . . ..    ......
TOTAL PROJECT SUPERVISION                           .0           .0          4,6      .0        .0             0             0
'TOTAL FY85                                         .0            .0         4.6      .0        .0              0            0
42*222a2:2   z:3222:3  3s2a2222a  :2288           3.223    2a3a23222    "32ss23
FY86
PROJ.COMPLETION REP.
PCR     223110  ,       03865 -HOMSI                .0            .0           .0     .0        .0              0            0
PCR     223/10  N       06367 -PALEIN               .0            .0           .1     .0        .0              0            0
TOTAL PRQJ.COMPLETION REP.                          .0            .0           .1     .0        .0              0            0
PROJECT SUPERVISION
SPN     223/!'          1'158 -BRICKNEL             .0            .0           .0     .0        .0             0             0
SPN     223/;0  A       10281 -O'HARA               .0            .0           .4     .0        .0              0            0
SPN     2231V0          1 14395 -BRUSNETT           ,0            .0          .1       O.       .0              0            0
SPN     223/10N H        5196 -BALENSON             .0            .0          1.1     .0        .0              0            0
SPN     223/10  H       12791 -HEWER                .0            .0          1.2     .0        .0              0            0
SP"     223/10  H       03865 -HOHSI                .0            .0          1.3     .0        .0              0            0
SPN     223110  H       0'381 -kLAUS                .0           .0           .0      .0        .0              0            0
SPN  25 3/10  H  O6367 -PALEIN                      .0           .0                             .0              0            0
SPN     225/10  H       16940 -SHAW                 .0            .0           .0      .0       .0              0            0
-PH     22: 10  S       14746 -ZHIROU               .0           .0           7.9     .0        .0             0             0
SP%     331/05  H       03381 -KLAUS                .0                  .0         .0           .0              0            0
rOTAL PROJECT SUPERVISION                           .0           .0         12.4      .0        .0             0             0
4TOTAL FY86                                         .0            .0         12.5     .0        .0              0            0
222222222    222332 .22222    282                  22       223222233    2222&228
FY87
2223
PROJECT SUPERVISION
SPN     223110  H       03865 -lIONSI               .0           .0          2.0      .0        .0             0             0
SPN     223/10  H       10291 -01MAM                .0            .0          7.9     .0        .0             0             0
SPN     223/10  H       16569 -TAYLOR               .0            .0          1.9     .0        .0             0             0
SPN     223/10  H       10454 -INJM R               .0           .0           .0      .0        .0              0            0
TOTAL PROJECT SUPERVISION                           .0            .0        11.9      .0        .0             0             0
'TOTAL FY87                                         .0            .0         11.9     . 0       .0             0             0
FY98amagt
Ze22
('PLEASE NOTE - INWALID TRS STAFF TYPES ARE INDICATED ABOVE BY A "?
AND ARE NOT INCLUDED IN ANY OTHER MIS REPORTS).



22
-   ND146 3FE;;A::N%  ':"E'ALE - STAFFIN6 DET'MIL
DEFA'PENW:;;
* el:i .des Trust i.n: all ReseHrMI Su0DOrt ConsultantS *
c:E',IO   I   EA'2!N6 :NFORMIATION
22zx:::::::::rs::=8_zz_  z-zm::---::s:szsz ::::::::::::::::: : ::
:  i0D NAME   3CARFAOI2-TECH, ASSIST.II               rY AtiD iTAJS   I-).
sv11rf<i     : CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC                  MANABIN6 D:.
i43s  PANASER: O HARA                                    MASW M6P 1/.  : 2"
SECTIrC  jj* STAFFhEE  COST SU'MARY
aCIUAL  PLAiNNED
DEPT                                    ORIG.          REv.                 AS i   NO. OF         FLANNED       PLANNED      SOUK;E
IASr!D     DIV   TYPE  STAFF?COMNIT NO.-NAME  PLAN               FLAN        ACTUAL   REV.   RIPS             TRAyS        CG9SS    CF CiNDS
~~~~~~~~~~~
PROJECT SUPERVISION
SFN      2231     C L    AP5091-SAADAT                .0           2.0           .2   12.4          .9             0             0
SFN      223/10  r                                    .0         10.0            .0      .iJ        .0              0            0
SPN      2Z3110  H       15988 -ALBA                  .0            .0          2.4      .0         .0              0            0
SPN      223;10  H       12326 -BLACKOEN              .0            .0          3.b      .0         .0             0             O
SPN      223/10  H       18792 -DARLAN                .0            .0           .'      .0         .0             0             0
SP4      22'110  h      02b27 -FARES                  .0            .0           .5      .0         .0              0            0
SPN      223110  H      03B65 -HOMSI                  .0            .0           .6      .0         .0             0             0
SPN      223/10  H       11269 -JOURDAN               ,0            .0           .0      .0         .0             0             0
SPN      223/10  H       10291 -O'HARA                .0            .0           7.1     .0         .0             0             0
SPr      223/20  h      06398 -BIRAROOT               .0            .0           .6      .0         .0              0            0
SPN      223i4G  H      01464 -SCHNARTZ                0             0            .7      .0        .0              0            0
TOTAL PROJECT SUPERVISION                             .0         12.0          15.9  132.8          .0             0             0
'TOTAL FY68                                           .0          12.0         15.9  132.6          .0             0             0
F189
PROJECT SUPERVISION
SPN      223/10  H                                    .0            .4            .0     .0        .0              0             0
SPN      223d11   H      15988 -ALBA                  .0            .0            .i      .0       .0              0             0
SFN      22310  H        12326 -BLACKDEN              .0            .5           .1   20.2         .0              0             0
SPN      223!11   H      18792 -DARLAN                .0           .0            .0      .0        .0               0            0
SPN      223/10  H      04296 -KAPS                   .0            .0            .2.     ..0                       0 ,
SPN      2:3/10  H       10281 -O'HARA                ,0           4.5          5.4  120.3         .0              0             0
SPN      223/86  H      09;35 -DAILLY                 .0            .0           .0      .0        .0              0             V
SPM      238/40  H       16911 -WESTRIN6              .0            "I           .!      .0        .0               0
SFN      268/30  H       13486 -DYSON                 .0                          1  100            .0              6            0
TOTAL PROJECT SUPERVISION                             .0           5.5          A.2  111.9          .0              0            0
#TOTAL FY89                                           .0           5.5          6.2   1l1.9         .0              0            0
F Y90
PROJ.COMPLETION REP.
PCR      223/10  H                                   6.0            .0            .0     .0         .0              0            0
PCR      223/10  H       159EU  -ALIA                 .0            .6            .4   59.3         .0              0            0
PCR      223/10  H       12326 -BLACKOEN              .0            .4            .3   76.8         .0              0            0
PCR      223/10  H       10291 -O'HARA                .0           5.0          3.5   70.1          .0              0            0
TOTAL PROJ.COMPLETION REP.                           6.0           6.0          4.2   69.5          .0             0             0
PROJECT SUPERVISION
SPN      238140  C      A17643-MELEBARI               .0            .3            .3   97.1         .0              0          403
TOTAL PROJECT SUPERVISION                             .0            .3           .3   97.1         .0              0           403
#TOTAL FY90                                          6.0           6.3          4.5   70.8         .0              0           403
:::::::::    :s22::::z    ::::rs:ss  ZZX22          zs:::    :::X:::    :::g:
('PLEASE NOTE - INVALIO TRS STAFF TYPES ARE INDICATED ABOVE BY A  Aj
AND ARE NOT INCLUDED IN ANY OTHER MIS REPORTS).



23
No. of   Days in Sp eializations Perforanceo  Rating      Type of
O. Mission Date       Date   Persons  Field    Represented /a Status /b   Trend /c   Problems /d
_________________    -----  -------  -------  --------------  -----------   ---------  -----------
Apprailal             04/j4     4       11         EC, L0
Supervision I         09/35     1      n.s.          LO             2         n.e.           M
Supervision II        O6/"      I      n.e.          LO             2           2            M
Supervision KII       11/U      1       12           TM             a           a            V
Supervision IV        04/U      2        7         TM, EC           2            1           V
Supervisieo V         07/67     2        5         TM, EC           2           2            N
Supervision VI        02/S6     1        5          TAO             a           3            V
Supervlslon VII       06/oS     1        5    Diamond Expert Diamond sector activitios problem-free
Supervision VIII      11/8S     2       12         TM/TAO           2            1
Supervision IX        06/"      1        2          TAO             2           2
Completion            03/90   n.s.     n.s.           RR            2           2
Key:
a / RR l.asident Mission Staff               c/  1 Improving
LO   Loan Officer                           2 Stationary
EC   Economist                              3 Deteriorating
TM   Toak Manager (goneralIst)
TAO   Technical Assistance Officer
d/ M Management
b/   1 Problem/froe or Minor problems
2 Moderate problems
3 Major problems



