Doumusut of
The World Bank
FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
Rlst Now P-4004-CA
REPORT AND RECOMMDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMNT CREDIT
OF SDBR . 4 MILLION
TO THE
CEN1TAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
March 28, 1985
T& dsc.ma 1_ls  _rs&ICW uisiibue au may be ose by redmlb imy In tbe pdilmumce of
t     Ida dwl. IEa csutmm- may ad shuwbe be dlsdu.u  u Wea BDk au.wIzmds.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    -   CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00          -   CFAF 490 1/
CFAF 1,000       -   US$ 2.04
CFAF 1 million   -   US$ 2,041
ABBREVIATIONS
CAADE     - Caisse Autonome pour l'Amortissement des Dettes de l'Etat
(Public Debt Management Fund)
CAR       -  Central African Republic
FAC       - Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (Aid and Cooperation Fund)
(France)
GTZ       -  Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (Cerman Agency for
Technical Cooperation)
TA        = Technical Assistance
UNDP      - United Nations Development Program
1/  The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) at the ratio of
FF 1 to CFAF 50. The French Franc is presently floating.



FOR OMCI4L USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMKARY
Borrower:       Central African Republic
Amount:         SDR 8.4 million (US$8.0 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard IDA terms
Project         The major objectives of the proposed project are (a) to
Description:    support Government efforts at rehabilitation of the national
economy, principally through assistance with the design and
implementation of a coherent, global rehabilitation/ development
program; (b) to design the tools needed to monitor the
implementation of this program, elaborating methods and
procedures and training Central African co-workers with a view
to making the Government progressively able to carry out these
functions on its own; and (c) to increase the country's
absorptive capacity in three key economic sectors: diamonds,
forestry, and transport infrastructure. Provisions under the
proposed project would include: (a) the services of ten
resident specialists (six of them already in residence, having
been hired under the First TA Project, Credit 1150-CA) in the
sectors of economic planning, public finance (two specialists),
external debt, public administration, public enterprises,
forestry, and diamonds (two specialists), and a legal expert in
a general supporting role for several sectors; (b) short-term
consultants to complement the activities of the resident
specialists, prepare new projects, and assist the resident
specialists in drawing up training programs; (c) funds for
training, Identification of possible future projects, and other
project-related activities to be identified during project
implementation; (d) the serrices of a national Project
Coordinator to help coordinate the contributions of national
specialists, specialists provided by other donors, and the ten
resident specialists provided under the proposed project; (e),
Project Administrator to carry out administrative and logistical
tasks; and (f) housing, vehicles, office equipment and supplies,
support staff, and other operating costs for project
implementation.
Benefits
and Risks:      Principal project benefits would be (a) the preparation and
implementation of realistic annual rehabilitation/ development
programs and substantial improvement in the Government's budget
procedures and investment preparation; (b) increased control
over Government expenditures, particularly the largest, the
civil service; (c) Improvements in the functioning of the
parapublic sector; and (d) enhanced ability of key national
off'cials to manage the national development effort.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project implementation faces two possible risks: (a) the
Government's lack of ability or willingness to implement an
austerity program and, in particular, the possibility that
certain powerful special interests may circumvent the channels
and procedures established by the Govern ent (with the
assistance of the project's resident specialists) to rationalize
the choice of investment projects and the use of government
resources; and (b) the difficulty of achieving coordination
among the project's specialists, national experts, and other
expatriate advisors supplied by other multilateral and bilateral
agencies. Measures to minimize these risks have been included
in the project design.
Estimated Prolect Costs
Local       Foreign       Total
US   000
I. Resident Specialists
(a)  Salaries and benefits                 472         2,713       3,185
(b)  Housing                               300            --         300
Cc)  Vehicles                               50            --          50
Cd) Vehicle maintemance, spare
parts, and operating costs             60            -           60
Subtotal                              882         2,713       3,595
II. Project Administration
(a) Salary supplement for
Project Coordinator                    80                        80
(b)  Project Administrator                  20            40          60
*c)  Support staff                          60            --          60
(d)  Office equipment and supplies         100             0         100
Subtotal                             260             40         300
III. Short-term consultants and training
(a)  Short-term consultants                            1,670       1,670
(b)  Training                              150           350         500
(c)  Needs to be identified during
project implementation                100           700         800
Subtotal                             250          2,720       2,970
Total Base Costs                         1,392 1/      5,473       6,865
Contingencies
- Physical                             76           105         181
- Price                              282          1,072       1,354
Total Project Costs                      1,750          6,650      8,400
I/  Includes US$10,000 equivalent of duties and taxes on imported but locally
purchased office equipment and supplies, spare parts, and gasoline. All
other project items would be exempt from taxes and duties.



- iii -
Financing Plan:
Local       Fore4n        Total
USS '000
IDA                                            1,350         6,650       8,000
Government                                       400                       400
Total                                          1,750         6,650       8,400
Estimated Disbursements:
FY86    FY87     FY88    FY89
Annual                           2,060    3,010    2,130    goo
Cumulative                       2,060    5,070    7,200  8,000
Estimated Project Completion Date:            December 31, 1988
Economic Return:                              Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:                       Not applicable
IBRD No. 15646R



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMNDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC FOR A SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed Development Credit to the Central African Republic (CAR) for
the equivalent of SDR 8.4 million (US$8.0 million) on standard IDA
terms to help finance a second technical assistance project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         A Country Economic Memorandum, the Bank's first
comprehensive economic report since 1970, was completed in December
1984, and its findings are to be discussed with the Government in May
1985. During the second half of the 1970s, severe mismanagement and
the deteriorating political situation made an economic dialogue
impossible, and the Bank Group's activities were reduced to supervision
of ongoing projects.
3.         The governments vhich succeeded the Bokassa regime in late
1979 began to address the CAR's economic difficulties with the
assistance of France, other bilateral donors, and international
organizations, including the Bank Group and the IMF. Under the
leadership of President Kolingba, the present military Government has
made considerable progress towards reversing the trend of economic
decline caused by poor economic and fiscal policies and an almost
complete disintegration of the country's public administration in the
late 1970s. The Government has become increasingly receptive to Bank
advice. An economic dialogue was resumed in earlv 1980 and has
steadily improved over the last five years. Contributing factors have
included (a) policy discussions related to the preparation and
implementation of new projects in key sectors (para. 21). (b)
iiscussions during the preparation of the recently completed Country
Economic Memorandum; (c) the secondment of a Bank staff member as an
economic and financial adviser to the Government under the Bank's
technical assistance program for IDA-only countries; and (d)
macroeconomic and sector discussions with the Government during the
preparation of this proposed technical assistance (hereafter, "TA")
project. Our involvement in revieving (a) a medium-term development
plan now being prepared and (b) the background documents for an
international donors' conference tentatively scheduled for late 1985
should further strengthen our dialogue and may enable us to assist the
Government in designing and implementing a policy-oriented program in
the near future.



- 2-
Economic Potential and Constraints
4.         The CAR is a landlocked country of 623,000 kma situated in
the heart of Africa with a population of 2.4 million growing at an
annual rate of 2.5 percent. About 30 percent of the inhabitants live
in urban areas. With a per capita income of US$310 in 1982, the CAR
belongs to the group of least-developed countries. The CAR is a member
of the six-country Monetary Union with a common currency, the CPA
franc, which is issued by a common central bank, the Bank of the
Central African States (Banque des Etats de l'Afrigue Centrale-BEAC).
It is also a member of the Customs Union of the Central African States
(Union Douaniere des Etats de l'Afrigue Centrale-UDEAC).
5.         Th' CAR has a good economic resource base which should allow
the population's per capita income to grow at a modest but sustainable
rate, provided appropriate macroeconomic policies are put in place and
the economies of the country's trading partners continue to improve.
Agriculture, including forestry, Is the mainstay of the economy and
accounts for about 40 percent of GDP. Agricultural production is
predominantly based on smallholder farming and is largely
subsistence-oriented. The principal export crops, cotton and coffee,
have low yields in comparison with neighboring countries with similar
climatic conditions. Incentives to intensify cotton production (raise
output per hectare) are weak in most parts of the country due to the
low population density (3.9 per square km) and the relative abundance
of land. Livestock-raising, a relatively recent economic activity in
the CAR and almost completely in the hands of some 20,000 pastoralist
families of the M'Bororo tribe, accounts for about 4-5 percent of GDP.
Mining and manufacturing account for some 14 percent GDP, utilities and
construction for 5 percent, and services for 41 percent. High
transportation costs in both domestic and international trade and an
oversized civil service are responsible for the large share of services
in GDP.
6.         The CAR's landlocked position, difficult transport
conditions, a sparsely populated area, the small size of the domestic
market, and a weak human-resource base are the principal constraints to
developing its economy. Bottlenecks in the river/rail route to the sea
through the Congo and the road/rail route through Cameroon
substantially raise production and inventory costs and reduce the
C.A.R's export competitiveness. Production costs and prices are also
high because utilization of capacity is generally low and because there
is little competition, a situation which favors monopolistic pricing
policies.
7.         Import substitution, which should have benefited 'rom
natural protection, has been only moderately successful. Political
instability and financial difficulties in the late 1970s and early
1980s caused a stagnation in private and public investments and a
decline in agricultural production, and discouraged private investment.
Years of rapidly growing employment in the civil service (accounting
for about 50 percent of total salaried employees) and in public



- 3 -
enterprises have resulted, however, in incomes which have enabled the
urban population to pay for high-priced imported goods. Import
tariffs, which constitute a major source of budgetary resources, have
been ineffective in protecting domestic industry, since it is very
difficult to control the C.A.R's borders. Last, but not least, the
expansion of import substitution has been hampered by a lack of skilled
personnel.
Recent Performance
8.         Bokassa's erratic rule eventually led to economic and
political collapse in 1979, when the regime was overthrown.
Contributing factors included (a) declining agricultural production, in
the late 1970s. caused by dwindling producer prices in real terms,
heavy government interference In agricultural marketing, an inefficient
state marketing agency for cotton, and the gradual disappearance of
consumer goods in rural areas; (b) unsound investments, typically
grandiose "prestige" projects with little economic justification; and
(c) rapidly increasing budgetary deficits, due mainly to an oversized
civil service, inefficient nationalized public enterprises, and
expensive short-term borrowing. The domestic problems were aggravated
by external factors. World market prices for cotton had dropped at an
average annual rate of almost 12 percent in real terms between 1976 and
1979, and in 1979 coffee prices in constant terms had fallen to two
thirds of their high 1976-77 levels. Public investments averaged only
7 percent of GCP during 1976-79, since foreign-aid dislursements were
cut in half and domestic capital expenditures dropped to their lowest
level ever. Consequently, the country's infrastructure became
dilapidated, resulting in the breakdown of agricultural marketing
channels and extension services.  Moreover, toward the end of the
Bokassa regime, the public administration had virtually ceased to
function.
9.         Since 1980, significant progress has been made towards
reestablishing at least short-term economic management and programming
and a return to financial discipline. An emergency rehabilitation
program for 1980-81. presented to the international community in June
1980 at a donors' conference held in Bangui, received the general
support of the Bank and other donors. The Government defined
rehabilitation of the agricult-ural sector, reconstruction and
maintenance of infrastructure in support of agricultural production,
improvement of education planning, and redressing the large financial
im'balances as the most urgent development priorities. Its National
Action Program, 1982-85 represents an important step forward in terms
of determining development priorities and making better use of
available external financing. The Bank is in agreement with the
established rehabilitation priorities and supports them with projects
and specific actions (paras. 26-27).
10.        In agriculture, the Government has taken a series of policy
measures aimed at raising cotton and food-crop production. Producer
prices for cash crops have been gradually increased, input subsidies



-4-
are being phased out, and cotton production is to be intensified with
its cultivation limited to the most productive areas. The performance
of SOCADA, the CAR's main rural development agency, has been
significantly improved by lowering its overhead costs through a
reduction in the number of employees, closure of unprofitable
ginneries, modernizing its trucking fleet, and by contracting private
transporters. Its input supply and marketing services have
substantially improved. The Government has also begun to rebuild a
priority road network, mainly in support of cotton production, but also
to facilitate transportation of food crops and consumer goods. As a
result of these measures, and in response to the reappearance of
consumer goods in rural areas, agricultural production has begun to
recover over the past two to three years.
11.       In the diamond sector which accounts 'or about 15 to 20
percent of export earnings, the Government has introduced a series of
reforms resulting in a substantial increase in official diamond
exports. The diamond export tax has been reduced from 20 percent to 14
percent in 1984 and to 12 percent in 1985. Consequently, official
diamond production increased by 14 percent in weight, and by 32 percent
in value, half of which is due to the production increase and the other
half to the appreciation of the US dollar against the CFA franc (14
percent) and increased diamond prices (2 percent). Following the
establishment of an artisanal gold production office financed by
foreign private operators, official gold production has also increased
from 95 kg in 1983 to 236 kg in 1984. Other measures to increase the
mining sector's contribution to economic development and the government
revenues in particular include a reorganization of the Mining Brigade,
technical support to artisans, improvement of the mining code and the
reorganization of the cutting factory.
12.       These measures and the improvement of world market prices for
cotton, coffee, and timber in 1984 led to a slowing down of the
economic decline since 1982, except in the drought year of 1983, and
preliminary estimates appear to indicate a GDP growth of around 4
percent in 1984. However, the resumption of growth remains fragile as
reflected in the following key indicators: (a) total domestic savings,
always very low, have been negative since 1978; (b) the rate of
investment dropped from an already low 12 percent of GDP during 1975-79
to around 9 percent during 1980-84; (c) real export earnings declined
by one fifth between 1975 and 1979, from 37 percent to 27 percent of
GDP, recovered somewhat in 1980, but stagnated between 1980 and 1983.
before they increased significantly in 1984.
The Budget
13.        Over the past two years there have also been some
encouraging developments in the area of public finance, the
Government's second main area of concern. Since 1981, when the
military Government came to power, budgetary revenue has increased by
almost 50 percent due to several tax increases, strengthened tax
collection, and a reduction of customs dutv exemptions. The Government



has also begun to address the very grave problem of the vastly
overstaffed civil service. In 1983 the number of civil servants was
marginally reduced, and as of 1984 recruitment into the civil service
is to take place on the basis of competitive examinations for
university graduates with the aim of reducing gradually the number of
civil servants. The Government's reprivatization policy in the
parapublic sector has also had some moderate success since in several
enterprises public administration has been replaced by private
management. The Public Debt Management Agency (Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement des Dettes de l'Etat-CAADE) has been reorganized and
strengthened, and the external debt is being regularly serviced after
debt reschedulings have alleviated the country's immediate burden.
Consequently, during 1982-83, budgetary deficits were cut in half as a
percentage of GDP.
14.        In spite of this progress, the CAR's financial situation
remains precarious and continues to pose a major obstacle to the
country's economic development. Although the coverage of public
current expenditure by government revenue has risen since 1980, total
budgetary revenue financed only 83 percent of current expenditure on
average during 1980-84. Similarly, the share of salary payments in
total government expenditure has declined since 1980, but still
averaged 60 percent during 1980-84 compared to 48 percent during
1971-75. The budget does not contain public investments financed by
external sources and therefore does not shape the level or composition
of the investment program. Capital expenditu_a listed in the budget
represent the Government's contribution to externally financed
investment.
Balance of Payments
15.       The deterioration of the balance of payments in the late
1970s and early 1980s reflects the CAR's economic decline, in general,
and, in particular, its weakened agricultural export capacity, the
recent reconstruction efforts, and the decline of terms of trade.
Through most of the 1970s the trade balance remained positive as
imports could be kept below slowly growing exports. The absence of
significant food imports, comparatively low investments and a decline
in foreign aid flows, with which capital goods could have been
financed, and rather favorable world market prices for the CAR's export
commodities were responsible for this situation. The overall balance
of payments also remained mostly positive or was only slightly negative
during this period, since the current-account deficits were financed by
substantial public transfers and private capital inflows. However,
since 1980 imports reached considerably higher levels in connection
with the economic reconstruction efforts following the resumption of
foreign aid, while exports expanded only gradually due to the
long-standing neglect of agriculture and unfavorable world-market
prices for cotton, timber, and coffee. Between 1976-79 and 1980-83,
the average annual current-account deficits consequently more than
doubled in nominal terms and rose from 11 percent to almost 16 percent
of GDP. Foreign reserves bave also been declining each year since 1980



because public transfers covered smaller parts of the current account
deficits and net official loans remained small after the Government
resumed debt service payments in the early 1980s.
External Debt
16.       The CAR's public and publicly guaranteed external debt
outstanding and disbursed has risen from CFAF 6.6 billion in 1970 to
CFAF 80.7 billion in 1983 (US$218 million) or from 11.6 percent to
almost 30 percent of estimated GDP. By African standards, the debt
burden is not alarming if calculated on a per capita basis (US$90 on
average during 1980-83). But its repercussion on the budget is severe.
Several factors have prevented the CAR from servicing its debt
regularly which resulted in a loss of credibility and a decline of
conces6ionary aid in the late 1970s. First, disbursements which
doubled between the first and second half of the 1970. were frequently
made for unsound and poorly prepared projects incapable of debt
servicing. When economic management progressively deteriorated during
the last years of the Bokassa regime and disbursements from France
declined rapidly, the Government resorted to contracting expensive
private capital. In 1979, for example, medium and long-term
disbursements from France amounted to only one quarter of their levels
in the early and mid-1970s and the share of private credit
disbursements in total disbursements rose from some 25 percent to 50
percent between the early and late 1970s. Budgetary revenue, on the
other hand, grew only slowly and irregularly due to declining economic
activities and lax tax collection. The previous governments, however,
gave low priorities to debt servicing, and at the end of 1979 arrears
had accumulated to about or.e fifth of total disbursed public debt. The
post-Bokassa governments have made substantial progress in addressing
the CAR's public debt problem. The CAADE (para. 13) in the Ministry of
Finance, which supervises the CAR's contracting of foreign debts, has
been reorganized and strengthened, debt recording and servicing have
been put on a sound basis, and the external debt is being regularly
serviced after debt rescheduling have alleviated the country's
immediate burden.
17.        In 1981 and 1983, the CAR received debt relief from creditor
countries under Paris Club agreements. In 1983, participating
creditors rescheduled US$21.3 million, or 10 percent of total disbursed
public debt in 1983, US$9.7 million of which represented arrears built
up in 1982. and US$11.6 million maturities due in 1983. The resulting
total debt service amounted then to US$19 million compared to US$36.3
million before rescheduling, excluding IMF charges (19 percent of
budgetary revenues vs. 37 percent). While the 1983 rescheduling
provided substantial relief, the CAR's debt service problems are
expected to continue over the next few years. Projected debt service
payments between 1984 and 1990 average US$35 million a year (including
IMF charges), or roughly one third of projected annual budgetary
revenues, without taking into account debt service on new borrowings,
although the latter are expected to be contracted on highly
concessional terms.



- 7 -
18.        In recent years, the IMF has provided the CAR with
substantial balance-of-payments support. In 1978, the country received
a US$6.9 million equivalent Trust Fund loan, and in 1980,
balance-of-payments support amounted to US$14.7 million equivalent
(US$5.2 million equivalent First Credit Tranche, plus US$9.5 million
equivalent Trust Fund loan). In 1981, 1983 and 1984, economic and
financial stabilization programs were supported by IMP stand-by
arrangements (1981: US$9 million, 1983: US$19 million, and 1984: US$15
million). In addition, the country has received a total of US$5.5
million equivalent in SDR allocations since 1977, and Compensatory
Financing equivalent to US$12 million in 1983.
Development Prospects
19.        At present, the country finds itself in a very difficult
economic and financial situation. Its natural disadvantages for
economic development-its landlocked position and a small population
dispersed over a large area-have been aggravated by serious economic
mismanagement over many years. The long-standing neglect of the
agricultural sector, and an almost complete disregard for costs and
productivity in the public sector, have resulted in low output and a
loss of financial credibility. The recession-induced reduction in
demand for the CAR's primary exports during the early 1980s has not
aided the Government's recent efforts to rehabilitate the economy.
Last but not least, the drought in 1983/84 has meant a further setback
to resuming economic growth.
20.        In spite of this bleak background, the CAR's prospects are
good for returning to a path of economic growth and achieving a modest
but sustainable rise in per capita income in the medium and long term.
This assessment is based on the country's good agricultural resource
base, supplemented by some mineral resources (diamonds), a labor force
whose level of training and experience could be raised rather quickly,
and on the assumptions that appropriate macroeconomic and sectoral
policies can be designed and implemented and that the economies of the
countrv's trading partners continue to improve. This growth scenario
assumes further that a return to sound fiscal management will not only
raise the CAR's contribution of its development expenditures, but also
induce official and private foreign financing well above the levels
recently observed.
21.        The Government's policy measures and concrete actions
(paras. 9 and 10) represent encouraging steps towards mobilizing
production and financial stability. Taken together they constitute a
good framework in which agricultural producers, enterprises and state
agencies can achieve sustainable economic growth, if supported by
foreign aid. Yet, over the past few years economic performance has
remained well below what could have been achieved. Several factors
appear to be responsible for this disappointing situation. First and
most important, the proposed or actual policy measures rarely are the
result of a concerted political decision-making process and, therefore,
often fail to have the full support of the Government as a whole or its



-8-
agencies. Second, policy measures tend to be taken on an ad hoe basis
without being sufficiently embedded in medium-term sectoral or overall
economic and financial strategies or policies. Third, the country's
precarious financial and political situation frequently forces the
Government to retract from policy positions already taken or to refrain
from implementing them fully. Fourth, due to these factors, foreign
aid and technical assistance tend to be less efficient, compazed to a
situation where these factors would not prevail.
22.        The Government has become aware of these shortcomings and
has begun to address them. In March 1984, the President created a
Coordinating Committee for Economic and Financial Policy, the main
purpose of which is to design a coherent and systematic action program
aimed at overcoming the country's most pressing development conbtraints
in the short and medium term. The Committee consists of key Ministers,
High Commissioners, and heads of other government agencies and reports
directly to the President. The Committee has met several times and is
currently in the process of refining an action program for 1985 and
1986, which has been presented to the Bank in a draft version. The
proposed project has been expressly designed to assist the Committee in
its work, and to support the implementation of the action program. The
Government gave assurances that by December 31 of each year, it will
prepare an annual recovery and development program for the upcoming
year, to be submitted to IDA for the latrer's review and comments
(Section 3.08 of the draft Development Credit Agreement)(hereafter,
"the draft DCA"). The Government has also begun to prepare a
medium-term development plan for the period 1986-1990 and the
background documents for an international donors' conference (para. 3),
which the Government intends to use as a forum for coordinating better
the foreign technical and financial assistance available to it.
23.        In view of the country's poverty and debt-service problems,
the CAR is not creditworthy for conventional borrowing at present.
Even assuming exceptional efforts to improve public financial
performance, public savings net of debt service are likely to remain
negative during the early 1980s. Therefore, the Government's
contributions to public investments will remain modest for several
years. Foreign donors should be prepared to support the Government's
efforts at reform and rehabilitation by continuing their program aid,
assisting new development projects, extending their assistance on
highly concessional terns, and financing a high proportion of local
costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE CAR
24.           Bank Group commitments in the CAR amount to US$79.2
million and cover four projects in the transportation sector, two in
education, and one each in livestock, rural development, and technical
assistance. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA Credits as of
December 31, 1984. Project implementation in general is rather good.
The CAR's die!arsement rate compares very favorably with those of other
countries, averaging 42.7 percent during the last three years, compared



-9-
with 24.1 percent for Bank Group borrowers as a whole. It also
compares very favorably with those of other countries at similar levels
of development.
25.        The Bank Group's initial strategy for assisting the CAR's
development efforts reflected the outcome of the donors' conference
held in Bangui in June 1980 (para. 9).  The main elements of this
stra-egy were to (a) support the rehabilitation of the agricultural
sector (including its institutions), (b) support the rehabilitation of
the existing transportation infrastructure and continue to develop the
country's road-maintenance capacity, (c) encourage other export
sectors, notably diamonds and timber, (d) support the Government in its
efforts to return to financial iiscipline in the public administration
and also in its efforts to improve the efficiency c'f parapublic
enterprises, (e) mobilize other donors to participate in financing
high-priority rehabilitation programs, and (f) assist the
rehabilitation of the existing education infrastructure.
26.        In pursuit of this strategy, the Bank Group, together with
other donors, prepared and approved three major investment projects:
(i) the Fourth Highway Project (Credit 1258-CA) (cofinanced by FAC, the
OPEC Fund, the Kuwait Fund, the African Development Fund, and the
Development Bank of the Central African States--BDEAC), which is
rehabilitating roughly one third of the CAR's priority road network;
(ii) the Cotton Ares Rural Development Project (Credit 1376-CA)
(cofimanced by FAC, the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique, the
European Development Fund, the Arab Bank for Economic Development in
Africa-BADEA, and the Development Bank of the Central African States),
the objectives of which are to increase yields and production of both
cotton and food crops in the project area, raise incomes of farmers,
and provide some basic infrastructure in the project area; and
(iii) the Second Education Project (Credit 1359-CA), which is
rehabilitating primary schools in the three most disfavored regions of
the country as well as providing advice to the Government on the
strategy for develuping the education/training sector such that costs
are minimAl and output is geared to the changing manpower needs of the
developing economy. A fourth project, the Livestock Project (Credit
894-CA), was approved in the last months of Bokassa's reign but has
been substantially redesigned since then; formerly a "problem project",
it is now being successfully implemented. A first TA Project (Credit
1150-CA)(para. 30), approved in May 1981, was designed to encourage an
increase in both official financial assistance and private investment
in the CAR through (i) the preparation of major investment projects,
(ii) studies of key sectors resulting in more attractive policies and
tax regimes, (iii) improvements in public debt management, and (iv) a
more streamlined public administration. We are presently considering
follow-up projects to the five listed above as well as a small project
which would aim at rehabilitating the formerly flourishing small- and
medium-scale enterprise sector.
27.        The Bank Group's assistance strategy to the CAR's
reconstruction efforts is currently being amplified and strengthened



- 10 -
through policy components beyond those already included in the
individual projects now under implementation. It has begun to give
considerably more weight to the policy reforms and adjustments needed
to Improve the country's economic and financial performance in the
medium term. Recognizing the constraints mentioned in para. 21 and the
Goverment's limited capacity for implementing its short-term
adjustment program and designing a medium-term development plan, our
strategy now focuses on (a) reaching an understanding with the
Government and other donors about the country's development constraints
and priorities as vell as policy measures and actions for overcoming
them, (b) supporting the Government's action program with financial aid
and technical assistance, and (c) helping the Government elaborate a
medium-term recovery program. The proposed Second TA Project has been
designed to initiate this type of Bank assistance and to serve as a
vehicle and link between the traditional project lending with limited
policy components we have undertaken until now and the more
policy-oriented lending we expect to undertake in the future.
28.        Crucial to the success of the various elements of this
strategy is the Government's commitment to a rational and achievable
development strategy, one which takes into account the country's
comparative advantages and areas of greatest need as well as the
resources likely to be available, including external aid, and all the
demands on the public treasury (public administration, investments
needed for rehabilitation, maintenance, external debt, parapublic
enterprises, etc.). During Programs missions to the CAR in February
1984, May 1984, and March 1985 the President of the CAR expressed his
commitment to the development of such a program and has supported the
idea with a number of specific actions, in particular, with the
creation in March 1984 of the inter-ministerial Coordinating Committee
for Economic and Financial Policy (para. 22). The Committee has
already prepared a draft rehabilitation/development program for 1985
which includes the Government's policies and targets in the key
productive sectors (agriculture, forestry, diamonds), the main features
of the investment and recurrent budgets, and the measures to be taken
in the areas of external debt, public administration, and public and
parastatal enterprises.
PART III - THE NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
29.        The CAR's low level of development is evident not only in
terms of its economic achievement but also in terms of the level of
education of its people. It will take many years before the country
succeeds in providing a basic education to all Central African
children, and the effects of this lacuna are obvious from the
widespread illiteracy and the present low skill level of the adult
population. The small number of well-trained nationals, both in the
administration and in the private sector, are generally far overworked
and often must spend most of their time trying to resolve the minutiae
of day-to-day crisis management. The difficulties presented by these
inherent constraints were greatly compounded by the gross mismanagement
or neglect of important state business during Bokassa's reign. At the



same time, the CAR faces the challenge of not letting the pace of
economic development deteriorate, and, if possible, of accelerating it.
The management of this task, let alone its detailed execution, requires
experience and skills which are not now available locally in sufficient
measure.
Existing Technical Assistance
30.       In the wake of Bokassa's downfall, the international
community, led by France, moved rapidly to help the Gover,nent redress
the situation. A large amount of "traditional" technical assistance
(such as teachers, health personnel, and technical experts of various
categories) as well as some assistance in the area of economic,
financial, and public-enterprise management has been provided, mainly
by France, and it is likely that such assistance will continue,
although perhaps not at the present levels. There are presently over
400 French TA experts working in the CAR, most of them provided by FAC.
UNDP, the European Community, and the Federal Republic of Germany (GTZ)
provide another 65 or so technical assistants, most of whom are
assisting in the implementation of specific projects; these agencies
are likely to continue to provide the technical people needed to carry
out their investment projects. There are a few American Peace Corps
Volunteers, most of them working in rural food-production projects, and
one Japanese technical aesistant working in the country. The Bank
Group has provided and will continue to provide technical assistance
under the projects it finances (Part II) to the agricultural, forestry,
diamond, transportation, and education sectors as well as a legal
expert in a general supporting role for several sectors. In addition,
a seconded Bank staff member (para. 3) is provided to the High
Commission for Planning as an economic and financial adviser under the
Bank's TA program for IDA-only countries.
31.        The First Technical Assistance Project in the CAR (para. 26)
was a short-term emergency project designed to speed public and private
investments in a country which was bankrupt and whose government had
lost all credibility. The project provided a number of technical
experts, both residents and short-term consultants. It has made a
substantial and positive contribution to the CAR's recovery and
development efforts, particularly in the fields of project preparation
(Fourth Highways and Cotton Area Rural Development Projects),
formulation of improved policies in the diamond and forestry sectors,
provision of legal advice to government agencies, particularly during
negotiations with public and private investors, improvement of public
debt management, streamlining of the civil service payroll, and studies
of the parapublic and banking sectors. 1/   It also yielded a number of
1/   The study of the banking sector led to the hiring of a specialist in
bank liquidation who has supervised the liquidation of three banks
which failed during Bokassa's reign and whose remaining assets had
never been liquidated.



- 12 -
valuable lessons which have been taken into account in the design of
the proposed Second Project (paras. 40, 42, 48 and 53). In particular,
the experience of the First Project has shown that training of
nationals must accompany expatriate technical assistance if the latter
Is ever to be phased out, in the longer term. The proposed project
would begin to address this need and would be in line both with the
Government's own perceived needs and with the Bank Group's strategy for
assistance to the CAR (para. 26).
32.         Bank-financed technical assistants under the First TA
Project have given both technical and policy advice, particularly on
public administration and public debt matters, but these actions were
not necessarily coordinated with one another. The results, although
impressive, have been somewhat piecemeal. There is a need for more
general policy advice to reinforce and integrate the CAR's economic
management and planning capabilities. The Government realizes that
financial aid and policy initiatives are unlikely to yield the expected
benefits unless they are accompanied by a strengthening of key
institutions (in particular, those related to planning and public
finance) which would enable them to evolve and implement a concerted
recovery plan in a coordinated way. It was for this reason that
President Kolingba created the Coordinating Committee for Economic and
Financial Policy (para. 22).
33.       It was already clear at the time the First Project was
appraised that the Government had only limited means for organizing and
implementing a wide-ranging rehabilitation plan on its own and that
once the emergency measures of the First Project had been taken,
further longer-term action would be needed to address the major
underlying institutional, organizational, and training needs of the
CAR's public sector. In particular, there is now a need for
specialists who can help the Coordinating Committee carry out its role
of establishing and implementing a specific, coordinated
rehabilitation/development program which takes account of existing
realities, can be achieved, and will serve as a base for coordinating
future international aid.
34.       The Government is aware of these problems and realizes that
alone it does not have the required personnel to design and implement a
workable recovery program. Accordingly, it has approached the Bank
with a request for experienced advisers. The Bank is well placed to
respond favorably to this request:  the thrust of the Government's
program coincides with the Bank's analysis of what priority economic
measures are needed to rationalize the public sector and to stimulate
exports. Furthermore, the IMF, France, and other donors have said that
they would welcome such Bank-financed assistance and that it could be
expected to facilitate an expansion of vitally needed aid from the
international donor community, including the development of an expanded
Bank Group lending program to the country.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
35.       The proposed project was prepared in February 1984 and
appraised in May 1984. During appraisal, the specific terms of
reference for each proposed specialist were reviewed and agreed with
the Government.  Negotiations were held in Bangui on March 7-8, 1985,
with a Central African delegation headed by His Excellency Mr. Guy
Darlan, High Commissioner for Planning and for Economic and Financial
_          Cooperation.  Special conditions of the project are listed in Annex
III. There is no separate Staff Appraisal Report.
Project Objectives
36.       The major objectives of the proposed project would be (a) to
assist the Government in preparing and implementing appropriate annual
recovery/development programs aiming at achieving specific actions in
the major productive sectors and specific targets in public finances;
(b) to strengthen the Government's capacity to formulate and implement
a suitable medium-term development program. The process of preparing
and carrying out such programs would enhance the Government's
credibility, with consequent reinforcement of the country's stability.
This objective would be achieved by making technical assistance
available to key members of the Coordinating Committee for Economic and
Financial Policy (para 21). The ten resident specialists envisaged
under the project would (i) assist with the collection and updating of
economic and financial data; (ii) propose improvements to existing
government structures and procedures; (iii) assist in analysing
alternatives and then in elaborating proposals for short- and
medium-term measures intended to improve macroeconomic, financial, and
sector management; and (iv) help establish mechani.sms for
intra-government coordination with regard to investment planning and
the link between budgetary and investment programming.
37.       Further, related objectives would be the following:
(1)  *ro increase the country's absorptive capacity in the diamond
and forestry sectors, both of which have the potential tor
contributing substantially larger amounts than at present to
the CAR's GNP, export earnings, and budget revenues, and in
the transportation sector, on which the directly productive
sectors, notably agriculture, depend. The rehabilitation of
these sectors is a high Government priority and a key element
of the Bank's strategy for the CAR.
(ii) To provide training to Central Atrican government personnel,
to enable them to assume progressively more management
responsibility and thereby gain control over, and be able to
coordinate, the national development effort.



- 14 -
(iii) To facilitate the expansion ot lending by the international
donor community, generally, and the formulation of a tuture
World Bank lending program, in particular.
Project Description
38.       The resident specialists.  Under the proposed project, a
total of ten resident specialists would be provided for periods of up
to three years to assist certain key Ministries and High Commissions
where there are specific needs not being met, either by national staff
or technical assistants provided by other external financing.  A
projects economist and a macroeconomist in the High Commission for
Planning would contribute to the preparation of the annual investment
budget; a budget specialist in the High Commission for the Budget
within the Ministry of Finance would perform a similar function with
respect to the annual recurrent budget. For this task, the budget
specialist would use data provided by, inter alia, a public
administration specialist, a public enterprises specialist, and a
public debt specialist; these three would also help the Government
define and implement appropriate policies in their respective areas of
expertise, as would a forestry specialist and a geologist/mining-sector
specialist. A diamond appraiser would perform a specific technical
task not at present being performed: the appraisal of diamonds at the
time of their exportation. Finally, a legal specialist provided by GTZ
would be supported under the project tu continue efforts begun under
the First TA Project to revise legislation for the forestry, diamond,
and parapublic sectors. The tasks of these ten experts are described
in more detail in paras. 45-47. They would work in close collaboration
with other, bilaterally funded resident specialists (para. 50) as well as
with Central African officials. The Goverment has agreed to assign
Central African personnel of varied qualifications and experience to
work with each specialist (Section 3.05 of thei draft DCA). These
specialists, together with the national teams they would animate, would
carry out dual, though closely related, functions: (i) defining and
implementing specific measures and activities to improve performance in
their respective sectors, and (ii) previding inputs to be coordinated
with those of other teams for the formulation of the annual
rehabilitation/development programs by the Coordinating Committee for
Economic and Financial Policy (para. 22). The ten specialists, their
national co-workers, and other expatriate specialists would thus
function as a team, and their activities would be coordinated by the
High Commissioner for Planning with the help of individual work
programs.  Before October 31 of each year, each specialist would be
required to prepare a detailed work program for himself and his
national co-workers for the upcoming year. This program would be
reviewed by the specialist's superior, the national Project
Coordinator, the High Commissioner for Planning, and IDA, and would be
modified as necessary. During the year, each specialist would prepare
short quarterly progress reports to be reviewed by the same parties as
was his work program. Finally, by March 31 of each year, each
specialist would submit a report evaluating the implementation of his
work program for the preceding year. These requirements are included
in each expert's terms of reference, which also detail the specific,



- 15 -
concrete outputs expected from each expert, and in the draft legal
agreement (Section 3.07(a) of the draft DCA).
39.        Training.  The project would include significant provision
for the training of Central African personnel since the shortage of
competent manpower is a critical issue in the CAR (para. 29). Training
responsibilities form a major component of each specialist's terms of
reference.  All would be required to prepare specific programs of
training activities for their national colleagues in their periodic
work programs and to include mention of these activities in their
progress reports.  During appraisal, the first year's work programs of
each specialist were drawn up and included a list of national
colleagues and their training needs. (These documents are available in
the Project File.) This on-the-job training would be supplemented by
formal seminars. Most of the training seminars would be held in the
country, but provision would also be made for some overseas training
for suitably qualified persons in programs acceptable to IDA (Section
3.06 of the draft DCA). The work would be organized so that during the
first year. emphasis would be on forming a team and accomplishing the
task at hand. During the second year, the specialists would leave
progressively more of the work to their Central African colleagues and
concentrate on writing an operational manual. During the third year,
it is hoped that a very substantial part of the work would be done by
the Central Atricans, with the resident specialists concentrating on
advising, training, and monitoring. A consultant training specialist
(who would be tinanced under the project) would be called upon at
periodic intervals to help the resident specialists elaborate the
training programs and to monitor the overall progress of the project's
training activities. This target is ambitious and may not be entirely
achieved, but it is hoped that the provisions of the project and the
emphasis given to this obiective will result in substantial progress in
this area.
40.        Housing and Vehicles.   Credit funds would be provided for
rent for the resident specialists, up to a specified ceiling. This
arrangement has been made in the lignt of experience with the First TA
Project 2/. At the inception of the First Project, the Government was
bankrupt, and it was agreed that its counterpart contribution would be
made in kind through the provision of housing, office space, materials,
and the like. When it became clear that there simply were not the
funds to provide housing, the financing plan was modified accordingly;
thereafter, the resident specialists were reimbursed for their rent
with funds from the Credit, within a cetling recommended by the UINDP
Resident Representative and approved by IDA. Satisfactory private
rental properties are available in Bangui. Government housing, on the
other hand, is very scarce: foreign specialists have sometimes spent
months in a hotel waiting for government housing to become available.
21   A separate memorandum which elaborates at length the lessons learned
from the First Project is available in the Project File.



- 16 -
This situation is likely to persist at least through the proposed
project implementation period. Vehicles and vehicle maintenance, spare
parts, and operating costs would also be provided for the resident
specialists out of Credit funds.
41.       Future Project Preparation and Other Short-Ternm
Consultancies.   Under the proposed project, the services of short-term
consultants would be made available to prepare a fifth transportation
project, which probably will, like the Fourth Highway Project, have
several co-donors. Short-term consultants would also be provided under
the proposed project to prepare a possible third TA Project, which
might continue some of the activities begun under the First and Second
Projects, if necessary. In addition, it might address new technical
assistance needs of the country. In particular, a third TA project
would give even more emphasis to training and would probably also
assist the Government in reviewing the adequacy of the present system
of career development and other incentives related to improving the
efficacy of training. In addition, short term consultants would be
hired to complement the work of the public enterprises specialist
(para. 46). Finally, short-term consultants would be hired to audit
the project accounts (para. 56).
42.        Other Activities to Be Identified.  One of the lessons of
the First TA Project which the Government has cited repeatedly is the
advantage of having a part of the Credit available for specific needs
which were not apparent during project preparation and appraisal but
which require financing quickly, once identified. Under the proposed
Second TA Project, an amount equivalent to US$800,000 would be
reserved for studies, further short-term consultants' services, and
other related activities within the objectives of the proposed project.
Some of these funds might be used to hire short-term specialists to
provide backstopping as needed to the resident specialists. Funds
under this component might only be drawn upon for activities or
expenditures recommended by the Project Coordinator (para. 48) and
approved by the High Commissioner of Planning and by IDA (Schedule 1,
para. 3(b) of the draft DCA).
Project Implementation
43.         The proposed project would be implemented over a period of
three and a half years, beginning about the time of the estimated
Completion Date of the First TA Project (June 30. 1985) and ending by
December 31, 1988. The proposed implementation period is shorter than
the disbursement profile for technical assistance projects in the East
and West Africa Regions, yet our experience with the First Project has
convinced us that this is a reasonable period to finance. Six of the
resident technical specialists to be provided under the project are
incumbents. The remaining four would be identified well before the
projected date of Credit effectiveness. Thus the major cause of delay
in the implementation of the First Project-the substantial amount of
time it took to identify and recruit the resident specialists-would be
avoided. Overall responsibility for coordination would ultimately rest
with the High Commissioner for Planning; specific components of



- 17 -
the project would be overseen by the respective technical Ministry or
High Commission. The day-to-day coordination of the project would be
the responsibility of the national Project Coordinator (para. 48), also
an incumbent, who is a senior civil servant with ready access to the
various Ministers and High Commissioners.
44.        The project would add a new dimension to the work done under
the First Project in that it would cause the various experts to
function as a team and to provide coordinated contributions towards the
formulation of a national program of concrete measures to improve the
Government's economic performance.  This objective would be achieved in
two ways. First, the proposed project would enable the Coordinating
Committee to carry out its double role of (a) initiating, guiding,
reviewing, and approving the rehabilitation/development programs or
elements thereof produced by the project team in conjunction with other
national and expatriate experts, and (b) submitting these programs to
the Council of Ministers for approval. These critical functions began
with the preparation of the rehabilitation/development program for 1985
(para. 22). Secondly, the proposed project would strengthen the
technical and managerial capabilities of the various members of the
Coordinating Committee, in particular, that of the High Commissioner
for Planning, who is responsible for the timely preparation of
proposals for submission to the Coordinating Committee's sessions.
45.       The projects economist (a recently recruited incumbent) would
continue to report to the High Commissioner for Planning. His main
responsibilities would relate to the establishment of a reliable
projects information system: he would continue his work setting up a
National Central Projects Office, which would compile technical and
financial data on all projects, whether planned or under implementation
and whether financed from goverrment funds directly or through external
assistance. The macroeconomist (one of the four new specialists yet to
be identified) would report to the High Commissioner for Planning. He
would draw on the information compiled by the projects economist and
his team and would be responsible for defining methods for preparing
annual capital budgets incorporating all government investment projects
to be initiated or continued in that year, whether with domestic or
external financing. His duties would also include, among others,
establishing a structure for effective consultation on government
investments between the CAADE, on the one hand, and the Ministry of
Finance and the High Commission for Planning, on the other. A budget
specialist (another of the four specialists yet to be identified) would
report to the High Commissioner for the Budget and would have functions
similar to those of the macroeconomist in the High Commission for
Planning: he would be responsible for defining methods for preparing
annual recurrent budgets incorporating all government recurrent
expenditures, whether financed from government revenues or external
budgetary support. This methodical preparation of each year's
recurrent budget should result in more realistic estimates of both
government revenues and government expenditures. The budget specialist
would receive substantial inputs for the preparation of the government
recurrent budget from the three specialists described in the following
paragraph.



- 18 -
46.       The public administration specialist (an incumbent who has
lived and worked in the CAR since August 1983) would continue to be
responsible for preparing monthly and annual data on the cost of the
country's civil service and for proposing and implementing measures to
control the future evolution of the civil service and the government
payroll. 3/ In addition, he would help set up a computerized
government personnel file and a comput"rized manpower budgeting system.
Finally, the specialist would be expected to devise simple internal
control procedures to facilitate close monitoring of these new systems.
The public enterprises specialist (a recently recruited incumbent)
would continue to report to the High Commissioner for Public and
Parapublic Enterprises and would support the Government's efforts to
rationalize the public and mixed enterprises sector. His contribution
would be focussed on formulating recommendations for the reorganization
of that sector. Specifically, during the first two months, he would
undertake an initial brief examination of perhaps ten key enterprises
which were not already receiving external assistance, basing his
initial analysis on material collected by a French specialist who has
since left and has not been replaced and on the study of the parapublic
sector financed under the First TA Project (para. 30). From these, he
would select five or so for a more detailed analysis, which he would
carry out in the next three to four months and on the basis of which he
would select one or two on which rehabilitation work could be started
as part of project activities. His work would be complemented by the
services of short-term consultants (para. 41) hired to draw up specific
and detailed rehabilitation plans during one-month missions, following
terms of reference compiled by the resident specialist. The actual
rehabilitation prorgrams might be begun during the implementation of the
Second TA Project but would require additional external financing over
a longer period of time. 4/   The public debt specialist (an
incumbent who has lived and worked in the CAR since June 1982) would
continue to report to the Director-General of the CAADE within the
Ministry of Finance and would be responsible for proposing means to
strengthen the CAADE, facilitating the centralization of operations
involving the public debt, and assisting with computerizing the
management of the public debt (already well underway). He would assist
the Minister of Finance in devising and implementing a national
borrowing policy and, through the Director of the CAADE, would provide
the Coordinating Committee with data pertaining to outstanding debt,
debt service, and trends in these figures. The forestry specialist
3/ The President recently created an autonomous working group within
the Presidency itself.  The group is responsible for undertaking a
number of initiatives intended to make the civil service more
efficient and less costly (expenditure for salaries of civil
servants have declined in both current and real terms in 1984,
thanks to the efforts of this working group).
4/ Several other donors have indicated an interest in providing such
financing.



- 19 -
(an incumbent who has lived and worked in the CAR since September 1983)
would continue to report to the High Commissioner for Water and
Forests, Hunting and Fishing, and Tourism. His specific activities
under the Second Project all derive from the forestry sector study
financed under the First Project (para. 31). In particular, he would
prepare a forest inventory and a reforestation program and study and
propose measures for the revival of private investment and business
activity in the sector. His duties would also include helping
coordinate donor assistance to the sector and preparing projects for
possible Bank Group or other financing.
47.       A geologist/mining-sector specialist (the third of the four
specialists yet to be identifed) would report to the High Comissioner
of Mining and Geology. As is the case with the forestry specialist,
the specific activities of the geologist under the Second Project all
derive from the diamond sector study financed under the First Project.
In particular, this specialist would elaborate and begin to implement a
strategy for the development of the mining sector, drawing on the
already considerable number of existing studies and including, inter
alia, proposals to (a) assist small-scale prospectors. (b) attract
private investors, (c) revise the existing legislation governing the
exploitation of the mining sector, and (d) secure external public
financing for high-priority projects. The diamond appraiser (the last
of the four specialists yet to be identified) would report to the High
Commissioner for Mines and Geology and would assess the actual value of
diamonds being exported in order to minimize current underinvoicing
practices and thereby increase export tax receipts. The legal expert
(an incumbent who has lived and worked in the CAR since September 1981)
would continue to be attacbed to the High Commission for Planning and
would continue to develop a government legal service and provide
general support in the forestry, diamond, and parapublic sectors. He
would also assist with efforts recently begun to revise legislation in
these sectors. The legal expert would be cofinanced by the Federal
Republic of Germany, vith the Association for Technical Cooperation
(Gesellschaft ffir Technische Zusammenarbeit--GTZ) paying his salary and
the IDA Credit providing his rent, vehicle, and vehicle operating and
maintenance costs.
Project Administration
48.       Arrangements for project administration have been made in the
light of experience with the First Project. At the time that project
was appraised, it was thought that one person could act as Project
Coordinator and, simultaneously, as economic specialist attached to the
High Commissioner of Planning. Experience during implementation has
led to the post's being broken down into three separate functions: the
Project Coordinator function (para. 48), with responsibility for
coherent, day-to-day implementation of the various project components;
the Administrative Officer function (para. 49), with responsibility for
administrative and logistic activities; and the resident specialist
function (currently filled by the Bank seconded staff member mentioned
in paras. 3 and 29), with responsibility for advising the High



- 20 -
Commissioner for Planning. Accordingly, the project provides for a
post of Project Coordinator In the High Commission for Planning. He
would ensure permanent contact between the Government and IDA and
prepare the proposals for new studies or project-preparation activities
which might be eligible for financing under the Credit's category for
other needs to be identified during project implementation (para. 42).
He would monitor the activities of the various specialists and
consultants, ensuring that their various activities were complementary
to and coordinated with one another and that these activities
corresponded to their terms of reference. He would facilitate the
access of the specialists to government authorities and sources of
information. He would, in conjunction with the High Commissioner for
Planning, determine what follow-up activities might be appropriate on
the basis of the specialists' and consultants' reports and elicit
Government responses from the appropriate authorities. Finally, he
would prepare, with the help of the project Administrative Officer,
quarterly and annual progress reports covering project progress,
difficulties, and costs, as well as a Project Completion Report, all to
be submitted to IDA and to the High Commissioner for Planning (Section
3.07(b) of the draft DCA).
49.       For the reasons cited above, separate provision is made for a
post of Administrative Officer. Under the First TA Project, this
function is being carried out by an expatriate. It is proposed that
under the Second Project, the expatriate be retained for the first year
of project implementation, but that she focus on training a Central
African. The post will be advertised soon, and it is planned that a
suitable Central Afr.can candidate will have been selected by the time
project implementation begins. The Administrative Officer's responsibilities
include keeping project accounts, carrying out procurement, drafting
correspondence with potential consultants and suppliers, and preparing
withdrawal applications. In addition, the Administrative Officer
assists in the logistics of ensuring satisfactory living and working
conditions for the resident specialists during project start-up and
throughout implementation.
Coordination with Other Donors
50.       Specialists engaged under the project would work closely with
specialists financed from other external sources.  In particular, the
legal expert (para. 47) would be a member of the project team, but his
salary would be financed by the Federal Republic of Germany (GTZ). A
financial controller provided by France (FAC) would also work in close
collaboration with specialists financed from the Credit. His main
responsibility would be to monitor the implementation of the annual
recurrent budget prepared by the budget specialist (para. 45) provided
under the project. France (FAC) also provides an agricultural
economist/planner in the Ministry of Rural Development whose inputs
will be critically important to the preparation of the annual
rehabilitation/development program. Finally, France intends to provide
an economic and financial advisor to the President who will also need



- 21 -
to work closely with the specialists provided under the proposed
project. Care has been taken throughout the preparation of the
proposed project to ensure that the tasks of the specialists provided
by all donors have terms of reference which are complementary.
Project Costs and Financing
51.       Total project costs are estimated at US$8.4 million
equivalent, of which US$6.7 million (79 percent) represent foreign
costs. Local costs (US$1.7 million equivalent) include about US$10,000
of duties and taxes on imported but locally purchased office equipment
and supplies, spare parts, and gasoline. All other items would be
exempt from taxes (including vehicles--if purchased locally, dealers
can file for a refund of the import taxes they had earlier paid). In
view of the country's poverty and the Government's critical budgetary
situation, it is recommended that IDA finance 95 percent of total
project costs net of taxes (100 percent of foreign costs and 77 percent
of local costs), equivalent to US$8.0 million. The Government would
finance the remaining US$0.4 million in local currency, covering local
staff salaries, half of vehicle maintenance, spare parts, vehicle
operating costs, and office equipment and supplies, and the local
component of the project's training program (para. 39).
52.       Base costs have been estimated as of March 1985, the date of
negotiations. The estimated cost of the resident specialists is based
on existing contracts for the six incumbents and on rates currently
being paid to specialists of similar competence and level of
responsibility, for the four specialists yet to be hired. Physical
contingencies of 10 percent have been provided for all items except
salaries. Since it is assumed that the CFA franc will be adjusted
daily (as is the French franc, to which it is linked), following daily
adjustments in the major hard currencies in relation to one another,
price contingencies have been estimated for both foreign and local
costs at 7 percent in 1985 and 6 percent yearly thereafter. Total
contingencies are estimated at US$1.49 million.
Special Account and Project Account
53.       Because the Government has found it difficult, in its present
financial situation, to prefinance expenditures eligible for
reimbursement from the IDA Credit, a Special Account was established
for the First TA Project in a local financial institution acceptable to
IDA. A similar arrangement would be made for the Second TA Project.
Following Credit effectiveness, and on the request of the Borrower, an
amount of US$500,000 equivalent would be transferred from the Credit to
the Special Account. The amount proposed for the Special Account
corresponds to about four months of estimated eligible expenditures
averaged over the project implementation period, including a provision
for possible delays in internal procedures by the Government in
processing the accounts. It would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness that the Special Account had been opened (Section 6.01(a)
of the draft DCA). The account would be operated under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA, and IDA would replenish the account upon



- 22 -
receipt of evidence of disbursements from the Special Account for
allowable expenditures. Should any payments be made from the Special
Account that are not acceptable to iDA, the Government would be
responsible for depositing the corresponding amount into the Special
Account (Schedule 4, para. 6 of the draft DCA).
54.       The Government would also establish and periodically
replenish, in the Treasury, a Project Account for its local counterpart
contributions to project costs (Section 3.01(b) of the draft DCA). As
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit, the Government
would be required to submit evidence to IDA that CFAF 30 million had
been deposited in the Project Arcount (Section 6.01(b) of the draft
DCA). The Project Coordinator would be responsible for the management
of the Special Account and the Project Account.
Procurement
55.       The four as yet unidentified resident specialists and the
short-term consultants would be recruited internationally and would be
employeA by the Government under terms of reference and on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA; no substitution of the originally agreed
specialists and consultants or modifications of the terms and
conditions of their employment would be made except with the prior
approval of IDA (Schedule 3, Part II of the draft DCA). All contracts
would include a cancellation clause allowing the Government, after
consultation with IDA, to terminate a contract if it were not satisfied
with the specialist's performance. Given the Importance, the scope,
and the sensitive nature of the tasks to be undertaken by the
consultants and resident specialists, the Government has preferred in
the past, and would prefer, under the proposed project, to recruit
individuals or individuals from different consulting firms. It is
thought that if a single firm were engaged to provide all the technical
assistance required, the firm might be perceived as running the
country. The new resident specialists' contracts would be tor an
initial period of one year, with the understanding that they might be
renewed for a second and a third year if all parties were satisfied.
The incumbent resident specialists' contracts would also be renewed on
a year-to-year basis, as long as there were a need for their services.
Purchases of vehicles, vehicle spare parts, and office equipment and
supplies would total about US$175,000 equivalent: these would be
procured on the basis of price quotations from at least three qualified
suppliers, national or international.



- 23 -
Disbursements
56.      The ID'. Credit proceeds would be disbursed as shown in the
following table:
A!nount to be   Z of expenditures
Category                      disbuLsed        to be financed
(US$ thousands)
1.  Resident specialists                       3,185            100 Z
2.  Housing                                      300            100 X
3.  Vehicles                                      50            100 X
4. Vehicle maintenance, spare
parts, and operating costs                  30             50 X
5. Project administration
(a) Salary supplement for
Project Coordinator                       80            100 %
(b) Project Administrator                     40            100 X of forsign
(c) Office equipment and supplies             50             50 Z
6.  Sh=rt-term consultants                     1,670            100 X
7.  Training                                     350            100 % of foreign
8. Needs to be identified during
project implementation                     800            100 %
9.  Initial Deposit in Special Account           500
10.  Unallocated                                  945
8X000
Disbursements would be fully documented except under Category 5(c), offico
equipment and supplies, where statements of expenditures would be used, t1.e
documentation for which would not be sent to the Association but would be
retained by the project Administrative Officer in the High Commission for
Planning for review during the course of normal IDA supervision
missions.   During the project implementation period, these statements
and all project accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA, and the audit reports would be sent to IDA
no later than April 30 of each year (Section 4.01(b) of the draft DCA).
The Closing Date would be June 30, 1989.
Project Benefits and Risks
57.        The first major project benefit would be the creation within
the Government of a capacity to design and implement coherent,
realistic rehabilitation/development programs, on both a short-term
(annual) and a medium-term basis. By demonstrating its ability to
prepare such programs and its commitment to implementing them (in
particular, its political will to enforce austerity measures), the
Government would enhance its credibility vis-a-vis private investors
and the international donor community alike. A second major project
benefit would be a substantial improvement in the Government's
budgetary procedures and investment preparation. The assistance
provided by the different resident specialist in (i) making realistic
and methodical forecasts of, and then monitoring, public expenditures
and revenues, (ii) designing standard procedures and criteria for



- 24 -
choosing investments, (iii) controlling and managing the civil service,
(iv) servicing the public debt, (v) streamlining the parapublic sector,
and (vi) establishing permanent links among the agencies responsible
for these activities would help the Government with the data,
expertise, and mechanisms for coordinated policy formulation.
58.        Benefits accruing to key productive sectors would include
(i) in the diamond sector, the capturing of revenues now being lost,
(ii) in the forestry and the mining sectors, the elaboration and
implementation of a sound development program, and (iii) in the
parapublic sector, a start in the rehabilitation of one or two viable
parapublic enterprises. The support of the government's legal service
would improve its ability to negotiate favorable investment agreements
in these three sectors and ot:.ers as well. Finally, major benefits
could be expected from the project's training component, through the
transfer of technologies and procedures from the resident specialists
and consultants to their Central African colleagues.
59.        Project implementation faces two possible risks.  The first
is that the Government might be unwilling or unable to implement an
austerity program. It was thought that the serious consideration of
ill-planned and unadvisable projects would be checked when a High
Commission for Planning was established in the Presidency in 1982.
Because of poor clearance procedures, however, and a lack of technical
competence in the High Commission, the appropriate channels are
occasionally still circumvented. Under the proposed project, the
institutionalization of standard procedures for preparing and executing
the investment budget would make such circumventions impossible--if the
Government enforces the procedures. Another related problem is that
high-level officials are reluctant to surrender the prerogatives of
hiring and spending that they have enjoyed for some ten years.
Nevertheless, several factors indicate that this is a suitable time to
proceed, including (i) the fact that several high-level officials,
including the President, have repeatedly asked the Bank to help
strengthen the Government's economic and financial management capacity;
(ii) the creation of the Coordinating Committee, which appears to be
taken seriously by everyone; and (iii) the successes already achieved
in several areas, notably in the newly instituted controls over the
civil service.  The types of expertise to be provided under the project
and the links among them built into the project design will also help
to mitigate this risk. Finally, if IDA supervision missions judged
that the national officials concerned were unwilling to implement
austerity measures, then they would recommend that the resident
specialists' contracts not be renewed.
60.       The second risk is the difficulty of achieving coordination
among the resident specialists provided under the project, other
expatriate advisers supplied by other donor agencies, and national
experts. Efforts were made to mitigate this risk during project
preparation and appraisal, in that terms of reference were designed
especially to complement, rather than conflict with, other expertise
either already in place or planned. The existence of the Coordinating



- 25 -
Committee vill also tend to mitigate this risk. The terms of reference
of the national Project Coordinator, which have been approved by all
government officials involved maxe hin specifically responsible for
promoting cooperation and liaison among experts, whatever their source.
Finally, during project supervision, there would be frequent contacts
between Bank staff and other donors, especially the French.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Central
African Republic and the Association, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
62.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III
of Annex III. Special conditions of Credit effectiveness would be the
submission by the Government of evidence (i) that the Special Account
(para. 53) had been opened and (ii) that the Project Account had been
opened and that the Government had made an initial deposit of CFAF 30
million in it (para. 54)(Section 6.01 of the draft DCA).
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMXENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
M h 28, 1985



A;MM; I
-26 -                                              Page I of 6
- (~~~~~~~~~Lm    MManaa   o . *A)I .OFM
TOMA                                622.0      625.0       022.0
AMIOILUIAL                           47.2      46.3         49.5
m i  carit  (US)                     100.0     iso.0        31w.a   I                             1112.3
- mimse. urn  cai
(TOL0CR*  OF 0IL EIflvALUT           30.0      44.0         32.0               62.3                2.
NWIAZ!a  LU  mm3  Yall=                                                              .
IPOUIJ N,UO-W7   (130W11)          1605.0    1673.0       240U.0
maim  1033AT0N Is 0 1r0AL)          22.7       21.1         37.1              13.2                23.1
IOIUTIOU 3WCYIIU
IGIuLAftgN LEUMM 2000 (MILL)                               4.0
STASUMY  IOFtUYON (MM)                                    13.*
3OHl.ATlOU  1NNZ                                           1.3
VOIUATI0U f6131T
3  SQ. M1.                          2.1        3.0         3.9       3       2.5                 55.6
MR SQ. 31. A:E. LA1.,              21.0      23.3         47.0              113.2               I1.5
SO II  Al SAGEUIBIU (2)
0-14 us                           23.1      23.0         41.2               43.0                45.3
1-4 133                            57.9      50.7         54.3               51.5                51.7
05 APD AMR                          3.5       3.7          3.3                2.9                 2.3
FOFIA?M  GUMn AAX (Z)
TOi L                               1.2        1.0         2.1                2.3                 2.6
URI"                                0.7       4.7          3.5                3.2                 5.2
613 3ta3 mm ciii twous)              42.0      42.3         41.5               46.0                47.0
631  WATS un (Nit TNOUS)            2U.0       22.7         10.3               17.7                l5.2
G3033 N33oOuCTSOK 3An                 2.        2.7          2.3                3.2                 3.2
74IL5  PLASNG
OcIZFTOU. 11131. (T.OM)
s       or C.Am  ....               ..         ..
INDEX orU F00 3no3. 33 CAPITA
(1961-71-100)                       100.0     100.0        100.0              35.3                 p1.0
mn CAPITA 3011. 0F
CALOILE25 C OF REQIIIEITS)         90.0     101.0         90.0              ".4                  33.2
3   1  (MANlS 1P3 DAY)            29.0       45.0    *0.0                   49.3                 5.7
Cr Vwsa2 ULMML 4IM P0LB3          9.0       11.0        11.0 IC            18.3                17.0
OIILD (C61J  ") 31ATH nATE         41.0       21.0         2.0               21.3                 13.7
LSIY EXPECT. AT aITR (CTEM)          23.4      42.0         17.5               43.                 51.7
133111T lUlT. 2ATn Cm 20W03)       170.0      148.0        113.0              117.5               102.7
ACCESS TO SAfl& VAU (SNI0)
TOTAL                               ..         ..         10.0M              21.3                35.0
33113  ..  ..        40.0 /d           01.5                 54.1
RURL                                 ..        ..          s.o A             14.2                27.3
ACCISS TO LCTA DISPOSAL
CZ OF POPILAXIOU)
TAL                                  ..      72.0           ..               32.0
133Am                                ..      *4.0           ..               9.2
303*1                                *. *     *9.0          *                21.3                  ..8
FOPuLATolI PR PISICIAM            51770.0    074o.o      20750.0 /e         27477.8             11390J3
FOP. 3U AmSIIn gEnSOa              3410.0    1020.0       1710.0 ff          3390.2              2243.9
FOF. PSI hOSPrTAL MM
TOTAL                             350.0      540.0       710.0 /f          1089.0               983.9
UUBAX                             730.0     020.0 SoU.O                     395.2               3U.7
3AI3L                             390.0     520.0        910.0 /C          3094.0              4012.1
a.SSS PER 0sPrTAL szO                  ..      21.9         19.3 Ic
-I-
AVEZACE S= or BOPUSUO
TOTAL                               3.9        ..
03313..                               ..           .                  ..
103*1                                ..        ..           .                  ..
A3cAGc No. OF 3oso1S/36st
ToTAL                               3.4        ..
m*m                        ..         ..           .                  ..
1MtAL                               ..         ..
ACES TO ELECT. (3 OF UILLDG)
IOTAL                               ..         ..
U3U3                                 ..        ...
RURAL.                               ..        ..



-27 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
CENTRAL AIR. REPUBLIC   - SOCIAL  ODI    UR DATA 5533?
CENTRAL AIR. REPU LIC                REFERENCE GROUPS (<WEGHTD AVERAGS) p
MOST                         T  C    ESTim ) 
n8otk  1   RCENT   LW   OE AFRCA      HI      N
1960tLb    Lgd_b    j      jTbiiU&T  sOUTN OF sABA       AtCA 3. OF  RA
ADJUSTED CEROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMAY   TOTAL                     132.0      94.0         U.0               85.2                 91.0
AL                      33.0       90.0         89.0               73.8                 90.5
FEMALE                  12.0       41.0         I9t                57.8                75.8
SECONDARYI TOTAL                    1.0        5.0         L3.0               13.1                17.4
ALEC                     2.0        3.0         20.0              [17.                  23.7
A.                                 FEMALE                     ..        2.0          7.0                8.3                14.3
VOCATIOAL (t or szC     Y)           10.0       12.2          7.5 La             7.2                 5.3
PUPIL-yTACHER RATIO
*                        PRIMARY                            55.0       64.0         60.0               48.1                 28.8
SECONDARY                          30.0       21.0           ..               25.9                24.3
ADULT LITERACY RT  CR)                7.46        ..         33.0               44.3               3ILl
PASSENGR CAS/TNOUSAND POP             1.5 3.3                 8.5 /4 3.8                            20.7
RADIO WEC11 WRS/THOUSAND POP          7.5       24.5         52.5               41.9               1WJ
TV IECEIVERS/THOUSAND FOP              ..         ..          0.3                2.0                13.5
NEWSPAprU (DAILY GCENIAL
INTEREST) CIRCULATION
PER TIOUSAD roPULAoON               0.3        0.3           ..                5.4                17.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDACEICAPITA        0.2        0.3 lh        ..                1.4                 0.3
TOTAL Lou FORCE (THOU )                                                         3H.0  1064.0  1290.0.
FEMALE (ERtCENT)                   49.4       49.0         47.9               36.5                33.1
AGRIlCULTURE (PERCENTl)            94.0       91.0         U.0                1.4                 57.1
INDU1STTRY (PECE NT)                2.0        3.0          4.0               9.8                 17.4
PAyTICIPATI )N RATE (PRTENT)
TOTAL                              60.4       57.7         5336               41.0                3683
MOTAL                              63  2      61.2         58.0               52.1                47.8
FEMALE                             57.1       54.4         49.5               30.2                25.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             0.7        0.8          0.8                1.2                 1.4
INC= DISURIBITOH
PERENT OF PRIVATE INCOll
RECEIVED IY
HICNEST 5Z OF  HOUSEWOLDS
IG:ST  :'02 OF  HOUSEDOLDS
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOaEST 401 OF  HOUSEHOLDS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOIE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                            f           168.3               5253
RURAL                                                      49.0 f            90.8                249.0
ESTIMATED  REIlATIVE POVERTY INCOE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBANH                                ,         ...                          107.7               477.4
RURAL.                                                     91.0 /f           65.0                18.0
P                        ESTIMATED  POP- BELOW  ABSOLUTE
POVERTY  INCOME LEVEL  (Z)
URBAN                                                                         31 7
RURAL                                                                        65.4
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT ApPLICABLE
N       OTE S
1-  rhe EZoUP averages  for each  indicator  are  population-eighted  arithmtlc   _as.  Co,ere  f rcoutries o   MN  the
indlcators dependon  availability of data and  La not  uniform.
lb   Unles  otberwise noted  'lhta for 1960 refer  to  any  year between  1959 and  1961:  at  for 1970' botn 1969 d
1971; and data for -Host Recent Estluste' between 1980 and 1932.
Ic  1977; Id 1976; 7e 1979; /f 1978; /j 1962; /h 1965.
JUNE. 1984



p1  stta  d Aim A.-. l Ad -.ses .ti.s              tuisia 
- I." fP  :53-ais   '4  s3  to-a -                 sm1 = 1 Iss.p -l."asAilt
isa-  pb   sqi   tes. -(ubistssS    . AssLas  tAssi   asaastbs -sa" P N
jasaS   iss ,tndsas -I-*        -.  s. ..... nas  ustsm Ad 3       usi
"ft   _1~~rds. Pdd do.Al-   .1 ... abi~                                            515  !t-LI- P5               .355             taS   *1
-j.3.Am ..AC p-  I.At-                                                      PAW~~1-iaibs  eiaesaututj sbas   .  r-n   a..
naaaflwi naussates. P5  etiLISil 515si)                                               31~~U'.1- .", J.-lnfas- - 5*5  wa.X . PAsR a  .sp-ast A,idss1 as
"I PASaPI.-P .3TdA-I ."a   .,U-     s. 1. Ps 1 Z---"Adpd.stt*tli-  siiS                                     a. a.sa   Isj 55  *PIs 
;-Iq-     j-               .P*bisi55N.P3s    -(    u~  5                     ii  bl*L    'SI
RoIdd, -1do I!                   A"._0 ~-a.M...sp.pm ap ostiut
apsi -  asSS5II5~    .s.! La-s  Sa,=tq    I. s-ta5tAW    S~11 d p.,s--,,si                                                                                  Al%
SbJ. inta5i lush    t rn-si u.aSm  -J   assaiptp   tti-4                 t       M  .tst~-I- t    sON 4, ..                            11
niAqa a   -ans    nsi. -b   5tI   itisns                                                       S*P tId,  P-v-   Wit.  35i  eu-i At   tni         . = =   dVsPsat.-
ntis        dm5535 Piliihs 5':ssn   .atsiLijei iSiStSitSii9Usia:..    -   as-i tdssP l.               us P-.1 t.1pt ito R,I5  A.sss5 s-   d AI.a
is- -t*i.-ma-5h. p4.as~   stitS-  IPta  ip -s-b-s.  tiniti-                   Lt-dI GIS  351191  IL,  sa          e ~Iln P55          It. AiNi   JL-d-Ifl
p...  sp.~~ fla...d  a~ s.a.s~   st-.bsaid- Las. -fl                   is-Ads 12- .tssd   i5   i r-u  1  Sd.Z~d  J.%  'p-t  -   55555
-1- "AS Add  1. N---                   1A                        =ft~~~p.31.3.  as -slw  :$" uu:aPasiiiai   7ij. as.   v- as nan-
";-APA -sasm -s- PA -.4ni DID P-m  -- -5isa  ua.Lsd -sStsi(. -3n'P.ssts_u  J   ilsqatba 1-  bs 
5,....".  :W, 1  J.   sm "  -  *                -1                       smiI~r ntl         -sdt.".-d   usiaiaa1tn.its5.aws   sis                                 as
tL  ps1as '--a ist pmsI.iastts 4-.1       ii.a    siSSsiatS.                                       5 Pb   S Id         L5 -tifs.I-s    sb S   istps.tes
ifli.i.sdss    S- vi.al atbi -..si i-na Ps I..        f-isa As5itbadad  sit' 1; .' Amd1 LAA                    b   s  bt..ti-.. nid.s 5- 5  ts  5.l             PA.ntd   PDA
pdnsa.i  sinia  i-s-505. t   -.Pasai                       iu iitssa   =155  - .s.ssa  5ts1L   3ib                                                 5.aas-i            i
--A    v I.. .ittia j. - st -a"5 -s  tA.as.~ -   lsaS    As u.sasiia
P-.hAd.55, --3    u-a-saJi- S- bis moin sasa iP.s m- itUfopstsssuisas                                                   --i -ss1ac  (s asasiass
a= _i i-im.           ..as   .t e -tib aWF -.s .Ift- a5 d . 1s".-daSiss-.-PidsAd
Ibtansb-53   bssIsP  5t53 555 lsi"PiAinf", SI asLfr!5MPL..Ad.                                   . fJ.sal  is  ssaapal-si   hssiiasss   sass
Imiommead P PA  -11.p   I= MSQ;~ A"p- p               (1do-li                     P L  uass m   do5 ftpsia   iI    -  .-stisa-II  al     a isilistaaid
aw-- wa  -2 -  -..    A                                           .", ~~~~~~~~-6- qfq  s..-A   Ibdiiaa   -   4    -~~*q    t   sm
A_:VIAAJ- -1 pol -3- Al     -W  APP            sais.  nit                     p-a-a s   ltssaas P    tb        Pia    .a.stL nl4 - 5iuM5lLl
-   -is  .0-s-macsi a      s..   Sus--t  at -   .. msuyps    bst                                                                      Zaa
-u.n - nsa  at  ..s.i is -Ssd i  a.Is -iii.- s,ssda-  sat    s.                                    iaustAm s-   snsa      sssdats
latestds -PAR     -       5 &f p.taA asss    nsst sA-sit agsp     ss1s.utsAd                     -PFA9 . .og   N. gId wUl hip.  mb.A-. assasst t        -Js '.is  iaii.
san-aaiP          i'1Piii i                        nia   siig5i tsiss                                                                                                Z- itPstpt-ittns5
-Rtaat   Pmii    bbtiib'bb  tilt    PDA 'iii                                                           ot      W,i.Ii , Aiss
ipti- t --isils i a , -.IsA.na1qi  indS  suu1atAnu ... t.itu  msa  iP -A w  I  I.....  - (Ib 4asi  Saltaat-tsib
pu.a   .fs A   "Os aLa m    -     -(i tai.pnsto   -trm i u-isq A pt                                                        ----m, Pip n u-&   t91  umlsiiddue
mors -1 sifts-I J. diA-01 sAsIsp-.!%                                                     iatsdit. A.saiiu,      - .   sas)M              p  sistsM
-a   i    biuic  pt  ssiAl1(,   tiipi ,udsT-    "sst.sub  s    wi-    .ib-PMS.I'ltl'5 I
sqisi bane., As suns.  Sq Psptitp  .is.si  Laslsssm  p-s Samj.add.  as DAd-,PI
siP-i a- tS0tI   ss-uPlhpI45a     thi                          a-IisITsAJ    'PSts   it
bisaids  -is- nahad  asqs -  -lni     ...t 4issi qa(s1                    ssil -1a."- - w- -3 iiis .n  wii si  nidsd   t APtiss us
P&Atsii-   meett-iSa   [WaI.A.s -s  I  2t  S.aui    &Ti-su.S                             M.sai  IPsi 4 sioi  ** PAs   siTas11ii  stisii  1in
m       ls P,nitniR "sS I -isaw  we sass  Adse  tnIft  is. .id-au -    -.ts.ysm 'In, pssi-s..ds-i si s-an iiiAadsa  ims,ts   as sad  psi PA-  bar
mea    sss5pta-stapa-mum-i-a aassas`asa..  isiit-O   wit"' as isiitaemsaw   s.sbi aa 
a-s    is.s-us Un Oi u-  wiss  nA.isaip asaPitspqss                                is-ins *i st--u.  quit ps  '-Pstisisd P 55-51  -(J-stb  ietit.ssdsu
I"q  Pa  wibptit.m -spt-ins  S'Aitii ,    win   d-i1-AS, dunie                                        tn (_555j 1-saseudSo uM P.at--  imsPl is                  -3tAA
-.s.a  t P.    s   lId, s-sal -                                                                SIiuan ,jj..  .m.s.ds-sft  iso  -al. Osne it eas  - Ui l,lt-lIf
'mniui n~~s. ..ad  '-a i-bi  &ltasa-  p. LaoinJb ntiPaiWb
isb   sti3 Adwl     AsPsis"    Sta Si "un", sap  -b          sistin-te
"tJ 'Pd M.s-i(51ni --v    Aaps.   Ilsii.a Is-tim-  hinsib
- Wi11711p-i   -ta  -t         i jiiisas    l                it   m.3aId ;dann, sits  uinus--  qIa p0  L-As-Is.O1. sainl hins-   rms-s
PA. -StbsP"-spies iaa  p-  ssqbt               i     baad   --i-stlt    P-Ijm: hP. n 3It-sis- isimtPes in-PR
tft"l    411        'iisd.W     Pi.iiss  tIP.Nn    i                                             API-       -smpi-   s514is,i'                     .ha
51 P.M-$et wiAn  Sna.. As .ini- As a55P54 i   sin    Pst"us  pus                                 I"p as A81AtuItsasi  as-al- Ln   sa-         usas as -          Mba.
P-hISS                  (hirP 'S Omtf- (ii ats  !eP 
Imip-5 SqPt~ natidd -     u-ias. aisas.i"    n        Pass  us-usd                    i-ti.-.  as I.sjmn-.n1.    Isss.e i-us.1                   T h=         IddU
isess  iuisinui  ileti   ilan.i"VP             --pst..,.Pu:  ni  .ms1 ids qas-,s-P-sAiai*s-
;.A%tsitwl s.sipp.di& PP sA -spd1.   stl      --si-             tits                        s.Au  iss- puadd-s  "A.snil s-  us-PiiS-TU WJ iU
snii.Nut  S -mee s-r5i.",su in".di  5  ?5?vPI` ness.  i9oelidism -b                                                    A    d  idve. $jibM                         A
"O it s-is.t 5si -       pe -A,ins.dm ISilad -  ps 3si1siAS- Si -MIT.  Iddo f   -m    A    mltsom M  m                                               iP is-I            ASbfil
ht I ll=as4mbS pseile  siipdf -4 1    a,oe  -1                                                                                                             titsflAIP"anP.   .-  id
PM emomom  ISal-ais P"   tanis is-us -gnaw        pflfl-1P. j                ~             'es      asIfssedu-i    p-pd  "v u- "Isi h siaf1.sa  njas   i-p -    1fgia
stns-Us-idd--hiso  is-iti    lPhidiisflspi    i-ssmlnuips   e     miassa   a." dean   psIA,  nip   'astij"sps  tpstA -mSI tis
iSanls-.is.  ds-su   55 iSs-is   nis  i . es-   im,.p    jm    n-n.    iii    is  m                abiiIUnSii                  i     -1nit  aPs.-tMU s
qi asa-illaise ps isi n.i-ti CAnso                                                                                                                            ftNsS5SspnPStn      mjpAmnwfs   i   s5pbsssa picibsiel ,la
44 "M  ""M  %dspa 3mas P"  omp adAlso   as,  aum pas                   , easrn= itu-ntina        isi  Psw i5p81f   ms.is.i tesi,       "a  Opp s mia     dwim
bliM MMI4 p-SS Ifsip nSsrlas si, Alm   '5~    ps   isln.   sain             ibib    "   o~ o"Simap istpro i 151ess  fis   W ~   nalsSaS  . dltuss a. Ot-tfIm F4 *55m   ss
AIIntis-nsis in  in o i.1 u-i" pimps s-m  piNo itm 'PqMis "is"" ettain ogis.   mps P-Up-    ."ialodesl  INe i msanap -us-Ispo  psia tlS~   tii
s Amon   vs pp oftl   ".o4""O "" "         mI& n e, Amoutss l a- nsall.o,elS      s   4       dl  mo,sm61(Iw                         fu uS
9 ;O E auhj
-8?



- 29 -
ANNEX I
ECONONIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET     PAGE 4 OF 6
(BILLIONS CFAF CURRENT)
ESTIMAlE  I
1976     1979     1980     (981     1982      1983   1
IL             A - NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                         I
1- 6N                                        107.0    150.9    168.4   188.8    216.2    246.7   1
2- CONSWKPTION                           I   102.6    153.4    184.6    192.3   232.6    250.2   t
3- GROSS INVESTMENT                      I   12.9       14.6     11.8    16.9      17.5    27.6   1
4-   PUBLIC INVESTMENT                   I    8.9       11.5      8.5    12.8      13.1     21.9
5-   PRIVATE INVESTMENT                  1    4.0       3.1       3.3      4.1      4.4      5.7u
6- DOMESTIC SAVINGS                      I    4.4      -2.5    -16.2    -3.5   -16.4        -3.5   i
7- EXPORTS,incl.NFS                      :   25.4      35.2    44.0       49.5    50.4    56.3   :
8- INPORTS,incI.NFS                       1   33.9     52.3      72.0    68.9      B4.3     87.4   1
9- GDP (MILL.CURREKT S)                   1  447.7    709.4   797.0   694.8   657.9    647.4
10- GDP DEFLATOR (1977=1001                    90.1    122.3    141.9    162.8    185.6    211.6   1
11- GDP (1977 CONST.PRICES.CFAF)         1: 11.8    123.4    118.7    116.0    116.5    l16.6
12- GDP GROWTH PER YEAR                         4.2      1.3    -3.0       -2.3      0.4      0.1
B - SECTOR VALUE ADDED                        1  107.0    150.9    168.4    108.8   216.2    246.7
____________________                                                                       :
1- ASRICULTURE                           1   40.6      55.9      63.4    70.5      75.6     05.0
2- MINING                                      8.8      13.0    13.1      11.5     12.1     13.0
3- MANUFACTURING                         t    6.2    11.9        11.4    13.2    16.9       18.8
4- VATER & ELECTRICITY                   :    0.9        1.0      1.2      1.9      2.9      3.4   1
5- CONSTRUCT.& PUBLIC WORKS               :    4.6      6.4       6.1      7.0      9.4     13.6
6- COMMERCE                              :   16.1      21.2    24.6    27.3    32.3    36.7
7- TRANSPORT & TELECORM.                 :    5.2       4.4       5.6      6.8      8.5    10.8   :
8- PUBLIC SERYICES                       :    14.1     22.0    25.4    30.9    35.3    37.6
9- PRIVATE SERVICES                       1    5.2      7.2       7.7      8.6      9.3     11.4
10- INDIRECT TAKES                        1    5.3       8.1      9.9      11.1     14.0    16.4
(MET OF SUBSIDIES)
C - SECTORAL OUTPUT IN PERCENTAGES            :  100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0   1
___-   -   ___ ------_-_ - ------------ - --------- - .
1- AGRICULTURE                           :   37.9      37.0     37.6     37.3      35.0     34.5
2- MINING                                1    8.2       8.6       7.8      6.1      5.6      5.3
3-  NANUFACTURING                        :    5.8       7.9       6.9      7.0      7.8      7.6
4- WATER & ELECTRICITY                   1    0.8       0.7      0.7       1.0      1.3      1.4
5- CDNSTRUCT.& PUBLIC WORKS              :    4.3       4.2      3.6       3.7      4.3      5.5   :
6- COMMERCE                              :   15.0       14.0     14.6     14.5     14.9     14.9
7- TRANSPORT & TELECOMM.                 :    4.9       2.9       3.3      3.l      3.9      4.4
0- PUBLIC SERVICES                       :   13.2       14.6     15.1     16.4     16.3     15.2
9- PRIVATE SERVICES                      :    4.9       4.B      4.6       4.6      4.3      4.6
10- INDIRECT TAXES                        :    5.0       5.4      5.9      5.9       6.5      b.6
(NET OF SUBS1DIES)
:                                                        :
Miarch 1985



- 30 -
ANNEX I
PAGE 5 OF 6
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET - CONTINUED
(BILLIONS CFAF CURRENT)
ESTIMATES    I
1    1976     1979     1990     1991     1992     1993      1994                  J
D - PUBLIC FINANCE
___________--   --- _                                                                                                           a
1- BUDGET REYENUES                       :   13.6      20.1      21.7     24.9     35.8     36.2     39.7
OF WHICH: TAX RECEIPTS                :   13.0       19.3     20.9     23.2     30.8     30.9     33.9   :
2- CURRENT EXPENDITURES                   :   17.6      27.4     29.5    32.9      37.4     39.4     36.2
OF WHICH: INTEREST ON DEBT            1    0.9       0.9       1.0      1.0      2.9      3.3      3.4   1
3- CURRENT SURPLUSIDEFICIT                :   -4.0      -7.3     -7.8     -9.0     -1.6     -3.2      3.5   1
4- CAPITAL EXPENDITURES a)                :    1.3      0.5       1.0      2.2  -  2.7       3.9      3.1
5- BUDGETARY EXPENDITURES                     18.9    27.9       30.5    35.2      40.1     43.2     39.3
6- OVERALL BUDGETARY SURPLUS/DEFICIT      :   -5.3      -7.8     -8.9   -10.2    -4.3    -7.0         0.4
7- AlREARS                                1    2.9      0.3       1.1    -2.7       0.2      0.9     -3.8
8- OVERALL TREASURY DEFICIT               :   -2.4     -7.5      -7.7    -12.9     -4.1     -6.1     -3.4   :
9- FINANCING                             :    2.4        7.5      7.7     12.9      4.1      6.1      3.4
DOMESTIC                   :    0.3       0.4      0.2       4.1     -1.5      2.1      1.2
FOREIGN(net)                       2.1      7.1       7.5      8.9      5.6      4.0      2.2
(OF WHICH GRANTS) :    1.8       5.9      7.4      5.6      5.0       3-4      3.5   1
E - NONETARY SURVEY                          :
-    ---  -----I
1- MONEY & UDASI-NONEY                   :   19.4      27.1      36.6    45.3      42.9     47.9     51.6
2- DOMESTIC CREDIT                       1   22.6      27.4     36.5      41.4     41.0     42.4     40.1
CREDIT TO PUBLIC SECTOR           :    9.7      11.8      13.1     16.9     10.7     11.6     12.2   :
CREDIT TO PRIYATE SECTOR          1   12.9      15.6     23.4      24.4     30.3     30.9     27.9
3- HONEY & QUASI-NONEY AS Z OF GDP       1   18.1      18.0      21.7    24.0      19.9     19.4     19.5
4- DOMESTIC CREDIT AS x OF GOP                21.1     18.2      21.7     21.9     18.9     17.2     15.1
;                                                                  :
- ---- - --  --------------------t---- ----------                 ---             -    
a) INVESTMENTS FINANCED BY FOREIGN SOURCES ARE EICLUDED.
March  1985



- 31 -
ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYENFS                          -------
-------- - -------------                     PAGE 6 OF 6
("ILLIONS USS CURRENT)
|                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~ESTINATE 
1976     1979     1980     1981     1982     1983
------------------------------               4 -----------   ----------- ----------------
EXPORTS, incl. NFS                           :  106.3    165.4   208.5    178.4    153.5    147.7
IMPORTS, incl. NFS                               141.9   245.9   340.7   253.6   256.5    229.3
RESOURCE BALANCE                                 -35.6   -90.5  -132.2   -75.2  -103.0   -81.6 b
___ _-    _ -------- - -
FACTOR SERVICESINET)                               1.1      1.0      2.4      4.5      6.7       1.3
FACTOR RECEIPTS                     2.9      2.9      4.3      8.1     13.1     10.0
FACTOR PAYMENTS                    -1.8     -1.9     -1.9     -3.3    -6.4      -8.7   :
CURRENT TRANSFERS (PRIVATE)                       -1.4    -12.2    -18.9    -13.9   -17.0    -15.2
CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE                      *  -35.9   -91.7   -148.7   -84.3  -113.3    -95.5
_     __ ---     - -  _-----                                                                          :
PUBLIC TRANSFERS(NET)                             45.2     91.2    101.3     82.1     81.3    68.2   2
PRIVATE CAPITALMNET)                         2    3.8      34.3      4.7      9.9     15.2      7.3   1
PUBLIC MLL TERM LOANS INET                   :    ;.7      11.9    90.8      16.0     19.3      13.6
DISBURSEMENTS               ,9.4                   12.1     93.1     21.6     21.4     26.2 :
REPAYMENTS                                -1.7     -0.2     -2.3     -5.b     -2.1    -12.6   2
NET CREDIT FROM IHF                                5.9     -3.3     -0.9     17.7      2.1      4.2   2
SHORT TERM CAPITAL                           ,  -10.0      -1.4      9.0     -4.8      8.2     -2.6
CAPIlAL NEI                                  :    0.0       2.9      3.3      1.8      8.2      7.1   :
ERRORS AND OMnISSSIONS                            -2.9    -36.9    -72.6    -45.0   -59.6    -13.4   2
CHANGE IN NET RESERVE(-INDICATES INCREASE)       -15.5     -9.9      0.5      4.8    32.6      11.1   2
LEVEL OF NET FOREIGN ASSESIENKD OF YEAR)     :   -7.5      16.0    29.0      31.0     14.0     18.0   :
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                 239.0   212.7   211.3    271.7   328.6   301.1
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS. F.O.d.                       93.6    131.3   154.9    127.0    111.8    107.4
DIAMONOS                                     14.6     39.2    39.9      27.8    21.9      17.0   2
COFFEE                                  :   27.8    28.7    33.6        21.0    26.5    30.9
TIMBER                                  2   17.1    28.8    39.2        32.0    23.4    22.4
C'TTON                                  2   18.2      16.7     17.8     12.9      9.1    iB   :
TOBACCO                                       1.6      1.1      1.6      1.6      1.4      1.3
OTHER                                         4.2    lb.3    22.7       31.7    30.5    20.9
SHARE IN Z OF TOTAL                          :  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0   :
DIAMONDS                                :   17.5    29.9    25.7        21.9     19.6     15.8
COFFEE                                       33.2    21.8      21.7     16.5    23.7    29.8   2
TIMBER                                  :   20.4    22.0    25.3    25.2    20.9          20.8
COTTON                                       21.8     12.7     11.5     10.2      7.3     13.8   2
TOBACCO                                       2.0      1.3      1.1      1.3      1.3      1.2
OTHER                                         5.1     12.4    14.7    25.0'    27.2    19.4
EXTERNAL DESTiflLL.US.S), DEC. 31, 1983
PUBLIC DEBT, incl. GUAPRANTEED                218.0
PUBLIC DEBT, idcl. UNDIS0URSED            2  353.3
IBRDIMDA LENDINSCNILL.US.A1, DEC. 31,1983
OUTSTANDING & DISBURSED                  :   38.2
UNDISBURSED                              ;   38.3
TOTAL                                         76.5
DEBT SERVICE R&TID, 1983
PUBLIC DEBT. mncl. ARREARS               :  13.7%
March 1985



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 1
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A.  Statement of IDA Credits (as of December 31, 1984)
Credit                                             Amount (US$ million)
Number         Year     Borrower      Purpose      Total    Undisbursed
Six Credits    have been fully disbursed.          33.26332J
894-CA         1979       CAR        Livestock      2.50        0.43
1150-CA        1981       CAR        Technical
Assistance     4.00       0.58
1258-CA        1982       CAR        Highways IV   18.00        9.38
1359-CA        1983       CAR        Education II  11.00        7.48
1376-CA        1983       CAR        Cotton Area
Rural
Development   10.40       6.79
TOTAL                   79.16       24.66
- of which has been repaid           0.55
- now outstanding                   78.61
B.   Statement of IFC Investments (as of December 31, 1984).
Nil.
1/   Highways I, Highways II, Highways II, Supplementary Financing for
Highways III, Education I, and Supplementary Financing for
Educatioii I.
2/   Less cancellations.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section 1:       Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare project :          February 1984 to May 1984
(b)   Project prepared by            :          IDA staff
(c)   Appraisal Mission              :         May 1984
(d)   Negotiations                             March 1985
(e)   Credit effectiveness                     June 1985
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Actions
An IDA mission is tentatively scheduled for June 1985 to assist the
Government in making a smooth transition from the First TA Project to the Second.
Section III:     Special Conditions
The Government has provided assurances an the following principal
items:
(a)   by December 31 of each year, the Government would prepare an annual
recovery and development program for the following year, to be
submitted to IDA for the latter's review and comments (para. 22);
(b)   the Government would assign Central African personnel of varied
qualifications and experience to work with each resident specialist
(para. 38);
(c)   the annual work plans, the quarterly progress reports, and the annual
reports provided for in the terms of reference of each advisor wotld be
submitted by the Government to IDA for review and discussion (para.
38); and
(d)   all candidates for training as well as the proposals for their training
would be submitted to IDA for prior approval (para. 39).
A condition of disbursement for expenditures from the Credit allocation
for activities to be identified during project implementation would be the
recommendation of the Project Coordinator and the approval of the High
Commissioner for Planning and IDA (para. 42).
Special conditions of Credit effectiveness would be the opening of the
Special Account (para. 53) and the opening of the Project Account and submission
by the Government of evidence that CFAF 30 million had been deposited therein
(para. 54).



BENINUNE\ 
X
........'. ... 
Th s mmw hg bowanpm by_ mer UrhoLL U                              R       F
-O  :h       . co""  mot , of d . .S-.w- of
do nt m     _by   _ a th   r o h
R I           A     ......
t  Ai<KfW                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Pointe-No.-
\,'I



CENqTR              AFRICAN   REPUBLIC
Sam~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
Mounds  j      ~~                          ~       ~    . .~                 -Pnrnaryroodsb  CAR.
A9?  ~~                       ~                 Trans-African Highwayosw
L-7  '.. (Riw
BA GJ                                          14 * Noioalcaitl
WBmiki'~t ~ ~ -it.~oina   ondre
N*L2 ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .- 20 -J0   IE
.~~~..  -  -*-~~~~~~~~~*-.-. ~~~~~~*--'.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ '-       *00     500.   600 KILOMETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!
AT3~~~O>T~~~A  '--                                                    2~~NREPBI



