CREDIT NUMBER 1581 CA
OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Technical Assistance Project)
between
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1581 CA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    ZYI) 00     I Y'         , 1985, between
CENTRAL  AFRICAN  REPUBLIC   (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower has obtained from the Federal Republic of
Germany through Gesellschaft fHr Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ)
a grant (the GTZ Grant) to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the Legal Adviser Agreement) entered into between the Borrower
and GTZ by an exchange of letters dated July 28 and 29, 1983,
respectively; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the    context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) "CAADE" means Caisse Autonome pour l'Amortissement des
Dettes de l'Etat, the public debt management fund of the Bor-
rower;


﻿-2-
(c)  "Coordinating   Committee"   means   the   Coordinating
Committee for Economic and Financial Policy, established by
Decree No. 84.105 dated March 28, 1984, of the Borrower;
(d) "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(e) "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower; and
(f) "Specialists"   means   the  ten   resident  specialists
enumerated in paragraph II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eight million four hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 8,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a special account in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the pvovisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-


﻿-3-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1995, and ending
February 15, 2035. Each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 2005 shall be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
its Ministry or High Commission responsible for Planning with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate


﻿-4-
economic,  financial, legal,    forestry and  diamond marketing
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon its obligations
under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall, exclu-
sively for the purposes of the Project, establish and maintain at
its Treasury a revolving project account in CFAF and shall:
(i) make an initial deposit therein in an amount of CFAF 30
million; and (ii) thereafter replenish said account in eleven
quarterly installments of CFAF 15 million each and a twelfth
quarterly installment of CFAF 5 million.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, and Specialists' and consul-
tants' services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
June 30, 1985, establish and thereafter maintain a Central
Projects Office within its Ministry or High Commission responsi-
ble for Planning to compile technical and financial data on all
projects, whether at the planning stage or under implementation,
financed partly or wholly with the Borrower's funds; (b) staff
that Central Projects Office with well-qualified and experienced
staff in adequate numbers; and (c) endow it with such functions
and responsibilities as shall be acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall nominate and thereafter
employ in the Office of its Minister or High Commissioner respon-
sible for Planning the following persons with such powers and
responsibilities as shall be acceptable to the Association: (a) a
Project Coordinator who shall, inter alia, coordinate the activi-
ties of the Specialists and consultants hired for the purposes of
the Project; and (b) a Project Administrative Officer who shall,
inter alia, undertake the administration of the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall assign a team of national
colleagues, with differing levels of training and experience to
each one of the Specialists hired for the purposes of the Project
as of the first day of these Specialists' employment. Such
national colleagues shall have qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.


﻿-5-
Section 3.06. In order to carry out Part B,3 of the Project,
the Borrower shall award fellowships to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to suitably qualified persons and for
training programs, both of which shall be acceptable to the Asso-
ciation.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause: (i) each of the
Specialists, not later than October 31 of each year, to prepare a
detailed work program for himself and his national colleagues for
the upcoming year; (ii) each of the Specialists and the Project
Coordinator, not later than March 31, June 30, September 30, and
December 31 of each year, to prepare a quarterly progress report
covering the activities of the Specialist and his national
colleagues; and (iii) each of the Specialists and the Project
Coordinator, not later than March 31 of each year, to prepare an
annual report evaluating the implementation of his work program
for the preceding year.
(b) The Borrower shall promptly forward such work programs,
quarterly progress reports, and annual reports to the Association
for its review and comments.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) by December 31 of each
year or such later date as the Borrower and the Association shall
agree upon, prepare an annual recovery and development program
for the following calendar year; and (b) transmit this program to
the Association for its comments.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and


﻿-6-
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such accounts and records.
(c) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraphs (a)
and (b) of this Section including the Special
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accord-
ance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association and financed out of the
Credit;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have   reasonably  requested,   including  without
limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by
said auditors in respect of the expenditures and
records referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section as to whether the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts, records, Special Account
and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that Decree No. 84.105 of March 28, 1984 of the Borrower estab-
lishing the Coordinating Committee shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without the Associa-
tion's prior approval.


﻿Section 5.02, For the purposes of Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 90 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Special Account shall have been opened; and
(b) the Project Account shall have been opened and the
initial deposit referred to in Section 3.01 (b) shall have been
made.
Section 6.02. The date 90 days after the date of this Agree-
ment is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister or High Commissioner responsible
for Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
High Commission for the Plan
and for Financial Cooperation
P.O.B. 696
Bangui, Central African Republic


﻿-8-
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINPLAN                           5208 RC
Bangui,                           Bangui,
Central African Republic          Central African
Republic
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Resident                   3,320,000          100%
Specialists
(2) Housing                      320,000          100%
(3) Vehicles                      60,000          100%
(4) Vehicle main-                 40,000          50%
tenance, spare
parts and
vehicle
operating
costs
(5) Salary supple-                90,000          100%
ment for
Project
Coordinator
(6) Project                       50,000          100% of foreign
Administrative                               expenditures
Officer
(7) Office operating              60,000          50%
costs
(8) Short-term con-            1,740,000          100%
sultants
(9) Training                     370,000          100% of foreign
expenditures


﻿- 10
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(10) Goods and services          840,000          100%
under Part B.3
of the Project
(11) Special Account             530,000         Amounts to be
deposited pur-
suant to para-
graph 3 (a) of
Schedule 4 to
this Agreement
02) Unallocated                 980,000
TOTAL                8,400,000
2.   For the purposes of tb's Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditureq .n the currency of any country other
than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures:
(a) prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) under Category (10) until the Association shall have
approved the items to be financed under said Category on the
basis of proposals to be furnished by the Borrower through the
Project Coordinator.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the Borrower's
capacity to prepare and carry out an annual recovery and develop-
ment program, to increase the Borrower's absorptive capacity in
certain key economic sectors such as diamonds, forestry and
transport, and to improve management and administration of its
recovery and development program.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Institutional Support
1.   Strengthening the planning and the economic, financial
and administrative capacity within the Borrower's
Government, notably through:
(a) implementation of fiscal discipline and coordina-
tion and reinforcement of the management of public
finances;
(b) establishment of mechanisms and      procedures  to
improve, selection of investment projects;
(c) rationalization of the public sector and of the
state and mixed enterprises sector; and
(d) definition   and   implementation   of  appropriate
macroeconomic and sectoral policies.
2.   Export revitalization in the diamond and forestry pro-
ducts sectors through identification and implementation
of appropriate sectoral policies.
Part B:   Training, Preparation of Further Projepts and Addi-
tional Activities
1.   On-the-job training and job-related seminars to the
national colleagues of the Specialists referred to in
Section 3.05 of this Agreement.
2.   Preparation of a transportation project, a further
technical assistance project and one or more rehabili-


﻿- 12 -
tation programs for state or mixed enterprises of the
Borrower.
3.   Further studies, training or related activities to be
identified during Project implementation.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1988.


﻿-13-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants',Services
I.   Procurement of Goods
1.   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of evaluation and comparison of
bids  invited   from  at  least   three  qualified  national  or
international  suppliers,   in   a  manner   acceptable  to  the
Association.
2.   With respect to goods to be so procured, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in August 1984, shall apply. Where payments for such
contracts are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contracts together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4
(the Special Account Schedule) to this Agreement.
II. Employment of Specialists and Consultants
1.   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants and the following resident
Specialists: a recurrent budget specialist, a public debt
specialist, a forestry adviser, a diamond exploration specialist,
a diamond appraiser, a macro-economist, an investment budget
specialist, a projects economist, a public enterprise specialist
and a legal adviser, as well as short-term consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Such Specialists and consultants shall be selected in accor-
dance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Associa-
tion on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (2) - (10) in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in
CFAF equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (11) which is
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent with-
drawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, each


﻿- 15 -
such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under Categories (2) - (10), and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.    (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) unless otherwise agreed by the Association, when
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to Categories (2) - (10) for the Project,
minus the amount of any outstanding qualified
agreement to reimburse made by the Association and
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Cate-
gories (2) - (10) for the Project shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, such further with-
drawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Asso-
ciation shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
have been or will be utilit;ed in making payments for eligible
expenditures.


﻿- 16 -
6.    (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedu,e, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless otherwise agreed by the Association, no further deposit by
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
'Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of 1
1983
FOR SECRETARY


