Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C/. o 7 6     -7-/
Report No. 5820-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
KAYRAKTEPE HYDROPOWER PROJECT
January 29, 1986
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =         Turkish Lira (TL)
TL I                                100 Kurus (krs)
US$1                      =         TL 535
TL 1                               US$.002
Currency equivalents are those effective July 1, 1985, unless otherwise
indicated.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
kVA                                            =         kilovolt ampere
kW                                             =         kilowatt
kWh                                            =         kilowatt hour
GWh (Gigawatt hour)                            =          1,000,000 kWh
HV                                             =         High Voltage
kV (kilovolt)                                  =          1,000 volts
MW (Megawatt)                                  =          1,000 kW
MVA (Megavolt-ampere)                          =          1,000 kVA
MVAR (Megavolt-ampere reactive)                =          1,000 kVAR
One meter (m)                                  =          3.28 feet
One kilometer (km)                             =         0.624 miles
One kilogram (kg) (1,000 grams)                =          2.2 pounds
One ton (metric ton) (1,000 kg)                =          2,205 pounds
Onc kilocalorie (kcal) (1,000 calories)        =          3.97 BTU
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
CEAS        -   Cukurova Elektrik A.S. (Cukurova Power Company)
DSI         -   Devlet Su Isleri (State Hydraulic Works)
DYB         -   Devlet Yatirim Bankasi (State Investment Bank)
EIE         -   Electric Power Resources Survey Administration
ELTEM--TEK   -   Elektrik Tesisleri Mishen Dislik Hizmetteri ve Ticaret
Anonim Sirketi
EdF         -   Electricite de France
EPDC        -   Electric Power Development Company of Japan
IAEA        -   International Atomic Energy Agency
ICB         -   International Competitive Bidding
IDA         -   International Development Association
KEPEZ A.S.  -   Kepez Electric Company
KfW         -   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LRMC        -   Long-Run Marginal Cost
MAFRA       -   Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs
MENR        -   Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources
MTA         -   Mineral Research Institute
mUV         -   Unit Value Index of Manufactured Exports Expressed in US$ Terms
PEE         -   Public Economic Establishment
PPAR        -   Project Performance Audit Report
PPF         -   Public Participation Fund
SAL         -   Structural Adjustment Loan
SEE         -   State Economic Enterprise
SEI         -   Southern Electric International
SPO         -   State Planning Organization
TEK         -   Turkiye Electrik Kurumu (Turkish Electricity Authority)
TKI         -   Turkiye Komur Isletmeleri Kurumu (Turkish Lignite Enterprise)
TOE         -   Ton of Oil Equivalent
TPAO        -   Turkiye Petrollerei Anonim Ortakligi (Turkish Petroleum Corp.)
TTK         -   Turkish Hard Coal Enterprise
TCK         -   General Directorate for State Highways
VAT         -   Value Added Tax
Fiscal Year - January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
KAYRAKTEPE HYDROPOWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    THE ENERGY SECTOR ..............................................          I
The Role of the Energy Sector in the Economy.                             I
The Resource Base.                                                        1
Main Agencies.                                                            2
Demand and Supply ........................;                               2
Energy Policy.                                                            4
Bank Strategy.                                                            5
11.   THE ELECTRIC POWER SUBSECTOR .................................            6
System Characteristics.                                                   6
Demand Forecast.                                                          6
Future Investments.                                                       7
Sectoral Development.                                                     8
Institutional Development.                                                9
Pricing and Demand Management .11
Electricity Planning .12
Bank's Role in the Power Subsector .13
III.  THE BORROWER AND THE PROJECT ENTITIES ..........................    15
IV.   THE PROJECT ....... .............................................    17
Project Setting and Objectives .................................    17
Project Description .17
Project Origin and Status of Project Preparation .18
Project Cost .20
Project Financing Plan .22
Lending Arrangements .23
Project Implementation .........................................    23
Arrangements for Inspection of the Dam .25
Procurement .25
Disbursement and Special Account .------------------------------    26
Retroactive Financing and Advanced Contracting .27
Environmental Impact of the Project .27
Land Acquisition and Resettlement .27
Project Risks .28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Turkey in
April 1985. :ission members included C. Schroeder (Mission Leader), A. Posada
(Power Engineer), J. Chassard-Manibog (Consultant Economist) and P. Boekstegen
(Flood Control Consultant).
IThis document has a restricted distibution and may be used by reipients only in the perfomane of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Cont'd.)
Page No.
V.       FINANCIAL  ASPECTS   ..............................................                                                          29
Accounts,  Financial  Reporting  and  Audit   ........................                                                       29
DSI   ........................................................                                                       29
TEK   ........................................................                                                       29
Power Subsector Finances - Recent Trends .......................    30
General   Remarks   ............................................                                                      30
Electricity  Pricing   ........................................                                                      30
Internal  Cash  Generation   ...................................                                                     31
Private Investment in the Power'Subsector ..................                                                         34
Power Subsector Finances - Future Prospects  ....................                                                            34
Financing of Mediumr-Term Power Investment Program ...........    34
Future  Financial  Position  of  TEK   ...........................                                                   35
Potential for Private Investment in Power ..................                                                         35
VI.    PROJECT  JUSTIFICATION   ..........................................                                                            36
Least  Cost  Analysis   ............................................                                                        36
Return  on  Investment  Program   ...................................                                                        36
VII.  AGREEMENTS  REACHED  AND  RECOMMENDATIONS   .........................                                                          38



- iii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Cont'd.)
ANNEXES
1.1   Energy Balances
2.1   Balance of Electric Energy and Capacities
2.2   Tariff Study
3.1   Organization Chart of the State HydrauLic Works (DSI)
3.2   Organization Chart of the Turkish Electricity Autherity (TEK)
4.1   General Plan of the Project
4.2   Cross Sections of the Project
4.3   Tecmnical Assessment of the Project
4.4   Cost Estimates by Nature and Purpose of Expenditure - in US$
4.5   Cost Estimates by Nature and Purpose of Expenditure - in TL
4.6   Detail of Financing Plan
4.7   Construction/Supply Contract Packages
4.8   Construction Schedule
4.9   Comparison of Disbursement Profiles - Fercentages
4.10 Disbursement Schedule
5.1   Bulk (High Voltage) Electricity Tariffs: 1983-1985
5.2   Bulk (High Voltage) Tariffs Compared with TEK's Average Revenue and
Inflation: 1982-1985
5.3   Retail (Low Voltage) Electricity Tariffs:  1983-1985
5.4   Income Statements for TEK (1981-1990)
5.5   Balance Sheets for TEK (1981-1990)
5.6   Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds for TEK (1981 - 1990)
5.7   Summary of Finan-ial Ratios
5.8   Notes on Financial Forecasts
6.1   Rate of Return Analysis
7.1   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP
IBRD 19012



TURKEY
KAYRAKTEPE HYDROPOWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
The Role of the Energy Sector in the Economy
1.01     In 1977, four years after the first of the major oil price increases,
Turkey's oil import bill was equivalent to 84% of its merchandise export
earnings. By 1980, the situation was even more precarious: oil imports stood
at 124% of total merchandise export earnings. Based on remedial actions in
line with the Government's structural adjustment program the situation had, by
1984, improved and the above ratio had declined to 53%. The improvement was a
result of both strong performance of merchandise exports as well as a policy
of holding the growth in imports of crude oil and oil products to a more
moderate level (oil imports grew by an average annual rate of 3.6% between
1981 and 1984). However, despite this improvement the need to move away from
an excessive reliance on oil imports remains crucial to Turkey's medium-term
development strategy, as the latter is dependent on the economy's ability to
mobilize foreign exchange.
1.02     High priority was assigned to the energy sector by Government during
the 1980-83 period of structural adjustment. Energy policy was geared to
increasing the domestic supply of energy, primarily through increased capital
inivestment to about 35% of total public investment compared to about 20%
during the 1970s. In parallel greater attention was given by Government to
energy pricing policy as a means of restraining demand and mobilizing
resources. In particular Government has ensured that petroleum products
reflect economic costs as indicated by world prices, and electricity tariffs
have increased in real terms over the period (para. 2.19). Although lignite
prices declined slightly in real terms in 1981-83 a turnaround in lignite
pricing policy during 1984 resulted in a 30% increase in April 1984 and a
further 29.6% adjustment in January 1985, thus exceeding inflacion over the
12-month period.
The Resource Base
1.03     Turkey has substantial untapped lignite and hydropower resources, as
well as more limited, but still important, oil, gas and coal resources and
geothermal potential.  Hydropower with potential economic viability is
estimated at about 29,500 MW under average hydrological conditions and
corresponds to an annual production of about 100,000 GWh. Only 15% has been
developed so far, but this is projected to rise to about 30Z by 1990. Proven



- 2 -
recoverable reserves of oil are about 16 million tons. However, potential
reserves that may become economically recoverable using enhanced oil recovery
techniques currently being tested could be as high as 30 million tons. Oil
production has been declining over the last decade, as few discoveries have
been made in recent years; in 1983 production was about 3 million tons.
Proven recoverable gas reserves are about 400 billion standard cubic feet.
Domestic gas may, however, be supplemented, by large scale imports of natural
gas from the USSR. Total known reserves of hard coal are estimated at about I
billion tons, all located in the north of Turkey (Zonguldak). Coal production
has been declining as operations move to deeper, less accessible seams; in
1983 production was about 3.5 million tons, representing 2.2 million tons of
oil equivalent (TOE). Proven and probable lignite reserves are about 8
billion tons, but about half of this is of extremely low quality (950-1,000
kcal/kg). Lignite production in 1983 was about 20 million tons, equivalent to
about 4.6 million TOE. The economic cost of domestic lignite appears to be
very high, and, in some mines, not competitive with imported coal. There is
potential for geothermal development, for both space heating and electricity
generation. A foreign company with extensive experience in geothermal power
has recently undertaken a technical review of a number of promising geothermal
sites, and discussions with the Government on possible terms and conditions
for developing one of these sites are currently in progress.
Main Agencies
1.04     The energy sector in Turkey is characterized by the dominance of
government-owned enterprises and agencies. Under the Ministry of Energy and
Natuiral Resources (MENR), the Turkish Lignite Enterprise (TKI), the Turkish
Hard Coal Enterprise (TTK), and the Mineral Research Institute (MTA) have
responsibility, respectively, for the extraction of lignite, hard coal and
radioactive minerals, while identification, design and construction of hydro
projects is entrusted to the State Hydraulics Authority (DSI). The Turkish
Electricity Authority (TEK) is responsible for the generation, transmission
and, since November 1982, the distribution of almost all the electricity sold
in Turkey. TEK is also responsible for the implementation of the Government's
program for rural electrification and the construction of all generating and
transmission facilities, with the exception of hydroelectric plants for which
DSI has responsibility (see Chapter III).
1.05     Private sector participation in the supply of electricity was, until
1983, confined to two small semi-private utilities (CEAS and KEPEZ) and
industrial companies which generated power for their own use, often in
conjunction with the production of steam for process heat. However, recent
shifts in Government energy policy now give greater encouragement to private
sector participation in the development and production of energy (para.
2.16).
Demand and Supply
1.06     Total gross energy consumption was about 38 million TOE in 1983, of
which commercial energy consumption amounted to about 30 million TOE.



- 3 -
Petroleum made up the most significant share of primary commercial energy
(60%) with the balance made up of l_gnite (18%), hydropower (11%), coal (10%)
and imported electricity (1%).  About 24% of final commercial energy
consumption was in the form of electricity. Noncommercial energy production
(primarily fuelwood, but also other biomass) was an important energy source,
accounting for 23% of total energy consumption. Imported energy (petroleum,
hard coal and electricity) represents about 45% of total energy supply.
Annex 1.1 presents energy balances for the 1978-1983 period.
1.07     The most notable change in the pattern of energy consumption over the
past two decades has been the decrease in the relative share of hard coal in
total energy. This was accompanied by a rapid growth in consumption of
petroleum until the mid-1970s, and a rapid rise in the share of lignite
(primarily for thermal power production) and hydroelectric power consumption
starting in the second half of the 1970s. During this period, hard coal
consumption stayed relatively constant in absolute terms, while traditional
biomass energy sources increased slightly in absolute terms, but decreased
steadily as a percentage of total energy consumed.
1.08     The most important factors in the growth of energy demand will be the
growth rate of the economy as a whole, the growth rate of the energy-intensive
industrial sector of the economy, and the extent to which Government
implements an energy conservation and demand management program. Bank
estimates indicate that the growth rate of the economy would average about
5.6% per annum during the 1980s and that the industrial sector would grow
slightly faster at about 7%. Under these projections and in the absence of a
vigorous demand management program, electricity demand is expected to grow by
over 200% between 1980 and 1990 to about 60,000 GWh; lignite demand for
thermal power plants would grow by almost tenfold to about 50 million tons;
and petroleum products demand would grow by 110% to 30 million tons of oil
equivalent. In total this would represent approximately 58 million TOE, an
increase of over 8% per annum from 1983 (38 million TOE). However supply
constraints, especially in the lignite sector (para. 2.25) and in the power
sector (para. 2.03), are likely to result in demand not being met (para.
2.01), at least to 1990.
1.09     There is, however, considerable scope for conservation of energy,
particularly in the industrial sector which currently accounts for 40% of
total energy consumption and this is expected to rise to 45% by 1990. The
industrial sector also consumes 64% of total electricity supplied.
Furthermore eight industries-I account for 40% of total industrial energy
consumption, from which it has been estimated that almost 1 million TOE could
be saved through investment in conservation. The total estimated potential
energy savings in the industrial sector, including a large number of
energy-inefficient small industries, is about 2.4 million TOE. There is
therefore an urgent requirement for an energy conservation program in Turkey.
1/ Iron and steel, cement, fertilizer, pulp and paper, glass, brick,
aluminum, copper.



- 4 -
1.10     The Government is in the process of developing a program for the
conservation of energy by encouraging efficient use in existing and new
industrial enterprises. Energy efficiency programs and legislation have been
evaluated by both MENR and the State Planning Organization (SPO), and
legislation has already been passed which allows for tax credits for various
types of investments in energy efficiency improvements. The Government has
initiated programs to assist industrial firms to learn how to improve their
energy efficiency in existing operations. The Bank included technical
assistance for energy audits in selected manufacturing facilities as part of
the assistance to the Government under Loan 1916-TU. These audits are to be
followed by conservation activities. The findings of the energy audit on the
Anbarli Electric Power Plant have been used as the basis for preparing a
subcomponent of the Power System Operations Assistance Project (Loan 2602-TU).
TEK has also hired consuLtants to assist in the development of an energy
conservation and load management program (para. 2.20).
Energy Policy
1.11     To meet its energy requirements Turkey launched a massive program in
the late 1970s to increase the domestic productioni of electricity and
lignite. This program tended to stretch the implementation capabilities of
the state energy agencies, and spread the resources available too thinly over
too many projects, with resulting long delays in completion schedules. This
has, in turn, resulted in an energy deficit which is likely to remain a
feature of the Turkish economy at least through the 1980s (para. 1.08).  MENR
and TEK are currently in the process of improving their energy planning
capabilities (para. 2.21) and MENR has recently produced an energy policy
paper.  The recent Five-Year Development Plan-  contains the following
energy sector objectives:
-    priority is to be given to domestic sources of energy, especially,
hydropower and lignite, provided that they are economically justified;
-    imported energy including, but not limited to oil, will be considered;
-    renewable and nonconventional resources such as geothermal, solar and
biogas are to be supported; and
-    private sector financing, both local and foreign, will be sought for
participation in energy development.
1/  V. Bes Yillik Kalkinma Plani 1985-1989, State Planning Organization, June
1984



- 5 -
1.12     One feature of Government policy which represents a departure from
previous energy policy concerns the expanded role of the private sector in the
development and production of energy. Government policy is now quite clearly
to encourage private sector participation in the energy sector (para. 2.16).
There are now no legal constraints to private sector electricity generation,
and private utilities (KEPEZ and CEAS) have plans to increase their
capacities. In addition, SPO is currently pursuing negotiations with private
consortia who would assemble financing, and construct and operate for a
specified period (10-15 years) thermal plants based upon imported fuels. Over
the long term this could have a fundamental bearing on the financing, staffing
and planning of the subsector.
Bank StrategY
1.13     The Bank has prepared and discussed with Government an Energy
Assessment Study as well as subsector studies on electricity and lignite. In
addition, under SAL V Government agreed to develop and discuss with the Bank
an energy action plan and MENR has instructed the individual energy
institutions to prepare detailed medium-term action programs (para. 2.11).  As
an ongoing part of our policy dialogue the Bank prepared an energy sector
strategy paper on actions required in the energy sector. In discussions of
this paper agreement was reached with the Government and related energy
institutions on the content, analysis and scope of the issues facing the
energy sector (para. 2.12).
1.14     The strategy for Bank lending and operational work in the energy
sector is to focus on selected key issues in the medium term in order that
projects may be brought on stream as rapidly as possible and the efficiency of
existing energy-producing facilities be maximized. Priority should be
accorded to projects aimed at reducing the energy deficit as soon as
possible. Projects with relatively short gestation periods such as
improvement of efficiency within existing facilities, industrial conservation,
reduction of energy leakages, and utilization of energy resources which can be
brought on stream rapidly, should have priority. Furthermore, the private
sector may well offer opportunities for developing energy resources more
rapidly than the public sector, and emphasis will be given to investments
which may increase private sector participation.
1.15     In conjunction with the strategy to address the key medium-term
issues the Bank is also emphasizing the strengthening of various energy
institutions through technical assistance in training, manpower development,
technical, economic and financial planning and project management. The policy
discussions be:ween Government and the Bank will be continued on a regular and
sustained basis and should prrvide a continuing policy framework within which
both project lending and the development of a robust project pipeline can
proceed.



II. THE ELECTRIC POWER SUBSECTOR
System Charact.ristics
2.01     The present (beginning of 1985) installed power capacity in Turkey is
about 7,750 MW of which 3,870 MW (50%) is thermal and the balance hydra. The
share of hydropower has increased over the past ten years from 33% in 1972 to
about 50% in 1984. On the thermal side lignite has made an increasing
contribution to the production of electricity. Total gross generation in 1984
was about 30,600 GWh, of which TEK accounted for almost 90% and this was
supplemented by 2,600 GWh imported electricity from Bulgaria and the USSR.
This was less than the potential effective demand, estimated at 35,000 GWh.
There is evidence that power shortages have caused cutbacks over the past
three to five years in production in industries such as cement, textiles and
paper. In addition to the capacity constraint, the high level of total system
losses (technical losses plus unaccounted for energy), at about 20%,-'
contributed to the supply shortages.
Demand Forecast
2.02     Growth in demand has averaged about 9% per annum over the period
1965-1983. Between 1970 and 1983 the percentage of population with public
electricity supply rose from 51% to 78%. Per capita annual consumption of
electricity is currently about 550 kWh. The curre.it medium- and long-term
forecasts, prepared in connection with TEK's long-term generation plan
(1987-2005), are b;.sed upon the relationship between electricity consumption
and industrial output. They show total energy demand (GWh) growing at about
10% per annum to 1990 and peak demand (MW) increasing at about 8%. Beyond
1990 TEK project a growth of about 9.5% per annum in peak demand and about 9%
per annum in energy. This implies a continuation of the high (1.6-1.8)
elasticities with respect to GDP and sectoral (primarily industrial) growth
rates. These are higher than in many other industrializing countries (e.g.,
Korea, Hungary, Singapore) which have been able to reduce electricity demand
significantly by implementing a program of demand management. Given the
difficulty Turkey has faced in expanding electricity supply (para. 2.09) it is
critical that efforts be made to bring about lower demand elasticities. A
program of demand management implemented in parallel with a program to improve
efficiency and plant availability within the electricity subsector could
produce significant savings in investment over the medium to long term
(para. 2.20 provides information on ongoing demand management activities).
1/ This compares with losses of about 10% in a well designed and operated
transmission and distribution network.



-7-
Future Investments
2.03     Generation.  Annex 2.1 gives details of the forecast electric energy
and capacity balances. The forecast was prepared by the Bank on the basis of
an updated implementation schedule, likely slippages in the commissioning of
some hydro or thermal power plants and a review of potential fuel supply
bottlenecks, especially in the lignite sector. TEK's installed capacity is
expected to grow from about 7,000 MW in 1985 to almost 14,000 MW by 1990, with
the share of hydropower remaining constant at about 50%; and to about
19,500 MW by 1995. Assuming average water flows, the share of hydropower in
total generation is expected to be around 42% over the period. This estimate
is, however, dependent on the extent to which lignite supply constrains the
availability of thermal generation. The Bank assumed that it would take up to
four years for major lignite mines to meet full power plant requirements. Any
improvement in the ability of the mines to supply lignite would have a major
impact upon increasing generation from the thermal plants (para. 2.25).
However, it is unlikely that the projected generation expansion to 1990 will
be able to meet the system's energy requirements (GWh), even under average
hydrological conditions and with imports of up to 2,500 GWh per annum from
Bulgaria and USSR.
2.04     All new thermal power plants, under construction or proposed in the
public investment program, would use lignite for power generation, with the
exception of a coal-fired plant to replace an old unit at Catalagzi, a small
pilot (18 MW) geothermal plant, and a new 600-MW combined cycle plant located
near Istanbul to utilize domestic gas (Hamitabat) and imported gas (USSR).
2.05     Given the shortfall in supply (para. 2.03) the forecast of
electricity sales has been derived from the Bank's projections of available
generation. Under this forecast, TEK's sales would increase at an annual
average rate of about 12% to reach almost 50,000 GWh by 1990. It is estimated
that by the early 1990s the electricity system would be in equilibrium and
generation would be adequate to meet projected demand.
2.06     Transmission.  The salient feature of the Turkish transmission system
is that the largest load centers are located at considerable distances from
the existing and/or committed major power plants, most of which are located in
the far east or southwest of the country. For technical reasons of system
stability and reliability, there is a need for a more geographically balanced
system, especially in European Turkey (Thrace) where the system is
particularly vulnerable. Greater flexibility could be afforded to the system
by the installatio. of additional capacity in the Istanbul area. The
construction is under way of a combined cycle power plant (600 MW) located at
Hamitabat, some 100 km from Istanbul, to utilize natural gas. TEK is also to
undertake a feasibility study, to be financed under the Power System
Operations Assistance Project (Loan 2601-TU), for an additional combined cycle
power plant of 1,000 MW located in Thrace and fueled by natural gas.
2.07     Distribution and Village Electrification.  Since 1982 TEK has been
responsible for urban distribution. Prior to the TEK takeover the



- 8 -
municipalities were responsible for urban electrification. During the 1970s
there was a sharp decline in the share of investment in urban distribution,
from 141 of total subsector investment in 1975 to 6% in 1979, despite an urban
population growth rate of almost twice the national average. Problems of
underinvestment were compounded by the fact that many municipalities practiced
cross-subsidization of services, utilizing revenues from urban electricity
sales to finance other services. This resulted in a deterioration in the
physical condition of the urban networks and high losses.  Recent estim.-es by
TEK place losses at 1,500 GWh, of which pilferage and illegal connections
account for about 500 GWh and technical losses the balance. Almost 1,000 GWh
of total losses occur in the three largest urban areas, Istanbul, Ankara and
Izmir. Rehabilitating the urban networks should be accorded greater priority
than hitherto since it would provide a cost-effective and rapid way to
increase the capacity of the system. TEK has hired consultants (EdF, France)
to assist in identifying losses and to prepare an investment program for the
urban networks. The consultants have prepared the first comprehensive
investment masterplan (Izmir).
2.08     The village electrification program forms part of Government's _ociaL
policy of providing basic services to rural areas, especially to those
provinces designated as least developed and most impoverished. As such,
Government objectives are geared to regional development, equity
considerations and poverty alleviation rather than either financial cost
recovery or economic efficiency. By the end of 1984, about 70% of the
villages had been connected to the national system, and the target is to
electrify the balance by the end of 1990.
Sectoral Development
2.09     The Turkish power subsector has been confronted with problems of
major proportions. Electricity supply has been insufficient to meet demand in
every year since 1971, resulting in high costs to the economy, as imports
increased and supply interruptions became more frequent. The shortfalls in
supply are attributed mainly to institutional problems, especially the
shortage of qualified staff in the public sector agencies responsible for
planning and implementing the development of the electricity subsector, and
shortages of local funding resources. This has resulted in project delays,
consequent substantial cost escalations, chronic power shortages, frequent and
protracted power plant breakdowns due to inadequate maintenance, and high
system losses. As a result of staff shortages, TEK's qualified staff has been
spread too thinly over too many projects in the investment program.
Government has, however, now recognized many of these problems and is actively
addressing them.
2.10     Meeting electricity demand in Turkey will require a major coordinated
effort on behalf of the major agencies in the subsector since it will require
that the country bring on stream three times more capacity in the 1980s than
I



- 9 -
in the 1970s and sustain that mo'ientum throughout most of the 1990s.
Furthermore it will reqtuire that scarce resources be tied up in technologies
new to the country (e.g., gas-based generation, geothermal, nuclear) and in
projects of a size unprecedented in the country.
2.11     The Government is, however, cemmitted to a program to deal with the
issues faced by the electricity sector and plans to focus particularly on the
medium-term issues of expanding output, maximizing efficiency and, in line
with its structural adjustment program, curtailing the country's oil import
bill. MENR has instructed all the individual energy institutions to prepare
detailed medium-term action programs to adtUess the following priority issues:
(a)  managerial and institutional improvements, in particular the
strengthening of planning, project selection and project management
capabilities through increased trainihg and technical assistance;
(b)  the completion of ongoingpriorityproiects in the electricity
subsector and in lignite mines to supply key thermal plants;
Cc)  the upgrading_of existing facilities with special reference to
improving operational e ficiency, retrofitting of plant and provision
of adequate spare parts;
(d)  evaluation and implementation of a broader range of alternative
energy_supjples including natural gas, imported codl, and geothermal;
(e)  energy conservation, including the identification of in-vestments and
pricing policies to increase the efficiency with which energy is both
produced and consumed; and
(f) an increased role for the private sector, particularly in the
construction and operation of power plants and operation of lignite
mines.
2.12     In the electric power subsector both Government and TEK have
recognized the nature and scope of the issues outlined in para. 2.09 and
progress toward resolving many issues has been made. Paras. 2.13 to 2.25
below indicate actions taken or planned.
Institutional Development
2.13     Maintenance and  -eration of thepower system.  The exigencies of
maintaining supply at all costs has resulted in TEK abandoning a systematic
maintenance plan for thermal power stations. This in turn has led to frequent
and often protracted outages as well as major losses in plant efficiency and
output. TEK has increased the allocation for equipment for operations,
maintenance and spare parts, as well as specialized training in power plant
and network maintenance. The Bank-financed Power System Operations



- 10 -
Assistance Project (Loan 2602-TU) will result in improved operational
efficiency and will develop manpower skills for operations and maintenance
within TEK.
2.14     Project management.  Inadequate project management has resulted in
considerable delays in implementation and consequent high costs to the economy
as project costs have escalated and supply shortages increased. Greater
emphasis is being placed upon the development of strong project management
teams utilizing both local and foreign expertise, increased autonomy at the
project management level, especially on financial, procurement and personnel
matters, and greater selectivity to ensure that high caliber teams are
recruited. Initiatives taken by TEK have included a full project managempnt
contract for the construction of the Thrace Combined Cycle Plant and greater
management autonomy at the Elbistan site. Furthermore, the establishment of
ELTEM-TEK, a publicly owr.ed local consulting firm which remains outside civil
service payscales, offers opportunities to recruit experienced engineering
manpower, both local and foreign, for specific tasks including project
management.
2.15     Manpower Development.  Inadequate manpower planning, including the
lack of a comprehensive training staff improvement program, has hindered both
the recruitment and retention of qualified staff. In addition TEK's training
centers are in poor condition aad suffer from inadequate and outdated
equipment. TEK has hired consultants (Ontario Hydro, Canada) under Bank Loan
2322-TU to assist in the development of a manpower and training plan focusing
particularly on power plant operations and maintenance. Further Bank
assistance to manpower development is to be provided under the Fourth TEK
Transmission Project (Loan 2586-TU) and in the Power System Operations
Assistance Project (Loan 2602-TU). Both projects include a training
component, addressing the specific requirements of staff in the design and
construction of transmission lines and substations, and in general operations
and maintenance.
2.16     An Increased Role for the Private Sector.  Government policy is now
directed towards encouraging a greater role for the private sector in all
aspects of the electricity subsector activities. The objectives are to ease
the manpower and staffing problems in the public sector, improve project
management, and mobilize private financing. TEK can now share ownership in
electric power and mining projects through "participations", in which TEK
would hold from 15% to 50% of shares, or in "affiliated partnerships", in
which TEK would hold a majority of the shares. The Government is considering
a number of proposals from the private sector to enter into these types of
joint ventures. Furthermore, a recent law (Law 3096) allows utilities and
other companies, designated as entrusted companies, to construct and operate
generating facilities and to have full responsibility for electricity
distribution and sales within a concession area.



- 11 -
Pricing and Dem_nd Management
2.17     Studies on the potential for demand management and load shedding,
including the effect on peak demand and growth in connections by TEK, are in
process (para. 2.20). While load management policies would have relatively
little impact upon energy demand, they could affect peak demand by up to 10%.
This would represent a major investment saving and a load management program
is an urgent requirement. Demand management can be achieved through both an
appropriate pricing policy (paras. 2.18-2.19) and by nonpricing mechanisms
(e.g., ripple control. contracted interruptible supplies, etc.).
2.18     Pricing Policy.  As of April 1985, bulk electricity tariffs were
about 90% of the long-run marginal costs of bulk supply (LRMC) but did not yet
fully reflect the structure of LRMC. TEK has hired consultants (EdF, France)
to assist them in preparing a tariff study on the long-run marginal cost of
supplying electricity at both the bulk and retail levels. The Bank has
monitored closely pr..eress of the study and its preliminary findings were
discussed with TEK in the course of project supervision. The consultants have
prepared draft reports on both bulk supply and retail tariffs. Annex 2.2
presents a summary of the study's findings so far. It is expected that the
final results and recommendations on an appropriate level and structure of
electricity tariffs (including those at the retail level) will in due course
be implemented, following discussion with Lne Bank as agreed under Loan
2322-TU.
2.19     In line with Government policy to price energy products closer to
their respective economic costs, bulk rates were increased by an average of
about 13% in real terms from 1982 to 1984. Further increases since the
beginning of 1985 (on January 1, March 1 and April 1, respectively) resulted
in a real adjustment of bulk rates of about 25%-30%. TEK's consultants (para.
2.18) estimate that the average bulk supply tariff of TL 26.2/kWh as of April
1985 represented about 90% of the LRMC of electricity supply at high voltage,
estimated at about TL 29.8/kWh (adjusted to April 1985 prices), a considerable
improvement over the previous two years. Furthermore, the introduction in
June 1984 of a time-of-day differential in the tariff schedule also brought
tariffs closer to the structure of marginal costs and, once fully implemented,
should help correct imbalances in the pattern of electricity consumption. The
Bank will continue to discuss with Government required increases to maintain
and improve the structure and level of electricity tariffs.
2.20     Load Research and Demand Management.  A major constraint in
identifying the costs and benefits of a load management program has been the
inadequate data base upon which to prepare demand projections. Furthermore
TEK staff has not been adequately trained in demand forecasting techniques nor
in identifying and analyzing various demand management strategies. To address
this problem TEK has hired consultants (GOPA Consortium, Germany) under Bank
Loan 2322-TU to assist in developing a program of load research, demand



- 12 -
management and conservation. The technical assistance includes the design of
a system for the collection and storage of data, the development and testing
of models to project energy and peak demand (short-, medium- and long-term
projections), the simulation of load management strategies including
measurement of likely costs and benefits of alternative strategies, training
of TEK staff and the preparation of recommended actions for a load managemnent
program. The work of the consultants is to be closely coordinated with the
tariff study (para. 2.18) so that the impact of pricing policies on growth in
demand way be estimated.  The consultants started work in March 1985 and
completion is expected by the end of 1987, although progress reports during
the various phases of the work will provide recommendations for specific
actions. The Bank will work closely with TEK and the consultants to ensure
that pricing policy, demand management and system planning (demand forecasting
and supply analysis) are fully integrated.
Electricity Planning
2.21     TEK is, and has been since its creation, overwhelmed by the immediate
problems of coping with increasing demand, problems that have preoccupied
senior management to the detriment of forward-looking strategies. As a
consequence little effort has, in the past, been made to upgrade TEK's
planning skills. However, agreement has been reached on a comprehensive
system planning training program for MENR and TEK.  Training is being given'in
system planning using the WASP'' model and in demand forecasting using the
MAED!" model. Both models have been developed by the International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA) and the training program is provided under their
auspices. The latter is fully coordinated by TEK's Planning and Coordination
Department with the demand management study outlined in para. 2.20.
2.22     Results of the exercises are expected soon.  Improved planning would
ensure that significant opportunities to maximize supply over the medium term
are realized (e.g., reduction of system losses, coordination of the investment
program, demand management, rehabilitation of plant currently derated, etc.)
and help to id-- tify a long-term least-cost expansion program for the
subsector. TEK La to prepare a report oTn the proposed long-term generation
plan during 1986.
2.z3     One area of system planning where technical and cost data could be
significantly improved is in the hydropower subsector. System planning is
hampered by the lack of a systematic inventory of hydroelectric resources and
a ranking of these resources based upon uniform technical criteria and
comparable economic and cost criteria. The proposed project, therefore,
1/ WASP - Wien Automatic System Planning Model.
2/ MAED - Model for Analysis of Energy Demand.



- 13 -
includes a technical assistance componient to prepare an inventory of hydro
resources on the basis of a uniform methodology (para. 4.03). Once completed,
the hydro inventory and ranking study would allow the optimal design and
development, scheduling and construction of hydro plants with consequent major
savings in investment. The results of the study would also provide additional
information to a gubsequent round of expansion planning exercises.
2.24     To ensure the rational design of the medium term investment program,
agreement was reached under Loans 2586-TU and 2602-TU to undertake, as part of
the ongoing energy policy dialogue, an annual joint Bank and Government review
of the electric power investment program and related financing plans, with a
view to discussing project priorities, realistic completion dates and adequacy
of electric power investment levels and finance.
2.25     There is inadequate coordination of the investment programs of TEK
and TKI. Further delays in the implementation of several lignite mining
projects to supply fuel for thermal power plants remain a problem. Unless
resolved this would result in substantial delays in electric power
availability and consequent pet-petuation of supply shortages continuing into
the eRrly 1990s and beyond.  The Bank has prepared a stud- on the lignite
subsertnr which identifies the major problems faced by th  eiuhcoprtnr (poor
planning, inadequate project management and inadequate financial management).
Bank's Role in the Power Subsector
2.26     The proposed Project would be the nineteenth Bank operation in the
power subsector in Turkey. The Bank has previously made fourteen loans plus
one technical assistance grant (total US$931.7 million), and IDA has granted
three credits (total US$55.7 million). These comprise loans/credits for
hydroelectric projects; thermal power stations (oil- and lignite-fired);
transmission and distribution networks; and assistance in improving TEK's
system operations. The technical assistance grant helped reorganize Turkey's
power subsector.
2.27     Experience with Past Lending.  A Project Performance Audit Report
(PPAR), distributed to the Board in November 1981, on the Keban Transmission
(Loan 568-TU) and the first TEK Power Transmission (Loan 763-TU) projects
found that these projects had met their physical objectives despite
implementation delays and cost overruns. A Project Completion Report on the
Istanbul Power Distribution Project (Loan 892-TU), distributed to the Board in
December 1982, also reported physical completion of the Project after
considerable delay. Major constraints to timely project completion were
identified as shortage of local counterpart finance and, in the case of Loan
892-TU, late preparation of bidding documents. A major conclusion of the TEK
II (Loan 1194-TU) Project Completion Report was the need for improvement in
the monitoring and coordination of the Project. The Report recommended the
establishment of project implementation units within TEK. Such units are now



- 14 -
regularly used in Bank-financed power projects in Turkey. Furthermore, a firm
of consultants, ELTEM-TEK, has been hired by TEK to assist in monitoring all
aspects of the Third and Fourth TEK Transmission Projects and of the Power
System Operations Assistance Project (Loans 2322, 2586 and 2602-TU).
2.28     The Bank played a major role in the consolidation of the power sector
and in the creation of TEK. The Bank has since then continued to advocate
needed institutional reforms and has met with some success in its endeavors to
assist in strengthening the institutional capabilities of the subsector.
Considerable progress has been made in areas such as TEK's system planning and
procurement procedures. Furthermore, the Bank has assisted in attracting
funds from other bilateral and international financing agencies (e.g., EIB,
German Aid (KfW), US EXIMBANK).
2.29     The Bank has devoted considerable sector work to assisting the
Government in developing its strategy for dealing with major sectoral issues.
A recurrent theme in the power subsector reports is the urgency of (a)
improving the efficiency with which energy is both produced and consumed; and
(b) developing as rapidly as possible Turkey's hydropower energy resources,
given Turkey's chronic power shortages and the high costs for imported
energy. -The Power System Operations Assistance Project (Loan 2602-TU) and
work currently being undertaken on energy conservation address some of the
issues under (a) above. The Kayraktepe Project and other forthcoming projects
respond to (b).



- 15 -
III. THE BORROWER AND THE PROJECT ENTITIES
3.01     The Borrower for the proposed Project would be the Republic of
Turkey, which has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of a portion
of the foreign exchange cost of the Project.
3.02     The Project will be carried out by DS[ (Devlet Su IsLeri = State
Hydraulic Works), an agency within the Borrower's Ministry of Energy and
Natural Resources established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's law No.
6200 dated December 25, 1953.
3.03     As and when the facilities to be constructed under the Project are
brought into commercial operation, the Borrower will transfer them as an
equity contribution'' to TEK (Turkiye Elektrik Kurumu = Turkish Electricity
Authority), a Public Economic Establishment, established and operating
pursuant to Statutes published on November 9, 1984 in accordance with Decree
No. 233 dated June 8, 1984, under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Energy
and Natural Resources.
3.04     DSI is responsible, in coordination with TEK, for planning,
designing, constructing and putting the Project into effective operation. TEK
will be responsible for operation of the power facilities, after the assets
are transferred to it. Agencies responsible for the relocation of
installations and resettlement of inhabitants within the Project area will
also actively contribute to the realization of the Project. These include the
General Directorate for State Highways (TCK) and the Resettlement Department
of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs (MAFRA).
3.05     DSI has the principal responsibility for developing water projects
for the three sectors of:
(a) Agriculture - including primary irrigation, draining of marshy lands,
and flood control;
(b) Power - identification, design, and construction of hydropower plants
to generate electricity; and
(c) Public Service - supply of domestic and industrial water for cities
over 100,000 population and assisting these cities in planning,
designing and constructing sewerage networks and treatment facilities.
The existing organization of DSI is shown in Annex 3.1. It is administered by
a Director General and has a field organization consisting of 25 Regional
1/ The facilities are expected to be transferred under an arrangement similar
to that for Keban hydropower--see para. 5.14, under which TEK would
subsequently reimburse the government through payments for electricity
generated at Kayraktepe.



- 16 -
Directorates and Operating Groups. DSI runs on the line management principle
by suitable delegation of authority. It has about 25,000 employees, some
3,000 of which are engineers and technicians. Over 2,000 of the total staff
are located in the central office in Ankara. PSI has long experience in
hydropower plant construction, management, procurement, and envirolzu"ent
protection matters. Other DS[ hydropower projects in which the Bank has been
involved, such as Keban, Ceyhan Aslantas and Karakaya (Loans 568, 883 and
1844-TU), have reached or are close to physical completion and, while for a
variety of reasons there were delays and cost overruns, all problems
encountered during construction were successfully overcome. With the
assistance of the selected consultants, DSI will be capable of ensuring proper
construction management of the Kayraktepe hydropower project.
3.06     The organizational structure of TEK is shown in Annex 3.2.  TEK
employs about 55,000 (including 13,600 in Generation and Transmission, 33,200
in Distribution, and 6,600 in Construction) of which L,500 are engineers and
technicians. TEK has the necessary experience to operate the Project
satisfactorily.



- 17 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Setting and Objectives
4.01     The proposed Project--a 420-MW hydropower dam at Kayraktepe on the
Goksu River in South Central Turkey (see IBRD Map 19012)--is part of the
Government strategy to develop as rapidly as possible Turkey's indigenous
energy resources (para. 1.11). The Kayraktepe dam would not only permit the
generation of a sizeable volume of electric energy--on average 991 GWh per
year (firm generation: 639 GWh)--but would also protect the rich Silifke
plain and the city of Silifke from destructive floods. The Project does not
raise any international riparian issue since the Goksu River basin is wholly
located within Turkey.
Project Description
4.02     The Kayraktepe dam will be located in a gorge just upstream--15
km--of the Silifke plain. The proposed dam will be 199 meters high above its
foundation and will be constructed of rock-fill with an impervious core. Its
volume will be about 17 million m3.  The power plant will be built
immediately downstream of the dam and will be equipped with two main
generating units, 200 MW each, and one 20-MW unit to release water for
irrigation downstream in the plain when the main units are shut down. Power
generation will not only benefit from the 4800-million ml reservoir created
by the dam but also from the regulation afforded by the Gezende reservoir
upstream (para. 4.06). Live storage at the Kayraktepe reservoir (2,000
million m3) would be able to accommodate 57X of the average annual inflow
(3,500 million m3) from a drainage area covering about 10,000 km2. The
dam with its gated chute spillway can accommodate the maximum probable flood
flow. The general arrangement of the Project and profile along the axis of
the dam, the spillway, and power structures, as well as a typical cross
section of the dam can be seen in Annexes 4.1 and 4.2. Power generated at
Kayraktepe would be fed into Turkey's 380-kV National Power Grid by means of
380-kV transmission lines to Adana and possibly Seydisehir. Provision of
these lines is not included in this project. The final arrangement will be
decided following detailed studies of grid requirements and other possible
generating plant development in the region. The capacity of the Kayraktepe
plant would be used to supply in part peak demand (75%) and in part to cover
base-load demand (25%) in the Turkish Power System. The height of the dam and
the installed capacity were determined by means of an optimization study on
the basis of maximizing the net benefits created by the Project through power
generation valued at the cost of generation by an alternative steam and gas
turbines power plant. The proposed Project would protect Silifke and about
5,000 ha. of irrigated agricultural land against flood flows with up to one in
100 years recurrence. The main characteristics of the Project are summarized
in the Attachment to Annex 4.3. Its geological features, as well as the
hydrology of the Goksu River and the seismic risk to the proposed dam are
discussed in Anrex 4.3.  The appraisal corclusions as to the technical
soundness of the Project's design are given in para. 4.06.



- 18 -
4.03     Investment planning for power generation expansion is hampered by
lack of a homogenous ranking of hydroelectric resources based on a uniform
technical and economic methodology (para. 2.23). The project scope,
therefore, includes a technical assistance component to:
(a) develop the necessary methodology;
(b) apply it to the hydroelectric resources for which studies exist;
(c)  complete the energy profile of the different river basins using the
above-mentioned methodology; and
(d) prepare a complete catalog of hydroelectric projects with their
relative implementation priority ranking.
It is estimated that about 200 man-months of engineering services would be
required to carry out these tasks. This estimate is based on the experience
with a recently completed study of comparable scope.I
4.04     An agreed annual review by the Bank and Government of the power
sector investment requirements and related financing plan=' requires that
reliable and consistent project cost data be available for both new and
ongoing projects. In the case of DSI, while arrangements for project cost
accounting for previous power projects such as Karakaya (Loan 1844-TU) have
been satisfactory, financial information on DSI's power subsector projects as
a whole is not readily availabLe and not always consistent. A notional amount
is, therefore, included in the project cost to cover the expenditures of a
technical assistance component to improve DSI's project cost accounting.
4.05     DSI operates data processing facilities in Ankara and in its regional
offices for engineering studies, hydrological forecasting, cost accounting and
stock control. The project scope includes a component to update these data
processing facilities and a notional amount is included in the project cost to
cover the cost of this component.
Project Origin and Status of Project Preparation
4.06     The Goksu River originates in the southern flank of the Taurus
mountain range and empties into the Mediterranean Sea near Silifke. The
development of the hydroelectric potential available in the Goksu River has
1/ Ranking of the hydro resources of Ecuador. Consortium Lahmeyer-Decon,
June 1983.
2/ This annual review has been agreed under the TEK Transmission IV and Power
System Operations Assistance Projects (Loans 2586 and 2602-TU).



- 19 -
been the subject of studies by the Electric Power Resources Survey
Administration (EIE) since 1969. These studies identified three hydropower
sites--Mut, 99 MW; Zeine, 33 MW; and Kayraktepe, 420 MW-on the main course of
the river and two sites--Gormel, 86 MW; and Gezende, 150 NW--on its principal
tributary, the Ermenek River. The Gezende and Kayraktepe sites were then
retained for further studies. Feasibility and design studies were carried cut
for both projects, and in 1983 construction of the Gezende project was begun.
The feasibility study for the Kayraktepe project was prepared between 1980 and
1982 by the Japanese engineering consulting firm ELECTRIC POWER DEVELOPMENT
COMPANY (EPDC), a competent consultant acceptable to the Bank. The final
design work, entrusted to the same consultant, was completed in January 1983.
The design of this Project has been reviewed by Bank staff assisted by
consultant specialists in the design of rock-fill dams and in engineering
geology. As a result of this review, certain details of the design were
improved to enhance the dam's safety, and the Bank has determined that the
design of the dam is technically sound. (A technical assessment of the
Project appears in Annex 4.3.)
4.07     The status of project preparation can be summarized as follows:
Implementing Organization
Kayraktepe: DSI would inmplement the Project (para. 3.02) by
means of a site organization reporting to its Adana Regional
Office (Region VI). This arrangement is presently employed
successfully by DSI in all its major works and particularly in
the construction of the Gezende dam near Kayraktepe. Details
about the organizational set-up for project implementation are
given in para. 4.15.
Hydro Ranking Study: The MENR would manage this study. The
organizational arrangements for this work are given in para.
4.16.
Project Design. Detailed design of the Project and technical
specifications for all works and supplies are available.
Studies, Consultants, Technical Assistance. The terms of reference
for the hydro ranking study are under preparation by a consultant
hired by the MIENR (para. 4.16). Consultants for this study would be
hired following Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
For Kayraktepe, DSI has decided to continue with the services of EPDC
for construction supervision (para. 4.15) consistent with Bank
Guidelines. A draft contract is presently under discussion, and will
also cover the technical assistance to improve DSI's project cost
accounting and evaluation of the data processing equipment which DSI
will procure under the project (paras. 4.04 and 4.05).



- 20 -
Project Costs. The project cost estimates have -ecently been updated
as explained in para. 4.08 below.
Procurement Arrangements. Contract packages have been defined (para.
4.13) as well as the procurement method for each contract package
(para. 4.18 and Annex 4.7). DSI is preparing the advertisement for
prequalification in connection with the civil works contract and the
General Procurement Notice. DSI is also preparing the instruction to
bidders and the general conditions of contract for the civil works
contract.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement. The acquisition of land for
hydropower projects in Turkey is done in accordance with the General
Expropriation Law. The actual procedure applied by DSI is explained
in para. 4.24. During negotiations, the Borrower confirmed that the
sites required for the construction of the project facilities are
owned by the Government, that all necessary formalities concerning
these sites would be completed not later than July 31, 1986, and that
acquisition of the sites to be inundated by the reservoir would be
completed not later than June 30, 1992.
The resettlement of the population in the reservoir area will be
handled by the Resettlement Department of MAFRA. Details concerning
the resettlement aspects of the Project are given in para. 4.25.
Financing Plan. The financing plan for the Project includes an "A"
Bank Loan and a "B" Loan which will cover all foreign costs and
substantial portion of the local costs. Several banks have expressed
a serious interest in a "B" loan syndication, and formal invitations
to submit "B" loan proposals have been issued to them. Details of
the financing plan are given in para. 4.09 and Annex 4.6.
Project Cost
4.08     A summary of the project cost is shown in Table 4.1 below.  A
breakdown of project cost by nature and purpose of expenditures appears in
Annexes 4.4 and 4.5.



- 21 -
Table 4.1
Summary of Project Costb'
Foreign
(In Equiv. TL Million) (In Equiv. US$ Million) as Z of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total    Total
KAYRAKTEPE HYDRO PROJECT
Road Relocation                 5691     632    6323    10.6    1.2   11.8         10
Const. Camp Facilities          1459        -    1459      2.7      -    2.7        -
Civil Works                    61977   51855  113832   115.9   96.9  212.8         46
Hydraulic Equipment-'
(gates & penstocks)          1695    9629   11324       3.2   18.0   21.2        85
Electromech. Equipment
(turbines, generators &
switchgear)                  4105   28943   33048        7.7   54.1   61.8       88
Engineering & Admin.           13910    3210   17120    26.0    6.0   32.0         19
Land Acq. & Resettlement       18482       -   18482    34.5        -   34.5        -
Subtotal                 107319   94269  201588   200.6  176.2  376.8          47
TECHNICAl. ASS JTSTANCE
Inventory & Rar'.ng of
Hydro Resources                535    1070    1605       1.0    2.0    3.0       67
T.A. in Proj. Cost Acctg.         54     214      268      0.1    0.4    0.5       80
DATA PROCESSING
Hdwe. & Software for DSI's
Data Proc. Facilities           54     749      803     0.1    1.4    1.5        93
Base Cost (at 7/85 prices)  107962   9J302  204264   201.8  180.0  381.8           47
Physical Contingencies          9051    7176   16227    16.9   13.4   30.3         44
Price Contingencies           215522  191943  407465    69.1   51.1  130.2         47
Total Project Costk      332535  295421  627956   287.8  254.5  542.3          47
Interest During Const.'
- Bank-financed                  -   83809   83809         -   72.2   72.2      100
- Other                          -  118284  118284         -  101.9  101.9      100
Total Financing Req'd.  332535  497514  830049   287.8  428.   716.4           __
a/  Site installation of gates and penstocks would be done by the Civil Works
Contractor.
b/ The project cost is exclusive of import taxes and duties as DSI is exempt,
and of Value Added Tax which, although payable on the project, is
subsequently recovered by the Government.
c/ Net project interest, excluding interest due on the "B" Loan between
disbursement by the lenders and utilization for the project.



- 22 -
This project cost is based on the cost estimate prepared initially by EPDC in
October 1981, updated in December 1985 to reflect July 1985 prices for foreign
and local supplies and labor. Quantities of work computed by the consultants
have been reviewed by tne Bank and found generally to be of the correct order
of magnitude. Design adjustments recommended by the Bank (para. 4.06) have
been quantified and included in the civil works cost. Engineering and
Administration expenses represent 8.5% on the direct construction cost of the
Project, which is in line with DSI's experience. Overall physical
contingencies have been provided for in the project cost at the rate of 10l
for civil works, road relocation, and construction camp facilities, and 5% on
hydraulic and electromechanical equipment, in addition to generous allowances
included in the base cost for items such as drilling and grouting where
prediction of quantities is inherently difficult. The overall physical
contingencies provided for in the project cost are considered sufficient to
cover eventual differences in quantities or unit prices. Price contingencies
have been computed assuming an implementation period of 7-1/2 years (para.
4.12) and with specific annual increases in domestic and international prices,
as follows:
1985   1986   1987   1988-1989   1990-1994
(__-t p.a.)
Local Inflation (Z)              43.2   30      25     20           18
International Inflation (X)      -0.5    7.0    7.0    7.5 (88)    7.6 (90)
7.7 (89)    4.5 (91-94)
Project Financing Plan
4.09     The Turkish authorities have decided to use the Kayraktepe Project as
a test case for a "B" Loan to finance part of the foreign and local currency
needs of the Project. An "A" Loan of US$200 million and the Bank's share of a
"B" Loan of US$350 million would cover the foreign cost of the civil works
contract, of the hydraulic equipme.at subcontract, of the engineering servilces,
and of the technical assistance. The remainder of the "B" Loan would finance
the foreign cost of the road relocation contract, the electromechanical
equipment and a substantial part of the local currency needs of the Project.
The financing plan is shown in detail in Annex 4.6 and can be summarized as
follows:



- 23 -
Table 4.2
Financintg Plan
(In Equivalent US$ Million)
Local Costs   Foreixn Costs   Total Costs
Proposed IBRD Loans
"A" Loan                                                        200.0
"B" Loan                          -              50. OA          50.0
Other "B" Loan Participants       223.3            76.7           300.0
Government                         64.5           l0l.9"          166.4
Total                           A.7&8           428.6           716.4
a! Including US$55 million for interest during construction.
bI Including US$17.2 million for interest during construction.
c/ Balance of interest during construction on "A" and "B" Loans.
4.10     The above financing plan covers interest during construction
estimated at approximately US$64 million for the "A" Loan and US$110 million
for the "B" Loan (excluding interest due on the "B" Loan between disbursement
by the lenders and utilization for the project). Because of the heavy cash
flow needs for the financing of the power sector investment program in the)
coming years, and because of the resource constraints which TEK and DSI are
expected to face in that period, the Bank would finance US$55 million (out of
a total of US$64 million) of the interest during construction on the "A" Loan
and US$17.2 million (out of a total of US$21.2 million) of the interest during
construction on its share of the "B" Loan (see Annex 4.6 for further details
of project costs covered by IBRD loans).
Lending Arrangements
4.11     Disbursement of the Bank loan f minds would be handled directly by DSI
while all other matters related to the loan including repayment, would be
under the responsibility of the Government's Treasury Office.
Project Implementation
4.12     The construction of the Kayraktepe Hydropower Project would require
7-1/2 years from the beginning of the diversion tunnel excavation to startup
of the second 200 MW generating unit. This construction period is somewhat



- 24 -
longer--by about 1-1/2 years--than is normally encountered in hydropower dam
construction due to the relatively high volumes of excavation (about 10
million Mi) and of rock and earth fills (about 17 million m3).  The
Project construction schedule is shown in Annex 4.8 (See also para. 4.21).
This construction schedule is reasonable and has been worked out using
normally achievable rates of construction for the various tasks required.
Assuming startup of construction in the fall of 1986, reservoir impounding
could begin in early 1993. With average river inflow, power generation could
start in late 1993.
4.13     It is the intention of DSI to implement the Project through four main
contracts, and one subsidiary contract, as follows:
(a)  Civil Works:  covering all necessary civil works construction, plus
switchgear structure and powerhouse crane, and the installation of
hydraulic gates for the spillway and bottom outlet, the penstocks,
the intake gates and trash racks. The switchgear structure and
powerhouse crane would be supplied directly by the civil works
contractor. It is pruposed that the supply of the hydraulic gates
for the spillway and bottom outlet, the penstocks, and the intake
gates and trash racks, would be done under a subsidiary contract
(Hydraulic Equipment Contract) performed by a nominated
subcontractor. The procurement process for both contracts (the main
Civil Works Contract and the subsidiary Contract) would be done in
parallel in such a way as to permit adequate arrangements between the
main contractor and the nominated subcontractor;
(b)  Electromechanical Equipment:  comprising the supply, transport and
installation of hydraulic turbines, penstock buttert]y valves,
generators, powerhouse auxiliaries, stepup transformers, switchgear
apparatus, and power station auxiliary plant;
(c)  Construction Camp Facilities;  comprising necessary housing for the
construction supervision pers:nnel, with associated services
including roads, po.ear and water; and
(d)  Road Relocation:  involving the construction of a new section of
about 30 km of the Silifke to Konya road.
A table summarizing the contract packages contemplated for the implementation
of the Project is shown in Annex 4.7. Technical specifications and design
drawings are available. Instructions to Bidders, General Conditions of
Contract and Bid Forms will be prepared by DSI and submitted to the Bank for
approval well ahead of the start of the bidding process.
4.14     The relocation of the road section between Silifke and Konya affected
by the construction of the Kayraktepe dam and by its reservoir would be
undertaken by the General Directorate for State Highways (TCK). TCK is an
experienced and competent government agency with a good record of project
implementation.



- 25 -
4.15     The construction supervision of the hydropower dam and related
structures, as well as the inspection of equipment manufacture, will be done
by EPDC on behalf of DSI supported by DSI's own field personnel. This type of
arrangement, employed by DSI throughout its main construction works (e.g., the
Karakaya Hydropower Dam, partially financed by Loan 1844-TU), is satisfactory
to the Bank. In addition, DSI will, by June 30, 1986, appoint an
international Board of Experts to review the design and construction of the
project during regular visits to the construction site. This board will
consist of internationally known experts in the fields of rock mechanics,
engineering geology, design and construction of rock fill dams, hydraulic
turbines and hydraulic gates, and electromechanical equipment. The board will
advise DSI in the event of unforeseen problems arising during project
construction. Employment of engineering consultants and maintenance of the
Board of Experts during the entire construction period will be a covenant of
the loan.
4.16     The MENR will be responsible for implementing the hydroelectric
resources ranking study. All activities will be monitored by a Steering
Committee under the chairmanship of an appointee of MENR, and comprising
representatives of other agencies concerned, such as EIE, DSI, TEK, Iller
Bank, and MAFRA. A coordinator of the study, appointed by MENR, will act as
the chief executive officer. The coordinator will be a Turkish engineer with
ample experience in the fields of hydroelectricity and applied hydraulics. An
internationally known expert in the field of hydroelectric resources planning
will advise the steering committee. This advisor is currently preparing
detailed terms of reference for the study after a complete review of the
information available on the different river basins. A consulting engineering
firm will carry out the study. This firm will be selected following the
Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants. EIE will provide the technical
backup on the Turkish side to the work of this consulting engineering firm.
Arrangements for Inspection of the Dam
4.17     DSI conducts regular inspections of all its dams to ensure their
safety. In this task it has developed procedures which reflect in large
measure the US Bureau of Reclamation practices. DSI's Operation and
Maintenance Department has the responsibility for the inspection and the
maintenance of dams constructed by DSI. Annual inspections are conducted by
the DSI regional division in whose territory the dam is located and every
three years a major inspection is conducted directly by the Ankara office of
the Operation and Maintenance Department. (The design of the dam prepared by
EPDC includes appropriate instrumentation for monitoring the dam after
construction.) During negotiations, agreement was reached on arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank, for inspection and maintenance of the completed dam.
Procurement
4.18     The procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.3 below.  All
procurement of civil works and equipment financed by the Bank would be in



- 26 -
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans.
Procurement of technical assistance services would be done following the
Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants in Bank-Financed Projects.
Table 4.3
Summary of Procurement Plans
(In Equivalent USS Million)
Procurement Method      Total
ICB      LCB    Other   Cost
Road Relocation                                       -      17.1      -      17.1
Construction Camp Facilities                          -       3.3      -       3.3
Civil Works                                       309.0         -      -    309.0
(140.7)       -       -   (140.7)
Hydraulic Equipment (gates, penstocks, etc.)       29.3         -      -      29.3
(24.9)       -       -    (24.9)
Electromechanical Equipment (turbines,
generators, switchgear, etc.)                       -         -   85.7      85.7
Engineering Services & Administration                 -         -   42.2     42.2
=        -   (8.0)    (8.0)
Land Acquisition and Resettlement                     -         -   50.1      50.1
Inventory and Ranking of Hydro Resources              -         -    3.5       3.5
-        -   (2.3)    (2.3)
Tech. Asst. in Proj. Cost Acctg.                      -         -    0.5       0.5
(0.4)    (0.4)
Hdwe. & Software for DSI's Data Proc. Fac.            -         -    1.6       1.6
(1.5)    (1.5)
Total                                         338.3      20.4  183.6    542.3
(165.6)          (12.2)  (177.8)
NOTE:    Figures in brackets are the amounts to be financed by the Bank.
Disbursement and Special Account
4.19     The disbursement of the proceeds of the loan would be made against:
(a) 43X of the expenditures for the civil works contract (corresponding to a
share of the foreign exchange portion-see Annex 4.6); (b) 100% of the foreign
cost of consultants for engineering services and administration, for ranking
of hydropower resources, and for technical assistance in project cost
accounting; (c) 100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expenditures for
data processing equipment and software; and (d) interest and other finance
charges on the loan during construction. The closing date for the Loan would
be December 31, 1994, one year after the estimated physical completion of the
Project, to allow for payment of retention monies.



- 27 -
4.20     A revolving fund will be established for the Loan.  This Special
Account, at the Central Bank, will have an authorized allocation of US$10
million, which is approximately equivalent to four months iverage expenditures
of Bank loan funds.
4.21     The estimated disbursement profile for the proposed loan is shown in
Annex 4.9 (in percentage form). This profile takes into consideration the
construction period for the proposed Project. Annex 4.10 gives the
disbursement schedule for the Loan.
Retroactive Financing and Advanced Contracting
4.22     An amount equivalent to US$500,000 would be required for retroactive
payment of work undertaken by EPDC in revising some aspects of the project
design as recommended by the Bank and in assisting DSI during the bidding
process for the civil works and the hydraulic equipment contracts.
Environmental Impact of the Project
4.23     At the request of DSI, Cukurova University has carried out an
investigation of the possible ecological impact of the proposed project. Its
report has been reviewed by the Bank. The Project is not expected to have an
adverse ervironmental impact; to the contrary, the overall effect of the
reservoir on the environment is expected to be positive. The report also
states that there are possibly three sites with archaeological significance in
the area to be flooded. These sites are to be examined in detail and
excavation may be made as appropriate.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement
4.24     The surface area affected by the Kayraktepe reservoir covers 13,300
ha.  Sixty percent of this sur6ace is government-owned and 40% privately
owned. in the privately owned land, there are six villages which would be
totally submerged by the reservoir waters and nine villages that would be only
partially submerged. Altogether about 6,000 people would have to resettle as
a result of the Project. It is expected that fair agreements on
indemnification will be reached with the present property owners. The aim of
this indemnification is to provide the former owners with at least the same
economic situation they had prior to flooding of their properties. The
acquisition of land for hydropower projects in Turkey is done in accordance
with the stipulations of the General Expropriation Law. This Law gives DSI
the right to expropriate reservoir lands after permission is obtained from the
MENR. Under the Law, a committee composed of representatives of local people,
land experts and members of the administration inspects and evaluates the
property of each affected owner, then prepares a land report. Unit land
prices, for each of the various classes of land, are determined according to
the principle of land capability classification.-' If the owner and DSI
1/ Turkey employs a system based on the American Land Capability
Classification.



- 28 -
agree upon the value, the owner signs over the property and collects the money
due to him from DSI. If there is disagreement, it becomes a matter for
settlement by the courts. During negotiations, the Borrower confirmed that
the acquisition of the sites required for the construction of the project
facilities will be completed not later than July 31, 1986 and that of the
sites to be inundated by the reservoir not later than June 30, 1992.
4.25     The Resettlement Department of MAFRA is responsible for the
resettlement of those people who wish to be relocated and has established a
comprehensive resettlement methodology for resolving problems arising due to
dam constructions. In view of the delicate and sensitive nature of human
population resettlement, various institutions involved in resettlement
operations are obliged by a Prime Minister's order to assist MAFRA in finding
appropriate solutions to resettlement problems. In connection with the
Karakaya hydropower project (financed partially by Loan 1844-TU), no
significant difficulties have been experienced in the resettlement of about
17,000 people. EIE has prepared a comprehensive inventory of the properties
which will be submerged by the present Project. DSI is initiating action on
their valuation to make compensation payments. The Government plans to
provide those who wish to be relocated with land and accommodation and support
services to enable them to rebuild their livelihood. During negotiations the
Government agreed to submit to the Bank by December 31, 1986, a comprehensive
plan of resettlement actions and timetable for their implementation,
satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank will continue to monitor closely all
further developments in connection with the human resettlement with the
assistance of its specialized services.
Project Risks
4.26     Although subsurface geological investigations for the Kayraktepe dam
are comprehensive there is still the risk that geological difficulties might
appear unexpectedly and cause delays in the construction and incLease in
costs. However, this risk is manageable by providing expert geological
supervision during foundations excavation and foundations grouting. The
Project consultants at site would provide the required expert supervision.
Furthermore, in the project cost (para. 4.08) ample contingencies provisions
have been included for those construction tasks where it is difficult to
predict the quantities of work accurately.



- 29 -
V. FINANCIAI. ASPECTS
A. ACCOUNTS. FINANCIAL REPORTING AND AUDrT
DSI
5.01     DSt uses "appropriation accounting", a budgetary type of accounting
that identifies and details appropriation of funds by projects. Expenses
incurred during the construction period are charged against the appropriation,
with the balance reflecting the funds remaining during the construction
period. This accounting system is similar to the accounting system used by
the US Bureau of Reclamation. Separate accounts for the Kayraktepe project
are maintained for budgetary control purposes and will facilitate transfer of
assets on completion to TEK. Since DSI is a government department rather than
a state enterprise, it does not prepare financial statements. The proposed
loan agreement confirms the Borrower's obligation to (a) maintain or cause to
be maintained adequate accounting records to reflect, in accordance with sound
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures concerning
the Kayraktepe Project; (b) have the project accounts for each fiscal year
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (which, as in the case
of other DSI projects, would include Inspectors of the Treasury); and (c)
furnish certified copies of the report of the independent auditors to the Bank
within nine months after the end of each fiscal year.
5.02     For the purposes of the annual review of power subsector cash
generation discussed in para. 5.07 below, the oroposed loan agreement also
reconfirms the Borrower's obligation to maintain or cause to be maintained
adequate records of the total capital expenditures for power projects incurred
by DSI and to furnish to the Bank by October 31 of each fiscal year a summary
of the capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, in respect
of such fiscal year and the next followng fiscal year.
TEK
5.03     TEK has a comprehensive utility accounting system.  As with other
public enterprises, TEK's financial statements follow the Uniform Chart of
Accoui:ts, and are audited by the High Control Board connected with the Prime
Ministry. However, there are shortcomings with both the scope and the timing
of the present audit reports. The auditors rarely comment on the reliability
of the presentation of the accounts. The audit reports for 1981, 1982 and
1983 were received more than a year after the close of the fiscal year, and
the audit report for 1984 has not yet been received. A three-year technical
assistance program (1985-1987) to improve TEK's financial reporting and
customer accounting is being implemented under Loan 2322-TU with the help of
consultants (Southern Electric International (SEI) and Mage, their Turkish
partner), who are giving priority to helping TEK improve the timeliness and
accuracy of the financial statements. Furthermore, an upgrading of TEK's
computer center, presently being studied, should improve TEK's ability to
prepare and correct the annual financial reports. A gradual schedule of
improvement, with the 1985 and 1986 audit reports being expected within 10 and



- 30 -
8 months, respectively, after the end of the given fiscal year, and within 5
months for 1987 and afterwards has been agreed under the TEK Transmission IV
Project (Loan 2586-TU).
B. POWER SUBSECTOR FINANCES - RECENT TRENDS
General Remarks
5.04     The power subsector has in recent years received large allocations of
investment funds from the national budget. In 1983 and 1984, TEK received 23%
and 35%, respectively, of total government investments in public enterprises.
Furthermore, due to cash shortages, TEK also has from time to time deferred
reimbursement of amounts due to the Government, such as for installments on
TEK's foreign debts paid by the Central Bank, witaout formally rescheduling
them, the equivalent cf receiving additional transfers from the Government as
interest-free loans.- The priorities of the present Government include
reducing public expenditures for the power subsector by pricing electricity
closer to economic cost, increasing the self-financing level of the subsector,
and increasing private investment in the stibsector. The financial analysis
which follows assumes that this government commitment will be sustained during
projec'. implementation. However, financial constraints will continue to shape
the level and timing of electric power investments.
Electricity Pricing
5.05     Wholesale Tariffs.  Over the three-year period 1982-1984, wholesale
tariffs increased by about 13% in real terms. As shown in Table 5.1 (details
in Annexes 5.1 and 5.2), wholesale tariffs were not adjusted sufficiently to
keep up with inflation in 1982 and 1983, and consequently lost 2% and 18% of
their real value in those two years, respectively. Then in 1984, tariffs
increased by 41% in real terms during the year, more than making up for the
ground lost in the two previous years. Although the wholesale price index
increased by over 50% in 1984, the Government increased tariffs even faster.
In the first quarLer of 1985, bulk tariffs went up a further 47% in nominal
terms.zz
1/ In the years 1982-1984, it is estimated that TEK paid only about one half
of foreign debt installments due, the remainder being postponed to the
following year. The amount of foreign debt service payments deferred by
TEK (including principal and interest) is estimated at US$161 million,
US$232 million and US$74 million in 1982, 1983 and 1984, respectively. In
1984, the Government converted about US$115 million (TL 40 billion
equivalent) of these arrears to equity.
2/ The relationship between tariffs and the economic cost of electricity
supply (LRMC) is discussed in para. 2.19. Bulk tariffs were estimated at
65%-70% of LRMC in January 1985, increasing to about 85%-90% of LRMC by
April 1985.



- 31 -
Table 5.1
Trends in Wholesale Electricity Tariffs
1982     1983      1984
Average Tariff (TL/kWh) - Jan. 01           5.70     6.99      8.05
- Dec. 31         6.99     8.05    17.15
Nominal Change During Year                   23%      15%      113X
Inflation                                   25%       41%       51%
Real Incr. (Decr.) in Tariffs
During Year                               (2)%    (18)Z       41Z
5.06     Retail Tariffs.  During TEK's takeover of urban electricity
distribution from the municipalities in 1983, retail tariffs were standardized
for all regions of Turkey. Annex 5.3 shows changes in retail tariffs by
customer group effective over 1983-1985. During the eighteen months following
June 1983, retail tariffs increased by a range of 14% to 251 in real terms,
depending on the customer tyFe. Under Loan 2322-TU, TEK and the Government
undertook to reflect fully in retail tariffs all increases in wholesale
tariffs, including fuel cost adjustments, starting in 1984.  In 1984, when the
average wholesale tariff increased by TL 9.10/kWh, the single-term retail
tariff for small industries increased by TL 11.85/kWh during the same period.
Other retail customer groups experienced larger tariff increases. Therefore,
it appears that increases in wholesale tariffs, as measured in absolute terms
MTL/kWh), were at least fully passed through to the retail level in 1984.
Internal Cash Generation
5.07     With the objective of increasing power subsector self-financing, the
Bank and the Government have agreed on targets for the share of public
investments in electric power to be covered by internally generated funds
(Loans 1844, 2586 and 2602-TU) and on an annual review with the Bank of the
measures needed to achieve these cash generation targets. According to the
agreed formula, TEK's internal cash generation is adjusted for TEK and DSI
electric power-related debt service, and then compared to the subsector
investment program, including TEK and DSI power investments. Changes in
working capital are included in the definition of internal cash generation
(i.e., a decrease in working capital is regarded as a source of funds, an
increase in working capital as a use of funds).
5.08     Table 5.2 compares the covenanted level of internal cash generation
(column a) for the 1981-1984 period, with actual performance, both excluding
changes in working capital (column b) and including these changes (column c).
Because of abnormal fluctuations in TEK'S working capital resulting from an
undue build-up of accounts payable (see para. 5.10), the level of internal
cash generation excluding changes in working capital is considered more
meaningful for that period. While estimated internal cash generation financed



- 32 -
between 10% and 20% of power investments in 1981 and 19S2, it did not quite
reach covenanted levels. Then in 1983, when tariffs dropped in real terms,
TEK's internal cash generation was actually negative. Preliminary results for
1984 indicate a rebound, with TEK's internal cash generation at about 16% of
power investment, compared to the covenanted level of 21%. In view of the
large real increase in tariffs achieved in 1984, however, the recent
performance under the covenant can be regarded as acceptable.
Table 5.2
TEK Internal Cash Generation (1981-1985)
(As 2 of Power Subsector Investment)
Year               Covenant               Actual
/a             /b           /c
1981                  20            13            20
1982                  22            19            21
1983                  12             0            21
1984"c~               21            16           (31)
1985                  32             -             -
1986 onwards          35
/a  Targets under Loan 1844-TU, as amended in May 1983.
/b  Excluding changes in working capital.
/c  Including changes in working capital.
/d  Estimated.
5.09     TEK's working capital position is shown in Table 5.3:
Table 5.3
TEK - Working Capital Position (As of December 31, 1982-1984)
1982        1983        1984
------Actual-----    Estimated
Working Capital (Deficit) (in TL billion)          ( 39)        (106)        87
Current Ratio                                       0.8          0.7        1.5
Days Receivables                                    272          267        186



- 33 -
5.10     Given TEK's new authority to collect sales revenues directly from
retail customers (instead of the municipalities retaining these revenues), the
previous deterioration in TEK's working capital situation should normally have
been reversed in 1983.   However, because tariffs did not keep up with
inflation in 1983, serious cash flow problems continued in 1983. Foregoing
payments to its fuel suppliers in 1983 (including other public enterprises
such as TPAO, for fuel oil and TKI, for lignite), TEK used its available funds
for the payment of capital expenditures, rather than operating expenses, in
order to avoid delays in the implementation of its investment program. AL a
result of this, combined with past accumulated arrears, TEK's accounts payable
had increased to TL 283 billion by the end of 1983, more than that year's
gross operating revenues. To put a halt to rising indebtedness among public
enterprises, the Government took action in 1984 to consolidate these debts.
TL 230 billion in TEK's net overdue accounts payable were consolidated and
converted into equity. The Government made it clear, however, that it did not
expect to repeat the role of a financial clearing house for debts between
public enterprises. Furthermore, TEK was charged penalties of almost TL 50
billion in 1983 for late payments to its fuel suppliers. Since mid-1984, TEK
has generally been paying its fuel suppliers on schedule.
5.11     Although TEK is reducing its accounts receivable, they are still very
high, amounting to 267 and 186 days of sales at the end of 1983 and 1984,
respectively. The estimated composition of TEK's accounts receivable by
customer group as of 12/31/84 was as follows: 35% from muni-ipalities, 28%
from private industry and households, 22% from gcvernment agencies, 8% from
public agencies, and the remaining 7% from other customers. The largest
category, municipalities, is composed of arrears due TEK for bulk purchases
prior to the transfer of distribution from the municipalities to TEK. The law
which transferred distribution assets and their operation from the
municipalities to TEK made provision for outstanding arrears to be offset
against net asset value. TEK's end-1984 accounts receivable would be
equivalent to about 117 days of sales if adjusted to exclude municipal
arrears. The decision by the Ministry of Finance on how the municipalities'
accounts would be repaid or consolidated is still pending, but is scheduled to
be finalized in 1986 following the determination of the value of the
distribution assets transferred to TEK.
5.12     It was agreed under Loan 2322-TU that TEK would maintain a current
ratio (defined as current assets divided by current liabilities) of at least
0.7 at the end of 1983, increasing to 1.0 at the end of 1984 and future
years. As indicated on Table 5.3, TEK has complied with this covenant (based
on unaudited results). However, delays in collecting payments from some
customers will need to be reduced. As part of a Financial Action Plan agreed
in connection with the Fourth TEK Transmission Project, a counts receivable
from all customers except municipalities are to be reduced to 90 days by
December 31, 1988, in stages as follows:  1986 - 110 days; 1987 - 100 days.



- 34 -
Private Investment in the Power Subsector
5.13     The likely level of private investment in power in Turkey is still
uncertain, other than for CEAS and KEPEZ (para. 1.05), who plan to undertake
investments of about US$0.5 billion in the next five years. The Government
has begun discussions with local parties which could serve as "entrusted"
companies operating as integrated utilities in designated regions, and with
for-ign companies which could invest in thermal power plants (e.g., nuclear,
imported coal) on a concession basis without requiring TEK or the Government
to take on additional foreign debt (para. 2.16). An expanded role for private
investments in power could be advantageous, depending on the cost and the
sales tariff agreed to for purchases from private suppliers.
5.14     As another part of its new resource mobilization policy, the
Government's has recently created the Public Participation Fund (PPF). The
PPF, established by Law 2983 (1984), can issue revenue-sharing certificates
associated with existing infrastructure facilities. In 1985, it issued
revenue-sharing certificates associated with the Keban and Oymapinar
hydropower plants. Holders of the certificates earn no guaranteed return,
because the interest payments which they receive are a function of TEK's sales
tariffs and of the actual generation at the hydropower stations. TEK retains
ownership of the power stations but must transfer to the PPF a base rate (CL
Ll.3/kWh--60Z of the bulk tariff--for electricity generated by the Keban
station), with this rate increasing as bulk tariffs increase. Since under the
present policy, TEK does not pay anything to the Government when completed
hydroelectric facilities are transferred to TEK from DSI as equity, TEK's
payments to the PPF can be regarded as a form of reimbursement for these hydro
facilities. The PPF is directing the funds at priority hydroelectric projects
under construction (e.g., Karakaya, Kapulkaya, Menzelet, Catalan, Gezende,
Adigiizel) to assure a steady flow of Turkish Lira to contractors and, where
possible, to advance the completion dates.
C. POWER SUBSECTOR FINANCES - FUTURE PROSPECTS
Financing of Medium-Term Power Investment Program
5.15     In order to meet expected national electricity demand after 1990, a
considerable growth in investments in electricity generation, transmission and
distribution would be required in the next five years. At the same time, TEK
and DSI are expected to face substantial resource constraints in this period.
The power subsector will thus have to rely increasingly on internally
generated funds rather than Government equity contributions. As previously
mentioned (Qara. 5.05), the Government has begun to implement a series of
electricity rate increases, which will help to improve internal cash
generation. Furthermore, legal changes have increased the potential for
private investment in power generating capacity (para. 5.17).



- 35 -
Future Financial Position of TEK
5.16     Financial statements and projections for TEK for the years 1981-1990,
prepared as part of the appraisal of the Power System Operations Assistance
Project presented to the Board in July 1985 (Loan 2602-TU), are reproduced in
Annexes 5.4 to 5.7 The expected completion of major generating facilities
(e.g., Elbistan, Karakaya) will enable TEK to increase its level of
electricity sales at a faster rate at the end of the 1980s, and to start to
close the gap of unmet energy demand. TEK's liquidity situation is expected
to improve, and it is estimated that TEK will meet the covenanted internal
cash generation target of 352 for 1986 and subsequent years mentioned in para.
5.08 (Table 5.2). However, the base financial forecast would be materially
affected by periods with higher than expected inflation, during which tariffs
could easily slip in real terms, while the cost of completing ongoing
investment projects would increase and the Turkish Lira cost of foreign debt
service obligations would also rise more than expected. As mentioned in para.
2.24, there will be continued monitoring of the situation through an annual
joint review by TEK, the Government and the Bank of the power subsector
investment program and the related financing plans.
Potential for Private Investment in Power
5.17     A large gap remains between the total nationaL requirements for
investments in electric power and the level of investment which can reasonably
be financed and carried out by TEK and DSI. This gap would need to be
financed and implemented through other sources which could include existing
private utilities such as CEAS and KEPEZ, as well as other local and foreign
investors (paras. 1.12 and 5.13).



- 36 -
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Least Cost Analysis
6.01     An important component of the Government's ene-gy strategy is the
economic and least cost development of indigenous resources (para. 1.11),
especially hydropower. The role and importance of hydro resource development
has been reviewed ;n a Bank sector study. The absence of a detailed
hydropower project ranking and inventory makes it difficult to estimate
exactly how the proposed project compares in cost with all other major
potential hydro sites in Turkey. However, in connection with project
preparation, the Bank reviewed a number of available studies on hydropower
projects and concluded that the Kayraktepe Project fell within the range oE
economically viable hydropower projects in Turkey. The proposed project would
also provide benefits in the form of flood protection on the Silifke plain.
The study proposed in the Project (para. 4.03) to undertake a systematic
review of all hydropower projects within Turkey and rank them on a comparable
cost basis will be of major assistance to DSI and the Government in planning
the optimal development of the hydropower subsector.
Return on Investment Program
6.02     Since the Project forms an integral part of TEK/DSI's 1985-1995
expansion program, the economic rate of return on the whole timeslice of TEK's
investment program for 1985-1995 (covering the construction period of the
proposed project) was calculated (Annex 6.1).
6.03     The measurable costs comprise:  (a) the capital cost of the estimated
expansion program for 1985-1995 (generation, transmission and distribution);
(b) operating costs; and (c) the fuel cost of incremental thermal generation
excluding fuel savings. No fuel escalation was assumed since increases in the
price of fuels are covered by the fuel adjustment clause incorporated in the
tariff structure. Detailed assumptions as well as results of the ana].ysis are
presented in Annex 6.1.
6.04     Measurable benefits were limited to the incremental revenue
attributable to the program computed on the basis of: (a) TEK's projected
sales to industrial customers supplied directly at the high-voltage level and
to low-voltage consumers supplied through TEK's distribution enterprises; (b)
projected tariffs at the high- and low-voltage levels; and (c) net fuel
savings resulting from investment in improved efficiency in the thermal plants
not included in the costs of meeting incremental output. Since the tariffs
used in the calculation were estimated as a proxy for consumers' willingness
to pay, all taxes were included (Annex 6.1). Given the large unmet demand
(para. 2.03), the willingness to pay for electricity is likely to be higher
than the current average tariff; but it cannot be quantified.



- 37 -
6.05     Under the above assumptions, the return on the program is estimated
at L1.3%, marginally below the estimated opportunity cost of capital of 12X;
reflecting the fact that tariffs are just slightly below the economic cost of
supply as measured bv the Long Run Marginal Cost. However, it understates the
real economic return since the measurement of benefits Lnderestimates the
willingness to pay for electricity.



- 38 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     During negotiations, agreements were reached with the Borrower under
which DSI or the Government will:
(a) employ engineering consultants, whose qualificatinns, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shaLl be satisfactory to the Bank,
to assist DSI in the preparation of plans, specifications and bidding
documents, and in construction supervision and the initial operation
of the facilities to be constructed under the Project (para. 4.15);
(b) establish and maintain during project implementation a Board of
Experts with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank, to advise DSI on technical matters concerning the design
and construction of the Project. This Board will include
internationally known experts in the field of engineering geology,
rock mechanics, design and construction of rock-fill dams, and hydro
and electromechanical equipment (para. 4.15);
(c)  operate a Special Account (rpvolving fund) for Bank loan
disbursements (para. 4.20);
Cd) cause the dam constructed under the Project to be periodically
inspected in accordance with sound engineering practice in order to
determine whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of such
structure, or in the qu 'ity and adequacy of maintenance or methods
of operation of the same, which might endanger its safety. To this
end, DSI agreed during negotiations on arrangements, satisfactory to
the Bank, for inspection and maintenance of the dam (para. 4.17);
(e) complete acquisition of the land and rights required for the
construction of the facilities included in the Project not later than
July 31, 1986 and of the sites to be inundated by the reservoir not
later than June 30, 1992 (paras. 4.07 and 4.24);
(f) make appropriate arrangements to relocate the residents of the land
required for the Project (including, without limitations, the land to
be inundated by the maximum level of the Kayraktepe reservoir), and
furnish to the Bank by December 31, 1986 a comprehensive plan of
action and timetable satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.25);
(g) maintain adequate accounting records to reflect, in accordance with
sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and
expenditures concerning the Kayraktepe Project; have the project
accounts for each fiscal year audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; and furnish certified copies of the report of
the independent auditors to the Bank within nine months after the end
of each fiscal year (para. 5.01);



- 39 -
(h) maintain adequate records of the total capital expenditures for power
projects incurred by DSI, and furnish to the Bank by October 31 of
each fiscal year a summary of the capital expenditures incurred, or
expected to be incurred, in respect of such fiscal year and the next
following fiscal year (para. 5.02); and
(i) establish not later than December 31, 1986, and thereafter maintain a
steering committee, with membership and terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank, under the chairmanship of an appointee of MENR, and
comprising representatives of other agencies concerned, for the
purpose of monitoring and assisting the coordination of the
hydroelectric resources rane.ing study to be carried out as part of
the project (para. 4.16).
7.02     Subject to the above, the proposed Project would be suitable for a
Bank loan of US$200 million for a term of 17 years at the standard variable
interest rate, including a four-year grace period, to the Borrower, the
Republic of Turkey.
January 1986
(Doc. 2721P)



- 40 -
AME 1. 1
TURKEY
KAYRAKTEPE HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Turkey - Energy Balances
(Million tons of oil equivalent, MTOE)
1978           1980           1982           1983 /a
MTOE     Z    MTOE      X    MTOE       X    MTOE      Z
Consumption
Petroleum                   18.0   51.6   16.2   46.3   17.1   45.2   17.2   44.8
Lignite                      4.0   11.4    4.6   13.1    5.2   13.8    6.0   15.6
Hard coal                    2.8    8.0    2.7    7.7    3.0    7.9    3.2    8.3
Asphaltite                   0.1    0.3    0.2    0.6    0.3    0.8    0.3    0.8
Hydroelectric                2.3    6.6    2.8    8.0    3.5    9.3    2.8    7.3
Imported electricity         0.2    0.6    0.3    0.9    0.1    0.3    0.2    0.5
Wood                         4.6   13.2    4.8   13.7    5.0   13.2    5.1   13.3
Wastes                       2.9    8.3    3.4    9.7    3.6    9.5    3.6    9.4
Total Consumption           34.9  100.0   35.0  100.0   38.0  100.0   38.4  100.0
Domestic Production
Petroleum                    2.9    8.3    2.4    6.9    2.5    6.6    2.3    5.9
Lignite                      4.6   13.2    4.3   12.3    5.3   14.0    6.1   15.9
Hard coal                    2.6    7.4    2.2    6.3    2.5    6.6    2.2    5.7
Asphaltite                   0.1    0.3    0.2    0.5    0.4    1.1    0.3    0.8
Hydroelectric                2.3    6.6    2.8    8.0    3.5    9.3    2.8    7.3
Wood                         2.3    6.6    2.7    7.7    2.3    6.1    3.5    6.5
Wastes                       2.9    8.3    3.4    9.7    3.6    9.5    3.6    9.4
Subtotal                    17.7   50.7   18.0    51.4   20.1   53.2   19.8   54.5
Illicit deforestation        2.3    6.6    2.1    6.0    2.7    7.1    2.6    6.8
Stock changes, net          (0.7)  (2.0)   0.1    0.3   (0.2)  (0.5   (0.2)  (0.5)
Total domestic supply       19.3   55.3   20.2   57.7   22.6   59.8   22.2   57.8
Imports
Petroleum                   15.2   43.5   14.3   40.9   16.0   42.3   16.2   42.2
Hard coal                    0.3    0.9    0.5    1.4    0.6    1.6    0.9    2.3
Electricity                  0.2    0.6    0.3    0.9    0.2    0.5    0.2    0.5
Total imports               15.7   45.0   15.1   43.2   16.8   44.4   17.3   45.0
Petroleum exports           (0.1)  (0.3)  (0.3)  (0.9)  (1.6)  (4.2)  (1.1)  (2.8)
Total supply                34.9  100.0   35.0  100.0   37.8  100.0   38.4  100.0
Source:  Energy Sector Strategy Paper, IBRD Report No. 4973-TU, September 1984.
Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources.
/a 1983 was a year of poor hydrological conditions.
(2732P)



'A
-8'44
I^ W~~~~~S
L .0                                   ---    -   -   -  -   --    -   -  -   -   -   --   -   -   -  -   -   --    -  -   -   -   -  --    -   -   -  -   -
N                            s1      S~~~~I        A? NNghIRi     i     6R! NMRURNRRRRRR8UNf h                l9,p !IggNHg RI              i ''
Ml|                 ueQMMmmnERGo            n Ma582 R MmmRnu3Numbi'9 '                            ' ''   'S,   ,   ,*I ff    9
60~~~~~~~~~2m
.   ReeRRRRImNm!uE AEER RARRmRn9RAASmma'a"l    5l,,,l
i    ~         S 1                                                          
i-    iw             n'                                                                                                          s-     n
0               M
-4                   z~~~~~~~4
1:3       - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
I- ---------------   -                                                                     --  ------------
S~~~~~~~~V    |f                 134t   rio   nn   ri  4..rltn..lllillfl.fl            flU,llif CUtSll 6' - 



- 42 -                                       ANNEX 2.1
Page 2 of 5
_ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ 4                 __V                          - - -
g |                                                            B22eiEm2W88 8888888f 1R2 
_ ~ ~     ~    ~_ __V                                        .     ... JR
_~~~~~~-                                                                      ;
ffi4p |i 9 GCDI2 __a a _88 II I I II  I I II I I I ltlii  I   IB   c
_                                                          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
a_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
(4                                                            Ie~~~~~~ --   ---   ---;
s~~H 1              13                                                       R  
S X            8 18 6l l olS II 6 o 11  1Eo1  illIlmail  11116111111 o e  e b tSt
-------                  __    _;e_ __ F_>r;__ve-                                -- -       --
(.4
p                                                               ---@.~~~~-C-C.4-
2 ~ ~~0 ;!E                                     Is lp4 Itty :go   .gl ti ! oZ  s 8 Fs  3 iR     Is Fs ys  3      H 
3! ~     ~~~       ~~~ assZosem8  o-x88o8o 88288 88oo-88888o  
e: 4 e   *e  *                          * 
-  J                       - -.5   .541455- 1  S US S
iRI         .^en .  -<""e<Z
_      0.                                       5i 
ili~~ 3                                     ,                                             i
I                                                               I!3|<           I3t  bt    >  3t  BE BB;    SZ    
    0 ^  1 1   a . .a |  3 03t.         ;03fl8XZXajsR           



U.'
Ln~~~~~~~~~~L
A*a                                    ar                   N
U n        E~~I                                                          '      '''''f9SS""2^^^^R^say"
X        f |I     E      RN4mlaffb8SimEnNh!'t6'N6NI3mmmr' llg43' liiiw mai  a   
6|        RaaggffRa!'RIIfA!"R t$N95GRI!m9595           ! ''l'''.'  '' '     at 
Li~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
-- -- --  --
Vt                        Li  ~ ~~~ -- - - - --  - -  - --  - -  -  -- -  - -  --  - -  -   -  -- -
RI      if     llallaalaallllaaalalllaagglaglgl*llaal                       1   U 
Li                                                                     Li2S5^23.ggj8SSn"nos^J$s^G0R||_|WI | @ | 8 | @ | | |  I  I
'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
ii  h"   na  Hil                                                                     V                         



ANNEX 2.1
-44 -                                                Page 4 of 5
- ----------------------------------------_______--------
k an
is_               __               __   _                   __                        ^      $     s   MS
n      ---                    --            -lw   t  0
_   .   ;;; _         ;;                                                 fi    S       _  n R~~~A 1A  A
i1  g    iaaaRRaa^gasaga. . . .                                         aal . . .  ...: 
-- - - -- - - -- - - -- ----                         -      -      --- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
- ClCl 4n ~~~~~~~~ ~~Cl  ~~e Cl                   D ,   a
--  - - - - - -                  - - - - -               - - - - - -                  - - - a,-, ,  -Ro
.                                                                    ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



- 45 -
ANNEX 2.1
Page 5 of 5
SUMMARY TABLE
A.    am                     1984    1985    195    1961    191       1989    1990      1991    1992    1993    199%   1995
datiz i    ;atim             26,683  25,872  26,M   26,177  26,177  26,177  26,177  26,177  26,177  26,177  26,177  26,17
yw                       12,259  12,070  12,975  12,975  1,5  1975  12,975  12,975  12,975  12,975  12,975  12,975
n  d i                   14,424  13,802  13,802  13.202  13.202  13,202  13,22  13.27  13,202  13.202  13,202  13,202
sttin  ln  1             1,632   1,380   1.38D   1,320   1,2D   1,32D   1,32D   1.18    1,188   1.0    1,056    g9m
Not VW;     hoatimi        25,051  24,492  25,39?  24857  26,85   2485   24,89   24.989  24,989  25,12   25,12   25,253
NM Gaim                          0   2,35    7,728  17,018  26,369  30,965  33,474  37,32   42.04   47,797  55,011  58,11
1y&o                          0       -   1,004   4,318   8,478  10,999   2003  12,M9  12,978  16,518  23,27   26,38
7boel                         0   2,350   6,724  12,700  17,891  20,026  21,471  25,298  29,067  31,279  31,740  31.740
staei  uuullom. I/           0      235    62    1,270   1,789   2,003   2,147   2,27   2,616   2,502   2,539   2,
Yet Now CatiO                  0   2,115   7,056  15,748  24,58   28,962  31,327  35,05D  39,429  45,295  52,472  55,899
NM TL      CD                  0  26,607  32,452  40.605  49,f47  53,819  56,18  60,039  64,418  70,416  77,53   3,152
ThqOzta                   2,638   2,52 250   2,50    250    2,0    2,500   2,50    2,5             2,SD0   2,500 2,,50
Nwduam                      266     15D       -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -
Tns  IW AIUHA             27.95   29, 77  34,952  43,105  51,937  56,319  58,684  62,539  66,918  72,916  8D,033  89,652
fTrm. lose (25)           1,578   1,464   1,748   2,155   2,591   2,816   2,934   3,127   3.346   3,646   4,005   4,183
1UFAL Enf smuPr            26,377  27,83  33,2D5  40,95D  49,340  53,5D3  55,750  59,412  63,572  69,270  76,0S8  79,469
B. mm
-Dirzct RV Sle. (O52J             13,906  16,602  2D,475  24,670  26,752  27,875  29,706  31,786  34,635  38,044  39,735
-Diatiutiaomter. (Cm1)            13,906  16,602  20,475  24,670  26,752  27,875  29,706  31,786  34,635  38,044  39,735
I hMA IoD 21                      2.086   2.490   3071   3.700   4,013   4,181   41L59   4,45D   4,3D3   4,966   5,166
Net di;azztm  mles              1n,821  14,112  17,406  20,969  22,739  23,694  25,547  27.336  30,132  33,098  34,569
la" Sam                            25,727  30.714  37.E78  45,639  49,490  51,568  55,253  59,122  64,767  71,142  74,306
1/ =E fEm 1985 tO 1990. 3 in 1991 & 19, 8 m 1999 & 1996, ad 71 in 1995.
21 152 fm 1965 t 1990, 14S in 1991 & 1992, 131 fcm 1993 onud.
(2732P)



- 46 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 1 of 3
TURKEY
KAYRAKTEPE HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Tariff Study
1.       Introduction.  Following the transfer to TEK of responsibility for
urban electricity distribution in November 1982, TEK hired Electricite de
France (EdF) to assist in the resolution of a number of organizational and
operational problems emerging from its new distribution activities. As part
of its duties EdF was to: (i) provide guidance to the management of TEK on
policy and procedures; (ii) prepare detailed technical and economic
feasibility studies on the rehabilitation and extension of urban networks; and
(iii) provide a diagnosis of retail pricing. Because the latter activity
involved a general review of TEK's electricity tariffs, it was subsequently
agreed, in consultation with the Bank, that EdF would undertake a
comprehensive tariff study for TEK'' with a view to recommending a revised
structure of tariffs based upon estimated long-run marginal costs (LRMC).
2.       EdF's study is being carried out in three phases:  phase I, completed
in May 1983, provided a preliminary diagnostic of electricity pricing in
Turkey and recommended a number of changes to the tariff structure; phase II,
completed in October 1984, consisted in the determination of LRMC-based bulk
supply tariffs for TEK; phase III, to be completed by end-1985, will cover
electricity tariffs at the medium- and low-voltage levels and check the
adequacy of the resulting LRMC-based tariffs with the financial requirements
of the sector. Preliminary results on the bulk supply tariffs are presented
below.
3.       Calculation of Long-Run Marginal Costs.  The objective of the tariff
study is to determine the level and structure of electricity tariffs that
would ensure that the tariffs reflect the true economic cost of electricity
supply, and generate enough revenues to finance the investment program for the
power subsector. Therefore, the study of Turkey's bulk supply tariffs is
being undertaken in two steps: (i) calculation of long-run marginal costs at
the high-voltage level; and (ii) determination of the average revenue. As of
March 1985 step (i) had been completed.
4.       The study, which was undertaken with Bank guidance, assumes that,
given a projected growth of electricity demand of 102 p.a. until 1990 and the
timely implementation of TEK's and DSI's investment programs, 1988 would
represent the first year when TEK's generating capacity would be able to meet
1/ The tariff study was therefore deleted from the terms of reference for the
load research, demand management and conservation study financed by the
Bank untder TEK III (Loan 2322-TU).



- 47 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 2 of 3
demand; it is therefore selected as the reference year for the calculation of
the marginal cost of electricity supply at the bulk level. EdF used its
in-house computer model (GRETA)1' to simulate the operation of TEK's
electricity system in 1988 and determine the load duration curve. The
simulation indicates that consumption would be clearly divided into three
time-of-day periods: 27% at peak, 47% in the off-peak day hours, and 26% at
night.-!/ Furthermore, the simulation provides the basis for determining the
different components of the marginal cost:1'
(a) Marginal Capacity Costs
(i) Generation Capacity: The simulation exercise indicates that an
additional increase in electricity demand would be met by a
lignite-fired steam plant. Yenikoy 1-2 (2x210 MW) was talken as
being representative, with a construction cost of TL 370,000/kW.
The marginal capacity cost, expressed as annuitized investment
costs of the addition (TL/kW/year) less fuel savings
(TL 2.48/kWh), is therefore calculated as follows:
Investment cost      -         TL 370,000/kW
Discount rate         -        12%
Equipment life        -        25 years
0&M cost              -        3.5% of investment cost
Capacity factor       -        72%
Annual charge         -        TL 65,000/kW
(ii)  Transmission Capacity:  the marginal cost of transmission is
calculated on the basis of TEK's investment program for
1984-1988. The present value of transmission investments is
TL 420,745 million and the present value of the system load
increments from one year to the next is 3,356.15/MW. The long-run
average incremental cost of transmission is TL 131,635/kW,
equivalent to an annual charge of TL 16,785/kW (12% discount rate
and 25-year life). O&M costs were estimated at 2% of investment
cost. The marginal capacity cost of transmission is estimated at
TL 19,420/kW/year.
1/ With minor modifications to reflect conditions specific to Turkey.
2/ This is based on the assumption that no significant changes in the
patterns of electricity demand would have occurred between now and 1988.
3/ All costs quoted in the EdF study refer to January 1984 and have since
been updated to reflect January 1985 economic conditions, with an exchange
rate of TL 450/US$.



- 48 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 3 of 3
In summary, and including system losses incurred at each level of
supply,1I the marginal capacity costs are as follows:
-_ TL/kW/Year
Generation            Transmission
Capacity Cost          Capacity Cost
At generation                      65,000                    -
At high voltage                    66,950                 20,003
(b)  Energy Costs:  The results of the simulation directly provide the
marginal energy costs for the three periods of the day; namely TL
14.27/kWh for peak hours, and TL 13.73/kWh for off-peak hours (both
day and night).
5.       Proposed Tariffs.  Because electricity demand in Turkey varies
significantly during the day, EdF has recommended to introduce a time-of-day
feature in the electricity tariffs, at least at the high-voltage level where
metering equipment could more easily be installed.-'  The study also
considers that capacity addition necessary to meet incremental demand during
both peak and off-peak hours is more a function of the average consumption by
all customers than a function of each customer's share in the system peak.
The marginal capacity cost of generation is thus translated fully into an
energy charge to be applied to both peak and off-peak day hours according to
the relative levels of maximum demand in both periods. This results into a
marginal cost of generation of TL 19.18/kWh at peak and TL 15.37/kWh during
off-peak day hours.
6.       Assuming a coincidence factor of 0.95 for high-voltage consumers, the
study proposes the following HV tariffs:
Demand charge (TL/kWJyear):               19,002  (= 20,003 x 0.95)
Energy charge (TL/kWh): - peak            33.45   (= 19.18 + 14.27)
- off-peak day   29.10   (= 15.37 + '3.73)
- night          13.73
This is equivalent to an average tariff of TL 29.80/kWh for an average load
factor of 62% (5,400 hours).
7.       Since the consultants have established the data for Turkey on the
GRETA model the Bank has proposed chat extensive sensitivity analysis be
conducted to assess the results against changes in timing of plant, demand
forecast and costs of capital and fuel supply.
1/ 3X at the generation level and 3X at the transmission level.
2/ This recomnendation was actually adopted by TEK in May 1984 when
time-of-day tariffs were introduced for high-voltage consumers with a
subscribed demand greater than 1 MW. However, it has not been implemented
yet due to metering constraints.
(2732P)



tAKEY
KAYRAKTIEPE HYROPOWR PROJECT
Gnwwl Ohctkom ofd Skle Hydmudc WoaS
(Daelv Su luled Gunn Mudu*jgu DS)
OrgonIz    Chat
f~~~~ |                     1         w I  M R          I                            1                           0
| dA&   l   l   d   |   |   d   |          |    d
-   ~~~~~~~                   F~~~~~~m     Y~~~~~~~cw od.
| o"  |    Dd  |    Dd  |  D   0;  |Odzo| | D           | I   dI  I I       I       Ir              e I  I     I       I            IdI1  
|*,wd d   |   |  c      | |        |  | hnd   |*W |  |Wd |rs & ~   |.d | | | t_  |d  |w ~   |ww o                     0                      l
Cu. <      & H3oIlw..c 'W2.cd                       ff e.wyE   1 a                      ; A     k..uM
A ~~~~~                                                ~           E CwII9a Eoe.                     i1  [ia     __   ~ mm~.p.gie



TURKEY
KAYRAKTEPE HYDROPOWER PROJECT
TURKISH ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY (TEK)
Organization Chart
-.                                                I
(2732P)..w~.    .W                                    I   C~ ..  .  I
*f -                                                         1- X*.                             t  --t
q~~~~ - -            ~     -! - e                                   a . . .
-'-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -4
* .-'    . -    Wf1-<                                      j  
'-w~~-        -t-I-  -1--.         '-',  ---."
, -I P~~'. I**. a 
|('wonl I 1I
(2732P)



TURKEY
KAYRAKTEPE HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Geral Plan
40i'    *    '                 w       \               :       , 
/~ ~ ~ ~~
.4M
0.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
/  ~ ~ ~ ~   .:~~~~z~~~>-;     .                    W~~~~~~~~ddBhN*-~~~~~27492
MO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



-52-                                                    AN~~~~NEX 4.2
. ~ ~  ~                                                        I 
S ~     ~       ' .I .   .    . 



- 53 -
ANNEX 4.3
Page 1 of 6
TURKEY
KAYRAKTEPE HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Technical Assessment of the Project
Background
1.       The studies on a hydropower dam in the lower reaches of the G5ksu
River were started in 1969 by EIE. These studies went on intermittently up to
pre-feasibility stage. The final dam site has been selected by carrying out
extensive geological investigations during the feasibility stage and during
the design phase.
Character of the Project
2.       The Kayraktepe Project as designed by EPDC is a multipurpose dam for
flood control and power genera tion. Water releases from the reservoir will be
limited to a maximum of 800 m/sec in consideration of the capacity of the
river channel in the Silifke plain downstream of the dam. The minimum
discharge from the reservoir has been set at 20 m3/sec in order to take care
of irrigation and water supply demand in the Silifke plain and in the town of
Silifke. Water releases for these purposes will be assured by passing water
permanently through a 20-MW generating unit.
3.       The flood control feature of the Project is performed by utilizing a
160 million m3 capacity of th reservoir to regulate the one in one
hundred-year flood of 2, 287 m/sec. This flood control capacity will be
made available during the flood season lasting from the beginning of December
until the end of April.
4.       In formulating the power generation feature of the Project the
optimum height of the dam was studied by the consultants. It was determined
that the optimum scale of the Project for power developnent would require a
reservoir with a maximum water level at elevation 157.00 m above sea level
(m.a.s.l.). At that elevation the reservoir would have an effective storage
capacity usable for power generation of 2,800 million m,3 and generating
output of 420 MW (2 x 200 MW units and one 20 MW unit). The topographical
features at the selected dam site and the geological investigations performed
indicated that a dam can be constructed safely to create a reservoir with its
maximum water level at elevation 157.00 m above sea level. The dam would have
a total height over its foundation of 199 m with the crest at elevation 164.00
m.a.s.l., thus the foundation would be placed at an elevation 35 m below sea
level. The general characteristics of the Project are tabulated at the end of
this annex.



- 54 -
ANNEX 4.3
Page 2 of 6
Project Geology
5.       Reservoir Watertijitness.  The basement rocks in the reservoir area
are Paleozoic, metamorphic, intensely folded and slightly metamorphosed. In
spite of high limestone content of its conglomerate (the same rock forms the
abutments at the dam site), the basement complex as a whole is expected to
form an effective barrier against leakage. It rises to high elevations in the
divide south and southwest of the reservoir, which separates the reservoir
from the sea. In part of this divide, basement complex is capped by Karstic
limestones of younger formations, Miocene and Jurassic. In these areas, the
hilltops are marked by karst topography, with lines of springs at the base of
the outcrop of the younger rocks. These springs typically range in elevation
from 250 to more than 600 m.a.s.l. They mark the bottom of the younger
limestones and the top of groundwater, which is therefore well above reservoir
in this divide. In all other parts of the reservoir the geologic and
topographic maps indicate that karstic formations are entirely contained
within the groundwater divides. This means that groundwater is flowing toward
the river rather than away from it. Altogether the geological studies and
interpretations concluded that leakage from the reservoir is highly unlikely,
given suitable grouting adjacent to the dam, and this appears to be a
reasonable conclusion.
6.       Slope Stability Around the Reservoir.  There are many landslides,
both ancient and recent, on the slopes which will border the reservoir. Many
of these are located below limestone outcrops where springs soak the downhill
soils, decreasing their stability particularly in times of heavy rainfall. It
is possible that filling the reservoir may result in further movements of some
of the existing slides or creation of new ones. Since some of the existing
slides contain many millions of cubic meters of materials, serious
consideration has been given by the Bank to the possible consequences on the
dam safety of this situation, particularly the danger of overtopping by a
slide-generated wave. Examination of the reservoir slopes has found no large
unstable rock areas which might give rise to rapid slides causing large
waves. Large slow-moving earth slides are possible and it is proposed to
instrument and monitor such areas during and after filling of the reservoir to
determine whether movement is occurring and to allow appropriate steps to be
taken to protect the affected population. Calculations show that the proposed
dam freeboard of 7 m provides ample room for containing anticipated
slide-generated waves.
7.       Dam Site.  The general geological conditions of the foundations at
the dam site, as revealed by site investigations, include deep alluvium
(primarily sand and gravel) in the flood plain portion of the valley,
underlain by complex faulted rock of poor physical properties. The abutments
are mostly sound well-cemented Paleozoic conglomerate but there are signs of
solution features, particularly in the right abutment. This is not too
surprising since the conglomerate in the dam area is composed primarily of
limestone pebbles in a cement which also contains some carbonate.



- 55 -
ANNEX 4.3
Page 3 of 6
8.       Soils in the riverbed (elev. 25.5 m.a.s.l.) and flood plain were
fully penetrated by at least 16 drill holes, which gave a median depth to
bedrock of 45 m, a mean of 42.3 m, and a maximum of 57 m. This means that the
rock surface beneath the alluvium is locally as much as 31 m below sea level.
The valley was eroded in the less resistant faulted rock at a time when the
sea level was much lower with respect to the land surface than it is today,
presumably due the Pleistocene glaciation of the Northern Hemisphere.
Subsequent melting of continental glaciers, and the rising sea level which
resulted, decreased the gradient of the river surface causing deposition of
these deep alluvial s:rata. The Kayraktepe dam would be a central-core
rockfill structure. According to the design drawings, it is proposed to
excavate the superficial layer of silty soil which is present in most places
on top of the gravelly alluvium, and to excavate a broad core trench to
bedrock beneath the impervious core. The dam shells would be founded on the
alluvium, which would act as a filter. The alluvium beneath the shells has
sufficient shear strength for such a design. With respect to the possibility
of radical loss of shear strength of this alluvium under intense seismic
vibration (liquefaction), thL  s.ot likely to be a danger in this relatively
inactive seismic area (para. 14).
9.       The left abutment is steep and consist of sound well-cemented
limestone conglomerate up to above crest level of the dam. The drill holes
and adits show rock of excellent physical properties with tight fractures.
Test results in drill holes in this abutment show that permeabilities are
generally low, between 0 and 15 Lugeon units (in conventional permeability
units a value of 15 Lugeons is equivalent to about 104cm/s). The rock
appears to be groutable by conventional methods and average grout take is not
expected to be large. The right abutment is somewhat different. Although the
rock above river level is also well-cemented limestone conglomerate with good
physical properties, the adits, drill holes and topography all suggest that
the rock mass as a whole is not as sound as that on the left abutment. This
may be due to the proximity of fault zones which cross the abutment diagonally
both upstream and downstream of the dam axis. The testing of the drill holes
gives results consistent with these observations. Permeability varies over a
wide range in a short distance. Some of the erratic results of these
permeability tests in the right abutment may be due to accidental factors,
such as the presence of local open fractures permitting leakage around the
packer. Nevertheless, the overall impression is that this abutment has, on
the average, a high potential for leakage unless thoroughly treated. The
erratic variation from hole to hole is typical of results obtained in
limestone where joints and bedding surfaces have been affected by solution.
However, when recognized in advance and suitably grouted, such conditions do
not prevent the successful completion and operation of the Project.
Foundation Treatment
10.      The treatment of the foundation of the dam can be considered under
three distinct headings: surface, subsurface and drainage. Each of these
subjects is discussed below.



- 56 -
ANNEX 4.3
Page 4 of 6
11.      Surface Treatment.  The original design did not include any surface
treatment of the foundation for the core of the dam except removal of
surface-weathered rocks. Given the nature of the rock formation of the
foundation this appeared insufficient as there are some very fractured arid
sheared zones in the riverbed, whose stability to piping when subject to high
seepage gradients caused by the water impoundment is questionable. The
problem is especially sensitive at the junction of the grout curtain and the
core and at the rock zone immediately underneath. Following recommendations
by the Bank, final treatment of the dam foundation will now include a cast
concrete slab on the weak rocks in the core foundation area, together with
dental concrete, blanket and curtain grouting, etc., as required by the
conditions exposed during excavation. The remaining portion of the dam
foundation on the conglomerate formation at the banks will mostly require
isolated excavation and treatment of joints or holes. In addition, it is
expected that about 20Z of this foundation will require a layer of shotcrete.
12.      Subsurface Treatment.  The original design specified a single-row
grout curtain under the core of the dam.  However, experience with dams on
similar foundations--limestone conglomerate and minor faults--indicates that
the single-row curtain would be insufficient to control leakage through the
foundation. Following discussions, DSI has agreed to change from a single-row
to a more intensive grout curtain, especially for the key right abutment and
valley bottom areas. The vertical extent of the grout curtain should be
determined on the basis of conditions encountered in the deeper portions of
the holes, but it appears, on the basis of the exploratory drilling, that the
depths proposed in the existing design documents are probably right. In
addition, the foundation instrumentation will include a wide distribution of
piezometers in the foundation of the abutments, downstream of the abutments,
and along all potential seepage paths bypassing the abutments. Piezometers
should be distributed in such a way that they will yield information on the
phreatic gradient as well as its absolute value.
13.      Drainage.  Even relying on the grout curtain as the main element for
sealing seepage, some water could filter through and emerge downstream of the
dam. Although the existing design drawings show a number of drainage holes,
the Bank has recommended to add a more efficient and comprehensive system of
foundation drainage or pressure relief in the abutments, located so as to
intercept seeps or leaks far enough downstream of the grout curtain that the
pressure gradient will not be so steep as to cause excessive erosion of
fracture fillings. In addition, on the left abutment the core of the dam is
mounted in part on tCe top of a hill or mound normal to the river, with the
upstream slope of the hill directly exposed to reservoir pressure, so that the
core cannot help seal the ground surface. DSI has agreed to provide
additional drain holes along the galleries in both abutments and to lay a
drainage gallery some 100 m long through the left abutment at elevation 50 m
to help collect any water that might seep from the reservoir and find its way
through or around the grout curtain due to the rock configuration at that
point.



- 57 -
ANNEX 4.3
Page 5 of 6
Se ismi city
14.      The central part of Turkey's Mediterranean coastal area, where the
Project is located, is seismically relatively inactive although surrounded by
regions of much more frequent and energetic seismic activity. Information
included in the feasibility and the design studies indicate that this region
is the least affected by earthquakes in Turkey. However, the Kayraktepe dam
is a very critical structure, 199-m high above the foundation, containing a
reservoir of 4800 million u3 upstream of a well populated and developed
area, which justifies a very conservative approach for seismic design.
According to recent studies reported by EIE, the region could be subjected to
earthquakes producing a maximum ground acceleration between 0.26 and 0.28 g,
with recurrence intervals of 10,000 years. The dam as designed by EPDC is
inherently resistant to earthquake tremors because it will be build on
relatively firm foundations, with shells of well compacted, competent,
free-draining rockfill, and with ample factors of safety for stability under
static conditions. Hence, the dam should support, without serious
deformations, an earthquake of the estimated maximum magnitude. In any case,
qualitative measures should be introduced in the dam design which are known to
improve its stability in case of earthquake. One of the most significant
defensive measures is to increase the normal freeboard, as the upper part of
the fill could be subject to significant deformation, slumping and sudden
settlements durimng earthquakes. According to normal practice in other parts
of the world subject to earthquakes, the Bank recommended that the proposed
normal freeboard of 4 m (from the maximum water level at 157 m.a.s.l. to the
crest elevation at 161 m.a.s.l.) should be increased to not less than 7 m,
with crest elevation 164 m.a.s.l. This is in addition to the 2 m camber
provided for compensating fill settlement. The additional freeboard
constitutes also an important safety feature for avoiding overtopping by
landsl4de-generated waves (para. 6) and provides additional storage volume for
extreme flood conditions (para. 18). DI6 has confirmed that the final dam
design will include this increased crest level (164 m.a.s.l.).
Hydrology
15.      The drainage area at the dam site is about 10,000 km2 and average
annual inflow is 3,500 million m3 (average riverflow: 110 m3/sec) on She
basis of a 34-year record, While the maximum recorded flood is 1,680 m'/sec
or about 16 times the average riverflow. The design flood for the spillway
has been estimated at 9,875 m3/sec, on the basis of the Prcbable Maximum
Precipitation (FMP). The flood control discharge based on the 100 years
frequency flood has been computed by EPDC at 2,290 m3/sec. The sediment
load has been evaluated at 2.63 million m3 per year (263 m3/km2/year),
which is considered fairly low as compared with other river basins in TIrkey.
At this rate of sediment inflow the dead-storage (2,000 million m3) would
last 760 years. ND significant diversion for irrigation is required upstream
of the dpm site.



- 58 -
ANNEX 4.3
Page 6 of 6
16.      Available meteorological and hydrological data for the Goksu River
basin indicate that the major floods are caused by the combined effect of
rainfall and snowmelt. Thus in evaluating the maximum probable flood
hydrograph, snowmelt runr-off is also taken into account.
17.      The spillway design flood was computed by EPDC by physical
maximization of the heavy storm in January/February 1975 and adding a
maximized snow melt. Maximization was applied to the 12-hour persistent dew
point during the storm C8.3 degree Celsius), considering that it could be as
high as 14.3 degree Celsius, which is the maximum observed 12-hour persistent
dew point in January and February, when the historical storm took place.
Although significant snow melt usually takes place in March to April, EPDC
considered that both events, the storm and the exceptional snow melt, would
coincide. The resulting peak flood was established as 9,875 m3/sec.
18.      The technique applied by EPDC is acceptable for estimating an extreme
flood of exceptionally low level of probability (one in 10,000 years or
less). A storm of similar rain-producing mechanism occurring in April,
however, could possibly produce a maximum flood peak of 12,600 m3/sec. The
proposed dam design provides ample safety for floods of this magnitude. No
redesign of the spillway for this condition is considered necessary.
19.      The diversion works and the upstream cofferdam have been designed by
EPDC for the flood with 100-year recurrence interval, which has a peak of
2,300 m3/sec. The probability of a discharge exceeding such flood during
the three-year working period after diversion would be 0.03, which is
acceptable. Flood routing computations show that for the 100-year flood the
water level in the cofferdam reservoir would reach elevation 61 m.a.s.l.
Following discussions, DSI agreed that the crest of the cofferdam would be
raised to elevation 65 m.a.s.l., which provides an adequate freeboard for the
100-year flood without having to modify the diversion tunnel diameters.
(2732P)



- 59 -                       ANNEX 4.3
Attachment
Page 1 of 3
TURKEY
KAYRAKTEPE HYDROPOCER PROJECT
General Characteristics of the Project
(Before design adjustments proposed by Bank's Consultants, see para. 4.06 and
Annex 4.3, paras 14 and 18.)
Unit                  Description
Location                                              On the G'oksu River
Catchment Area                       km                      10,069
Annual Average Inflow               106m3                    3,546
Design Flood                        m /8                     9,875
Flood Control Discharge             m3/s                      2,287
Flood Control Release               m /s                        800
Reservoir
High Water Level                  m                         157.00
Normal Water Level                m                         155.80
Reservoir Area                  km2                         133
Total Storage Capacity          10 m                     4,800
Effective Storage Capacity
Flood Control               106m3                       160
6 3                     ,0
Power Generation            10 m                     2,800
Available Depth
Flood Control                m                            1.20
Power Generation              m                         28.30
Diversion Tunnel
Number of Lines                 Line                          2
Diameter                          m                          9.0
Length                            m           No. 1        807.70
No. 2        857.30
Dam
Type                                                     Rockfill
Crest Elevation                   m                         164
Height                            m                         199
Crest Length                      m                        580
Volume                          106m3                        17.0



- 60 -                            ANNEX 4.3
Attachment
Page 2 of 3
Unit                   Description
Spillway
Type                                            Gated Chute Spillway
Capacity                         m 3s                         9,875
Number of Gates                                                   6
Outlet Works
Diameter                           m                              2.40
Valve                              -            Jet Flow Valve
Intake
Type                               -            Inclined Type
Control Gate                       -            Caterpillar Gate
Headrace Tunnel
Number of Lines                  Line                             2
Diameter                           m                              8.40
Length                             m                            170.80
Penstock
Type                               -            Embedded Steel Lining
Number of Lines                                                   2
Length                             m            No. 1           243.67
No. 2          275.09
Diameter                           m                         7.20   5.20
Powerhouse
Type                                                   Outdoor type
Power Generation Facilities                             Main Unit    Sub Unit
Number of Unit                   Unit                      2            1
Unit Capacity                     kW                200,000       20,000
Turbine
Number of Unit               Unit                  2            1
Type                           -            Vertical Shaft Francis Turbine
Normal Effective Head          m                     116         116
3
Maximum Discharge            m /s                    198          20
Output                        kW                206,000       21,000
Rated Speed                   rpm                   150          429



- 61 -                           ANNEX 4.3
Attachment
Page 3 of 3
Unit                  Description
Main Unit        Sub Unit
Generator
Number of Unit                  Unit                    2              1
Type                              -           Vertical Shaft Synchronous
Generator
Rated Output                     kVA              224,000         24,400
Rated Voltage                   kV                      14.4           6.3
Rated Power Factor               X             90 (lagging)   90 (lagging)
Rated Frequency                  Hz                    50             50
Rated Speed                      rpm                   150           429
Main Transformer
Number of Unit                  Unit                    2              1
Type                              -           Single-phase   Three Phase
Outdoor Type   Outdoor Type
Rated Capacity                   kVA              224,000         24,400
Rated Voltage                   kV               14.4/380        6.3/34.5
Rated Frequency                 Hz                     50             50
Switchyard
Nominal Voltage                  kV                   380             34.5
Type of Circuit Breaker                            SF6Gas            Oil
Transmission Line
Number of Circuit               Unit                     1             1
Nominal Voltage                  kV                   380             34.5
Annual Energy Production
Firm Energy                      GWh                      639
Secondary Energy                 GWh                      352
Total Energy                     GWh                      991
(2732P)



- 62 -
ANNEX 4.4
iKAYRAK1EE HY IO  PTWr
Breakdown of Project Cost Estimates by Nature and Purpose of Enqxdiibwes
(In Equivalent USS mlhLo)
Baseline Cost            Physical
July 1985 Prices        Contingencies      Price CoantingeWes    Ibtal Project Cost
Local Fbce  Total   Loal Foreign Total  Local ForeiMp Total  Local Foreip Total
A. KAYRNKEE HYDRJRIER PRW.
Road relocation            10.6    1.2   11.8     1.0    0.1    1.1    3.8    0.4    4.2   15.4    1.7   17.1
Cast. Caip Facilities       2.7    -      2.7    0.3    -       0.3    0.3    -       0.3    3.3    -       3.3
Civil Wxks                115.9   96.9  212.8    11.6    9.7   21.3  40.8   34.1   74.9  168.3  140.7  309.0
Hydraulic Equipent          3.2   18.0  21.2    0.2    0.9    1.1    1.0    6.0    7.0    4.4   24.9   29.3
Electro-Mech. Equipmt       7.7   54.1   61.8     0.4    2.7    3.1    2.6   18.2   20.8   10.7   75.0   85.7
Subtota1             140.1  170.2  310.3    13.5   13.4   26.9  48.5   58.7  107.2  202.1  242.3  444.4
Eng'g. & Admin.            26.0    6.0   32.0     -      -      -       8.2    2.0   10.2   34.2    8.0   42.2
Lard Acquisition &
Resettlement             34.5      -   34.5     3.4    -       3.4   12.2    -      12.2   50.1    -     50.1
MM hLKAYRN           200.6  176.2  376.8    16.9   13.4   30.3  68.9  60.7  129.6  285.4  250.3  536.7
B. TNW1CAL ASSISINCE
lrvntory & Raking of
Hydro Resurces            1.0    2.0    3.0     -      -       -      0.2    0.3    0.5    1.2    2.3    3.5
T.A. inProj. C0st Akctg.   0.1    0.4    0.5      -      -      -       -      -      -      0.1    0.4    0.5
C. lTM PROCESSUC
Ibe. & Saftware for CSI's
Data Proc. Facilities     0.1    1.4    1.5     -      -       -      -      0.1    0.1    0.1    1.5    1.6
lUML P lJr (CDST             2_.8  183.0  381.8    16.9   13.4  30.3   69.1   61.1  13D.2  287.8  254.5  542.3
(2732P)



- 63 -
ANNE 4.5
AYRAMM  UYDROKI  PKJECr
BDudnm  of Pmject Ccot Eatiutes by Nabre amd Purpoe of Eqleiiueu
(In Equivalt TL millim)
Bodine Cost                Pavical
July 1985 Prices            Cmtirgeoies           Price C        mm          1i  Project Cost
Loca   Famigp  Tot        Lcal  F i         b           Total   iLac        d F [               b
A. KW3A1a   HYE      &  P1W.
Road Reloc.ticn            5,691      632   6,323      569       63      632   11,693    1,311  13,07   17,953   2,009   19,962
Caat. Cap Facilities        1,459       -    1,459     1b6        -      1b6   1,040        -    1,010   2,645        -   2,645
Civil Wxks                 61,977  51,855  113,832   6,198   5,185   11,383  127,347  107,8D4 235,151 195,522  164,844 360,366
Hydaulic Equipumt           1.695   9,629   11,324      85      481      566   3,325   19,108  22,433   5,105  29,218  34,323
Eletr nmI. Equipimt       4,105  28,943  33,048        205   1,447    1,652   8,051   57,436  65,487   12,361  87,8Z6  M0,187
Subtotal              74,927  91,059  :65,986   7,203    7,176   Y4,379  151,456  185,662 337,118 233,586  28i,897 517,483
BEz'g. & Adin.             13,910   3,210   17,120       -        -        -  25,964   6,067  32,051  39,898   9,277  49,171
Lad Acquisitior &
Resettleffit             184 82                2    l,8 I,"          18   37,975          -  37,975  58,305         -  58,30
lurA  IyC Eha        107,319  9.,269 201P588   9,051   7,176  16,227 215,415  191,729 407,144 331,785  293,174 6A,959
B. 1TIWAL ASSIPFAE
Iwetocy & bAddng of
Hydro  kssrume             535   1,070    1,605        -        -        -      107     lio      267     642   1,230    1,872
T.JL in Proj. Cot Acctg.      54      214     268        -        -       -        -        -       -       54      214     268
C. DYa PuCESSI
Hgb,e.& Softiwre for ESI's
ata Proc. Facilities        54       M9      853       -                                                          8 -  -  54  S4  54  83  857
TIoL FRmm Kr   r               107,962    9 _1M    ,264   9,051   7,176  16,227 215,522  191,943 407 ,465            295,421 627,956
(2732P)



- 64 -
ANNEK 4.6
RAYRAKMISE HYIROMDHR PRDJBCT
Detail of FinaqrKig Pl
(In Equivalent US$ Million)
Other Financing
I3lRD                  Soarces
Foreign Costs          Foreign iLo        Total
"A" Loan 'W' Loan "A"' + "BV'   Costs   Costs    Costs
Road Relocation                  -         -         -        1.7    15.4       17.1
Const. Camp Facilities           -         -         -          -      3.3      3.3
Civil Works                   132.8      7.9      140.7         -    158.3    309.0
Hydraulic Eqpt.                  -      24.9      24.9          -      4.4     29.3
Electroideh. Ecpt.               -         -         -       75.0    10.7      85.7
Erg'g. Svcs. & Adin.           8.0         -       8.0          -    34.2      42.2
Laid Acq. & Resettlement         -         -         -          -    5D.1       5D.1
Total ayrak$epe            140.8     32.8      173.6      76.7   285.4    536.7
Iwentary & Ba*iing of
Hydro Fesources              2.3         -        2.3         -      1.2      3.5
Tedh. Asst. for Project
Cost Accmiting               0.4         -       0.4          -      0.1      0.5
&Iwe. & Softare for D6I's
Da*2Pre-. Facities            1.5        -        1.5         -      0.1       1.6
Total Project Cast         145.0     32.8      177.8      76.7   287.8    542.3
Interest During Coast.        55.0      17.2      72.2      101.9       -    174.1
UrL  FINAHrWI E 'D.       20D.0      9D.0     2D0.0       178.6   287.8    716.4
"A" Loa                    200.0         -     200.0          -       -    200.0       28
"ot LT.n                       -      5D.0      5D.0       76.7   223.3    35D.0       49
Gwvernxit                      -       _           -      101.9    64b.5    166.4      23
1XAL FURING                200.0     5D.0     25D.0       178.6   27.8    716.4    100
(2732P)



- 65 -
ANNEX 4.7
TURKEY
KAYRAKTEPE HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Construction/Supply Contrsct Packages
Cost
Local     Foreign     Total
(In Equivalent US$ Million)
Road Relocation, comprising a new paved roadway
about 30-km long.                                     15.4        1.7        17.1
Construction Camp Facilities, including neces-
sary housing for construction supervision
personnel, with roads and associated services.         3.3        -           3.3
Civil Wiorks, including supply of switehgear
structure and powerhouse crane, and instal-
lation of gates and penstocks.                       168.3      140.7      309.0
Hydraulic Equipment (subsidiary contract to
the Civil Works Contract), comprises the
supply of six 13.8m x 15.5mn spillway gates,
two 2.4m diameter bottom outlet gates, two
10.6m x 8.4m inclined caterpillar intake
gates, two intake trash racks and two pen-
stocks (diameters: 7.2m and 5.2m; total
lenth;  1,150m)                                       4.4        24.9       29.3
Electro-Mechanical Equipment, comprises the
supply of two 274,000 HP vertical Francis
turbines with two 224 DIVA synchronous gener-
ators, one 27,000 HP vertical Francis turbine
with a 24.4 MVA synchronous generator, two
224 MVA, 14.4/380 kV single-phase transformer
banks, one 24.4 MVA, 6.3/34.5kV three-phase
transformer, one set of apparatus for a 380kV
outdoor switchgear, one set of apparatus for
a 34.5 kV outdoor switchgear, and associated
mechanical and electrical auxiliary plant.            10.7       75.0       85.7
(2732P)



- 66 -
KAYRWFiCEPE
Kowdadlepe Dam & P
k1sock4o_ ow                             Mia2d                                                                                311
fICA.01 IIS                                mu 1u lV   J FIMAMJ iJJA SIODNI|  FMA _                           J      _  N OJ |  I M |M  J |J 4 |O J |  N i
p .           -     _       _       _      _       _       _ OnW            7).W            --    
n  =                                       no I c       II  I            1      2711 W
._    O AalilRl                ->nG                         m ,ZW 1.  go                                                                        rl1r                T
NM 21 0em    n             105m  2_ CTcmi. Liin                                                               __         _ 21                        LIW
DauiNo  781rn SiNDUs__l                                                v3       7 Iow
N14w    1                 Rbwed E n                  -m      17K0S0.IM 0                                                                                    Ir
KIN(AdO lDM)                &sduuan(Cavon&  r_oc*)    n.3    1                                                                                                    1ODD
G.cinCua - i so. Wg..  E- .bwNowM COueS W" _sam        v      2,311 ODD
hePa F o_ akpm>            EO Wn   FM                  mJw 13 16.OOD                                                                           
Cm  E lu Cm                           ROe  M    _      1       1N 101W,
furbsoIwooolgi.        f.ko tmw Cashi               ,      12101
I  (AM m D )             rE(mmLwIm      , C  b1Rx)    M 'v   SOb401W        I
oac (AD       U i     ga pu)  6.w adi aC ,Now    )     m3       563001W
slX (l. Ala. 5             Ces.(W oIW             s    m(   |   n7oD (    a  | _3  5623W
|D1"     E                D." a SWan)  CoNes CIn - J       I1                                                                                          I
lono. SrpIu,                 I&.a                      v.1    1                 T          1111 T    T                        _ nIo
GmVaMSWan.                 CAU"  Gft MO SbLAM  *3                2.|W
oulwINN,    Wan lb=o                   co-cm"s Pug                 nh0       s.C
coab Su..0Au               goo CA-"jI aW iC             S           2
NOES(AO. *1(000)           bCIIaWn(Cav.a1.5IB          -3      80.30W
GM valm        Tuni Ktnom    lu         E|      ,~ Sn _3                        10. |    
ildc"       0 05av.                    Ccnoes SNXie                v.3      13.1W
SO-, S,m , r M   ,         Canms. 905? (wIg            m3         .5
| WOkI0          |          COO  rIKEh                 LS           2
Im'                          _u |'=                             21 OW
|~~~~~~B VIDO" _E_Il" Uw Mh                                                   9   71O |||i|              |i||ll                  irT                                         T
Tuno SoUIS                  EcoO_    | suW CM3   21 MO
CAbi Wou        Esbv*Sonl Nazi             E-uSaOn Mor  P05w          ,,,       '?.M
PsiNod.   ~ 9~CSn..I.                                              v.,      17.5)0
Co&lca C tub Basn,.   PuIoI                            LS           2
MM81 (Adh .e Naoa)         E-ofn(Ca'wfiSI  1100o)              55s
Mi.tis 8a                  CanoeS. Foun il             n                       roT 20100
I ~ IWLi   5ASo, I - 400.           Ccr1 sawa,                 v.,*      4 45
Tas1Ws  IN ~~~~~ BlsS~~~a      CoismS. SWua3m -b           m3       2750
TOMOCO     Us'n 5vb u N05b'   .        Caoms. Roomia k             ..,      20.15
______________    W*                    Go.                        LS            2
51.1011.  b51*E~~flW.SW             OsieC0.0011m'               is
OonW.n         to" oft I                   NO 1(50                     LS 
E5Clse          U --No 2                   No 2W UisLS
IauinnV         ua  (5C*5 UnJ0105                                       s           I
Saile Sanm      DL  5105.                  COm%I. 5o                   _3       II.=
2!W-



ANNEX 4.8
EY
POWER PROJEC
mt Condruction SCehule
41h        I         VA                    at                   lif                  &h
AAJ *|^JMJ|A S||ON D J FIM|APAIJ| J A SOIN|DI J.| FUMI A M J J A F ON D J FM AM J J A, F ONOD  J F Am  JA 1 1 ON
H rL_    I       _I_ _  _   I _w _ _ _ _ _  I  _ _ _                                                 m,,,  l l l, ,  0,~ h,,,,   l l l l U itNI
F  _IT   _'                                                              I             I  Hi _1l lllll II
;e ' Iller  e         1   lnililililrilL-M I 



- 67 -
ANNEX 4.9
TURKIEY
KAYRAKTEPE HVDROPOHER PROJECT
Comparison of Disbursuent Profiles
(Cumulative Percentage of Loani
Years                       1          2         3           4          5          6         7           9
Si   S2   St   52   SI   52   SI 92   Si   92   SL   92   St   92   S;   92
Semesters           0    1    2    3    4    5    b    7    8    9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16
AIL Regions IBRD - Hvdro                    0    2    7   1J   23   34   47   59   70   80   BB   93   9e  1oo
EIENR IBED - Power                          0    0    3    9   ID   29   42   54   65   75   92   19   93   99  100
Kayraktepe I4ydro                           0    1     4   10  19   30  42   54  65    75  82   89  93  96   98   99  100
(2732P)



- 68 -                             ANNEX 4.10
TURKEY
K&YRAKTEPE HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Fiscal Year/                                 Semester                Cumulative
Semester Ending                             Disbursement             Disbursement
1987
December 31, 1986                                 1.2                       1.2
June 30, 1987                                     5.8                       7.0
1988
December 31, 1987                                10.4                      17.4
June 30, 1988                                    14.8                      32.2
1989
December 31, 1988                                18.4                     48.6
June 30, 1989                                   20.6                      7 1.2
1990
December 31, 1989                               21.4                      92.6
June 30, 1990                                   20.8                      113.4
1991
December 31, 1990                                19.8                     133.2
June 30, 1991                                    15.7                    148.9
1992
December 31, 1991                                16.2                    165.1
June 30, 1992                                    12.0                     177.1
1993
December 31, 1992                                10.5                     187.6
June 30, 1993                                    9.1                     196.7
1994
December 31, 1993                                 1.9                    198.6
June 30, 1994                                     1.4                    200.0
(2732P)



- 69 -
ANNEX 5.1
TURKEY
KAYRUKTEPE HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Bulk (High Voltage) Electricity Tariffs:  1983-1985
Date Effective           06/01/83   11/01/84   01/01/85   03/01/85   04/01/85
b/         b/
1. Double-term a/
A. Power (TL/kW/Year)   5040       10,800     12,000      15,000     18,600
B. Energy (TL/kWh)       6.95       17.00      21.00      25.00       29.20
Time-of-day
P eak                         24.10      28.00      32.00       40.50
Day                           16.10      20.00      23.00      29.20
Night                         14.10      15.00      17.00       19.40
2.  Single-term a/ (TL/kWh)
Energy Customers       8.35       19.30      23.00       26.50      32.80
Villages               6.60       12.10      13.00       15.00      13.00
3. Resulting Average Bulk
Tariff (TL/kWh)          8.05       17.15      19.00      21.80       26.16
Of which: TRT Tax          --         ---         -          .80       0.95
Plus: V.A.T. (10)        ---         ---       1.90       2.18        2.62
Average Bulk Tariff
paid by consumer        8.05      17.15      20.90      23.98       28.78
a/  Excluaes Value Added Tax of 10% effective 1/1/85.
b/ Includes 3.5% charge collected by TEK for Turkish Radio and Television
(TRT).
(2732P)



- 70 -
ANNEX 5.2
TURKEY
KAYRAXTEPE HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Bulk (High Voltage) Tariffs Compared
with TEK's Average Revenue and Inflation
Average HV Tariff        Average Revenue /a           Inflation    /b
Nominal
Date      TL/kWh    Increase       TL/kWh    Increase        Increase in WPI
(%)          (X)         (%)               (%)
1982                                  7.3        48                 25
03/01       5.82         2
05/01       5.95         2
08/01       6.19         4
11/22       6.99        13
1983                                 8.9         22                 41
06/01       8.05        15
1984                                13.9         56                 51
01/01      11.55        43
02/01      12.05         4
05/01      13.55        12
08/22      14.20         5
09/24      14.65         3
11/01      17.15        17
1985 c/                            n/a          n/a                n/a
01/01      20.90        22
03/01      23.98        15
04/01      28.78        20
a/  Represents average revenue from bulk (high voltage)
sales of electricity during the year.
b/  WPI   wholesale price index
c/  Including V.A.T. of 10% effective 1/1/85,
and 3.5% Turkish Radio and Television (T1l) charge
effective 3/1/85.
(2732P)



- 71 -
AIMi 5.3
UMAX= HDROPO P:CBr
Retail (Low Volt e) Electricity Tariffs% 1983-1985
A8 QCarged by TEC's Distrlbutim Eterprises
Date Effective          06/01/83 01/01/84 05/01/84 11/01/84 01/01/85 03/018  04/01/85
C7     J W   - -c/- 
Dotle  Term
A. Power (l/kw/yr)       5,292    8,004    9,600      12,000    13,MO    16,20   20,460
= (TW/unth)         441       667       800     1,000     1,10    1,350    1,705
For cmsuption e
d level
(1LIW/mutdh)          650       900    1,1D0      1,400     1,400    1,650    2,215
B. Energr (MV/k1h)
Camerce               11.70    15.10    20.80    24.80    27.00    31.00        37.70
Iidustry              13.20    13.60    16.80    23.80    23.00    26.00        32.10
TiUe-of-Day
pek                      -         -     19.50    27.75    30.0      34.00      44.3D
y                        -         -     16.00    19.75     22.00    25.50    .32.10
Nigt                     -         -    15.00     17.75    17 M0    19.50       22.10
Single Term (TL/kVb) a/
Canmrce                 13.15     17.30    23.50    27.45    29.50    33.75       42.10
Industry                11.65    15.80    19.50    23.50    25.50    29.0O        37.70
Residents                11.90    11.90
to 16.00 bl
lUp to60   mi/th                         15.50     17.5      19.00    21.75     24.75 e/
Next 240 kW=xath                         21.50    25.50    27.50    31.75       39.90
Over 300 Wl/umth                          31.50    35.50    37.50    43.00       55.40
a/ Tariffs for largest custmmer groups only are shown for illustration.
Other tariffs apply to organizatioss, govenmental buildinge, etc.
b/ 11.90 TL/kWh for first 50 K16m/nmth.
16.00 TL/kUh for additinnsl cOswnption.
c/ Excluding Value Added Tx of 10%.
d) Includirg 3.5% dharge collected by IE and transferred to Ibrkish Radio and Televisioa.
e/ Applies to hcamieholds using up to 90 kW anth.
(2732P)



- 72 -
TURKEU ANNEX 5.4
TURKISH ELECTRICITY AUTONITY (TEK)
Statment of Income and Eipense n 1911-19ffli.I
Nillions of IL in current pricns
Actual-----          -Estd-
1981     1982      1963        19164      195        1986       1987       198        1999      1990
urn.       u2      sa gZms                urns       ZsZS       gnu        ugXZ       nosZ       ga--m
Electricity Salest6hl.i1/20,080   22,316     21,291     24,296     25,461     29,602     36,261     42,916     46,916     49,292
Average Tariff[krs/kOh)     491      731      1,098      1,692      2,692      3,556      4,566      5,668      6,593      7,359
OPERATING REVENUES
Total Electricity Sales         98,495  164,611   233,614    410,203    685,478  1,052,719  1,655,813  2,432,684  3,093,097  3,626,460
OPERATIN6 EXPENSES
Fuel
Coal                    3,859    5,626      5,770      6,770     14,46      18,806      5,647     22,909     31,805     44,954
Lignite                 9,932   12,208    25,297      42,782     75,967    124,067    195,97    285,139    371,149    434,602
Gas Oil                 9,912   14,044    28,999       9,962      8,712     11,325     14,156     16,987     19,536     21,489
Fuel Oil              21,039   33,860     48,773      64,687    130,564    169,735    212,169    254,603    292,794    322,073
Natural Gas                 0        0          0         0          0      15,015     46,457     73,991    89,803    97,683
Total Fuel Costs         44,741   65,739    108,829    124,101    229,710    339,943    474,416    653,699    904,095    920,901
Purchased Poer            5,891    12,059    29,137     37,973     55,783     60,906     68,407     75,243     90,891     84,936
Materials                 2,339   3,024       5,131      5,069      6,319      8,638     12,078     15,880     18,752     20,734
Labor I Personnel         7,003    9,899     27,477     35,831     44,665     61,057     85,373    112,253    132,551    146,563
Risc. Expens                961    2,149     15,121     15,871     19,784     27,045     37,915     49,721     58,712     54,919
Depreciation              5,635    6,233     17,304     23,384     42,860    64,003    98,722    116,546    148,897      186,363
Indirect Taun               78       79        268        312        367        422        474         522       561        589
Keban Payments                                               0    80,192    109,462    143,668    181,022    212,339   238,244
Total Operating Expenses        66,597   99,171    203,266    242,541    399,509    560,917    767,294  1,023,869  1,244,430  1,424,910
__3333   3=2-333   335S3  =22333  223=33S23    233x52    322:92ZSSS 2               325233x 22=2=
OPERATINB INCOME                31,909   65,440     30,348    167,662   295,971    491,902    988,579  1,409,817  1,949,667 2,201,750
o-operg Inco  (Expensesl         11,7321  11,521)    2,013      5,000      (1,5001    (1,725)    (1,941)    (2,135)    (2,2951    12,410)
6ROSS INCOME                    30,176   63,919    32,361    172,662    204,471    49,077    896,639  1,406,682  1,946,372  2,199,341
Income Deductionss
Total Interest Expense       15,223  38,453     59,724     37,300     42,550    105,097    176,088    300,977    413,390   538,502
lss:Interest During         4,269   16,645      12,995    27,630     25,000     58,244     96,943    165,539    227,364   296,176
Construction
Not Interst Expense         10,954   21,808     46,B29      9,670      17,550    47,654     79,240    135,440    186,025   242,326
NET IN1ME (pre-taxl             19,222   42,111    (14,469)   162,992    266,921    442,423    607,398  1,271,243  1,660,346  1,957,015
less:Income Taxes              0,582   19,181          0          0     65,197    !06,768    176,969    322,959    509,497    664,139
=- s    22  3====  z   3==-===32=3    32EEUZ223  33---533  Z                    5   m5=_--  u=S=S
NET INCOMIE (after tax)         10,640  22,930    114,469)   162,992    201,724    33S,b55    630,429    948,293  1,151,849  1,292,976
--8=      SS5- =   =_:===  ZZ===a=Z a     amz-a    Z=F=                      Z=z=XSz   SX S-- =
1/   Source:   SAR for  Power  System  Operations Assistance  Project  (Loan  2602-TU,
Report No. 5572-TU).
2/   See Note  3, Annex  5.8.
(2732P)



73 -                                   M    S.5
__
TnIut    LC3IIClY ATUTW  3183
kla.ce gait uIu1-mrn11
fill.a. of TL au currt rite
I91      39n2       I393     194         19315      393u      i37         3i9        33         1m
MliETS                             ams        .u       gu          o         urns         oso        us   *Urn    *-seam"*" 
Lagrte  Wets
Fatal tbots is t ryscs      134,101  130,244   5330,39    945,494  1,504,31   2,152,434  2,917,333  3,742,459  1,74,135  5,114,737
Imi kcsnd  mprKuattas   37,995   45,04    120,010    191,M2    231,272    291,275    331,97    503,93    052,421   333,7t9
at FirHI khats Ilr vica  310,10   325,203    101,031    754,102  1,270,54  1,354,209  2,530,36 3,23,931  4,112,434  5,045,948
lark a. Pra,gr              253,3179  439,70    557,J9    7, 341    322,537  1,221,207  3,990,391  3,220,293  I,&3,71   5,793,435
thwr Lag-tars huts              704    3,429      2,203      3,0        3,525      4,533      5,723      0,374       7,95      3,t95
Tutu LLartara    ets        34,749  54,33    99,923  1,47,443  2,090,05   3,079,99   4,530,455  6,46             1,, ,34,054 30,340,l33
tarrmt Resets
Cah tslasts                   1,242    5,060    31,242      20,742     20,372     73,033     39,04    307,2       123,054    130,039
ttenets  aawablsI            52,92t 122,31      170,507    203,409    243,300    317,253    45,0t   59,UO    702,13    194,245
Natarlal & Supplies          12,573   33,340     24,727     35,021    43,151      53,SoS     61,192     80,258    92,297    101,526
Prapay tsn                      393      523        444  *     s          90         9o         930        9K         90         900
Total Currant kssts          69,127  302,290    210,980    24,759    30b,430    443,340    03,047    73,523        9,532  1,132,090
.eerrsd Ilsts                       413      444        e3       3,300        004        7e0        975     13170       1,340       1,430
us...osuo.... -et. ..s..on  noun........    suusgo-s ooOuo .      ousa uuuoo.ous  nuusu   g.uuuo
IDIOTL 9 T5                      3,20    9,0         ,       1, 13,202  2,403,189  .3,524,125  5,142,171 7,255,770  9,504,932 11,930,291
tsut.......  ....u.s us..s.ss  o-s. -. n-oon...                              uoun .-su-    u.----
CAPITAL I LIABILITIES
Capital lansert. I S*pla.
Capital                      70,370  343,072    21,509    123,50t   093,97    042,107  3,30,918  1,37B,001  1, 00,E2  1,343,091
Retainse Earsnina            I,l9    33,233      I3.765    131,757    303,431    719,133  1,349,505  2,297,3e  3,.449,91 4*,,2,574
fatal Pao-,u-Capita3l        92,503  170,335    237.274    005,200  1,077,23E  1,5*1,243  2,440,55   3,071,509  5,351,52M9  0,5.464
Resent                        0,975   13,06?    23,417    3S,000       15,O003    1505 ,000        15     ,000     15,W0      15,000
Yllla   EKtrificuaaan FuMnt  19,570   19,333    IL,.BO      17,315     10,325     15,334     14,304     13,353     12,30!     II3,72
Rvalsat,a  onesrwV           54',2   54.6bt   706,.0n'    357,190   351,19t   357,190    357,140    357,190    357,19t    357,190
Iatal Capital and IRese.vs  173,770  203,009    467,502  1,19t,277  1,40.,309  1,949,273  2,321,512 4,062,559  5,4t ,5BE  b,970,532
Lang-tera Dbt
LK&I lebt                    42.93    58,543    0b,701      5B,124     71,796     04,109     90,552    109,02     11t,541    113,773
Parati  Debt                3:2,1504  11,955    29-5,472    42L,32    U31.112  1,109,326  1,769,011  2,503, 1    ,4 340,3B: 4,27t,53 4
155,43. 240,490   302.251    47e.230    702,900  1,194,595  1,165,313 2,077,972  3,557,40'  4,390,3W
Ins:D  iu   I ear          I1o,'s-A  134,341.   139,4"9    135,006    131.000:  az4i,592   1212,023i  1380,3241  uo25,.Bo51  :30,010:
latal Log-tera 13h6-         OEMt  22.,05k    342.75'   403,23       02,900  1,053,00:  3,,300  2,371 ,149  3,331.10   4,090,307
Current Liabiltias
Aetuats Payable              71,905  132,24:    2B:,Q 0E.0: BO        125 0CC        132,500    340,30  103,9b    176,2eb    335,300
lTon  ccrua                  11.55t  24,131 t      .l30o    12.117    45,000    17to,9&     221,211    265,9    3 0-27:   335,799
Li Dbt due in I ea.r         10.55t  34,01       19,499    35,020     31,000    101,593    212,023    306,324   625,B3       300,00;
Dth3r Cror.tt  u:at;1;1t,e.   b.b'.   9,5t:      5,1tB      t.,Ol      12.050     13,053     15,590     17,14f    18,435      19.357
Ita: Curret  it:taIen   it. 12C  1i  10.31*    S 73941    333,370    2b0105D    40.913    597,317    753,315.   S5,7 B    14t.235
DAnttet :1at,1* ItaI s
Custatr Osapostsat&ban:es    0,tl    B,BSt    21.,3C        26,10r    30,22       3123,B     30,595     30,.25     38,!43     43,04e
SeP Inrancettren              6,04%    4,0et     o,239      7,00*'     11,055     33,410     15,S29     10,507     17,3 1     13,722
ffr e Ec C-entts              2.25'   5,O-,      o,l0        7,BI:    30,040      11,00     34,105     15,7b-    34,9.       21,05'
Tatal Dite, LiabAlitleS      .4,937   IB,*       31.56     4:,BI3     5;2.41     50,93;    t3,B59    08,07'       70,902     794
utr.:,  snr,:   n.,::=:::-e: :,.:=:::, ,.:n::   g.n,.-,  ,nuos,:, ,  , , .u      ,=t  .o ....... ...  .:.....    0:
10173  CAPTTA. I LIABILITIESr1   ", 4      bl2 e7 0 1,1e,.   ;,LIS,20  2.,40_8t 1,524,125  5,142,477  7,25,77t 9,504.93ilI,90(,!9
::::::-   tt,,!,  . ::       Ottost,,:  ttstotn: .-.nn.-       u                    ...s.t:  g.nt-,  .ttgt  S.tt,,gt
1/  Source:   SA   for  Paver  Systems Operations Ptoject  (Loam  2602-TU. Deport No. 5572-TU)-
(2732P)



- 74 -
iSlT                                                                          ANNEX S.1
T141I6  ELECICIIIUT  UTHMItY ITEKI
nrcns aud lu  o  Funds  119-19I0  .1/
sillmns  4 TL n  utrrst prices
---Xttiu -----               -Estd-        --------Forecat-----   -------------                              lotal
m991     1932      I29         3914       235                                1996 3937  1993   1   990     1995-90         aD
WIUCES OF FuNDS                    -m.       mm        sm          MM -es s.am                      maa         m.         mm         a...      Bmu m
____._.                                                                                                                          l(L bilsliD
BrMs  Icon u0,171    3,919    32,31    172,662    294,471    490,077    .6,438  1,406,012  1,306,372  2,199,341                                   7,114         7II
plus:   drclation                 5,635    *,233      17,304     23,394     42,30      64,003      11,722    111,541   134,873    B91,301           647           V
toss Internal Ch  meratim   :S,311   70,152    49,11    196,046    327,3531    554,00    975,360  1,523,229  1,995,250  2,385,701                 7,761          771
lessi WMt Srvice
Principal PaySmuts          3,000    3,313    13,0        90,130      30,323    109,227    141,593    212,023    30b,324    425,905         1,270         133
Inturust Paymts            10r,4   21,BO       46,329      9,670      3755O      47,154     79,240    135,440    19b,025    242,326          701           72
Titsl kebt Service         13,154   30,121     59,917 1     9,300     97,173    I56,1I    220,032    347,463    492,149    "48,130          1,914          20?
Not Internal Cash Dseratier    21,517  00,031    20,523    91,246    229,474             7,199    754,527  1,175,l76   1,502,401  1,117,573       5,777          Sim
Ilcrease In Log-tere hbt
Loal                         12,000   15,605      9,55        7,473    1U,0        19,500     25,000      35,000     40,250     44,275          179           n?
FoeigR                       19,000   6,455    125,299    193,640    290,000    392,03s    509,704    636,111    760,793        70,302       S,459           34?
otal  orrowing                   31,000 O   5,000    134,945    206,113    305,000    411,590    534,704    671,111    301,033    914,017        3SbSS           30
Equity Cmntrihutims              313,000   6,702     64,497    365,000      50,000      7,W00     97;U0    109,674    131,170    150,059            sn            EL
lcrvease(ecrl in  ther Liabil. 37,000   13,403    24,133         (2,1t33    10,635      3,522      5,93e      3,325       1,298      7,271          32           0o
m sa----m    .m.a..  a..aaain.a.a       .aaaaaa........... aa.aamaaa  m saum a-- a---af .MTaaaa.a a.a.m .z aamaama:.  .;.?.   s-agaa
TITAL SMPRMS Of FLOAS           127,557  205,296    213,273    665,176    595,069    379,901  1,3B3,049  1,960,37.  2,635,907  2,769,524         10,0I 4        300?
mm...  masmsa  ma.....amaataaa  aa.aca   a.m....:   mp.....  5. maflt  sag..m.a..a.a.....m.. uE....a
USES OF FUS
Therml Pa.    mneration          34,000  329,046    173,718    252,571    279,063    341,191   531,460    707,539    89,792   9"0,919            3,7t9           3f:
Transaission                     41,000   36,958     43,9B       77,747    134,023    199,669    193.529    264,901    116,82'   35,69b           1,46!          15:
Urban Distribution                    0    2,170     34,494     33,036      73,430    114,956    152,016    319,0B3    393,222    424,679         1,470          15:
Villaes 3 Other                 15,000   20,997    20,214       47,562     34,747    130,512    372,572    227,0U      171,759    230.271        1,02!          !0:.
Total Capital Expenditeres       340,000  137,971    272,424    430,916    571,270    776,254  1,099,577  1,511,306  1,709,597  2,021,565        7,76'           771.
lncr(Derl int other  esets          275      691      4,63         903         125      1,230      1,341      1,341       1,207        925           e           ot
Income lazes                      9,52   19,293           0           0     65,197    100,760    176,969    322,959    509,497    664,139        1,'!           1II
IncrlDcri in Larling Capital   121,0001  22,6471   I63,7971   253,353    141,5031    34,3403   10 .104    116,769    137,607    112,390            42'           41
ma.   aan   aaaasla  au...:   am..  aa.in:a  antatata  aaa:.mt    a..fa   gana-                                  an..=   s -ant--*. 
IBTAL UEES OF FURS              127,957  205,139    213,273    065,170    595,069    979,9 1  1,333,0t9  1,960.376  2,435,90t  2,799,524        10,04t          1001
.M.-  .mm         m a.   m         -       a       am     m   m a.  .....aa..   a. ......  -.                    m:mm:        .ma.
1/   Source:   SAR  for Power System  Operations  Project  (Lan  2602-TU1. Report No. 5572-TU)-
(2732P)



- 75 -
TURKEY
TUICN ELECIRICITY n9IRK                                         ANNEX  5.7
FIICIBII L 111TIIS 21911-2NDI 190
Ictal------     Estd-        --------o                           t--------
1932     2932       1933       2994      1295        1290        197       19Et      I239         199
Pour   bsetorlTEK ad 1SI'
Intwrnal Cash  nwratinn 4                201      211        211        -312        30?        431        432         571        U1         03?
Interal tCh Unwratien 4'                 13?      19          01         101
kht Servie Ceverap                      2.0      2.3        0.9         2.0        3.3        3.5        4.4         4.4        4.0        3.6
TEK muly
Curret Ratio                            0.7      0.1        0.7         2.0        1.2        1.0         1.0        1.0        1.1        2.3
PjhtIDet , Equity                       0.5      0.5        0.4         0.3        0.3        0.4        0.4         0.4        0.4        0.4
hYs I BcKtvale                          191      272        266         290        121        220         1oo         I0         o0         90
*Incltding change in morting capitalfLua  Igranent  eitanitionl
*OExclnding changr  an Nrkikn  capitallwe mo anint4ul an B71-l4 due to saings in u/c)
_BSlIE  FOR P CLCIB.AIII1K OP IOITEININU. CCSEINERTIOIK           (TL million li. current pricesi
1931     1932       1933       2994       IE5        19          19117      1E         2919       I29O
Cross Incot                     30,176  03,919      32,3S1    17,162    234,471    490,077    111,633  1,400,602  1,346,372  2,199,341
pluidepretatiai                 5,135    1,233      17,304     23,394     42,330     04,003        ,7122    110,546    149,B19    180,301
tross Internal Cash 6wration         35,312   70,152     49,005    190,040    327,351    554,030 e    75,30   1,52.3,229  1,995,250  2,35B,70B
les:snclhcrlaon mon cash kg Capl 121,0001  24,465   173,99;1  247,B953         45,1331   151,0121    91,243     93,043    121,470    100,531
Iass:Tit det service                 21,95   30D,121     59,917    9",BO0       97,070    151,332    220,32    347,413    4i2,049    011,230
less:DSI debt srvicelpowr only) I       NiB      NI"   11    1       17,000     24,310     34,940     46,225     03,773      30,079     92,730
plns:lacrlhcrlCustoaer Contrib.         500    2,239      9,474       b,67L      2,321      1,510      2,75t       1,730      1,310      1,907
plus:Keba  payments N                                                           U2,5Y!     B5,380    112,001    141,197    105,024    135,330
let Intrnal Casht inratint   43,357   46,735        73,191   11021,9371   325,29    500,321    7133,77  1,150,007  1,407,085  1,712,00'
Mtt Intarnal Cat  S mn ratrontm  22,357   42,210       17781    95,916    270,030    449,149    E21,120  1,254,916  1IS59,102  1,112,535
TEE Investmnts                 140,000  281,971    272,424    410,916   571,270    776,254  1,099,577  I,519,30e  1,18,597  2,011,505
151 Invntmnts                   30,000   45,90S     70,916    210,h00    293,750    300,039    440.45    516,293    579,771    707,799
Total PFor lnvestants          270,000  227,77    34S3,390    521,510    965,020  1,150,293  1,540,422  2,035,599  2,309,320  2,719,364
NOTES: 0 Estimated. To he monfired.
N TEK's payets to the Puhblc Participation Fund, set ol anternt
paid to holdenrs of Kan raiser-sharing certaifcates.
Gincliding chatnge in marking capital Lan Wgrent definition'
"Excluding champ in irking capital lure menngfal in 31-9  dee to swings in N/cl
I/   Source:   SAR  for Power System  Operations Project  (Loa   2602-fl. Report No. 5572-fl).
(2732P)



- 76 -
ANNEX 5.8
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
KAYRARTEPE HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Notes on Financial Forecasts
1.       The financial statements and projections in Annexes 5.4 - 5.7 have
been excerpted from the Staff Appraisal Report for a power project presented
to the Board in July 1985 (Power System Operations Project--Loan 2602-TU,
Report No. 5572-TU).
2.       Starting in 1983, the financial statements show the operations of TEK
as a consolidated utility selling electricity to customers on both the
wholesale and retail level, i.e. including the eighteen new distribution
companies. However, the value of distribution assets in service has not been
included, because it has not yet been determined by the concerned authorities.
Income Statement
3.       The forecast of GWh sales of electricity used for the financial
projections differs slightly from the more recent forecast shown in Annex 2.1
which assumes earlier commissioning of certain new generating units. Since
the differences are not material, they do not invalidate the conclusions on
TEK's finances previously reached.
4.       Tariffs were increased as needed to meet financing requirements, and
So as to reach and maintain levels equal to LRMC. Adjustment of tariffs to
reflect any real changes in fuel prices has not been included in the
forecasts, but would be assumed to occur automatically.
5.       The forecast income statements do not reflect the value-added tax of
10% which was introduced effective January 1, 1985. While TEK's customers pay
10% more for electricity, the VAT has no net financial impact on TEK, as TEK
transfers to the Government the net of value added taxes collected and paid.
Similarly, the 3.5% charge collected by TEK on behalf of Turkish Radio and
Television starting March 1, 1985 has been omitted from the forecasts.
6.       Fuel expenses were projected by applying the expected price paid by
TEK for fuel to the average specific consumption rates and the number of
kilowatt hours to be generated by thermal plants with each type of fuel.
7.       The cost of imported power was estimated on the basis of expected
annual imports from Bulgaria and the USSR of 2,500 GWh.



- 77 -
A' WNEX 5.8
Page 2 of 2
8.       Depreciation of fixed assets is calculated at 2.5Z for hydro plants,
4.0% for thermal plants, and 3.11% for transmission lines and related assets.
The overall average for TEK is 3.5%.
9.       Other expenses, including material other than fuel, wages and
salaries and miscellaneous expenses, are assumed to increase at the same rate
as unit sales growth, plus the local inflation rate. As a result of the Power
System Operations Assistance Project, a reduction in TEK's maintenance and
operating costs is expected, resulting in financial savings; however, these
benefits would not be apparent until about 1990-91.
Balance Sheet
10.      Additions to work in progress and to fixed assets in service are made
at current prices. Assets in service have not been revalued in the forecast,
because of lack of adequate information on age and composition of assets.
However, asset revaluation, and the corresponding additions to the revaluation
reserve, which were included in TEK's past audited financial statements are
reflected.
II.      Transfers from DSI:  Hydroelectric projects, once completed by DSI,
are transferred to TEK through a government equity contribution and added
directly to fixed assets in service. The forecast assumes transfers of DSI
assets valued as follows (in billions of TL):
1985      1986       1987       1988       1989
20        81         161        178        92
12.      Outstanding foreign debt and related debt service have been
restated in line with the expected devaluation of the Turkish lira. rhe
counterpart of the adjustment to loag-term debt has been added to
work-in-progress.
Internal Cash Generation
13.      The calculation of internal cash generation is shown in Annex 5.6.
Income taxes payable by TEK out of its profits are added back as part of
sector internal cash generation, according to the definitions agreed in 1980
(Loan 1844-TU). Two other types of taxes or charges introduced in early
1985-the value added tax (VAT) and the Turkish Radio and Television (TRT)
charge--have not been included in the calculation of internal cash
generation. The Bank's understanding is that both will be passed through
without having a direct financial impact on TEK.
(2732P)



- 78 -
ANNEX 6.1
Page 1 of 3
TURKEY
KAYRAKTEPE HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Rate of Return Analysis
Introduction
1.       The rate of return analysis on page 3 of this annex was carried out
on the basis that the project forms an integral part of TEK/DSI's 1985-1995
expansion program. The program is estimated to have an economic rate of
return of 11.3%, compared to an opportunity cost of capital of 122. Key
assumptions are presented below.
Benefits
2.       Incremental revenues plus net fuel savings derived from investment in
improved efficiency of thermal plants were taken as the benefits of the
program. Electricity tariffs were assumed to increase at regular intervals to
ensure an adequate level of self-financing for the power subsector, reflecting
the Government's commitment to reduce public expenditures.  Tariffs include
taxes to reflect the prices faced by consumers       The average revenue (in
1985 prices) would be as follows:
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990 6 Onwards
TL/kWh              30.55   31.04   31.88   32.58   33.36          33.82
Net fuel savings were calculated on the basis that investment in improved
efficiency of existing thermal plants (Tuncbilek A and B, Anbarli, Seyitomer,
Soma B and Yatagan) would increase their average efficiency by one percentage
point as a minimum and result in an annual net fuel savings of TE 5.9 billion
starting in 1991. Given the fact that thedf plants would be retired at
different dates, net fuel savings would prmgressively diminish over the entire
30-year period considered for the life of the entire program.
1/ This included VAT (10Z) and a television tax (3.5%). VAT presents some
difficulties for economic analysis since for industries (which use
electricity as an intermediate good) a tax rebate will be giv-n. However,
since such rebates may take upwards of one year, the "effective price"
faced by these consumers is estimated to include VAT. Excluding VAT in
the analysis results in a rate of return of about 10%.



- 79 -
ANNEX 6.1
Page 2 of 3
Capital and Operating Costs
3.       The capital costs of the investment program were estimated based on
discussions in connection with the joint Bank-Government power investment
review, carried out in early 1985.  Operation and maintenance costs were
estimated at 1% of cumulative capital costs for generation and transmission,
and at 2% for distribution.
Fuel Costs
4.       The incremental generation from thermal plants was taken from the
projected balance of energy and capacity for TEK (Annex 2.1). The cost of
fuel was estimated on the basis of the following assumptions:
(a)  Specific consumption (ton/GWh):
- lignite-fired steam plants: 1,450 (for a lignite with an average
calorific value of 1,725 kcal/kg);
- coal-fired steam plants: 700 (for a coal with an average
calorific value of 4,200 kcal/kg);
- gas-fired combustion turbines: 302;
- gas-fired combined cycle plants: 226.
(b) Economic cost of fuels (US$/ton):
- lignite: 20 (equal to the weighted average long-run marginal cost
of lignite in Turkey);
- coal: 60 (equal to the estimated CIF price of imported coal);
- natural gas: 180 (equal to 90% of the border price of fuel oil).
5.       All benefits and costs were expressed in January 1985 prices, with an
exchange rate of TL 450/US$. The life of the program was taken at 30 years.



KAYRAKTEPE HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Rate of Return Analysui
(milliom of IL)
llfitvu                                    --        Csts             --
Electr.  Fbel    Total                   Cpital Costs                -ppe*iig Costs-                - -Fhel    Total    lt
Year  Sales    Savins Bemefits aG ation  Trwanission Distribution Miscil. Gmeration. Tramisiim  Distributin Coat    Cost2    Bdits
-  _       -        -         m                       m                              -          -_-
1985    37,271     0.0   37,271    448,824     101,563      98,125  49,000      4,488       1,016      1,963  22,838  727,815 (69D,544)
1986   192,696     0.0  192,696    555,548     140,38D     118,750  59,091     10,044       2,419      2,169  91,901  980,301 (787,605)
1987   426,331     0.0  426,331    506,115     127,309     143,750  64,773     15,105       3,693      3,606 172,355 1,036,705 (610,374)
1988   696,966     0.0  696,966   .505,441     142,168     181,250  48,290     20,159       5,114      5,419 246,455 1,154,296  (457,329)
1989   833,500     0.0  833,500    463,553     185,764     225,000  51,135     24,795      6,972       7,669 275,654 1,240,541 (407,041)
1990   915,271     0.0  915,271    489,048     196,008     237,375  53,948     29,685       8,932     10,043 295,430 1,32D,467 (405,196)
1991 1,039,864 5,893.1 1,045,757    490,000    196,000     237,000  50,000     34,585      10,892     12,413 353,002 1,383,892 (338,135)
1992 1,170,713 5,893.1 1,176,606    490,000    196,Q00     237,Q00   50,000    39,485      12,852     14,783 414,324 1,454,444 (277,837)
1993 1,361,627 5,893.1 1,367,520    490,00     196,000     237,000  50,OO     44,385      14,812     17,153 45i,348 1,5W,698 (133,177)   o
1994 1,577,230 5,893,1 1,583,123    490,000    196,000     237,000  50,000     49,285      16,772     19,523 458,946 1,517,526   65,597    
1995 1,684,168 5,893.1 1,690,061    490,000    196,000     237,000  50,000     54,185      18,732     21,893 458,946 1,526,756  163,306
1996 1,684,168 5,893.1 1,690,061        0           0           0       0      54,185      18,732     21,893 458,946  553,756 1,136,306
1997  1,684,168 5,736.4 1,689,905       0           0           0       0      54,185      18,732     21,893 458,946  553,756 1,136,149
1998 1,684,168 5,736.4 1,689,905        0           0           0       0      54,185      18,732     21,893 458,946  553,756 1,136,149
1999 1,684,168 5,736.4 1,689,905        0           0           0       0      54,185      18,732     21,893 458,946  553,756 1,136,149
2Q00  1,684,168 5,736.4 1,689,905        0          0           0       0      54,185      18,732     21,893 458,946  553,756 1,136,149
2001 1,684,168 3,367.4 1,687,536         0          0           0       0      54,185      18,732     21,893 458,946  553,756 1,133,780
2002 1,684,168 3,367.4 1,687,536         0          0           0       0      54,185      18,732     21,893 458,946  553,756 1,133,7aD
2003 1,684,168 3,367.4 1,687,536         0          0           0       0      54,185      18,732     21,893 458,946  553,756 1,133,780
2004 1,684,168 3,367.4 1,687,536         0          0           0       0      54,185      18,732      21,893 458,946  553,756 1,133,78D
2005 1,684,168 3,367.4 1,687,536         0          0           0       0      54,185      18,732     21,893 458,946  553,756 1,133,780
2006 1,684,168 2,247.2 1,686,416         0          0           0       0      54,185      18,732      21,893 458,946  553,756 1,132,660
2007 1,684,168 2,247.2 1,686,416         0          0           0       0      54,185      18,732      21,893 458,946  553,756 1,132,660
2008 1,684,168 2,247.2 1,686,416         0          0           0       0      54,185      18,732      21,893 458,946  553,756 1,132,660
2009 1,684,168 2,247.2 1,686,416         0          0           0       0      54,185      18,732      21,893 458,946  553,756 1,132,660
2010 1,684,168 2,247.2 1,686,416         0          0           0       0      54,185      18,732      21,893 458,946  553,756 1,132,660
2011 1,684,168 1,546.0 1,685,714        0           0           0       0      54,185      18,732      21,893 458,946  553,756 1,131,959
2012 1,684,168 1,546.0 1,685,714         0          0           0       0      54,185      18,732      21,893 458,946  553,756 1,131,959
2013 1,684,168 1,546.0 1,685,714        0           0           0       0      54,185      18,732     21,893 458,946  553,756 1,131,959  
2014 1,684,168 1,546.0 1,685,714        0           0           0       0      54,185      18,732     21,893 458,946  553,756 1,131,959  o
0R
(273 2P)                                                                                                    Rate of ret.ur (Z):    11.3  Ph 



- 81 -
ANNEX 7.1
TURKEY
KAYRAKTEPE HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1. GoksU - Kayraktepe-Dam and Hydroelectric Power Plant Project--Feasibility
Report prepared by EPDC, March 1982
2. Kayraktepe Dam and Hydroelectric Power Plant Project--Loan Application
Report prepared by EPDC, January 1983
3.  Kayraktepe Dam and Hydroelectric Power Plant Project-Design Reports
prepared by EPDC, January 1983, comprising: 2 volumes of project drawings
and 12 volumes of text
4. Kayraktepe Dam and Hydroelectric Power Plant Project--Technical
Specifications prepared by EPDC, January 1983, comprises 13 volumes of
text.
5. Kayraktepe Hydropower Project--Working Papers of Project Appraisal
6. Kayraktepe Hydropower Project--Geologist's Report to the Project
Preparation Mission prepared by L. Wolofsky, January 1985
7. Kayraktepe Hydropower Project-Technical Report on the Project (Civil
Engineering Assessment) prepared by F. Villegas, January 1985
8. Masterplan der Stromversorgung Ecuador, Oktober 1980, Lahmeyer
International & Decon
9. Kayraktepe Dam--Agricultural Aspects of the Flood Control Component--FAO,
May 8, 1985.
Note:    Investment, Financial and Legal Documents are available in TEK
Transmission IV Project File.
January 1986
(2732P)



BULGARIA ___-                                                            32
-ACK~~~~~~~~~-
GREECE     i     q                                 E                                               --  -
A.~~~~~~~~-N
{f WGdv-~~~~~~~~~~I',              a,                 Is  ~~' zsN
:  '-_ bwb --v t'e-__ 2 - *~~I.w~ 
\___ .~~~~SEA O:F id.    
/ . C.d                                                   -  *   /  q   l  _s - > *   Jo  -
/ ;  7
AEEA  ui\>       75-                                  o                              4 -----^
SEA 9b"'"t\t=
=,W-                                   i,,4-...LE,                                  '''' "'''- < S
-,  @-   \.         -\                                                                                            -  - --
--n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
. v : i 7       .        D    . ....                           ... ,.  .   .  =                                    
C      .                                                            -                          Mm   S/_.,   I-   ... .)
-  t.   \  -  .~.- . ,  k .E , X,. - .  f
-                   . ,,KIAA. _IFV'
a  ~~  t  -                                                                              ,  **  h*t
C Y P R Ub
EILOMETES 9                       200           30OLE
MILES                     MD j30
q~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~V 3. 
M  D D r E R R A ,'5 .- .s. .N   . ,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6



IBRD 19012
''   SEA                                                                       -'-
*A     . U  S  S  R
I                Ca.,.-*  ,-f                                                               ,@.nY
..S-J.'            -             T..abah              An_
*I.~~-..~O: H Ub.6Od.v...ib..Ka                                                                                 (U              S
M   DUPJTOTUJ  WuPluCl du     N      V.            | _ I.xde.s55 In f7a                            f         U  S  S  R
-~~~ - -X\                                             -        ~                               
E b-                                                  T.n       
'A                D.....edoadp,S-                     
)REIP,UBLISJV IC
-     ns....                                          Tnss 'A                                                   jiij7'            NREPUBLIC
OF
IRAN
_  =   _   P    Q        =           \<t            r ~~~~~~~~~~~~-      /}                X~~~ R  A  Q
I.                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~36-
j)                                                                        TURKEY
MAIN GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
AS OF JANUARY 1985
SYRIAN  ARAB  REPUBLIC                                    PQWERPLANTS                           TRANSFORMERSTATIONNS
-   In operalion                                 In operation
*     l   Under Lonstruction and future     *   Under construction ond future
- Project
TRANSMISSION UNES
360 kv 154 1v
-    _-         In operation               ---  Internotional boundaries
*  ')                                          - - -        Under construction und future
LEBANON)'
40'                                                            440
JULY 1985






