Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16172
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN No. 2733-UNI)
December 9, 1996
Agriculture 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit       =       Naira
US$1.00                     0.89 Naira (at appraisal)
"   =   10.00 Naira (at mid-term review)
"  =    82.00 Naira (at completion)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP          -       Agricultural Development Project
ADPEC        -       ADP Executive Committee
ADPMU        -       ADP Management Unit
APMEU        -       Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
ARMTI        -       Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
EA           -       Extension Agent
ERR          -       Economic Rate of Return
FACU         -       Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
FDA          -       Federal Department of Agriculture
FGN          -       Federal Government of Nigeria
FMANR        -       Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
FMF          -       Federal Ministry of Finance
ICR          -       Implementation Completion Report
IFAD         -       International Fund for Agricultural Development
LGA          -       Local Government Authority
LGC          -       Local Government Council
MANR         -       Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MSADP        -       Multi-State Agricultural Development Project
NRCRI        -       National Root Crops Research Institute
NSS          -       National Seed Service
OFAR         -       On-Farm Adaptive Research
PCC          -       Project Coordinating Committee
PME          -       Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
SAP          -       Structural Adjustment Program
SG           -       State Government
SPAT         -       Small Plot Adoption Technique
UA           -       User Association
T & V        -       Training and Visit System of Agricultural Extension
UAES         -       Unified Agricultural Extension Services
VEA          -       Village Extension Agent
WIA          -       Women in Agriculture
Vice President                 Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director               :       Surjit Singh (Acting)
Technical Manager              Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader               Samuel Onwona



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary .................................................                                      i
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
Introduction ............................................1
Project Objectives, Covenants, Costs and Financing 1............. 
Achievement of Objectives ...........................................                           3
Overall Project Implementation Performance ........................                             4
Factors Affecting Implementation ..........................................                     7
Bank Performance ...........................................                                    9
Borrower Performance ...........................................                                9
Assessment of Project Outcome ...........................................                       9
Project Sustainability ...........................................                            10
Future Operations ...........................................                                 10
Key Lessons Learned ...........................................                               11
Part iI: Statistical Annexes
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and Credits .13
Table 3: Project Timetable .14
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements .14
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .15
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .16
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .17
Table 8A: Project Costs                         ....................................                     18
Table 8B: Project Financing .................................................                            19
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits ............................................                     20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .................................................                   21
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............                                    24
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .............................................                    24
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .................................................                    25
Appendices
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-memoire
Appendix B: Executive Summary of Borrower's ICR
Appendix C: Operational Plans of the ADPs
Ths docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
FIRST MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 2733-UNI)
Preface
I.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the First Multi-State
Agricultural Development Project (MSADP 1) which was supported by Bank Loan No.
2733-UNI in the amount of US$ 162.0 million approved on June 26, 1986. It became
effective on June 15, 1987.
2.    The loan was closed on June 30, 1995, after three extensions from the original
closing date of June 30, 1992. The Project was reviewed and restructured in 1991,
incorporating, amongst others, adjustments necessitated by the bifurcation of four of the
original seven implementing states that increased the number of state-level implementing
agencies from seven to eleven (State Agricultural Development Projects or ADPs). The
loan was completely disbursed with the final disbursement being made on March 29,
1995.
3.    The ICR was prepared by a team led by Lewis Campbell (Consultant), supervised
by Samuel Onwona (AFTA2). An early draft of the ICR was made available to the
Borrower for comment. The Borrower's own evaluation has been received and its
Executive Summary is included as Appendix B to this ICR.
4.    Preparation of the ICR was started during the Bank's final supervision mission
from September 10 to October 6, 1995, conducted in collaboration with the Agricultural
Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (APMEU) and the Federal Agricultural
Coordinating Unit (FACU) of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
(FMANR). A copy of the Aide Memoire of the mission is provided as Appendix A. It is
also based on information in files, visits and discussions with Federal, State and Project
officials and farmers. The Borrower's contribution to the ICR was coordinated by
APMEU and preparation of the Borrowers' operational plans was coordinated by FACU.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
FIRST MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2733-UNI)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    This MSADP was appraised in May 1984, following ten years experience with
enclave and statewide ADPs in Nigeria and other parts of Africa. The design reflected
the lessons of previous projects, and focused on fewer but more effective programs to
help farmers grow more food, improve productivity, incomes and quality of life and
better manage their resources. It concentrated on small farmer technology generation and
transfer. The support services were tailored for sustainability; with greater involvement
of the Local Government Authorities (LGA) and the users in the identification and
implementation of programs and allowing the stable evolution of commercial services in
the private sector, preferably by the users. The original implementation period was five
years but was extended over eight years, having been affected by a new structural
adjustment program (SAP), local cost increases and scarcity of counterpart funds,
bifurcating of four of the implementing states and management and operational
difficulties.
Project Objectives
2.    The objectives were to (a) increase food production and incomes of small farmers;
(b) apply flexible, phased approaches to development with initial emphasis on
implementing well-proven components geared to agricultural potential and within the
financing and managerial capacity of the states, while embarking on an intensified
program of adaptive on-farm agricultural research; (c) assist the states in rationalizing
current activities through a move to reorganize and commercialize input distribution and
develop a smaller but more effective extension service; and (d) prepare for the transfer of
a greater share of the responsibility for future project appraisal and supervision to
Nigerian institutions.
3.    The objectives were highly relevant, taking into account  the economic
circumstances, government policy priorities and the experiences with earlier ADPs. They
focused on fewer and simpler programs but each flexibly tailored within the financial and
human resources of the States while effectively addressing the essential farmer services to
increase and sustain production. They were also in keeping with Bank policy of full
participation of local institutions in the design and implementation process, and within
their financial resources, management and technical capacities to take ownership of the
development programs. The flexibility in design allowed variations in the programs
during implementation and accommodated changes in economic circumstances brought
on by the SAP and the ensuing management and other institutional weaknesses
[paras. 2,3].



ii
Covenants
4.    Apart from the general covenants relating to subsidiary loans, work plans,
budgets, project and special accounts, application of loan proceeds, audits, periodic
reporting, procurement and disbursement, the key covenants to achieve the objectives
focused on strengthening and sustaining (a) institutional arrangements at the Federal as
well as the State level; (b) the quality of staffing; (c) timely payments of required
counterpart funds; and (d) establishment of a cassava multiplication program under the
National Seed Service and whose entire operations were also to be evaluated. All
covenants were generally satisfied except (a) counterpart funding which was frequently
delayed and did not keep up with inflation; (b) institutional and management
arrangements not being operated satisfactorily in several states; and (c) the not infrequent
diversion of project resources into non-project uses [para. 5, Table 10].
Project Costs. Financing and Timetable
5.    Total cost was estimated at US$256.4 million of which US$162.0 million (63.2%)
would be from the Bank loan, US$12.0 million (4.7%) from the IFAD loan, US$49.5
million (19.3%) from the FGN and US$32.9 million (12.8%) from the seven
implementing states. At project restructuring in 1991, the total estimated cost was
reduced to US$221.0 million of which $162.0 million (73.3%) would be from the Bank
loan, US$12.0 million (5.4%) from the IFAD loan, US$23.7 million (10.7%) from the
FGN, US$22.3 million (10.1%) from the states and US$1.0 million (0.5%) from farmers.
At completion, actual project costs amounted to US$228.7 million, of which US$162
million (70.8%) came from the Bank, US$9.59 million (4.2%) from IFAD (March 1995),
US$37.08 million (16.2%) from State Governments, and US$20.03 million (8.8%) from
the Federal Government. The closing date was extended three times to a total of 8 years
and the Bank loan was completely drawn down. The IFAD loan which financed the
cassava multiplication and processing components is still active with the closing date
having been extended to June 30, 1997.
Project Implementation Experience and Results
6.    The project was slow to start, taking a full year for the Bank loan to become
effective. Being the first of the multi-state ADPs, most of the implementing ADPs had
little or no prior experience with Bank procedures which they found complicated and
tedious. Where joint actions by more than one state were required, because of the multi-
state nature of the project, progress was further delayed. The difficulties became worse
with the progressive decline in value of the local currency and the inability of the state
and federal governments to provide the required level of counterpart funds for the
planned annual work programs. Although project implementation achievements werein
the end substantial, it required three loan extensions for such results to be attained.
7.    Farmers, however, took advantage of the improved markets and pricing brought
on by the SAP and responded very well to the project's agricultural services, particularly
technology generation and transfer. The increases in farming activities led to greater



iii
demand for improvements in feeder roads, village water supplies and post harvesting and
marketing facilities.  With continued involvement of the states in input supplies
distribution, the private sector was slow to enter such services and the reliability and
efficiency continued to be poor. Fertilizer distribution remained under direct control of
the state and federal governments, with no improvement in efficiency or reliability of the
service.
Overall Project Implementation Performance
8.    Overall, performance is rated as satisfactory.  The main obstacles to better
performance were (a) reduced management efficiency caused mainly by frequent political
interference and irregular meetings of the Project Executive Committees (ADPECs) and
frequent changes in the staffing of Project Management Units (PMUs); and (b) failure of
the governments to make prompt payments of required counterpart funding and also to
implement policies to improve the availability and distribution of fertilizers, the most
important input to achieve yield potential of the better crop varieties. Farmers took
advantage of the beneficial support activities of the project and responded to the good
prices and markets resulting from the SAP.
Overall Assessment of Project Outcome
9.    Using a comparative common base of sorghum  grain equivalent (at 10%
moisture), total food production increased 230%, from an estimated 4.43 million tonnes
in 1986 to 10.3 million tonnes in 1994. The three main crops contributing to the
successful project outcome were cassava, yams and maize. The most important
contribution of the ADPs was the dissemination of improved technologies which helped
farmers to raise substantially their production, productivity and incomes.   The
institutionalization of the ADPs as farmer support institutions is also a significant
achievement. The quality of staff recruited and their training is an important contributor
to the capacity building of the ADPs, which are now well placed to help sustain the
investments in farmer support services. The re-estimated Economic Rate of Return
(ERR) is 33% versus the appraisal estimate of 24% and mid-term estimate of 25%.
Project Sustainability
10.   With a favorable economic environment for agriculture, the capacity of the ADPs
to generate and deliver improved technologies, and the readiness and capability of
farmers and rural communities to assume responsibility and ownership, through user
associations (UAs), for most of their important services, the main objectives of the
project could be sustained. The state governments have all placed key farmer support
operations under the umbrella of the ADPs with policy matters being in the hands of the
Ministries of Agriculture. This has proved to be workable arrangement. The major
constraint to ADP sustainability will be state level funding which, under the current
economic scenario, seems not predictable.
Future Operations
11.   The federal and respective state governments have given assurances that current
levels of ADP recurrent funding would be maintained in their annual budgets, with due



iv
allowances for inflation. The ADPs arL q'rdering their priorities in the use of these
annual provisions and propose to cuncentrate on the generation and transfer of
technology. The delivery of other important services would be left to organizations best
placed to do so, in either the private or public sectors. The ADPs will devote increased
attention to develop the capacity of farmers and others in the rural communities, working
in groups (UAs), to organize commercial services in input supplies, credit, post harvest
operations including processing, storage and marketing, and to work with LGAs on the
maintenance of roads and operation and maintenance of potable water supplies.
Key Lessons for Future Projects
12.   The key lessons are concerned with (a) the need to have political commitment and
organizational and management stability; (b) adequate and timely local funding from
state governments can be obtained through mandatory deductions from the Federal
allocations; (c) the willingness of farmers to take responsibility for their essential
services, working in formal groups where necessary, and receiving appropriate training
for the purpose; (d) the gradual and time consuming processes for sustainable
institutional development; (e) inadequate input supply services reduce the effectiveness of
extension efforts in technology transfer; and (f) the need for close monitoring and tight
control of commitments on pooled funds of multi-state projects.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
FIRST MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2733-UNI)
Part I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.    The Project was appraised in May 1984 at a time when the Borrower and the
Bank had gained much experience during the preceding ten years on the design and
implementation of integrated agricultural development projects in Nigeria and other areas
in Africa. While it was concluded that the support facilities, particularly infrastructure
and input supplies provided by these projects to improve farmer operations, contributed
substantially to increased production, it was generally agreed that they were too complex
to implement, requiring such levels of management and technical skills that much of it
had to be provided externally, making it difficult to sustain all the achievements. It was
felt that greater focus was required on generating appropriate technologies for extending
to small farmers to increase their production, productivity and incomes. The design of
this project, therefore, concentrated on these aspects. It restricted expenditures on rural
infrastructure to rehabilitation and maintenance of existing facilities, preferably through
private contracting, and gradually transferring the maintenance responsibility to local
authorities and users, where they properly belonged. It placed greater reliance on locally
recruited management and technical personnel to implement the program of activities.
Similarly, the private sector was to be relied upon for input supply and other services
which are commercially sustainable.  It was also the first in a series of multi-state
agricultural development projects in Nigeria. The Project was to be implemented over
five years at an estimated total cost of US$256.4 million, shared by the Bank loan of
US$162.0 million, an IFAD loan of US$12.0 million and FGN and States contributions
of US$49.5 million and US$32.9 respectively. Soon after the loan was approved, the
FGN embarked on a structural adjustment program (SAP) which included the abolition of
several important commodity boards and the liberalization of the foreign exchange
market. Also during implementation four of the original seven participating States were
bifurcated, thereby increasing the number of implementing ADPs to eleven. Both of
these events had significant effect on project costs and farmer response.
Project Objectives, Components, Covenants, Costs and Financing.
2.    Project Objectives. The main objectives were to: (a) increase food production
and incomes of small farmers; (b) apply flexible, phased approaches to development with
initial emphasis on implementing well-proven components geared to agricultural
potential and within the financing and managerial capacity of the states, while embarking
on an intensified program of adaptive on-farm agricultural research; (c) assist the states in
rationalizing current activities through a move to reorganize and commercialize input
distribution and develop a smaller but more effective extension service; and (d) prepare



2
for the transfer of a greater share of the responsibility for future project appraisal and
supervision to Nigerian institutions.
3.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The objectives were highly relevant, taking into
account the economic circumstances, government policy priorities and the experiences
with earlier ADPs. They focused on fewer and simpler programs but each flexibly
tailored within the financial and human resources of the States while effectively
addressing the essential farmer services to increase and sustain production. They were
also in keeping with Bank policy of full participation of local institutions in the design
and implementation process, and within their financial resources, management and
technical capacities to take ownership of the development programs. The flexibility in
design allowed variations in the programs during implementation and to accommodate
changes in economic circumstances brought on by the SAP and coping with management
and other institutional weaknesses.
4.    Project Components. The original project design included State and Federal-level
activities described below:
(i)    Main State-wide activities to be undertaken by the ADPs:
(a) Crop and Farm Development: within the framework of increasing food crop
production (cassava, yam, maize, rice, plantains and vegetables) undertake promotion of
appropriate fertilizer use; multiplication and distribution, at state level, of improved
planting material of cassava, rice and potatoes; and reorganization of rainfed extension
services along performance oriented lines; (b) Agricultural Research: a program of on-
farm adaptive research; (c) Commercial Services: improved fertilizer and other inputs
distribution; and assistance in crop processing; (d) Roads and Workshops: rehabilitation
and maintenance of feeder roads and associated essential equipment; (e) Village Water
Supplies: a program of construction for boreholes and digging wells with hand pumps
installation; (f) Project Management. Monitoring & Evaluation. Planning and Manpower
Development:  establishment and operation of project management, monitoring &
evaluation, planning and manpower development units.
(ii)   Activities to be Undertaken by Federal Government Agencies
(a) Cassava Multiplication and Development: varietal development and initial
multiplication of improved cassava material, including assistance to the National Root
Crops Research Institute (NRCRI) and National Seed Service (NSS); assistance to
NRCRI to monitor biological control of cassava pests and acquisition of a fund for
purchase of green spider mite predators; and assistance to non project states for
multiplication of cassava planting material; (b) Processing: support for a revolving fund
for cassava motor-driven graters and cassava processing research; (c) Others: (i) support
for an Agricultural Pricing Policy Unit; (ii) pilot projects for testing developments in
forestry, livestock and crops; and (iii) studies concerned with development of improved
agricultural data as a basis for better sector planning, including food crop marketing



3
study; feasibility study of ADP village water supply programs; and preparation for a
second phase of ADPs.
5.    At project restructuring in 1991, new management facilities, including new
headquarters and other service buildings, had to be provided in the four new ADPs. In
addition, the following sub-programs were also included in all the ADP activities: (a)
Women in Agriculture (WIA); (b) Agro-Forestry and Land Use management; (c)
Animal Traction, Fadama and Fisheries Development; and (d) Capacity Building of the
State Ministries of Agriculture (SMOAs).
6.    Covenants. Apart from the general covenants relating to subsidiary loans, work
plans, budgets, project and special accounts, application of loan proceeds, audits, periodic
reporting, procurement and disbursement, the key covenants to achieve the objectives
focused on strengthening and sustaining (a) institutional arrangements at the Federal as
well as the State level; (b) the quality of staffing; (c) timely payments of required
counterpart funds; and (d) evaluation of the entire operations of the NSS in the context of
its major role in a cassava multiplication program. All covenants were generally satisfied
except (a) counterpart funding which was frequently delayed and did not keep up with
inflation; (b) institutional and management arrangements where many of the ADPECs
failed to meet regularly to provide policy and opcrational guidance to PMUs, some of
which performed poorly; and (c) occasional diversion of project resources (usually
vehicles) into non-project state government officials.
7.    Project Costs. Financing and Timetable. Total project cost at appraisal was
estimated at US$256.4 million. It was to be financed by the Bank loan of US$162.0
million (63%), an IFAD loan of US$12.0 million (5%), FGN counterpart funds of
US$49.5 million (19%) and States counterpart funds of US$32.9 million (13%). The
project restructuring, which took into account the effects of the SAP, creation of new
states, implementation delays and changes in prices, reduced project costs by US$35.0
million. Under the new estimate of US$221.0 million, financing shares would be: Bank
loan of US$162.0 million (73%), IFAD loan of US$12.0 million (5%), and the balance of
US$47.0 million (21%) coming from FGN (US$23.7 million), States (US$22.3 million)
and from farmers (US$1.0 million). At completion, actual project costs amounted to
US$228.7 million, of which US$162 million (70.8%) came from the Bank, US$9.59
million (4.2%) from IFAD (March 1995), US$37.08 million (16.2%) from State
Governments, and US$20.03 million (8.8%) from the Federal Government. The
implementation period was extended from five to eight years with three extensions of the
loan closing date, by which time the loan funds were fully disbursed.
Achievement of Objectives
8.    The project achieved most of its objectives. It increased food production and
consequently raised incomes of small farmers. Production of the three major food crops
increased over the project period as follows: (a) cassava - at an average annual rate of



4
15% from a base of 5.8 million tonnes to a total of 13.3 million tonnes, with area planted
rising from about 785,900 ha to about 1.18 million ha, and average yield increasing from
7.4 t/ha to 11.25 t/ha; (b) yam - at an average annual rate of 13% from 4.1 to 10.6 million
tonnes, with area planted rising from about 585,000 ha to 1.17 million ha, and average
yield increasing about 7.0 t/ha to 9.1 t/ha and (c) Maize - at an average annual rate of
25% from about 631,900 t to about 1.9 million tonnes, and average area planted
increasing from about 631,200 ha to 1.03 million ha, and average yield increasing from
about 1.0 t/ha to 1.85 t/ha. The same pattern of increases occurred with the minor crops
of sorghum, groundnut, rice, millet, cocoyam and potatoes. Improved technologies and
better market conditions in the 8-year period enabled farmers to increase food production
by 230%, from a base of 4.43 million tonnes sorghum grain equivalent (10% moisture) to
10.3 million tonnes. A flexible phased approach to the development was used. Initial
emphasis was on well-proven components to exploit the agricultural potential consistent
with the financing and managerial capacity of the states. The extension services dealing
with crops were strengthened using the fundamentals of the training and visit (T&V)
system to disseminate available technologies to farmers. Programs of "on-farm" adaptive
research were implemented in conjunction, and intensified progressively. The ADPs
having strengthened their crops-based extension system with front-line extension agents
supported by subject matter specialists (SMS) moved on to implement a unified extension
system covering crops, livestock, forestry and fisheries. This was part of a process to
rationalize roles and costs for state agricultural institutions.
9.    Efforts to reorganize and commercialize input supplies were, however,
unsuccessful.  The FGN  continued to monopolize the supply (procurement and
distribution) of fertilizers. Untimely procurement and delivery caused shortages leading
to many states abandoning the commercialization/privatization programs. On the positive
side, there was evidence of the private sector responding to the liberalization of the
economy under the SAP and initiating imports of agricultural chemicals, equipment and
materials.  In terms of capacity building, considerable progress was made in
strengthening FACU and APMEU to assume a greater share of the responsibilities for
project appraisal, implementation assistance and supervision. It is worthwhile to note
that with the widespread project area and the multiple number of implementing units, the
Bank became increasingly dependent on FACU and APMEU for supervision support,
especially in the supply of technical personnel. Also, the support to the State Ministries
of Agriculture helped to improve their information retrieval (through improved MIS) and
analytical capacity of the staff of the Planning Research and Statistics Department
targeted for the Capacity Building Program (para 5).
Overall Project Implementation Performance
10.  In addition to the performance of farmers in meeting the primary project goal to
increase food production, there was fair performance by the implementing agencies in
providing effective farmer support towards this primary goal. The results of their
activities are summarized below.



5
11.   Adaptive Research.  The level of agronomic trials of improved production
technologies was intensive and conducted at a high standard, generally in collaboration
with national and international research institutions. Initially, the focus was on variety
testing and introductions, crop spacing and planting methods, soil fertility management
and post harvest handling. Later, in response to the need for greater attention to mixed
farming systems, the focus was broadened to investigations and adaptations on better
practices in cropping mixtures, agro-forestry, small livestock husbandry and freshwater
fish culture. The results were mostly satisfactory for crops and formed the basis for
technology information transfer by the extension services.
12.   Extension Services. The programs of technology transfer were generally very
successful. The States unified the several previous specialized services of the MANRs
under the one umbrella of the ADPs. The unification concept was, at first, difficult to
accept by some extension staff and the adoption process was slower than expected. It is
now working well. The T and V system is being followed, but there is some concern on
its cost which they feel could be reduced without weakening its effectiveness. The
organizational aspects are to be reviewed, with due regard to improving the cost
effectiveness.
13.   Seed Multiplication   This program  was largely unsuccessful.  The ADPs
concentrated on operating their own commercial seed farms and gave little or no attention
to organizing and assisting outgrowers to develop the skills for such production, starting
with improved seed multiplied from foundation material from the plant breeders at the
research organizations. While these improved varieties were being promoted by the
extension services, farmers were having difficulty in securing adequate quantities of the
planting material. Pricing of seed was generally below market levels, despite a clear
policy of the FGN under the Seed Act to allow market forces to determine seed prices in
order to build a viable seed industry. The IFAD supported cassava multiplication
program started slowly, but with the effect of the SAP on increasing prices of imported
food, the demand for local food and raw materials rose sharply, and consequently for
planting material of the higher yielding new varieties. This was fully satisfied by the
successful outgrower cassava cuttings programs which were well coordinated by the
National Seed Service (NSS).
14.   Commercial Services. (a) Input Supply. All ADPs undertook distribution of farm
inputs with fertilizer as the main item of sale/distribution. Each of the ADPs inherited a
massive public distribution system with far too many staff and distribution points.
Attempts to trim down the distribution network and commercialize the operations,
however, did not materialize. Some ADPs were initially successful in involving the
private sector in input distribution but untimely supplies of fertilizer from the FGN
created shortages which provided state administrations the opportunity to intervene and
reverse the success. Chemical fertilizers are the major required inputs to achieve the
yield potential of the new crop varieties but the policies of the FGN to monopolize the
supply and distribution of the required mixtures have not served farmers as intended. The
benefits from improved crop varieties and other agronomic practices were thus realized at



6
below potential, especially on the less fertile soils. In response to the FGN request, the
Bank on April 20, 1989 agreed to amend the loan agreement and reallocate US$50
million for bulk purchase of fertilizers through ICB for supply to all states in Nigeria.
This purchase would supplement national fertilizer procurement undertaken by the
Federal Fertilizer Procurement and Distribution Department. Most of this amount was
disbursed in FY90. Distribution of other chemical inputs, tools and equipment by the
ADPs was equally unsatisfactory. These inputs were generally more efficiently provided
by limited but very slowly growing private commercial sources. The provision of inputs
at below market rates discouraged private enterprise from expanding their limited
involvement in such activities and farmers have not been well served as a result. Little or
no effort was made to assist farmers to organize, through Users' Associations (UAs) or
such other working groups, to operate their own services, or to encourage other private
enterprise to offer them. (b) Crop Processing and Storage. This component was
essentially for Cassava and financed by IFAD. It did not attain the desired results of
improving processing quality and capacities and has been reformulated via pilot
processing programs in order to achieve the desired results.
15.   Rural Infrastructure. Compared to earlier similar projects, the design placed low
priority on new supporting infrastructure. The program was to rehabilitate priority feeder
roads, to develop village water supplies, particularly in areas with high guinea worm
risks, and to establish sound maintenance programs, with the intent of progressively
transferring the responsibility to the LGAs, where it constitutionally belongs. The user
communities were also to be involved in the routine maintenance work, including their
training for the purpose, and ultimately, to take it over fully, with limited assistance from
the ADPs and the LGAs. Staff offices and other accommodation were to be provided
from existing MANR buildings, which would be rehabilitated or modified where
necessary. While preference was to be given to private contracting for much of the
works, provision was made for limited in-house capacity in heavy earth- moving and
other equipment for force account work. At project restructuring, small scale irrigation
via Fadama-type schemes was added to this program. The performance in these activities
varied widely between states, depending on local funding, degree of official/political
interference and implementation capacity, including contracting and contractor
management.  Most of the ADPs, with the assistance of FACU, prioritized road
rehabilitation based on need and acceptable (benchmark) estimated ERRs. Only 60% of
the larger revised targets (at mid-term) of the road rehabilitation works were undertaken.
Road maintenance was 41% of the target with community participation not sufficiently
widespread. There was limited use of private contractor capacity for roadworks.
16.   The village water supply programs were based on need and minimum user
contributions to the capital costs and to operation and maintenance. LGAs were rarely
consulted on this. However, by the time construction was organized, the costs frequently
rose well above justifiable limits and, in many instances, the works were either seriously
delayed or were never completed. Based on the larger revised targets at mid-term, 72%
of boreholes and 65%  of hand-dug wells were completed.  Attention to routine
maintenance fell short of requirements, but where the communities were involved, the



7
programs were being sustained through active supervision of operations by Water Users'
Associations (WUAs) which charged adequate fees to cover O&M  expenses.  No
progress was made on transfer of project feeder roads and water programs to the LGAs,
primarily because the LGAs did not have the resources for the maintenance or they were
either disorganized or not functioning. LGAs applied their limited funds to activities
which fell within their priorities.
17.   The rehabilitated MANR buildings were adequate for offices and services in the
original ADP states.    However, the new  states did not have enough office
accommodation and it became necessary to construct offices for the new ADPs.
Construction suffered from inadequate local funding and poor contractor management,
leaving two (Delta and Akwa-Ibom) still incomplete at loan closing date. Most of the
vehicles and equipment were in fair working condition. However, signs of poor
operation or abuse and inadequate maintenance were obvious in some instances. The
workshop facilities are adequate for the servicing, maintaining and light repairing of plant
and equipment.
8.    Fadama irrigation development was included in the last three years. The progress
was slow, with attention being given mainly to planning, studies and other preparatory
work, including groundwater surveys. Only limited implementation occurred. Several of
the ADPs completed their water surveys in preparation for farmer investments in
anticipation of assistance under a proposed irrigation development project.
Factors Affecting Implementation
9.    Overview.  Implementation was adversely affected by: (a) weaknesses in
management organization and performance; (b) delays in counterpart funding and failure
to adjust adequately to sharp inflation; (c) shortage of middle level technical staff,
particularly for extension work; (d) difficulties in managing Bank procurement
procedures and in preventing external interference in staff recruitment and use of project
equipment and vehicles; (e) frequent political changes; and (f) abnormnal floods and
droughts. On the other hand, the changes in the economic environment which started in
1986 improved the market for local food and other raw materials and provided major
incentives for farmers to take the risks in expanding their production. Farmers took
advantage of the improved services made available to them by the ADPs, particularly the
transfer of technologies, better roads and potable village water supplies. They were also
receptive to the concept of organizing themselves into manageable groups to take
ownership for planning, operating and/or maintaining their essential infrastructure and
commercial services.
20.   Project Organization and Management. The organizational structure of the ADPs
for implementation responsibilities was generally sound. The main problem arose from
the indifferent performance of the ADP Executive Committees (ADPECs). Most tried,
and often succeeded, to expand their functions beyond the terms of reference defined in



8
the gazetted edicts officially establishing the ADPs. Their major failing was in usurping
the functions of the Program Managers and the ADP Management Units (ADPMUs) in
day-to-day management matters, taking decisions for which they had no authority or
competence, particularly in staff recruitment and deployment, in procurement of goods
and services and in use of project vehicles and equipment for purposes outside of the
Project. Such interventions invariably caused serious disruption of work programs,
delayed implementation and increased costs.
21.   Management performance was extremely variable between and within the eleven
state ADPMUs over the period. While the professional qualifications and experience of
management and senior technical staff were generally good, they were frequently not
allowed to discharge their management and operational responsibilities effectively by
some State Governments. The main failing was their frequent inability to take full
responsibility for and to expedite the day-to-day management decisions. They were not
always able to advise or educate ADPEC members, early enough, and perhaps with the
support of the FGN (FACU) where needed, on the respective responsibilities of ADPEC
and ADPMU for the implementation of programs, before interferences started. Persistent
efforts by ADPMUs, especially with new ADPEC members, may have moderated the
tendency of ADPEC to become involved with management operations. Timely briefings
were more so necessary because of the frequent changes of ADPEC members,
particularly the State Governors or Administrators and Commissioners. Resistance to
interferences by political or other outside interests carried the high risk of removal of
managers or other staff. Lack of management continuity was an important factor in
implementation performance in some ADPs.
22.   Local Funding and Support. During implementation, the funding resources of the
FGN and States declined while costs rose sharply. They were therefore not always able
to provide on time their required quarterly contributions computed at appraisal.
Moreover, they could not adjust the level of their contributions to allow for the increased
costs in domestic currency which followed the introduction of the SAP and the
devaluation of the local currency. Project restructuring in 1991 correspondingly adjusted
the overall project cost and increased the percentage borne by the loan funds. The
original cost of US$256.4 million was restructured to US$221 million and Bank funding
at US$162 million. This was raised from 66% to 73% of project costs (actual project
costs are now put at US$228.7 million). In addition, State governments were required to
issue letters to the Ministry of Finance (MOF) authorizing the Central Bank of Nigeria
(CBN) to transfer counterpart funds from their federal allocation amounts as and when
due to the ADP.  This measure was, although initially, not honored by all state
governments, was subsequently effective in reducing the problem of counterpart funds.
23.   Procurement Manage:nent.  Project staff found the procurement guidelines
cumbersome to manage and too time consuming. They generally resented their lack of
freedom for independent decisions on choice of suppliers or contractors. Some of the
delays, particularly during the first four years, were due to this resistance to the
guidelines. States also refused to allow FACU to bulk-up ICB items and manage the



9
bidding process. The problem was further exacerbated by interferences from higher state
officials who had no desire to observe the basic provisions for efficiency and equity in the
procurement process. The tenacity of task managers to the integrity of the process, even
if it involved prolonging it, helped in preventing misprocurement.
Bank Performance
24.   The identification, preparation and appraisal of the Project were in line with Bank
policies. The flexible approach to farmer support activities allowed adjustments within
the project activities as economic circumstances changed. The Bank supported such
flexibility to facilitate implementation. The supervision and implementation assistance
was generally adequate. Nonetheless better coordination with ADP management on use
of pooled loan fund could have reduced the risk of under-funded or non-funded contracts
as the funds ran out.  The project management units, however, regarded Bank
procurement procedures too cumbersome and frequently caused significant
implementation delays. They also felt that progress was affected by conflicting advice, in
the initial years, from supervision missions. The development of indicators of project
performance jointly with FACU proved quite useful in providing routine and timely
feedback to the FGN and state governments about implementation bottlenecks as well as
disseminating examples of "best practices" to poorly performing states.
Borrower Performance
25.   Borrower performance was variable. The FGN was consistent in its support for
the ADP system -and generally released counterpart funds promptly to the respective
ADPs; but in many instances the contributions were below what was required for the
approved work programs.  FACU  and APMEU  provided strong start up and
implementation support, joined in supervision and monitoring work and participated in
the mid-term review and completion missions. However project monitoring requirements
were not adequately developed at the preparation stages or subsequently during
implementation. Further, the FGN did not play a strong enough role to ensure that all
sub-borrowers met fully and promptly their obligations for effective implementation.
Some sub-borrowers were not always as diligent in support of smooth implementation of
their components. The major defaults were in delayed and inadequate funding and poor
performance of the ADPECs, with frequent interference in the day to day management
decisions, particularly in staff matters, procurement and misuse of project vehicles and
equipment.
Assessment of Project Outcome
26.   Overall, the project outcome is satisfactory. The estimated overall ERR at loan
closing is 32.9%, compared with 24% at appraisal and 25% at mid term. In spite of



10
difficult operating circumstances caused by political and budgetary difficulties, the states
have organized agricultural development institutions with capacity to support farmers in
improving production, productivity and incomes and to manage their land and water
resources in a sustainable manner. Farmers, encouraged by beneficial policies, responded
well to the support and achieved substantial increases in production, incomes and quality
of life.
Project Sustainability
27.   The FGN recognized that the ADPs have played a key role in reversing the
decline in agricultural production and setting the country on a firmer footing for greater
self reliance and food security. Having seen the benefits farmers and other users would
be willing to provide for and operate directly their own essential infrastructure and
institutions to access public facilities and commercial opportunities.  The cost of
maintaining the ADPs and the extension services is something which state governments
have not internalized fully. This is largely because the benefits from the activities of the
ADP are less obvious when these come in the form of agricultural production than, say,
on roads and water supplies. Budgetary support from the FGN and the State governments
would hold the key to the sustainability. Given experience to date, some of the states are
less likely to maintain the support at a required level.
Future Operations
28.   All eleven ADPs have received assurances from  their respective state
governments that required operational funds will be provided at minimum affordable
levels in the states' recurrent annual budgets, and based on past provisions and inflation,
to maintain the investments in institutional and infrastructural facilities during the last
eight years and to assist farmers with essential services. Federal funds are also promised
at not less than past levels to supplement state funds. The operational plans in Appendix
'C' were prepared by the respective ADPs in close consultation with their State MANRS
and with guidance from FACU. Their projections of required local funds are based on
the provisions in the recurrent budgets in the last three years. The policy for use of these
funds will be to focus mainly on (a) maintaining the technical services for adaptive
research and technology transfer; (b) organizing farmers into workable groups and
training them to take ownership of their essential infrastructure and commercial services
and maintain them in a cost effective manner; and (c) maintaining the minimum
administrative, accounting and monitoring services. The staff structure of each ADP will
be rationalized and, where necessary, redeployed to ensure adequate capacity to develop
farmers' ability to become self reliant for their range of essential services. These services
would include commercial input supply, credit, post harvest handling, processing, storage
and marketing, transport and access roads, potable village water supplies and irrigation
infrastructure. The successful implementation of the operational plans hinges on two



11
main factors: (a) an enabling macro-economic framework and (b) adequate budgetary
support.
Key Lessons Learned
29.   The key lessons learned are as follows: (a) management stability and the proper
support of the ADPECs are critical for smooth project implementation; (b) counterpart
funding must be adequate, consistent and timely to avoid implementation delays, cost
escalation and allow effective use of loan funds; in this respect letters from state
governments authorizing mandatory deductions from Federal allocations can be an
effective instrument; (c) farmers and rural communities are willing to take ownership and
be trained for the proper operation and maintenance of essential support facilities and
services; (d) effective and sustainable institutional development is a gradual process and
cannot be hastened; (e) inadequate and inefficient supply of inputs reduce the impact of
extension efforts in technology transfer and increased production; and (f) managing
pooled loan funds in multi-state development projects creates a competitive environment
for ensuring an efficient use of loan funds, but it requires careful monitoring to reduce the
risk of over commitments by competing implementing agencies.



12
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial         Partial       Negligible    Not applicable
Macro Policies                    C1             C1               0                 t0
Sector Policies                    l             O       0                        O
Financial Objectives              O              0       0                         0
Institutional Development         El             E                E                E
Physical Objectives               El             E                E                El
Poverty Reduction                 El 0                            0                0
Gender Issues                                    0 E3             0l
Other Social Objectives           E              0                E                0
Environmental Objectives          ElEl                            E                El
Public Sector Management          0E 0                            0                0
Other (specify)                   E              E                E                E
B. Project Sustainability            Likely                Unlikely                Uncertain
El                      El                       El
Highly
C. Bank Performance                  satisfactory        Satisfactory              Deficient
Identification                   E                        0                        E1
Preparation Assistance            E                       0                        El
Appraisal                         El                      0                        El
Supervision                      El                       0:                       E
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                    satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                                E              0              E
Implementation                             E              0              El
Covenant Compliance                        E              0              El
Operation (if applicable)                  El             El             El
Highly                                         Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome            Satisfactory Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
Of the I I states under the project, 10 were judged to be satisfactory, and I (Akwa-lbom) was judged
to be unsatisfactory. The main cause for the relative failure was too much political interference in
day-to-day operations of the ADP.



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit Title              Purpose         Approval Status
Preceding Operations
1.    1092-UNI   Funtua ADP  Integrated Rural Dev. 1975  Completed
2.    1099-UNI   Gusau ADP                         1975  Completed
3.    1164-UNI   Gombe ADP                         1975  Completed
4.    1454-UNI   Lafia ADP                         1977  Completed
5.    1455-UNI   Ayangba ADP                       1977  Completed
6.    1667-UNI   Bida ADP                          1977  Completed
7.    1668-UNI   Ilorin ADP                        1979  Completed
8.    1719-UNI   ARMTI         Agriculture/Mgt     1979  Completed
Training
9.    1838-UNI   Oyo North   Integrated Rural      1980  Completed
ADP         Development
10.   1854-UNI   Ekiti/Akoko                      1980  Completed
ADP
11.   1981 -UNI   Bauchi ADP                      1981  Completed
12.   1982-UNI   Kano ADP                         1981  Completed
13.   2029-UNI   ATAP          Agricultural Tech.
Assistance         1981  Completed
14.   2185-UNI   Sokoto ADP  Integrated Technical
Assistance         1981  Completed
15.   2345-UNI   Fertilizer    Fertilizer Input Sup. 1982  Completed
16.   2436-UNI   Kaduna/       Agricultural Dev.    1986  Completed
Katsina
17.   2741-UNI   South Borno                      1986  Completed
Following Operations
1.    2988-UNI   MSADP II                         1989  Completed
2.    2035-UNI   MSADP III                         1989  Completed
3.    3183 -UNI   Nat'l Seed   Improved seed supply 1990  Ongoing
Plant Qua-
rantine
3.    2261-UNI   Agric.        Improved basic     1991  Ongoing
Resrch.     Research
4.    3451-UNI   Fadama        Small Scale irrigation 1992  Ongoing
5.    3483-UNI   NATSP         Extension/ Adaptive
Research           1992  Ongoing



14
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                Date Planned           Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification                                          -           May 1982
Preparation                                    1982-1984            1982-1984
Appraisal                                      May 1984             May 1984
Negotiations                                   March 1985           July 22-Aug.2, 1985
Board Presentation                             May 1985             June 26, 1986
Signing                                        July 1986            Nov. 6, 1986
Effectiveness                                  Feb. 4, 1987         June 15, 1987
Midterm review                                 Sept. 1990           Sept. 1991
Project Completion                             December 1992        December 1995
Loan Closing                                   June 30, 1992        June 30, 1995
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
______   FY87   FY88 | FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93 | FY94    FY95
Appraisal Estimate    29.6   76.0   110.6  133.2  154.0  162.0  162.0   162.0   162.0
Actual                 -    6.88   15.56  74.89   88.50  105.34  126.07  155.36  161.89
Actual as % of         0      9      14    56      57      65      78      96     99.9
Estimate                                                l I  -  I_I_I _
Date of final Disbursement: March 29, 1995



15
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in   Revised Estimates
SAR/ President's Report      (at mid-term)          Actual
1  Extension (No.)
- Farm families                        3,979,591           3,777,611
- Contact farmers                      1,160,082             535,780
-VEA                                       2,764               2,316
- EA farmer ratio                              -              1:1631
- SPATS                                1,088,923             795,728
- Extension Block                           399                  361
- Extension Cells                          2,770               2,548
- MTRM                                      760                  738
- FNTS                                     6,076               5,602
- WIA Formed                               7,416               4,582
2. Adaptive Research (No.)
- OFAR                                    6,513               5,133
- Diagnostic Surveys                         37                  33
3. Roads/Tracks (Km.)
- Rehabilitation                         10,776               6,221
- Maintenance                            39,346              16,184
4. Rural Water Supply (No.)
- Boreholes                                  175                 126
- Wells                                    2,399               1,558
5. FADAMA Infrastructure
- Washbores                               818                 271
- Tubewells                                 620                  305
6.  Farm Service Centres (No.)
- Farm Service Centre                       192                  192
- Primary distribution point                 67                   67
- Fertilizer                               3,272              1,352.4
- Seeds                                    235.2               234.0
7. Agrochemicals
- Kg.            236,424.6           143,459.6
- Ltrs.          497,812.8           290,531.3
- Sat.             497,858             462,217
- Tubes              1,877               1,877



16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (cont'd.)
Key Implementation Indicators in   Revised Estimates
SAR/ President's Report      (at mid-term)          Actual
8. Equipment (No.)
-   Sprayers                                   5,783               4,536
-   Ox-drawn equipment                         6,625               2,784
-  Engine pump                                 3,163               2,503
9.  Training
- Overseas (No.)                            412                  281
- Local and In-house                      26,895              32,679
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No indicators for project operation were established for the project implementation
period.



17
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study    at Appraisal/Redefined  Status               Impact of Study
1. Agricultural    To fill some major gaps   Undertaken with  Useful in dealing with
Planning Data   in data on natural     delay but most of the  land planning activities
Studies.        resources, farming     acquired data was   of ADP.
systems and settlement   gathered by FACU
patterns.
2. Food Crop    To derive consumption/  Completed.         Information used by
Marketing Study. production balance                        ADPs to assist farmers
sheets, identify                          in planning production
surplus/deficit areas and                  and marketing
determine ways of                          activities.
improving marketing
and distribution systems.
3. Water Supply   To identify levels of  Completed by local    Limited. Report was of
Feasibility     investment in new and    consulting firm but    a general nature and
Study.          rehabilitation of existing  results not in line with  information provided
wells and boreholes   expectations. Super-   was not sufficiently
covering seven states.    vision of study by  specific for identifying
FACU and ADPs'    and planning village
Infrastructure      water programs.
Division was
inadequate.
4. Preparation  To provide information   Completed mainly by  Very useful in
study for       for preparation of the    local consultants  preparing and apprais-
MSADP II        second phase of the    under supervision of  ing the Second and
multi-state agricultural   FACU.           Third Multi-state Agri-
development project.                       cultural Development
projects (see Table 2).



18
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$M)                  (US$M)
Local  Foreign   Total Local  Foreign  Total
Item                 Costs  Costs            Costs  Costs
State Components
1. Crop & Farm Dev.      24.5      66.5   91.0   23.3      56.5   79.8
2. Agricultural Research   1.2      1.0   2.2    1.1        0.9    2.0
3. Commercial Services    6.6       2.6   9.2    6.3        2.2    8.5
4. Roads & Workshops      18.4     22.6  41.0   15.6       19.2   34.8
5. Rural Water            7.5       8.9   15.6    6.4       7.6   14.0
6. Mgmt. Support Serv.    14.5      9.3  23.8   12.3        7.9   20.2
Total Base Costs-ADPs    72.7    110.1  182.8   65.0     94.3  159.3
Physical Contingencies   3.4       7.9   11.3    2.9      6.7    9.6
Price Contingencies     29.3      16.2  54.5   24.9       13.8   38.7
Total Project Cost-ADP    105.4    134.2  239.6   92.8    114.8  207.6
Federal Components
1. Cassava Multi. & Proc.    2.5    2.3   4.8    2.1        2.0    4.1
2. Support to APPU        0.2       0.3   0.5    0.2        0.3    0.5
3. Pilot Projects         0.6       0.6    1.2    0.5       0.5    1.0
4. Studies                 1.2      4.5    5.7    1.0       3.8    4.8
Total Base Cost-Federal    4.5     7.7   12.2    3.8      6.6   10.4
Physical Contingencies   0.3       0.3    0.6    0.3      0.3    0.6
Price Contingencies      2.6       1.4   4.0    3.2       7.0   10.2
Total Project Cost-Fed.   7.4       9.4  16.8    7.3       13.9   21.2
Total Project Costs     112.8    143.6  256.4  100.1    128.6  228.7



19
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)  Revised             Actual
Estimate           (US$M)
(at mid-
term)
Local   Foreign    Total    Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Source            Costs    Costs                        Costs  Costs
IBRD                   26.9      135.1  162.0      162.0   82.3      79.7   162.0
IFAD                    3.5        8.5   12.0       12.0   2.59       7.0    9.59
Federal Government     49.5          -   49.5       23.7  20.03         -   20.03
State Governments      32.9          -   32.9       22.3  37.08         -   37.08
Farmers                   -          -      -        1.0       -        -        -
TOTAL                112.8      143.6  256.4      221.0j 142.0      86.7   228.7



20
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
This table identifies the major costs and/or benefits that enter into the calculation of
a re-estimated net present value (or economic rate of return). Detailed data and assumptions
of costs and benefits are available in the Borrower's Completion Report dated July 1995
prepared by A.P.M.E.U.
Economic Costs and Benefits
(Naira Million)
S/NO     Year     Proj. Costs Total Ben. Net Ben.
1     1987      42.1       .0    -42.1
2     1988      163.0      .0   -163.0
3     1989     169.3       3.2   -166.1
4     1990     201.5       4.9   -196.1
5     1991     297.0    534.0   -291.6
6     1992     232.0      11.3   -220.7
7     1993     269.6      19.3   -250.3
8     1994     427.0      66.6   -360.4
9     1995     679.0    112.0   -567.0
10     1996     387.0    245.0   -142.0
11     1997     194.8    567.0    372.2
12     1998     112.7  1,236.0  1,123.3
13     1999     112.7  2,457.0  2,344.3
14     2000     112.7  4,334.3  4,221.6
15     2001     112.7  5,511.1   5,398.4
16     2002     112.7  6,496.2  6,385.5
17     2003     112.7  7,160.7  7,048.0
18     2004     112.7  7,507.8  7,395.1
19     2005     112.7  7,689.0  7,576.3
20     2006      112.7  7,765.6  7,652.9
ERR (%)                 32.9
Discount rate = 12%
NPV (Million Naira) = N6289
ERR (%) = 32.9



21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agree-   Section   Covenant   Present     Original      Revised         Description of Covenant             Comments
ment                Type      Status    Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Loan      3.01     5          CP         Continuous                 ... the Borrower to ensure that  Initial  payments  were
2733-    (b)                                                        project States perform all their  made but later payments
UN]                                                                 obligations including provision   were     delayed      or
of funds, facilities, services  inadequate.  The States
and other resources needed for  frequently  took  action
the project and shall not take   against the best interests
or permit to be taken  any   of the Project.
action which would prevent or
interfere with such obligations.
3.02     5          C                                     The Borrower to place (a) a
(a)                                                       qualified    &    experienced
officer in charge of the NSS
cassava seed program and (b)
appoint and  assign  to  it a
qualified   and   experienced
accountant.
3.02     2          C          12/31/86                   The Borrower to (i) establish a
(b)                                                       cassava          multiplication
revolving fund; (ii) pay into
that fund  all for sales  of
foundation material produced
by the NSS; and (iii) cause all
amounts paid into the fund to
finance the recurrent cost of
the   cassava   multiplication
program.
3.03     5          C          06/30/86                   The Borrower to establish a
(a)                                                       Projects Advisory Committee
in   form    and    function
l_______                                                             satisfactory to the Bank.
3.03     5          C          Continuous                 The Borrower to maintain and
(b)                                                       make available to the Bank,
specified records and accounts
adequate to reflect sound acco-
unting     practices      and
I _______                      ________  ____________  ___________   operations.                     I_________________oe ato s
4.01      1         C                                     The  Borrower to  have  all
(b)                                                       accounts for each fiscal year
audited  in  accordance  with
sound auditing principles by
independent auditors  accep-
table to the Bank.
4.01      1         C                                     For all SOE withdrawals, the
(c)                                                       Borrower  to  (i)  maintain
separate  records, (ii) retain
such records for at least one
year after closing date; (iii)
enable Bank to examine such
records; and (iv) such separate
records to be included in the
annual audits with  separate
auditors' opinion.
Project   2.01     4          CP                                    The States to make provisions   Most States experienced
Agree-   (b)                                                        for  capital  and   recurrent  difficulty in meeting the
ment                                                                expenses  for  the  project,  cost increases due to the
including  Staff salaries and   SAP. The situation was
other emoluments, from  the   partially eased in the re-
annual MANR budgets.            design of the project, by
reducing total project cost
&       the        States
contributions.



22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (Cont'd.)
-_                     -_  -   __                                 _          __.
Agree-   Section   Covenant   Present    Original      Revised        Description of Covenant            Comments
ment               Type      Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillment
2.01     3          CP        06/30/86                   The State to  (i) open and   Payments were frequently
(c)                                                      maintain a commercial bank   delayed by some States
account  for  payments  for  and only a few authorized
required goods and services;  the CBN  to deduct at
(ii) pay  into  that a/c  the  source for their a/c.
estimated  first  six  months
budget requirement from the
state and (iii) authorize the
Central   Bank   to   make
subsequent monthly payments
due to this a/c.
2.01     5          C                                    The  States  to  submit  to
(d)                                                      FMANR for approval and to
the Bank for information, at
least 4 months before the
beginning of any fiscal year,
project  work   plans   and
procurement programs for that
fiscal year for each Project
Executing Agency.
2.01     3          C                                   The  States  to  open  and
(e)                                                     maintain special dollar a/c in
commercial banks to facilitate
loan disbursements.
2.02     3          C                                   The States to follow  agreed
procurement  guidelines  for
l______                      _______                               goods and services.
2.04     5          C                                    Should  the  States establish   All  States  established
(a)                                                     authorities to carry out Agric.  Agricultural Development
and Rural Dev. functions of  Projects (ADPs) with the
the  MANRs,  they  would  required constitutions and
provide for the constitution of  powers to implement their
the  ADPMUs  as  separate  components   of   the
management  unit  functions  Project.
and power satisfactory to the
Bank, including powers to
maintain separate records and
accounts.
2.05     5          CP                                   Each State shall (i) prepare and   The  States  failed  to
(a)                                                     send to the Bank for approval,  satisfy fully the fertilizer
annual  plans  for  fertilizer  distribution    covenant,
distribution and arrangements  with the FGN and States
to involve private retailers and   controlling this activity,
(ii) prepare and send to Bank   without involvement of
and FACU  for approval not  private retailers.
later than Sept. I each year,
their feeder roads programs.
2.06     5          CP                                  Before  undertaking  any  (i)  Some States started this
(a)                                                     rehabilitation  or  (ii)  new   well but did not succeed
infrastructure investments, the  in wide coverage.  The
States were to submit to the   village  water  schemes
FGN and the Bank details of  showed  greater success
arrangements   to    ensure  rate  than  routine  road
adequate O&M  of the works,  maintenance.
including contributions by the
users to the recurrent costs.



23
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (Cont'd.)
Agree-    Section    Covenant   Present        Original       Revised           Description of Covenant                 Comments
ment                  Type       Status      Fulfillment    Fulfillment
2.06      5            NC                                        The States to ensure that sales   These requirements were
(b)                                                              of (a) all fertilizers  are  at  rarely met.
uniform and countrywide retail
prices, (b) herbicides and
pumps financed by the loan are
at prevailing market prices and
(c) all seedlings and seeds
produced under the loan are at
full production and distribution
costs.
2.07      5            C                                         States to make arrangements   This  was  not  possible
for LGAs to development, with   because of instability and
assistance of ADPs and FACU,  poor   performance    of
capacity to assume O&M  of   LGAs.
project feeder roads by end of
loan funding.
3.01       1           C                                         States shall maintain separate
(a)                                                              records and accounts to reflect
in accordance with sound
accounting    practices,   the
operations,   resources   and
expenditures on the project.
3.01       1           C                                         States shall (i) have accounts
(b)                                                              for each fiscal year audited in
(i),(ii)                                                         accordance       with     sound
 (iii)                                                          principles   by   independent
auditors; (ii) furnish not later
than six months after the end
of each year, certified copies
of each audit report in scope
and detail as may be required
by the Bank; and (iii) furnish
to  the   Bank   other  info.
concerning such audits as may
be reasonably requested from
time to time.
3.01       1           C                                         Maintain for SOEs (i) separate
(c)                                                              records  and   accounts;  (ii)
retain  for one year after the
closing   date   all  records
relating to SOEs; (iii) enable
the   examination   of   such
records by the Bank; and (iv)
ensure  that  accounting  for
these    SOEs    are   shown
separately in the audit reports
and opinions.
Covenant types.
1. =   Accounts/audits                                           8.  = Indigenous people
2.  =   Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries  9.  Monitoring, review, and reporting
3.  =   Flow and utilization of project funds                    10.  = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4.  =   Counterpart funding                                      II.    Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
5.  =   Management aspects of the project or executing agency    12.    Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional action
6.  =   Environmental covenants                                  13   = Other
7.  =   Involuntary resettlement



24
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
On the basis of documents reviewed and opinions and comments received, the project
has been implemented in compliance with all applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                               Actual
Project Cycle                                                  I
Weeks           US$(000)
Through Appraisal                          63.0             134.4
Appraisal-Board                           194.1             399.9
Board-Effectiveness                        12.1              26.2
Supervision                               869.4            1513.2
Completion                                 29.0              57.2
TOTAL                                   1167.6            2130.9



25
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Days    Specialized   Implemen    Develop-
Stage of      Month/          No. of     eld    StaffSkills     -tation      ment            Types of
Project Cycle   Year            Persons            Represented     Status    Objective          Problems
Through Appraisal    9/82-12/84      14        67       EC,AG,WE         -
FA,PR,RD
Appraisal through    7/85-11/85      5         33       EC,FA            -           _
Board Approval
Board Approval thru    9/86-6/87     7         51       FA,PR            -           -        Late release of counterpart funds
Effectiveness 1/                                                                              and fertilizer storage problem.
Supervision 1        9/13-10/5/87    I         22       FA               2           2        Ogun State loan not yet
effective.
Supervision 2        2/21-3/16/88    1         23       FA               2           2        Ogun loan not effective; procure-
ment in Benue & Imo ADPs.
Supervision 3 _/     11/29- /88      2                  RU,RE             -           -      N.A.
Supervision 4        2/5-27/89       1         23       FA               2           2        Lack of human resources, and
procurement
Supervision 5        11/7-22/89      1         15       AE                                    Management problems at Benue
and IMO ADPs.
Supervision 6        1/20-3/9/90     3         20       AG,OP                                 Conditions of Credit
Effectiveness
Supervision 7        2/19-3/11/90    3         21       AE,FA,CN         3           3        Cassava Prod., Equipment
Prides, mid-term Review and
Redesign discussions.
Supervision 8        4/3-6/90        1         4        FA               -            -      Plateau State - Agric. Issues.
Supervision 9        5/21-6/8/90     2         19       AE,FA            2           2       Weak administration, counterpart
funding, reporting,, and weak
FACU & MANR support.
Supervision 10       1/28-2/2/91     2         6        AE,OP            2           2        Staffing, Counterpart funding,
reporting and weak MANR.
Supervision 1]       4/15-5/1/91     3         16       AE,RE,EX                             Redesign non-perfbrming
components & reallocation of
funds.
Supervision 12       6/1-30/91       3         30       RE,AG,EX          -           -      Thematic Supv. - OFAR trials.
Supervision 13       3/2-20/92       1         18       OP,RE            3           2        Management at Akwa Ibom and
bifurcation of Imo State.
Supervision 14       4/6-10/92       2         5        OP,AG            2           3       Vehicles, Counterpan funding,
reporting, and staff salaries.
Supervision 15       9/22-25/92      2         4        AE,CN            2           2        Delta ADP - Staffing,, Counter-
part funding and management.
Supervision 16       10/16-22/92     2         7        OP,TC            3           3        Funds for Akwa Ibom state.
Supervision 17       10/20-27/92     1         8        AE                -           -      Plateau ADP



26
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions (cont'd.)
Performance Rating
Dnays    Specialized    Implemen    Develop-
Stage of       Mont/           No  of    Field    Staff Skills    -tation       ment            Types of
Project Cycle    Year            Persons             Represented     Status     Objective          Problems
Supervision 18        11/2-6/92       3         5         OP,RES,AC         2           2        Counterpart funds and salaries.
Supervision 19        12/7-8/92       1         2        AE                 -           -        Anambra & Enugu ADPs.
Supervision 20        1/11-13193      1         3        AE                 4           2        Anambra ADP, cars, proj.
mgmt., HQ Bldg., and
counterpart funds.
Supervision 21        1/31-2/25/93    2         26       OP                 3           3        Abia & Imo States - Extension
I                                       overstaffing.
Supervision 22        2/15-17/93      2         3        AE,CON             2           2        Ogun ADP, staffing, PMU, rural
water supply, and feeder roads.
Supervision 23        2/18-20/93      2         3        OP,OP              3           3        Akwa-lbom, Imo and Abia
ADPs.
Supervision 24        4/ -30/93 ?     I         ?        AE                 2           2        Staffing, and procurement
Supervision 25        5/6-8/93        1         3         AE                2           2        Delta ADP - staffing, PME, HQ
bldg. and roads.
Supervision 26        11/2-5/93       2         4        OP,AG              2           2        Benue State - Procurement
Supervision 27        11/29-12/3/93   2         5        AG,EX              -           -        Cross River State - Management
and OFAR trials.
Supervision 28        3/8-12/94       3         5        TC,OP,AG                                Progress on AKADEP 1993
Work Program.
Supervision 29        3/21-22/94      3         2        TC,OP,AG                                Imo ADP Implementation.
Supervision 30        4/7-30/94       3         24       AE,TC,CN           2           2        Political in Edo ADP and seed
quality and pricing.
Supervision 31        9/26-10/11/94    1         16      AE                 -           -        Implementation progress and
I                                       capacity building.
Supervision 32        2/12-311/95     1         18       AE                                     over-commitment of funds and
progress on ICR preparation.
Completion            9/11-10/11/95   7         31       AG,EX,TC,         _                     Preparation mission for ICR.
RES,OP
AG=Agriculturist; FA=Financial Analyst; EC=Economist; AE=Agric. Economist; WE=Water Engineer;
RD=Road Spslt.; PR=Procurement Spslt.; RU=Rural Engineer; RE=Research; EX=Extension;
OP=Operations Officer; TC=Tree Crops Spslt.; AC=Accountant; CN=Consultant.
1/       Since the project became effective on 6/15/87, the supervision missions between the dates 9/22/86 to 6/2/87
have been accounted for in the 'Board Approval thru Effectiveness'.
2/        This was a Thematic Supervision for which no details are available.
Note:    This project involves I I states which were supervised normally by different individuals/groups, some at the
same time. Most of the times there were only Back-to-Office Reports or Aide-Memoires prepared and no forms 590,
hence no performance ratings were available for those supervisions. 590s were prepared for the whole project to meet
the Annual Review of Project Performance (ARPP) requirements.



Appendix A
NIGERIA
FIRST MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(MSADP I. Ln No. 2733-UNI)
Final Supervision and Implementation Completion Report Mission.
September 10 to October 5. 1995.
AIDE-MEMOIRE
An initial briefing meeting was held with most mission members at the World Bank
offices, Lagos, on Monday, September 11, 1995, and at which the field programme and
operational logistics for the following four weeks were finalized. In order to complete
the field work within the limited time, the mission was divided into five teams to cover
the eleven States as follows:
Team A: Lewis Campbell (Consultant) - Mission Leader, Ray Unama (World Bank,
Lagos), Edwin Okorie, R. Okoro, John Eboigbe and Abel Oduyale (FACU - Abuja),
Christopher Okonjo (APMEU, Benin) and Frank Kayoma (APMEU, Enugu) covering the
States of Ogun, Edo, Delta, Abia, Anambra and Enugu from September 12 to 30;
Team B: Sam Eremie (World Bank, Abuja) - Team Leader, Frank Kayoma
(APMEU) and Peter Ta'avaan (FACU), covering Cross River State from September 12 to
15;
Team C: Ogbo Nduaka (World Bank, Lagos) - Team Leader, Sam Eremie (World
Bank), S. Okoli (FACU), V. Onochie (Consultant - FACU) and F. Idefoh (APMEU),
covering Plateau State from September 18 to 21;
Team D: Dele Ilebani (World Bank, Lagos) - Team Leader, Esther Gadzama (World
Bank, Lagos), Osuagwu (FACU) and C. Molokwu (APMEU), covering Benue and Imo
States from September 18 to 29; and
Team E: Claude Carlier (World Bank, HQ), Dele Ilebani, Esther Gadzama, Frank
Kayoma (APMEU), and the representative of FACU, covering Akwa Ibom State from
October 2 to 4.
The mission teams reviewed records, reports and other documents, including draft
internal ICRs and held discussions with staff of the separate implementing ADPs, with
farmers and with officials of the State MANRs. An outline of its main findings was
presented on October 5, 1995, at a wrap-up meeting at Abuja chaired by Engnr. Usman
Jama'are, deputy Director of Agriculture (Engineering), FDA and attended by his senior
staff, including officials of APMEU and FACU, and by the ADP Program Managers.
This Aide-Memoire forms the basis for the presentation and the resulting discussions. It
highlights the salient issues which will be addressed in the preparation of the ICR.
We wish to thank the Director of the FDA and the Heads of APMEU and FACU for
participation and able support of their staff in the mission. We wish also to thank the
State Commissioners of Agriculture and Natural Resources for receiving briefings from



2
the mission and to acknowledge the valuable assistance and cooperation from the
respective ADP Program Managers and their management and technical staff.
Background. A loan of $162.0 million from the World Bank to the Federal
Government of Nigeria (FGN) was approved in June, 1986, as part financing for the
MSADP I to be implemented over a 5-year period, at an estimated total cost of $256.4
million by statewide Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs) in the seven States of
Anambra, Bendel, Benue, Cross River, Imo, Ogun and Plateau to which the loan would
be on lent by the FGN. The project design took into account experiences in several
enclave and statewide ADPs during the previous ten years in Nigeria, as well as local
circumstances in the target States. It was less complex, focusing on fewer activities in
support of small farmers to increase their production and productivity. The main concern
was to develop cost effective and sustainable institutions to focus on generating and
proving appropriate improved technologies and transferring them to small farmers. Other
activities or services included in previous ADPs, such as provision of rural infrastructure
and input supply services, were to be progressively reduced in scope or omitted, with the
expectation that, in time, they would be provided by other organizations, in either the
public or the private sector, where there is greater capacity and competence to do so
efficiently.
The loan became effective in June 1987, a year after Board approval and by April
1990, four years later, only $66.3 million or 43% had been disbursed. In the meantime,
new States were being created from the original project States and by 1991 the number
had increased from 7 to 11, each with its own ADP to implement their portion of the
Project. Up to that time progress was slow, due to a number of factors, including (a)
weak management in some ADPs, (b) substantial changes in prices as a result of a ten-
fold reduction in value of the local currency, following the adoption of a Structural
Adjustment Program (SAP) soon after the loan approval in 1986, and (c) defaults in
counterpart funding. At the same time, the environment for competitive agricultural
production and marketing had improved significantly and farmers were beginning to
adopt widely the hitherto ignored new technologies for raising yields and increasing
production efficiency. They were also calling for the ADPs to provide some of the badly
needed essential support services and infrastructure. It was therefore decided in 1991 to
redesign the Project to address the new circumstances brought on by the SAP and which
were affecting implementation. The redesign proposals which took into account national
agriculture policies, included additional farmer support activities in infrastructure and
operational facilities, reallocation between loan categories and pooling the remaining
funds to allow faster drawdown, especially by the States which were better prepared with
counterpart funds and more effective management to take advantage of the benefits. An
important measure to correct the poor local funding was the procedure of timely
deductions, "at source", of amounts due which was adopted earlier on by a few states,
later formalized by all states and but in the end implemented by only some.
Program Implementation. The initial years of the project were affected by
inadequate local commitment and readiness to expedite implementation. The one-year



3
delay in loan and disbursement effectiveness and initial slowness in organizing their
programs was due partly to inexperience of the States to deal with the loan conditions.
This was further complicated by the need for joint actions by more than one government.
The procurement and disbursement procedures were particularly tedious for them to
follow. The measures introduced in the redesign, including the pooling of the loan funds,
spurred the states to take the necessary actions to expedite implementation and derive as
much as possible of the project benefits. The results were as expected, with several of the
ADPs accelerating their operations. However in some instances over-commitments
occurred on the balance of the funds. The loan was fully drawn down in 8 years, after
three extensions of the closing date, with most of the targets substantially achieved,
despite the increased costs over the extended period.
The project was able to follow a flexible phased approach to the developments,
with emphasis on well proven components geared to the agriculture potential and within
the financing and managerial capacity of the states. It was able to get the states to
reorganize some of the farmer support activities such as adopting an effective unified
extension service and an intensified program of adaptive on-farm research. Other
activities, however, did not all do as well. No progress was made on putting farmer input
supplies services on a commercial footing although the private sector, encouraged under
the policies of the SAP, were gradually entering the commercial supply services for
equipment, chemicals and other materials. The FGN continued to maintain a
stranglehold on the supply and distribution of chemical fertilizers, with poor results on
their timely availability to apply to crops. Efforts of ADPs to improve timely availability
were feeble and largely ineffective. No progress was made to bring the maintenance of
feeder roads and village water supplies under the umbrella of the LGAs, where these
activities statutorily belong. The default was due to lack of capacity in the LGAs. Very
limited progress was made in passing routine maintenance operations of these facilities to
their users, with water users doing much better. While there is still much to be done in
strengthening the federal support institutions, good progress was made in preparing
FACU and APMEU for assuming a greater share of the responsibility for project
preparation, appraisal and supervision.
Project organization. The organization of the ADPs for the implementation
responsibilities was generally good. The main problem was in the indifferent
performance of the ADP Executive Committees (ADPECs). Most often tried, and in
some instances succeeded, to expand their functions beyond their terms of reference as
defined in the gazetted edicts officially establishing the ADPs. Their major failing was in
usurping the functions of the Program Managers and the ADP Management Units
(PMUs) in day-to-day management matters, and taking decisions on which they had no
authority or competence, particularly in staff recruitment and deployment and in
procurement matters. Such interventions were often the major causes of much of the
implementation delays. The ADPs most affected by this situation were the ones which
derived the least benefits from the loan funds.



4
Program Management. Management performance was extremely variable over
the project period. The professional qualifications of management and senior technical
staff were generally good. However, they were frequently not allowed to discharge their
management and operational responsibilities effectively by some State Governments.
The major failing of most of the ADPs was too frequently their inability to take full
responsibility for the day to day management decisions. They were not always able to
advise or educate ADPEC members, early enough and perhaps with the support of the
FGN (FACU) where needed, on the respective responsibilities of ADPEC and PMU in
the implementation of the Project programs, before interferences started. Persistent
efforts by PMUs to bring to the attention of ADPEC members, on their assumption of
duties, the respective roles of ADPEC and PMU in the implementation of the programs
and the likely consequences in breaching them, may have moderated their desire to
become directly involved with management operations. Timely briefing was more so
necessary because of the frequency of changes of ADPEC members, particularly the State
Governors or Administrators and Commissioners. The day to day management
responsibilities of some PMUs were thus vulnerable to the risks of frequent and undue
interference by political or other external interests. Continuity of management was also
at risk, with the possibility of removal of managers who stood firm against such
interferences. Two critical areas of frequent interference by state authorities were in the
appointment of staff against the best interests of the project, and the removal of project
vehicles and equipment for use elsewhere. These seriously disrupted project operations,
frustrated the discharge of staff duties, encouraged indiscipline, delayed progress and
increased costs.
There was also the tendency of some Program Managers to reduce the scope of
implementation monitoring by not funding the key PME activities adequately. This
reduced the ability of PMUs to address critical implementation issues at an early stage.
Consequently, much of the project benefits at the farmer level were not fully assessed.
Staff Recruitment and Training and Institutional Development. The ADPs
were able to recruit most of their core staff from existing members of the various State
MANRs and these were supplemented by local contract staff from other government
agencies and the private sector. The performance of staff training at all levels was good.
The quality of institutional development in only some of the ADPs is high, and their
staffing has been fairly stable at the senior level. The weaker ones suffered from frequent
interferences outside the control of their PMUs. The creation of new states and
consequent splitting of ADPs diluted capacities of the management and technical staff
and added further to the weakening of some the ADPs. It is noteworthy that, given the
opportunity, ADPs were able to recruit and retain competent local professionals for the
established posts and they were, in the main, responsible for the strength in developing
the institutional capacity. This has placed those ADPs in a strong position to continue the
essential technical support to farmers in pursuit of the basic objectives of raising
production, productivity and quality of life in rural areas.



5
Operational Facilities. The basic physical facilities for the effective conduct of
the implementation operations were generally adequate in the original ADP States.
Existing structures were acquired and repaired, modified or extended as needed to
accommodate the planned programs. However, the subsequent new States were not as
well placed with basic accommodation. Shortage of funds and of time did not allow them
to acquire or provide the minimum required basic facilities. Most started new facilities
but they were still incomplete at the loan closure. Their mechanical equipment and
vehicles moderately well maintained but are not functioning, but could be repaired and
put into proper use. This lack of basic operational facilities has seriously affected
performance and is an urgent matter which requires appropriate attention.
Project Funding. The funding status of ADPs in the implementation period is
summarized in Table 1.
Table 1 Project Funding by State (Smillion) for 1986 - 1995.
States            Sources of Funds
IBRD       FGN   States    Total   Cummulative
Anambra      10.01       1.73   4.19     16.62      16.62
Enugu         9.71      1.81   4.61     16.57       33.18
Delta         7.53      1.58   3.72      13.32      46.50
Abia          7.92      3.02   4.98     22.28       68.78
Edo           6.23      1.83   2.94     11.46       80.24
Ogun          8.80      2.85   5.31      17.74      97.98
Cross River    9.10      3.16   3.79     17.54     115.51
Imo           8.00       1.21   2.44     12.52     128.04
Benue        15.50       2.01   3.30     21.24     149.28
Plateau      20.60       3.29   8.58     32.47     181.75
Akwa lbom      7.34       ?       ?        ?          ?
FGN           51.27       -       -      51.27     240.37
Total        162.00     22.50  43.86    240.37
Over c/mnt    4.08    -       -          4.08     244.45
Total Cost   166.08    22.50   43.87    244.45
Note. The totals for FGN and States do not yet include data for Akwa Ibom.
The local funding during implementation was variable, but in general neither the
state or the FGN paid their quarterly contributions on time and in the required budget
amounts. This was often an important cause of delays in the operations and slowing
down the disbursement rates of the loan. Table 2 shows the actual levels of contributions



6
by state and FGN compared with budget/appraisal estimates. The reliability of these
figures is suspect and require verification. The FACU accountant on the mission is to
revisit the data at the respective ADPs and do another check on the accuracy of the
figures provided by the financial controllers.
Table 2. Counterpart Funding Performance (Smillion) 1986 - 1995.
State                 FGN                                State
Appraisal   Actual  % Act./Appr. Appraisal  Actual  % Act.! Appr.
Anambra   1.98        1.73      87.6          6.14     4.19      68.2
Enugu      2.09       1.81      86.9         6.35      4.61      72.6
Delta      2.01       1.58      78.8          3.14     3.72     118.7
Abia       3.45       3.02      87.7          4.30     4.98     115.8
Edo        1.98       1.83      93.4         2.37      2.94     124.4
Ogun       3.04       2.85      93.6          6.32     5.31      83.0
Cross River 8.62      3.16      36.6          3.88     3.79      97.7
Imo        1.16       1.21     103.9          1.96     2.44      124.4
Benue      4.76       2.01      42.3          3.33     3.30       99.1
Plateau    10.67      3.29      30.9          7.86      8.58     109.1
Akwa lbom   na         na         -            na       na         -
Project Achievements. Implementation performance by the several components
or activities of the Project are summarized in Annex 1. These activities include response
of farmers to the main objective in raising food production and productivity, adaptive
research, seed multiplication, extension services, input services, rural infrastructure, and
planning, monitoring and evaluation. The overall performance of individual State ADPs
is evaluated in a comparative summary in annex 1. Table 3 shows the response by
farmers to project assistance, as reflected in crop production increases over the period.
The main objectives of increasing food production, farner efficiency and incomes were
highly successful. The three major food crops showed increases over the 8-year period as
follows: (a) cassava - at an average annual rate of 15% from a base total of 5.8 million
tonnes to 13.3 million tonnes, with total area planted rising from about 785,900 ha to 1.18
million ha, and average yield increasing from about 7.0 t/ha to 9.1 t/ha, (b) yams - at an
average rate of 13% from a base total of 4.1 to 10.6 million tonnes, with total area planted
rising from585,000 ha to 1.17 million ha, and average yield increasing from about 7.0
t/ha to 9.1 t/ha and (c) maize - at an average rate of 25% from a base total of 631,900 to
1.9 million tonnes, with area planted rising from about 631,200 ha to 1.03 million ha, and
average yield increasing from about 1.0 t/ha to 1.85 y/ha. Similar increases occurred with
the minor crops of sorghum, groundnut, rice, millet, cocoyam and potato. Total incre-
mental food production over the 8-year period increased 230% from 4.43 million tonnes
sorghum grain equivalent (10% moisture) to 10.3 million.



7
Table 3. Crop Area ('000 ha), Production ('000 mt) and Yield (mt/ba)
1986 and 1994.
1986                            1994
Area   Production Yield           Area  Production  Yield
Cassava   785.9    5,853.1   7.5           1,177.5   13,247.8   11.1
Yam       585.0    4102.0   7.0            1,170.0   10,642.1    9.1
Maize    631.2       631.9   1.0           1,031.0    1,910.5    1.9
Sorghum  602.3       362.0   0.6            659.8       834.6    1.3
Groundnut 218.8       98.9   0.5             307.8      236.1    0.8
Rice      362.1      285.7   0.8             364.1      608.4    1.7
Millet    221.1      100.4   0.5              93.7      132.0    1.4
Cocoyam   213.2       902.6   4.2            161.3     1,038.6  6.4
Potato     82.5       366.6   4.4             71.6      589.1   8.2
Adaptive Research. The level of agronomic trials of improved production
technologies was intensive and generally conducted at a high standard. Initially, priority
attention was to improved variety testing and introductions, crop spacing and planting
methods, pest control, soil fertility management and post harvest handling.
Subsequently, in response to the need for greater attention to mixed farming systems, as
opposed to sole or pure stand cropping, some attention was given to investigations and
adaptations on better practices in cropping mixtures, agro-forestry, small livestock
husbandry, and freshwater fish culture. The results were mostly satisfactory for crops and
formed the basis for the technology information transfer by the extension services.
Seed Multiplication. The seed multiplication programmes were largely
unsuccessful. The staff put too much effort at producing commercial seed on their own
seed farms and insufficient attention was given to assisting outgrowers to develop the
skills for commercial production, starting with seed multiplied by the ADPs from
foundation material produced by the research organizations. While the extension services
were promoting these improved varieties, farmers were having difficulty in acquiring the
planting material. The IFAD supported cassava multiplication programme started slowly,
but with the SAP soon having its effects on the cost of imported foods versus local foods,
the demand rose sharply for planting material of the higher yielding new varieties.
Provision of required cassava plant cuttings by outgrowers was thus highly successful.
Extension Services. The extension programs were generally very successful.
The State agreed to unify under the umbrella of the ADPs the previous several separate
services. The unification concept was difficult to accept by some extension staff and the
adoption process was thus slower than expected. The unified system is now working well
under the respective ADPs. They are using the recommended T and V system, but some
conflict is arising on the most cost effective method of implementing it and this requires
attention. The organizational aspects of this are to be reviewed with the view to reducing
the present costs without diluting the intensity and quality of training.



8
Production Input Supplies. The commercial input supply services of the ADPs
were not successful. These services were neither commercial nor reliable. Their
provision of supplies at less than market prices also served to discourage the private
sector from entering such services more widely. Chemical fertilizers are the major
required inputs to achieve the yield potential of the new varieties but the policy of the
FGN to monopolize the supply and distribution of the required mixtures has not served
farmers as intended. Supplies were generally not available at the required times, armounts
or mixtures. The benefits of new crop varieties and improved agronomic practices were
thus realized at lower levels than the potential, especially on the less fertile soils.
Provision of other chemical inputs, tools and equipment were equally ineffective. These
commodities were generally more efficiently provided through limited but slowly
growing private commercial sources. Little or no effort was made to assist farmers to
organize, through user associations or comparable manageable working groups, to
operate their own services, or to encourage other private enterprise to enter the business.
Rural Infrastructure. The initial design of the project placed lower priority on new
supporting essential infrastructure for agricultural production. The reduced program was
to rehabilitate deteriorated roads and improve their maintenance with focus on
progressively transferring this responsibility to the LGAs as soon as possible. The user
communities were also to be involved with the routine maintenance work and ultimately
to take full responsibility for it after appropriate training. Provision was made for potable
village water supplies, particularly in areas with high risk of guinea worm infection. Staff
offices and other project facilities and operations were to be housed in existing buildings
of the MANRs, with provision for rehabilitation or expansion where necessary. While
preference was to be given to private contracting for much of the work, provision was
made for limited heavy equipment capacity for the infrastructure development. The
servicing and maintenance of other plant and equipment, including motor vehicles, was
also to be the responsibility of the infrastructure departments. The project redesign added
small scale irrigation (fadama) development into the rural water program and farm
mechanization. The performance of these activities varied widely between states,
depending on their implementation capacity, including local funding. Overall,
achievements were less than expected. The main factors affecting performance of these
components were delays in or inadequate local funding, poor maintenance of plant and
equipment or their diversion to work outside the project, delays in receiving clearances
for contracts, delays in paying contractors for work completed as well as performance
defaults of contractors. The achievements of the infrastructure components are
summarized as follows:
(a) Feeder Roads. Although they exceeded budgets by over 50% this
component fell short of expectations. The data considered here applies only to the states
of Ogun, Edo, Delta, Imo, Abia, Anambra and Enugu. The rehabilitation of 5,845 km of
feeder roads was only 79% of project targets while the recurrent maintenance of 4,742
km was only 46% of target. More disappointing, however, is the excessively high costs
of these roads. Whereas FACU and the Bank went to considerable lengths to avoid



9
feeder road costs rising above economically justifiable limits, and to have the respective
ADPs set priority rankings on their feeder roads programs, the actual expenditures
exceeded the estimated upper limits. This applied to both contract as well as force
account work. The management of contracts was particularly poor, leading to either
excessive costs or unfinished road works or both.
Recurrent maintenance (1 - 2 times per year) was better, achieving 13,377 km or
80% of target. The low cost techniques of routine maintenance, however, never reached
the level required for sustaining the investments in these roads and the involvement of
user communities in the program was minimal. There is a high risk of many of these
feeder roads going into ruin if the ADPs do not take the necessary measures to intensify
their maintenance. Insufficient attention was paid to organizing user communities, and
giving them appropriate training to participate in low cost maintenance of their roads.
The ADPs also were unable to transfer responsibility for maintenance of roads in their
areas to the LGAs which lacked capacity and stability.
(b) Village Water Supply. This component completed 799 new village water
schemes, 39% of target, and rehabilitated 625 disused water points, 26% of target. The
expenditure on village water supply was also below the provisions. The operation and
maintenance of these water supply facilities by users reached a high point of 83%
achievement of expectation. Communities readily took responsibility for their system,
and received the necessary training to operate and maintain them, including recovering
the costs from users.
(c) Office and other Service Buildings. The original provision for this
component was for rehabilitation or extension of buildings acquired from the MANRs.
Expenditure on this was modest and did not exceed 70% of budgets. The position
changed with the creation of new states which were poorly served with accommodation
facilities. At the redesign, provision was therefore made to build new office and service
facilities for the new ADPs. By the closing date only 65% of new construction was
completed. Some of these have been put to use while others are awaiting completion. In
general, the quality of their maintenance is better than the average for public buildings.
(d) Mechanical Services and Equipment. More than 65% of plant, vehicles and
equipment on the books are in working condition. About half of the remaining have
reached the end of their useful life, while the remainder require mostly minor repairs to
restore to service. Several ADPs are also holding large surpluses of vehicle spare parts.
The workshop facilities are adequate for servicing, maintaining and light repairs of
existing plant and equipment.
Fadama Development. Agro-processing. Storage and Mechanization. These
activities were added at the redesign and in the last three project years, they were able to
complete mainly the planning, studies and other preparatory work and only a limited
amount of field work.



10
Bank Performance. The identification, preparation and appraisal of the project
were in line with Bank policies. The flexible approach to the main farmer support
activities allowed adjustments to the project design as the economic circumstances
changed and the Bank responded well to this during the implementation. The supervision
and implementation assistance was generally adequate although the over commitments
towards the end on the pooled loan funds could have been avoided by better controls on
loan and expenditure management. The project units however regarded the procurement
procedures too cumbersome and delayed disbursements. They also felt that they received
conflicting advice on implementation, in the initial years, from the different Bank staff
during supervision missions.
Borrower Performance. The Borrower performance was satisfactory. The
FGN was consistent in its support for the ADP system and released counterpart funds
contribution promptly in most years, although in some instances the contributions were
below the requirements for the approved work plans. FACU and APMEU provided start-
up and implementation support and participated in the mid-term review and completion
missions. However, project monitoring requirements were not adequately developed at
the project preparation stage and subsequently during implementation. Some of the sub-
borrowers were not always as diligent in ensuring smooth implementation of their
components of the project. The major defaults were in delayed and inadequate state
funding (see Table2) and poor performance of their ADPECs, with frequent interference
in the day to day management decisions, particularly in staff matters, procurement and
use of project vehicles and equipment.
Assessment of Outcome. Overall, the project outcome is satisfactory. The
states have organized agricultural development institutions with fair capacity to support
farmers in improving their production, productivity and incomes and to manage their land
and water resources in a sustainable manner. Farmers are responding well to the support
and are achieving substantial increases in food production and incomes. The estimated
ERR overall at loan closing is 32% compared with 24% at appraisal and 25% at the mid-
term. The institutions and their programs could be sustained with continued budgetary
support by the state and federal governments, at least, at past levels, making appropriate
allowances for inflation.
Future Operations. All eleven ADPs have received assurances from their
respective state governments that recurrent funds will be provided at minimum essential
affordable levels, and based on previous provisions from the annual state budgets, for the
maintenance of institutional and infrastructural facilities which were developed during the
eight year loan period. Federal funds are also expected at not less than past levels to
supplement state funds. However, only some of the ADPs have drawn up credible
operational plans to sustain the operations within the affordable local resources.
Their projections of required local funds are based on levels of recurrent funding during
the last three years. The policy for use of the funds is to concentrate on maintaining the
technical services for adaptive research and technology transfer and the associated
administrative and monitoring requirements. Other essential support activities will be



I1
passed, where feasible, to the users to take ownership and maintain them at the most cost
e ective levels. This will be implemented through group action by the users who have
direct interest in ensuring that the services they require are provided in the most efficient
manner. The staff structure in each ADP will be rationalized to ensure adequate technical
capacity and to allow deployment for their most effective use in developing farmers'
ability to become self reliant for their individual needs. The ADPs will be focusing
mainly on the generation and transfer of technical and management information and
training of farmers. They will also assist legitimately and voluntarily organized groups to
take advantage of such training and other available services to assume responsibility for
their group support activities. These services would include commercial input supply,
credit, post-harvest handling, processing, storage and marketing, transport and access
road, potable village water supply and irrigation infrastructure. In order to complete the
operational plans and have them cleared by their respective state governments for
submission to the Bank urgently, and not later than November 1, 1995, it may be
necessary for FACU to convene an early meeting of the Program Managers to expedite
the matter, with guidelines provided by FACU.
Lessons Learned. The key lessons learned are as follows:
(a) management stability and the proper support of the ADPECs are critical for
smooth project implementation;
(b) counterpart funding need to be consistent and timely to avoid cost escalation
and allow full use of loan funds;
(c) farmers and communities are willing to take ownership and be trained for the
proper operation and maintenance of essential support facilities and services as was done,
in some instances, in infrastructure investments, especially village water supplies;
(d) effective and sustainable institutional development is a gradual process and
cannot be hastened; and
(e) managing pooled loan funds in multi-state projects require strict control over
commitments by competing implementing agencies.
October 5, 1995.



Appenuix B
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
i)  The main objective of the Multi-state Agricultural
Development Projects I (MSADP I) is to increase food
crop production and incomes of small holder farmers
through a programme of integrated unified extension
service, Adaptive research, seed multiplication,
rural roads rehabilitation and maintenance, water
supply and farm input supply and distribution.
li)  The project which was originally planned to last for
five (5) years was implemented over eight (8) years
with three (3) extensions, from June 1987 to June
1995.
iii)  The   major   factors   that   affected   project
implementation included the devaluation of the
Naira, untimely release of counterpart funds; state
creation resulting in bi-furcation of projects,
irregular ADPEC meetings, and delays in procurement
processes. These factors affected the pace of loan
draw-down and hence the need for the extensions.
iv)  The  Bank,  Borrower  and  Implementing  agencies
performances were satisfactory. Overall funding
showed that the FGN and all SG's contributed N266.7m
(84.5%-) and N498.3m  (89%-), respectively against
their budgets. The loan was fully draw-down and
over-committed by about US$4.08m as at June 1995.
v)  All the state   projects  implemented  the Unified
Extension System. There was an improvement in the
EA:farm family ratio with a reach out of about 95%
of farm families in the project area. About 795,728
SPAT plots and 5133 OFAR trials were conducted
during the period with the Women-In-Agriculture
components forming 4582 groups.
vi)  The Rural  Infrastructure constructed 1558 open
wells, rehabilitated 5015Km of roads and maintained
17,365Km of roads.
vii) The Human Resources Development component conducted
about 32,679 local courses for various categories of
staff.
viii) Input distribution during the period was about 1.4m
MT of fertilizer.
ix)  The project had a positive impact on crop production
and farm income. Overall ERR stood at 32.9% against
an appraisal estimate of 24.0% and a redesign
estimate of 25.0%.
(ii)



:) The project is sustainable provided adequate funding
and reasonable level of autonomy for the ADPs  are
garrantteed.
xi) All the states implemented the IFAD cassava program
successfully after the redesign in 1990. About
5602Ha of seed multiplication farms were established
over project life against a target of 5285Ha in all
states. The ERR for the programme is 10.6% against
SAR of 12.7%.
xii) The key lessons learnt include:-
a) The deduction of state contributions at source
contributed to speedy drawdown and project
implementation. This policy should be sustained
in future projects.
b) Giving our present mixed experience at the ADPs
in road rehabilitation through contract or force
account there is the need for a comparison to be
made. FACU who had the original mandate on the
issue should go ahead and complete the study
under a broadened Terms of Reference (TOR). .
c) The expected involvement of LGC's in post
construction and maintenance of rural roads was
not successful because both the ADPS and LGC did
not sufficiently mobilise the benefiting
communities.
d)   The  frequent  changes  in state  government
political leadership and ADP management staff
affected decision making down the scale
resulting    in    delays    during    project
implementation. This required a continous re-
education of political appointees at all levels
by FACU and ADP management on loan agreements
convenants and conditionalities to improve
implementation.
e) There is need for the Implementing Agency,
Federal Government and the World Bank to
properly monitor loan disburesement and
withdrawal applications.  Status report on loan
disbursement should be rendered in time to the
project to provide early signals of distress or
overdrawing.
f) The ICR exercise revealed weak data base records
of project implementation at some PME units
resulting from serious constraints of adequate
skilled staff and lack of in-house capability.
(iii)



There is the need to ensure that adequate
machiner-y, capable personnel and continous
management support are always in place at the
on-set bf any future project.
g) The pooling of unallocated funds created a
healthy competition which contributed 'to
speedier drawdown.
h)  Some of the Bank missions pronouncements and
approvals led to contradictions which sometimes
confused ADP management in their implementation
efforts. These contradictions resulted in the
weak coordination between Task Manager~s,
disbursement and procurement departments leading
to, for example over-committment at end of loan.
i) The low level of renumeration vis-a-vis high
work demands within the ADP system produced job
instability relative to other sectors and
created difficulties in retaining all cadre of
staff in posts at the ADP's.
(iv)



NIGERIA
FIRST MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OPERATIONAL PLANS FOR THE ADPs
AKWA IBOM STATE AGRICULTURAL DEV. PROJECT
OPERATIONAL PLAN (JULY 1996 - DECEMBER 1998)
Physical     Target                                          Financial   Resources (N'000)
SINo.  Activities                                 Unit             1996           1997            1998           Total        1996        1997      1998       Total
A.       Application of Funds
1.   Management & Administration
Administration                            Lump                I               I               1              3        2788        2846      2906       8540
Finance & Accounts                        Lump                I               I              1               3        2788        2846      2906       8540
Human Resources Development               Lump                I               I              1               3        8364        8537      8718      25619
Sub-Total                                                                                                            13940       14229    14530       42699
2.    Extension Services
Fortnightdy Training (FNT)                 No.               26              26             26              78         652         882       624       2158
Field visits/seminars                      No.            68068          68068           68068         204204         2500        3000      3000       8500
SPAT & Field Days                          No.            21920          21920           21920           65760        1000        1000      1500       3500
Pilot Schemes                              No.                3               3              3               9        3500        3500      3500      10500
Media                                     Lump                I               I               1              3        2000        2000      2000       6000
WIA                                       Lump                I               I               1              3        1500        1000      1000       3500
Sub-total                                                                                                            11152       11382    11624       34158
3.    Technical Services
MTRM                                      No.                12              12             12              36         652         882       824       2358
Adaptive Research                         No.                 4               4              4              12        1000        1500      1300       3800
Seed Multiplication/Outgrowers             Ha.               60             100            100             260        3000        2500      2500       8000
Field Visits/seminars                     Lump                I               I               1              3        1500        1500      1500       4500
Livestock                                 Lump                I               I               1              3         800         800       900       2500
-Fisheries--                                 Lump                 I               I              1               3        1200        1000      1200       3400
Agro Forestry                             Lump                I               I               1              3         500         700       900       2100
Diagnostic Survey                          No.                I               I               1              3        1500        1500      1500       4500
PesVDisease Control                       Lump                I               I               1              3        1000        1000      1000       3000
Sub-total                                                                                                            11152       11382    11624       34158
4.    Rural Institution Development
Input Procurement/Distribution            No.                 1               1               1              3        4500        4600      4500      13600
Credit/Marketing/Coop. Production          No.                I               I               1              3        1076        1091      1312       3479
Sub-total                                                                                                             5576        5691      5812      17079
5.    Engineering Services
Rural Road Maintenuace                    Km.               100             100            100             300        8000        4000      2000      14000
Plant/Velicle/Equipment                   Lump                I               I               1              3        4788        2846      4906      12540
Pataanrigation Schemes                    Lump                I               1               1              3       10000        6000      6000      22000
Sub-total                                                                                                            22788       12846    12906       48540
6.    PMED & PRSD
Planning Activities                       Lump                I               I               1              3        1364         536      1600       3500
Monitoring Activities                     Lump                I               I               1              3        1000        1000      1118       3118
Evaluation/Surveys                        Lump                I               I               1              3        3000        3000      2000       8000
Consuhancies                              Lump                I               I               1              3        1500         1000     1500       4000
Computer Maintenance                      Lump                I               I               1              3        1500        2000      2500       6000
PRSD                                      Lump                I               I               1              3        2788        2846      2906       8540
Sub-total                                                                                                            11152       10382    11624       33158
TOTAL                                                                                                                75760       65912    68120    209792
B.        Sources of Funds
Intemally Generated Revenue                                                                                           7000        6000      5000      18000
Countetpart fimds - Federal                                                                                           7500        7500      7500      22500
Counterprt finds - State                                                                                             22051       23203    26411       71665
IBRD - NATSF                                                                                                          9209        9209      9209      27627
IBRD - NFDF                                                                                                          30000       20000    20000       70000
TOTAL                                                                                                                75760       65912    68120    209792



ABIA STATE AGRICULTURAL DEV. PROJECT
OPERATIONAL PLAN (JULY 1996 - DECEMBER 199S)
Physical    Target                                         Financial  Resources (NeOOO)
S/No.  Activities                               Unit            199            1997           1998           Total       1996        1997     1998       Total
A.       Apprlation of Funds
.   Managessent & Administration
Administtion                            Lump                3             2               1              6       3900        2600      1300      7800
Fance & Accounts                        Lump                3              2              1              6       2600        1740      870       5210
Hmna ResoumcDevelopment                 Lump                3              2              1              6        1310        870      430       2610
Sub-Total                                                                                                        7810        5210     2600      15620
2.   Extsslo. Services
General Extensimn                       Lump                3              2              1              6       2290        1850      1250      5390
F-nigbtlyTraining(FNT)                  Lnnp                3              2              1              6       2290        1850      1250      5390
Field visits/seminrs                    Lump                3              2              1              6       2290        1850      1250      5390
SPAT & Fid Days                         Lump               3               2              1              6       2290        1850      1250      5390
Womnen in Aguiculua                     Lump                3              2              1              6       6120        4930      3330     14380
Media Supped                            Lump                3              2              1              6       3090        2470      1670      7230
Sob-total                                                                                                        18370      14800    10000      43170
3.   TechIcl Services
Crop                                    Lmp                 3              2              1              6       3610        2410      1200      7220
Fisheies                                Lump                3              2              1              6       3610        2400      1210      7220
Livestock                               Lup                 3             2               1              6       3610        2410      1200      7220
AgroForestry                            Lump                3              2              1              6        3610       2410      1210      7230
Sob-taa                                                                                                          14440       9630     4820      28890
4.   Rural Insdtutd  Development
Aguic-boie  Mangement                   Lump                3              2              1              6        1100        880       600      2580
1us Dev. & Linka                        Lump                3              2              1              6        1100        880       600      2580
Subtolal                                                                                                         2200        1760      1200      5160
5.   gmdwg Services
MlehaicalandElecEkical                  LUmp                3              2              1              6        1550       1550      1410      4510
FarnMechanizetion                       Lump                3              2              1              6        3110       3090      2820      9020
Roadsad Bulding                         Lump                3              2              1              6       4650        4640     4220      13510
Fathom                                  Lump                3              2              1              6       6200        6180      5630      18010
Sob-total                                                                                                        15510       15460    14030     45050
6.  PMED & PRSD
panning                                 Lump                3                                            3         830        670       450      1950
Moutoring                               Lump                3                                            3         660        1340      900      2900
Evanstin                                LUMp                3                                            3        2490       2000      1370      5860
Sub-tot                                                                                                           3980       4010      2720      10710
TOTAL                                                                                                            62310      50870    35420    148600
B.       Soures of Fuods
NATSP                                                                                                            13300        3900     4500     26700
EFAD                                                                                                             12000       S000               20000
FGN                                                                                                              15000       15000    15000     45000
STATE                                                                                                            10000       10010    10000     30010
ntenly Geneatd                                                                                                     730        760       800      2290
Fadma                                                                                                            12300       8200      4100     24600
TOTAL                                                                                                            63330      50870    34400    14600



ANAMBRA STATE AGRICULTURAL DEV. PROJECT
OPERATIONAL PLAN (JULY 1996 - DECEMBER 1998)
Physical    Target                                         Financial  Resources (N 000)
S/No.  Activities                               Unit            1996           1997           1998           Total       1996        1997     1998       Total
A.       Application of Funds
Rural Institutional Development
Input linkage farmers                    No.                I              I              1              3         84        100.8    109.2       294
Record keeping guide to farmers          No.                I              I              1              3         84        100.8    109.2       294
Farm accounting guide to farmers         No.                I              I              1              3         84        100.8    109.2       294
Contact with financing Institutions      No.                I              I              1              3         84        100.8    109.2       294
Credit linkage to farmers                No.                I              I              1              3         80          96       104       280
Organization of FUAs                     No.               20             20             20             60         160        192      208        560
Prepation of FUA agreement letters       No.               20             20             20             60        200         240      260        700
Supervisory visits to FUAs               No.               20             20             20             60         40          48       52        140
TrainingofFUAfumers                      No.                3              3              3              9         90         108       117       315
Traimngofartisans                        No.                3              3              3              9         90         108       117       315
TubeweDl constmsetion                    No.               20             20             20             60        1000       1200      1300      3500
Fadamamarketiggo-down                    No.               10             10             10             30        700         840      910       2450
RegularlinkagewithFUA                    No.                I              I              1              3        262        314.4    340.6       917
Pump procurement                         No.             200             200            200            600       15000      18000    19500      52500
Fadama marketing infiwstructure          No.                5              5              5             15        1000       1200      1300      3500
In-house drilling of washbores & tubewells  No.             5              5              5             15         250        300      325        875
Fadama roads                             Km               20              20             20             60       2800        3360     3640       9800
Fadama access roads                      Km               20              20             20             60       2000        2400     2600       7000
Fadama strmae sheds                      No.              20              20             20             60        1600       1920     2080       5600
Fadama shelters                          No.              20              20             20             60        1600       1920     2080       5600
Fadama dying sheds                       No.              20              20             20             60        1600       1920     2080       5600
Fadam go4down                            No.               20             20             20             60        1600       1920     2080       5600
Roadsrecurrentmaintenance                No.                5              5              5             15        500         600      650       1750
Roadsroutinemamtenance                   No.                6              6              6             18         180        216      234        630
Incalbtion of pumnp/gen sets             No.                9              9              9             27         360        432      468       1260
Culvert construction                     No.              20              20             20             60        1000       1200      1300      3500
Supervisionofwaterpoints                 No.                I              I              1              3          9         10.8     11.7       31.5
Impoved Blcksmitbing equipment           No.                2              2              2              6          64        76.8     83.2       224
Production of processing equipment       No.                4              4              4             12          80         96       104       280
Productionofassava chippers                                5               5              5             15          10        120       130       260
Sub-Total                                                                                                       32611      39241.2  42511.3  114363.5
2.   Adaptive Reearch
OFAR trials (livestock)                  No.                2              2              2              6         350        420     4550       5320
Breed multiplication (rabbits)           No.                I              I              1              3        500         600      650       1750
Animal health activities                 No.                I              I              1              3        400         480       520       1400
Piggery outgrowaa                        No.               16             16             16             48        208        249.6      270      727.6
Rabbitry outgrowers                      No.               16             16             16             48         160         192      208       560
Thematic survey (livestock)              No.                I              0              0              1        200           0         0       200
Fisherywaterpump/accessories             No.                I              I              1              3      871.16     1049.35    1136.8   3057.31
Concrete tanksinets                      No.                I              I              1              3         400        480      520       1400
Fingesling multiplication/distibution    No.           40000           40000          40000         120000         400        480       520       1400
OFAR trials (fishery)                    No.                2              2              2              6         350        420      455       1225
Thematic survey (fishery)                No.                1              0              0              1         150          0         0       150
Nursery development                      No.                4              4              4             12         200        240       260       700
OFAR trials (agro-forestry)              No.                2              2              2              6         380        456      494       1330
Erosion control demonstration            No.               16             16             16             48         S00        960      1040      2800
MTRM                                     No.               12             12             12             36         360        432      468       1260
OFAR trials (arable crops)               No.                2              2              2              6      234.18      381.02   364.43     979.63
Improved Cassava multiplication          Ha.               80             S0             S0            240         900        1080     1170      3150
Improved Sweet Potato multiplication     Ha.               10             10             10             30         100         120      130       350
Improved Cocoyam multiplication          Ha.               10             10             10             30         100        120       130       350
ImprovedYamMinisetmultiplication         Ha.               10             10             10             30         500        360       390       1250
Improved Rice multiplcation              Ha.              20              20             20             60         300        360       390       1050
Sub-total                                                                                                      7863.34     8879.97  13666.2  30409.54
3.   Extension ServiCes
Programmetechnicaltraining               No.               32             32             32             96         960       1152      1248      3360
Programmensanagemcst training            No.               10             10             10             30         400        480       520       1400
Conferences/Workshops/Semimars           No.               30             30             30             90         900        1080     1170      3150
In-house courses                         No.                4              4              4             12          80         96       104       280



Visit reseach institute                  No.                2             2              2               6         150        ISO      195        525
Scientfic visits                         No.                I              I              1             3          50          60       65        175
SPATs                                    No.            6000           6000           6000           18000        600         720      7S0       2100
FieldvisitsbyEAs                         No.            19184          19194          191S4         57552       767.56     920.81   997.57   2685.94
FNTs                                     No.              104           104             104           312         208       249.6    270.4        728
Fidd days                                No.              174            174           174            522         174         200    224.2      598.2
Skld plots                               No.              56             56             56             168       99.99       119.9     130    349.89
Block meeti4s                            No.             572            572            572            1716        57.2      68.64    74.56      200.4
Selecion of contac gWps                  No.             696            696            696           2088          4.8        5.76     6.24       16.8
Productionofvideofeatues                 No.                2             2              2               6        110         132       143       385
Productionofpostrsblls                   No.               6              6              6              IS        120         144       156       420
Purchase of video featues                No.                I              I             0              2         500         600        0       1100
Production ofgi publications             No.             500            500            500            1500         10          12        13        35
Poductionofradiopprogammes               No.               4              4              4              12        100         120       130       350
ProductionofTVprogrammes                 No.               2              2              2               6         60          72       78        210
Production of sides                      No.                3              3              3              9          3          3.6      3.9       10.5
Upkeep of video/pbow smudio              No.                I              I              1              3       426.6     511.92   554.5E      1493.1
Esablish skill devdopment centres        No.               4              4              4              12        200         240      260        700
Denonmtrals processing6 utilizaion
&pmventionoffoodproduct               No.                5              5              5             15         165         198    214.5      577.5
Souac pnoc _ssmg ctr                     No.               4              4              4              12         40          48       52        140
Conumereduationcentes                    No.              24             24             24             72         120         144       156       420
WIA-bued OFAR tials                      No.                I              I              1              3         125        150    162.5       437.5
SubWta                                                                                                         6431.15    7706.23  7708.45  21847.83
4.   Plhumm    Moukoriug & Evaluation
Resoue entre upkeep                      No.                I              I              1              3        200         240      260        700
Mo.hly progre-CPO'                       No.               12             12             12             36        240         208      312        760
Quautely repoats                         No.               4              4              4              12         SO          96       104       280
Anndual epots                            No.                I              I              1              3         20          24        26        70
Moniteoingofprogrammeactivities          No.                I              I              1              3      362.56     435.07   471.32    1268.95
Gencral MIS rpots                        No.                I              I              1              3         SO          96       104       280
Upkeepofcmpulcenbtreetal                 No.                I              I              1              3        700         840      910       2450
Proj  stsatus repot/projct digest        No.                I              I              1              3          10         12        12        34
PME repout ploductiosublishing euipmn    No.                I              I              1              3        350         420      455       1225
Pogmme nnul wvkpbn/Budget                No.                I              I              1              3         30          36        39       105
FarmCrop,buget                           No.                I              I              1              3         100        120       130       350
Nation  roling plan/Cpil estinates       No.                I              I              1              3          20         24        26        70
Cost-effeciveness survey                 No.                I              I              1              3         140         168      182       490
Deiled quastey woNkplan                  No.                4             4               4             12         40          48        52       140
Databse build-p                          No.                I              I              1              3        500         600      650       1750
Mid-yearrview                            No.                I              I              1              3         100         120      130       350
Plani ngdt ageneation                    No.                I              I              1              3        500         600      650       1750
Cays (agrnoic survey)                    No.                I              I              1              3         175        210    227.5       612.5
Msrket piceSUrvs . (MPS)                 No.               12             12             12             36         120         144      156       420
IFAD CAssva suwey                        No.                I              I              1              3         180          0         0        ISO
Metemological dat collection/analysis    No.               12             12             12             36         120         144      156       420
Impact studies                           No.                3              4              4             11         600        960      1040      2600
RTEP baselme survey                      No.                I              0              0              1         200          0         0       200
LSR survey                               No.                I              0              1              2        250           0       325       575
VIS suvqy                                No.                I              0              0              1        300           0         0       300
Sub-total                                                                                                      5417.56     5545.07  6417.82   17380.45
5.    Finance and Administration
Annual accounts and stock evaluation     No.                I              I              1              3         150         ISO      195       525
Sourcing of fumds                        No.                I              I              1              3      442.84      531.41   575.09    1549.34
Payrollandauditexercises                 No.               12             12             12             36         240        288       312       840
Stores upkeep/stok control               No.                I              I              1              3        210         252       273       735
Security & allied services               No.                I              I              1              3         500        600       650       1750
Utility & general admm. service          No.                I              I              1              3         400        480       520       1400
Stutioneries                             No.                I              I              1              3         700        840       910      2450
Vehicle operation/maintenance            No.                I              I              1              3        1500        1800     1950      5250
Sub-total                                                                                                      4142.S4     4971.41  5385.09   14499.34
MNRS/PRSD                                No.                I              I              1              3        1300        1300     1300      3900
TOTAL                                                                                                         57765.89    67645.88  76988.9  202400.7



B.       Sources of Funds
IERD - NATSP                                                                                                       15868      10132         0      26000
EBRD - NFF                                                                                                         16000      16000    16000       4S000
IFAD - RTEP                                                                                                        5000       21000    16000       42000
COUNTERPART FUND - FGN                                                                                            5530.2       5000  12837.7   23367.9
COUNTERPART FUtND - STATE                                                                                       10100.89       14000  17151.2  41252.08
INTERNALLY GENERATED REVENUE                                                                                      5266.8    1513.S8    15000   21780.68
TOTAL                                                                                                           57765.89    67645.88  76988.9  202400.7



BENUE STATE AGRICULTURAL DEV. PROJECT
OPERATIONAL PLAN (JULY 199 - DECEMBER 1998)
Physical    Target                                         Financial  Resources (N'000)
S/No.  Activities                               Unit            199f           1997           1998           Total       1996        1997     1998       Total
A.       Application of Funds
1.   Management & Administration
Administration                          Lump                I              I              1              3    10857.58    10857.58     5280  26995.16
FinLnce&Accounts                        Lump                I              I              1              3       5056        5056      1000     11112
Human Resoures Development              Lump                I              I              1              3     1961.44     1275.92     1000   4237.36
Sub-Total                                                                                                     17875.02     17189.5    7280  42344.52
2.   Extension
FNT/Supervision                         Lump        Lump           Lump           Lump                            1061       1061      1000      3122
Field Visits/Seminurs                    No.             8.99           8.99           8.99          26.97        1061       1061      1000      3122
SPAT&FieldDays                           No.               32             32            32              96        1061       1061      1000      3122
Media Support                           Lump        Lump           Lump           Lump                            1061       1061      1000      3122
Sub-total                                                                                                        4244        4244     4000      12488
3.    Technical
MTRM                                     No.               11             11             11             33     1431.23     1431.23     1000   3862.46
StaffTraining                           Lump                I              I              1              3     1431.23     1431.23     1000   3862.46
OFAR & Field Visits                                                                                            1431.23     1431.23     1000   3862.46
Seed Production and Processing          Lump                I              I              1              3     1431.23     1431.23     1000   3862.46
Animal Traction                         Lump                                                                   7156.14     7156.14     1000   1531228
Sub-total                                                                                                     12881.06    12881.06     50C0   30762.12
4.   Rural Institution Development
Input Production/Distribution           Lump                I              I              1              3        5056       5056      1000      11112
CFAPromotion                            Lump                I              I              1              3        5056       5056      1000     11112
Sub-total                                                                                                        10112       10112     2000     22224
5.   Fadama & Rural Infrastructure
Drilling & Civil Work                   Lump                I              I              1              3        7175       7421      1000      15596
Plant & Vehicle Eqppment                Lump                I              I              1              3    10092.56    11628.42     1000  22720.98
Technical Assistance & Studies          Lump                I              I              1              3      2345.2      2353.9    1000      5699.1
Allowances& General Opp. Cost           Lmnp                I              I              1              3     2999.56     2630.56     1000   6630.12
Sub-total                                                                                                     22612.32    24033.88     4000    50646.2
6.   PMED & PRSD
Planning                                Lump                I              I              1              3     1755.49     1692.63     2000    5448.12
Monitoring                              Lump                I              I              1              3      755.49      692.63     1000    2448.12
Evaluation                              Lump                I              I              1              3      755.49      692.63     1000    2448.12
PRSD                                    Lump                I              I              1              3           0                    0          0
Sub-total                                                                                                      3266.47     3077.89     4000   10344.36
TOTAL                                                                                                         70990.17    71538.33    26280   168809.2
B.       Sources of Funds
Internally Generated Revenue                                                                                      5000       5000      5000      15000
Cotmeerpart Funds - Federal                                                                                      10000       10000    10000      30000
Counterpart Funds - State                                                                                        11280       11210    11280     33840
IBRD - NATSF                                                                                                     11650       11650        0     23300
IBRD - NFDF                                                                                                   33060.87    33608.33        0    66669.2
TOTAL                                                                                                         70990.87    71538.33    26280   168809.2



DELTA STATE AGRICULTURAL DEV. PROJECT
OPERATIONAL PLAN (JULY 1996 - DECEMBER 199S)
Physical     Target                                        Financial   Resources (N'000)
S/Ne.  Activiftis                               Unit            1996           1997           199S           Total       1996        1997     1998       Total
A.       Appliation of Fonds
1.   Maaageit h Administration
Admiistation                            Lump                I              I              1              3       2040        1500       850      4390
Fnnct h Acounts                         Lump                I              I              1              3        750         760       780      2290
mesourc  Deelpment                      Lump                1              1              1              3        2037       1500       519      4056
Sub-Toal                                                                                                         4827        3760      2149     10736
2.   Extenion Servic
SPAT & Field Days                        No.            144S0          15000          i5"            44480        S50         8S0       880      2610
Field Viits                              No.           39654           40000          40000         119654         847        854       854      2555
FNTS                                     No.               78             78             78            234        919         919       919      2757
Media                                   Lump                1              1              1              3        729         430       430      15S9
Sab-total                                                                                                         3345       3083      3083      9511
3.   Tetnial Service
MTRM                                     No.               12             12             12             36         150         IS0      IS0       510
OFARFidd Visiuts                        Lunp                I              I              1              3        1521       1700      1500      4721
SeedProdion                             Lmnp                I              I              1              3         604        855       655      2114
Sub-f4"l                                                                                                          2275       2735      2335      7345
4.    Rural I 1sdtuds
l      tDirbtion                        Lump                I              I              1              3        2938       3850      3192      9980
R-l Svin Mobdile Study                   No.                I                                            1         375          0         0       375
Tranig lofufoul Faieus Oroop             No.                                                                       700         700      700       2100
Sub-toa                                                                                                           4013       4550      3892      12455
5.  E.-
FadinaDevelopment                       Lump                I              I              1              3       30393       17481     6521     54395
Pla    Vdeice MaintMance                Lump                I              I              1              3        3257       4500      4500      12257
Mechninhtim A Ape-Processing            Lump                I              I              1              3         850          0       850      2550
Civil Wks (M_aineance)                  Lump                I              I              1              3         650        700       700      2050
RoodRehabllition&Ma_tensc                Km                56             34             22            112        5715       3500      2200      11415
Sob-tl                                                                                                           40865      27031    14771      82667
6.   PhbED & PRSD
Plowing Moniring & Evauaon              Lump                I              I              1              3        2510        1695     1695      5900
PRSD                                                                                                               230        280       295        805
Sub-total                                                                                                         2740        1975     1990      6705
TOTAL                                                                                                            58065      43134    28220    129419
B.       Sources of Fonds
Intemally GenCated Revenue                                                                                        2500        2500     2500       7500
Countrpart Funds - Fedeal                                                                                         5800        5800     5800      17400
Comterpat Funds - Statt                                                                                          15600       15600    19920      51120
EBRD - NATSF                                                                                                     10860        9S84        0      20744
IBRD - NFDF                                                                                                      23305       9350         0      32655
TOTAL                                                                                                            58065      43134    28220    129419



CROSS RIVER AGRICULTURAL DEV. PROJECT
OPERATIONAL PLAN (JULY 1996- DECEMBFR 199S)
Physical     Target                                         Financiul  Resources (N1000)
S9No.  Adivitis                                  Unit            1996            199            1998           Total       1996        1997      199        Total
A.       Appliestno of Fuads
1.   MaagWe.t & Aduailtratiom
Management &  Admstatiom                 Lump                I              I               1              3           6           6        5         17
Sub-Tweal                                                                                                              6           6        5         17
2.   F _rna   sa Acemt
F _ eind A      _cmt                     Lump                I              I               1              3          13          13       13         39
Sub-f.4ai                                                                                                             13          13       13         39
3.   H _ms. Resources Devdopmmt
Hiuna Res      sDevdopment               Lump                I              I               1              3           3           3        3          9
S5b-twlal                                                                                                              3           3        3          9
4.   Uulf  litemslou
F-W Wy Traunag (NT)                       No.               73             73             78             234         0.5         0.5       0.5        1.5
SPATS                                     No.            19200          19200          19200           57600          1.3        1.S       1.8        5.4
Fil Visits                                No.            19200          19200          19200           57600           2           2        2          6
Field Days                                No.               15             15              15             45          1.5         1.5      1.5        4.5
Media SppeSt                             Lmnp                I              I               1              3           1          1.5      1.5         4
Subtal                                                                                                               6.8         7.3       7.3       21.4
5.   Ad2pte _Rurc
MTRM                                      No.               12             12              12             36         0.4         0,4       0.4        1.2
Diagods  Suvey                            No.                I                                             1         0.3                              0.3
OFARDField Viit                           No.               20             20             20              60         2.5         2.5       2.5        7.5
Suboestal                                                                                                            3.2         2.9       2.9         9
6.    Rural last Dvelopment
Inp4 DiSnb,tio                           Lump                I              I               1              3           5           7        6          1U
Procesing Equiumet                       Lmnp                I              I               1              3           4           4        4          12
Sub-tol                                                                                                                9          1 1       10        30
7.      . -rg
RoadM    i M suim                         Km               104            104             104            312         4.5         4.5       4.5       13.5
Aquifer Studies                           No.                I                                             I           I                                I
T    _ewe  Develvmnp                      No.              100            100             100            300           3           3         3         9
Civil WokstEquient Maintenance           Lump                I              I               1              3          10          10        10        30
Sub-ta                                                                                                               13.5        17.5     17.5       53.5
8.   Pranlu  M_itorlg & Evalation
PiunnglMonioring&Evalabion               Lup                 I              I               1              3         2.5          2.5      2.5        7.5
PRSD                                     Lump                I              I               1              3          1.5         1.5      1.5        4.5
Sub-to                                                                                                                 4           4        4          12
TOTAL                                                                                                               63.5        64.7      62.7      190.9
B.       Sources   Funds
1. Countetpart Funds - State                                                                                          17          17        17        51
2. Coutrpat Funds - Federal                                                                                          16.8        16.8     16.3       50.4
3. 1BRD - NATSP                                                                                                        S          9.4     9.25      26.65
IBRD - IFAD Caseava                                                                                                10          10        6         26
IERD - NFDP                                                                                                        10          10    12.35       32.35
4. hItenally Geneated Revenue                                                                                         1.7         1.5      1.3        4.5
TOTAL                                                                                                               63.5        64.7      62.7      190.9



- -- .       .. - ..... Zf  -''   J:ttCiITflEf 1177
Physical     Target                                        Financial  Resources (NO000)
SlNe.  Activite                                 Unit            1996           1997           1998           Total       1996        1997     199        Total
A.       Application of Funds
1.   Extension
(a) FNT                                  No.               52             52             52            156      1075.5    1994.65  2127.54    5197.69
(b) SPAT                                 No.            10000          14000          14500          38500        1875     1994.45  2127.54    5996.99
(c) Field Days                           No.            2000           2000            2000           6000      937.65      997.45  1127.77    3062.87
(d) Travel Allownce & Claims            Lump                I              I              1              3      937.65      997.45  1069.77    3004.87
(e) Extension Kits                      Lump                I              I              1              3      937.65      997.45  1069.77    3004.87
(f) Communication                       Lump                I              I              1              3     1075.56     1994.65  2127.54    5197.75
(g) WIA                                 Lump                I              I              1              3      937.65      997.43  1065.77    3000.85
Sub-Tota                                                                                                       7776.66     9973.53  10715.7  28465.89
2.   Technical Sevkes
AdafiveResearchCro2                      No.              144            144            144            432       625.1      664.95   709.15     1999.2
(a) OFARiOFR                             No.               12             12             12             36       625.1      664.95    709.1   1999.15
(b) MTRM                                Lump                                                                    1250.2      1329.5  1929.96    4509.66
(c) TraeaSim                             No.                2              2              2              6       625.1      664.95    709.1   1999.15
(d) Conractid Rtarc                                                                                             3125.5    3324.35  4057.31   10507.16
Seed pehimo
(e) Direct                               NA                90             90             90            270       625.1      665.95    709.1   2000.15
(f) Ouowes                               NA                60             60             60            180      1250.2      1228.5  1410.%    3U89.66
() processng                            Lump                I              I              1              3      1250.2      1229.5  1418.36   3892.06
Sub-tol                                                                                                         9376.5    9772.65    11653   30802.19
3.   Rural I_Hnutio (Commercial)
impact Distibutio                       Lump                I              I              1              3       50C0       5919.6  5672.44   16592.04
Credi  Maketing                         Lump                I              I              1              3      1250.2      1329.5  1418.56   3992.26
Sub-to                                                                                                          6250.2      7249.1     7091    20590.3
4.   F     lerls
(a) ConcreteTanks                        No.                6              6              6             18     1000.16     1063.32  1194.69   3258.17
(b) Nets                                 No.              100            100            100            300     1500.24     1595.66  1702.09   4797.99
(c) Warnps                               No.               50             50             50            150    2000.32      2127.96  2269.57   6397.S5
(d) Accesories                          Lump                I              I              1              3      500.66      567.55   567.95    1636.16
Subbotal                                                                                                       5001.38     5354.49   5734.3  16090.17
5.  Hman Rweorw Deuenmt
(a) Trfaa                               Lmnp                I              I              1              3     3923.19     4819.65  4467.65   13210.49
(b) Training Maels                      Lup                 I              I              1              3       11401     1196.91  1276.52   13S74.43
(c) LiwuyDvelopwne                    Lump                I              I              1              3      598.45      598.45   642.25    1839.15
Sub-total                                                                                                     15922.64     6615.01  63S6.42  28924.07
6.   PMEIPRS
(a) RetProd-do                        Lump                I              I              1              3        500         527       466       1493
(b) StudiesiCosulacy                 Lump                I              I              1              3        1500       1600      1646      4746
Sub-tol                                                                                                           2000       2127      2112      6239
u. MIS
(a) RePGOtPcepmion                    Lunp                I              I              1              3        1514       1466      1469      4449
(b) MouioinViits                      Lump               12             12             12             36        562         595      658       1815
Sub-total                                                                                                         2076       2061      2127      6264
ui. Evaluaion
(a) Surveys                           Lup                 I              I              1              3        1500       1750      1650      4900
(b) SurweyMarials                     Lump                I              I              1              3        575        245.5      277     1097.5
Sub-tal                                                                                                           2075      195.5      1927     5997.5
iv. PRS                                 Lump                I              I              1              3         500       5312       709      6521
SUB-TOTAL                                                                                                         6651     11495.5    6875    25021.5
7.   Engineering
(a) Road RlkcabiiCtioom     cc           Km.               50             50             50            150        5000       5320      5674      15994
(b) FadamatIrigation Schemes            Lump                I              I              1              3        5000       5320      5674      15994
(c) Civi WorkslEquipment AssL           Lump                I              I              1              3        2502       2000      2000      6502
Sub-total                                                                                                        12502       12640    13348     38490
S.   Administration
Office Equipment Maintenance            Lump                I              I              1              3        5000       5000      5675      15675
Stationery/Others                       Lump                I              I              1              3        1251      1545.5    1418      4214.5
Sub-total                                                                                                         6251      6545.5    7093    19889.5
9.    Programme ManagementFinance



Vehicle Maintenance                      No.               65             65             65            195       4000       4250.1    4558    12808.1
Finmnce                                 Lump                I              I              1              3        1000      1069.8  1195.44    3265.24
Sub-total                                                                                                        5000       5319.9  5753.44   16073.34
TOTAL                                                                                                         74731.38    74965.68  74649.9    224347
B.       Sources of Fands
1.   ntenlW Generaed Revenue                                                                                           7006        7700     8470      23176
2.   Countepart Fnmd
(a) FGN                                                                                                          10000       14155    15548     39703
(b) SGN                                                                                                       31065.38    26050.68  23971.9  81087.96
3.   LGA                                                                                                               2000        2400     2000       6400
4.   IBRD
NATSF                                                                                                            14000       14000    14000     42000
NFF                                                                                                              10660       10660    10660     31980
TOTAL                                                                                                         74731.38    74965.68  74649.9    224347



ENUGU STATE AGRICULTURAL DEV. PROJECT
OPERATIONAL PLAN (JULY 1996 - DECEMBER 1998)
Physical     Target                                           Financial  Resources (N'000)
S/No.  Activities                                 Unit             1996           1997            1998            Total       1996        1997      1998       Total
A.        Application of Funds
1.    Management and Administration
Administration                            Lump                I               I               1              3        8686       10775    12026       31487
Finance & Account                         Lump                                                                         862        1901      1180       3943
Planning, Monitoring& Evaluation          Lump                I               I              1               3         239         263       309        811
Sub-Total                                                                                                             9787       12939    13515       36241
2.    Extension
Fortnightly Training (FNT)                 No.               78              72             72             222         120         133       250        503
Field Visits                              No.             28800          35000           35000           98800         491         540       614       1645
SPATs & Field Days                        No.              7200           10300          19000           36500         285         314       456       1055
Media                                     Lump                I               I               1              3         107         117       232        456
Human Resources Development               Lump                I               I               1              3        3916        4312      4908      13136
Sub-total                                                                                                             4919        5416      6460      16795
3.    Technical (Adaptive Research)
MTRlM                                     No.                 I               1               1              3         167        14        309        660
OFAR                                      No.                 I               I               1              3         575         633       749       1957
Seed Multiplication                        Ha.                I               I              1               3         933        1228      2169       4330
Sub-total                                                                                                             1675        2045      3227       6947
4.    Rural lutitution Development
Road Maintenance                          Lump                I               I               1              3         509         560       737       1806
EquipmentM aintenance                     Lump                I               I               1              3        1187        1697      2087       4971
Input Distribution                        Lump                I               I               1              3        4533        5091      5983      15607
Sub-total                                                                                                             6229        7348      8807      22384
5.    Staff Salaries and Allowances                                                                                        14000       14000    14000       42000
TOTAL                                                                                                                36610       41748    46009      124367
B.        Sources of Funds
1.    Enugu State Government                                                                                               23110       26898    29129       79137
2.    Federal Govenment ofNigena                                                                                            6500        7150      8130      21780
3.   Intenal Generated Revenue                                                                                              1600         1600     1600       4800
Cash
4.    Value of Farmers Contribution in Kind                                                                                 5400        6100      7150      18650
TOTAL                                                                                                                36610       41748    46009    124367



IMO STATE AGRICULTURAL DEV. PROJECT
OPERATnONAL PLAN (JULY 1996 - DECEMBER 199)
Physical     Target                                          Financial   Resources (N'000)
SIN..  Aethis                                     Unit             1996           1997            1999            Total       1996        1997    I19l         Total
A.        Appliatio of Funb
1.  MNangom_t and Ad          bintratoa
A        _mb is                           Lump                I               I              1               3         19.2       12.68    22.49      60.37
FhAceeAAccoudt                            LumP                I               I              1               3        4.15          4.1      6.72      15.67
H     Resaces Develpment                  LAmp                I               I              1               3        2.15         2.19      3.2       7.54
SuTOal                                                                                                                 26.2       24.97    32.41      13.58
2.    ate_n
Fo_big     Training (FNT)                  No.              260            260             260             780        2.45         1.45     3.67        7.57
Fied Vits                                  No.
SPAT & Fidd DaystAdnpeive Research         No.              200             200            200             600        0.24         0.24     2.28        2.76
Sub-4.45l                                                                                                              2.69        1.69     5.95       10.33
3.    Toeale
MTRM                                       No.               12              12             12              36           3           2         6         11
Senol StaffTraining                        No.
OFAR md FiHd Vl/IFAD                       No.                                                                          34           32      50.2      116.2
Saed  I                                   ToO               147             147            147             441          1.2         4.2     4.93       10.23
A_sId Tfadon Trho                          No.
Sub-Istal                                                                                                              38.2        31.2    61.03      137.43
4.    Rual Iuldtnt_
ItpDbdio_n                               L_p                 I               I              1               3        3.48         3.48     7.25       14.21
CFA Pmmotn                                LA-p                I               I               1              3        0.43         0.43       1.5       2.36
Sub_al                                                                                                                 3.91        3.91     8.75       16.57
Rond R       _obetMia& hMame              KmL                46              48             50             144         2.91         2.3      3.65       S.S6
Ifgtion ccaesiFADAMA                       No.                                                                          3.4           3       5.9       12.3
Civil W ulEquip. MNinJF   n/M.            Lnp                 I               I               1              3          4.4         2.4       5.4       12.2
S-blna                                                                                                                10.71         7.7    14.95       33.36
6.    PK &  MDSS
rl_,p& Mmdu  &  Evn1tion                  Lap                 I               I               1              3         2.06        3.74      5.24      11.04
MlSD                                      L_p                                 I               1              2                     3.17      4.17       8.74
Sub-latal                                                                                                              2.06        7.61     10.11      19.78
TOTAL                                                                                                                 *3.77       *4.03     133.2    301.05
3.        S"res f Fun
1.    bumlly Ge otald Rce e                                                                                                  2.46           3       3.4       8.16
2.    Couuhepmt Fund - Federal                                                                                               11.5        11.5      11.5       34.5
ComntpUt Fiund - Stte                                                                                                  27.5       19.19       25       71.69
3.   IBRD - NATSP                                                                                                            15.6        10.4
IBRD - NFDP/lFAD                                                                                                      26.71          40      93.3     160.01
TOTAL                                                                                                                 13.77       84.09     133.2    301.06



OGUN STATE AGRICULTURAL DEV. PROJECT
OPERATIONAL PLAN (JULY 1996 - DECEMBER 1998)
Physical    Target                                        Financial  Resources (N'000)
S/No.  ActMties                                Unit            1996           1997          199s           Total       1996       t991     199h       Total
A.       Application of Funds
1.   Management & Administration
Administration Sub-Programme           Lump                I             I              1              3       2904        3041     3750      9695
Finance Sub-Prornme                    Lump                I             I              1              3       2000        2100     2500      6600
HRD Sub-Progamme                       Lump                I             I              1              3       2382        2500     3000      7882
Sub-Total                                                                                                      7286        7641     9250     24177
2.   Extension
Fortnightly Training (FNT)              No.              24             24             24             72        240         560      560       1360
Ficld Visits                            No.           23040          23040          23040          69120       4580        5000     5100      14680
SPAT & Field Days                       No.           16350          21528          21528          59406       6478        7000     7750     2122S
Wome in Aicture                        Lump                1              1             1              3       2750        2S50    3950        9550
Communication Suppoit                  Lump                I             I              1              3       2080        2100     4750      8930
Sub-total                                                                                                     16128       17510   22110      55748
3.   Teebical Servier Sub-ProgUamme
MTRM                                    No.               9             12             12             33        109         145      200       454
OFAR nd Field V-ists                    No.             500            550            600           1650       8616        S650     8000     25266
SeedePrPdctionlPfocessing               Ton              65             70             75            210       1911        2000     2625      6536
Casva                                  Lump                I              I             1              3       18491          0        0      18491
Sub-otl                                                                                                       29127       10795    10S25      50747
4.   RID Sub-Programme
Input Distnion                         Lump                I             I              1              3       3294        3323     6355      12972
Sub-total                                                                                                      3294        3323     6355      12972
5.   Egaeering Servica Sub-Progrmme
Rul Feeder Road Mainteace               Knn              50            100                           150       7500       11942               19442
FadamalnistiionScheme                   No.                            100            150            250       3000        3347     4115      10462
Fadsmanfatsnuce nDevelopment           Lump                I             I              1              3                  11996    15130     27126
Sub-total                                                                                                      10500      27285    19245     57030
6.   PHI Sub-Progamme
Planning Monitoring & Evaualion        Lump                I              I             1              3       4030        4100     7400      15530
Sub-tol                                                                                                        4030        4100     7400      15530
TOTAL                                                                                                         70365       70654    75185    216204
S.       Sources of Fumb
1.       lynal Generated Revenue                                                                                     1000        1200     1440      3640
2.   Coentepw Fund - Fedtel                                                                                         11700       13760   IS500       43960
Countmpant Fund -SStte                                                                                         23900      2S000    36000      87900
3.   IBRD-NATSP                                                                                                      15274      12351               27625
IBRD - NFDF                                                                                                               15343    19245      34588
4.   IFAD - ICP                                                                                                      18491                          18491
TOTAL                                                                                                          70365      70654    75185    216204
Notes:
I) EschlangeRateUSDI=NS5.00
2) The closing date of IFAD CaSsva loan under MSADP-I has been etended to December 1996.
3) NATSP find projections based on USD325,000 approved allocation nd NFDF - USD406,920 proposed.
4) It is asumed that the NATSP will run for 2 years effective in 1996 while the NFDF mateilized in 1997.



PLATEAU STATE AGRICULTURAL DEV. PROJECT
OPERATIONAL PLAN (JULY 196 - DECEMBER 1998)
Physical    Target                                         Financial  Resources (N'000)
S/No.  Activities                               Unit            1996           1997           1998           Total       1996        1997     1998       Total
A.       Apphcation of Funds
1.   Management & Administration
ManagementandAdnmistibon                Lump                I              I              1              3       9313       11977    15068      36358
Finance andAccounts                     Lump                I              I              1              3       7565        7318     8808      23691
Human Resources Development             Lump                I              I              1              3       5466        4710     5714      15890
Sub-Total                                                                                                       22344       24005    29590      75939    75939
2.   Extension
Fortnightly Trinmg (FNT)                 No.               26             26             26             78       3020        3473     3994      10487
Field Visits by VEAs                     No.           107520         107520         107520         322560       18360      18360    18360      55080
SPAT & Field Days                        No.            15004          15004          15004          45012       5844        5843     5843      17530
Media                                   Lump                I              I              1              3       12992      12992    12992      38976
Sub-total                                                                                                       40216       40668    41189    122073   122073
3.   Technical Services
MTRM                                     No.               11             11             11             33       2354        2537      2147      7038
Seasl StaffTraining                      No.                3              3              3              9        1000       1100      1000      3100
OFAR/Field Visit                         No.              300            300            300            900       3000        3254      3000      9254
Seed Mubliplication                      Ha.              250            276            200            726        1500       1500      1500      4500
Animal Traction Development              No.                2              2              2              6        2500       2500      2500      7500
Sub-total                                                                                                        10354      10891    10147      31392    31392
4.   RID Sub-Programme
Input Distribution                      Lump                I              I              1              3       9245       10697    10659      30601
Promotion of Rural Inst Asso.           Lump                I              I              1              3       3000        3000      3000      9000
Sub-total                                                                                                        12245      13697    13659      39601    39601
5.   Engineering
Road Reabilitation Maintenance           Km.               70             85             85            240        3500       4250      4250     12000
lIrigation Scheme                        No.             1100                                         1100       26250                          26250
Civil Woks Equpment Maintemance         Lump                I              I              1              3        1500        750       750      3000
Sub-total                                                                                                        31250       5000      5000     41250    41250
6.   Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Planning,MonitoringandEvaluation        Lump                I              I              1              3       5459        5665      5615     16739
Sub-total                                                                                                         5459       5665      5615     16739    16739
TOTAL                                                                                                           121868      99926   105200    326994   326994
B.       Sources of Funds
I.   Intemally Generated Revenue                                                                                      15000       15000    15000      45000
2.   Counterpart Fnd - Fedald                                                                                         22562       23375    28600      74537
3.   Counterpart Fund- State                                                                                          34813       38980    48630    122423
4.   IBRD - NATSF                                                                                                      14270      13345               27615
5.   IBRD - NFDP                                                                                                      55419                           55419
TOTAL                                                                                                           142064      90700    92230    324994   324994
Notes:
1) Eschange Rate USDI = N85.00
2) The closing date of IFAD Cassava loan under MSADP-I has been extended to December 1996.
3) NATSP fund projections based on USD325,000 approved allocation and NFDF - USD406,920 proposed.
4) 1 is assumed that the NATSP will run for 2 years effective in 1996 while the NFDF materilized in 1997.






I






cl.J
I--4
1-., a
=> .                  r._,
f-- I
_!                       1'!    .
I ,                      ,4 E-
r kq      
cc                             ' O 
_ ! ;! Li fj



