Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
o< J R>33- CitS
Report No. 5527-UNI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 3, 1986
Western Africa Projects Department
Agriculture Division B
lTbis document has a Testricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their Offlicial dutes. Its cotents maY not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriz3fien.



CURRENCY E(7uIVALE1irLS
Currency unit  =    Naira (N)
Calendar 1985       May 1986
US $1           =       NO.89              N1.02
Ni (100 Kobos)  =       US$1.12             US$0.98
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated all weights and measures used in this report
are metric.
1 metric ton (m ton)     =          2205 pounds (lb)
I hectare (ha)           =          2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)         =          0.62 mile (mi)
1 meter (})              =          3.28 feet (ft)



FOR OFFICI  USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADA       -    Accelerated Development Area Program
ADP       -    Agricultural Development Project
ADPEC     -    Agricultural Development Project Executive Committee
AIDS      -    Agro-Industrial Development Scheme
APMEPU    -    Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation, and
Planning Unit
APPU      -    Agricultural Pricing Policy Unit
ARMTI     -    Agriculture and Rural Management Training Institute
ATAP      -    Agricultural Technical Assistance Project
CBN       -    Central Bank of Nigeria
FACU      -    Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
FDA       -    Federal Department of Agriculture
FDRD      -    Federal Department of Rural Development
FMAWRRD   -    Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources
and Rural Development
FMG       -    Federal Military Goverment of Nigeria
FSC       -    Farm Service Center
IFAD      -    International Fund for Agricultural Development
IITA      -    International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
LGA       -    Local Government Area
LGC       -    Local Government Council
MANR      -    Ministry of Agriculture aad Natural Resources
MSADP     -    Multi-State Agricultural Development Project
NAFPP     -    National Agricultural Food Production Project
NRCRI    -    National Root Crops Research Institute
NSS       -   National Seed Service
PFT       -    Program Facilitation Team
RBDA      -    River Basin Authority
TCPP      -    Technical Committee on Producer Prices
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Dank authori=tion.



NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE                                     iv
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                                 v
I.        INTRODUCTION                                                   1
A.  Introduction and Economic Background                       1
B. The Agricultural Sector                                     2
II.       PROJECT BACKGROUND                                             4
A.  Development Constraints                                    4
B. Lessons from Earlier ADPs                                   8
C.  Project Area                                              10
III.      THE PROJECT                                                   13
A.  Project Rationale, Objectives and Summary Description   13
B.  Detailed Features -  Statewide ADPs                       17
1.  Crop and Farm Development                            17
2. Agricultural Research                                 19
3.  Commercial Services                                  20
4.  Roads and Workshops                                  21
5.  Rural Water Supply                                   23
6. Project Management, Monitoring/Evaluation,
Planning & Manpower Development                    23
C. Detailed Features -  Federal Components                    23
1.  Cassava Multiplication and Development               23
2.  Crop Processing                                      25
3.  Support to Agricultural Pricing Policy Unit          25
4.  Pilot Projects                                       25
5. Studies                                               25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. Cole, Carr, Chupak, and Sodhi (Bank) and Harrison, Nyanin,
Sinkinson, and Walters (Consultants) which visited Nigeria in May/June
1984. Messrs. Roy. Miche, Newton, and Williams appraised the project on
behalf of IFAD. Messrs. Cole, Carr and Chupak made a post-appraisal visit
in November/December 1984. Staff of the Water Supply and Transport
Divisions assisted at appraisal. Ms. A. Bagai provided the secretarial
support and figures were checked by Mr. Krishnan.



- ii -
IV.       COSTS AND FINANCING                                           26
A.  Cost Estimates                                            26
B.  Proposed Financing                                        28
C.  Procurement                                               30
D.  Disbursement                                              32
E.  Accounts, Auditing and Reporting Requirement              34
V.        PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                        35
A.  Overall MSADP Organization                                35
B.  Implementation Statewide ADPs                             36
C.  Infrastructure Planning and Implementation                40
D.  Input Procurement and Distribution                        42
E.  Status of Project Preparation                             42
VI.       DEMAND, MARKETING, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS              43
A. Demand                                                     43
B.  Marketing and Processing                                  43
C.  Prices                                                    44
D.  Financial Analysis                                        45
VII.      ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION                           48
A.  Benefits                                                  48
B.  Economic Rate of Return                                   49
C.  Sensitivity and Risks                                     51
D.  Environmental Considerations                              52
VIII.     AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                         53
ANNEXES
1   Key Features of Agricultural Sector
2    Summary State Characteristics
3-1 Basis for Agriculture Production Coefficients
3-2 Design Standards for Feeder Roads
4-1  Project Costs -- Component by State
4-2 Project Costs -- Categories by State
4-3 Program Cost Financing Plan
4-4 Disbursement Schedule
4-5 Disbursement Schedule - Categories by State
4-6 Disbursement Chart



- iii -
5-1 Organogram - MSADP
5-2 Organogram - Link Between NSS and State ADP
5-3 Implementation Schedule
5-4 National Seed Service - Cash Flow
5-5 Training Program
5-6 Criteria for Evaluating Feeder Road Program
6-1 Incremental Crop Production
6-2  Financial and Economic Faragate Prices
6-3 Economic Price of Fertilizer
6-4 Returns to Fertilizer for Major Crops
6-5 Returns to Improved Cassava Planting Material & Other Inputs
6-6 Gross Margins from Fertilizer Use in 3 Zones
6-7 Financial Implications for State & Federal Governments
7-1 Economic Analysis - Anambra State
7-2 Economic Analysis - ERRs and NPVs for Statewide ADPs
7-3 Economic Analysis - All States
MAP
IBRD No. 15065R8: IBRD Assisted Agricultural Projects



- iv -
NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE
Code
A.  Background
Agricultural Sector Memorandum February 25, 1985             Agricultural Sector
Report No. 4723-UNI                             Bank Report
B.   Project Idenfication and Preparation
1.   Phased Agricultural Development Program                 221954 (Bi)
Phase I 1984-1986. Summary report for ADPs
in nine states, 1983.
Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit, 1983.
Federal Department of Rural Development.
2.   Phased Agricultural Development Project                 221954 (B4 a-i)
Phase I 1984-1986. Appraisal Reports for
nine states (Anambra, Bendel, Benue,
Cross River, Imo, Lagos, Ogun, Plateau, and
Rivers), FACU 1983.
3.   Phased ADP Supplementary Reports for eight states       221954 (B2 a-h)
(Anambra, Bendel, Benue, Cross River, Imo,
Ogun, Plateau and Rivers) FACIT 1984.
4.  Phased Agricultural Development Program                  221954 (B3)
Phase I 1984-86. Supplement to Summary Report.
FACU 1984.
C.   Working Papers
C.1 Agricultural Development Program
C.2 Agricultural Extension
C.3 Adaptive Research
C.4 Seed Production
C.5 Multiplication Improved Cassava
Planting Material
C.6 Input Distribution
C.7 Road Program
C.8 Water Supply
C.9 Central Funds
C.10 Crop Marketing and Prices
C.11 Crop Processing
C.12 Project Organization and Management
C.13 Economic Evaluation
C.14 Cost Tables



-v-
NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiaries:           Federal Reputlic of Nigeria, Anambra State,
Bendel State, Benue State, Cross River State,
Imo State, Ogun State and Plateau State.
Amount:                  US $162 million equivalent
Terms:                   Payable over 20 years, including five years of
grace, at standard variable interest rate.
Cofinancier:              International Fund for Agricultural Development
Relending Terms:         The Federal Government would on lend US$22.4
million (un) to Anambra State, US$15.4 un to
Bendel State, US$21.4 an to Benue State3
US$14.1 mn to Cross River State. US$19.4 mn to
Iso State, US$5.2 vn to Ogun State and US$39.6
mn to Plateau State, on the same terms as the
Bank loan. In addition, unallocated funds of
US$13.8 may be on lent in the course of the
project. The States would carry the foreign
exchange risk.
Project Desc.Jotion:     The project would support implementation of the
first phase of statewide Agricultural Development
Projects (ADP) in six states (Anambra, Bendel,
Benue, Cross River, Imo and Plateau) and a
isdified program in Ogun State, with the
objective of increasing foodcrop production
(mainly cassava, yams, maize and rice)
and the income of gsall farmers. The project
would fund: (i) farm inputs and multiplication
of improved planting material (cassava, rice and
potatoes); (ii) the reorganization of rainfed
crop extension services; (iii) on-farm adaptive
research; (iv) the strengthening and commerciali-
zation of input distribution system; (v) feeder
road maintetance and rehabilitation, and improved
workshops; (vi) rural water supplies; and (vii)
project management, monitoring/evaluation and
planning, and manpower development and training.
At the federal lewl, the project would support:
(a) the development and distribution of improved



- vi -
cassava varieties; (b) improved village level
processing; (c) strengthening of institutional
capability for agricultural pricing and trade
policy; (d) pilot projects as forerunners to
phase II ADPs; and (e) studies for upgrading
agricultural planning data and preparing a
follow-up project.
Estimated Costs:
State Components
Local      Foreign      Total
…- US $ million
Crop and Farm Development                 24.5          66.5       91.0
Agricultural Research                       1.2           1.0       2.2
Commercial Services                        6.6           2.6        9.2
Roads & Workshops                          18.4         22.6       41.0
Rural Water                                7.5           8.9       15.6
Management & Support Services              14.5          9.3       23.8
Total Base Costs-ADPs                   72.7         110.1      182.8
Physical Contingencies                   3.4           7.9       11.3
Price Contingencies                     29.3          16.2       45.5
Total Project Costs - ADPs             105.4         134.2      239.6
Federal Components
Cassava Multiplication & Processing        2.5           2.3        4.8
Support to APPU                            0.2           0.3        0.5
Pilot Projects                             0.6           0.6        1.2
Studies                                     1.2          4.5        5.7
Total Base Costs - Federal               4.5           7.7       12.2
Physical Contingencies                   0.3           0.3        0.6
Price Contingencies                      2.6           1.4        4.0
Total Project Costs - Federal            7.4           9.4       16.8
Total Project Costs                    112.8 a/      143.6      256.4
al  Of vhich US $10.7 million in duties and taxes.
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                      26.9        135.1        162.0
IFAD                                       3.5          8.5         12.0
Federal Government                        49.5           -          49.5
State Governments                         32.9           -          32.9
Total                          112.8        143.6       256.4



- vii -
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year:            1987    1988    1989   199C    1991    1992
… ---------- US $ Million ---------------…
Annual                 29.6    46.4    34.6   22.6    20.8    8.0
Cummulative            29.6    76.0   110.6  133.2   154.0  162.0
Benefits and Risks:       The project would:  (a) increase food crop produc-
tion and the incomes of some 350,000 smallholders;
(b) establish a better link between research,
extension and farmers and initiate development
of appropriate improved production technology; and
(c) strengthen planning and implementation capa-
bility of existing federal, state and local govern-
ment institutions. At full development the expected
increase in foodcrop production (mainly yams,
cassava, maize and rice) would total about 310,000
tons foodgrains equivalent per year. Main risks
are associated with (i) the abilityi of federal
agriculture staff to provide professional back-
stopping; (ii) shortfalls in funding and supply of
fertilizer; and (iii) lower than anticipated
farmer response. Project design takes account of
experience with earlier ADPs in order to contain
these risKs.
Rate of Return:           23 percent
MM:   IBRD  15065R8



NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
A.   Introduction and Economic Background
1.01      Over the past decade, World Bank assistance to the agricultural
sector in Nigeria has emphasized increased food production through lending
for Agricultural Development Projects (ADP), which were first implemented in
enclave areas within the northern states and, later, as state-wide
operations. The proposed Multi-State Agricultural Development Project
(MSADP) project, which was prepared by the Federal Agricultural Coordinating
Unit (FACU) of the Federil Ministry of Agriculture, was designed on the basis
of experience from these projects to provide assistance for development of
ADPs in eight middle-belt and southern states. Subsequently in 1983, the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) following up on the
financial assistance it had been providing to the Root and Tuber Improved
Program at the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA),
identified a Cassava Improvement Project for Nigeria. The Cassava
Improvement Project as identified by IFAD proposed an integrated approach to
improving cassava yields of small farmers through distribution of improved
varieties together with pest control and improved processing. Since the ADPs
in the southern states included an important cassava component and the IPAD
assisted project would require the extension services, which would be
supported under the ADPs, to play a major role in demonstration and
multiplication of improved planting material, it was agreed to combine the
two projects. At the request of the Federal Military Government (FMG), the
combined project was appraised by a joint Bank/IFAD mission.
1.02      The Federal Republic of Nigeria comprises 19 states and covers
924,000 km2 with a population of over 90 million (1983). Average GNP per
capita is estimated at about US$770 in 1984, which is twice the average for
sub-Saharan Africa. While Nigeria, as a major oil exporter since the early
70's, enjoyed a substantially improved resource base from increased oil
revenues, socio-economic indicators show it still remains at a stage of
development comparable with other sub-Saharan countries.
1.03      The Nigerian economy is dominated by the oil sector which accounts
for about 20% of GDP, abowt 95% of export earnings and 75Z of government
revenue.  However, following a deterioration in world oil markets in
mid-1981, oil exports declined sharply and the consequent deterioration in
the external financial situation had a severe impact on the fiscal position
of Federal and State Governments and on growth. Domestic output contracted
in 1983 and GDP is estimated to have declined at an average rate of 3.8Z per
annum over the 1981/84 period. The ambitious investment program of the
Fourth Development Plan (1981/85) which had been prepared when world oil
markets were favorable and which had placed emphasis on the development of
agriculture (through state-wide agricultural support programs and massive



- 2 -
irrigation schemes), creation of a substantial heavy industrial base and
substantial investment in infrastructure, was cut back. The government's
initial response to the crisis was slow and not until 1984, with the advent
of the previous military government, was a serious attempt made to bring
expenditures in line with revenues. Public expenditures were reduced and
import controls tightened, while the states were asked to produce 'balanced'
budgets. Fiscal discipline at the state level Improved and the government
was able to achieve some success in bringing about more orderly economic
management. The new government, which came into power in August 1985,
declared its intent to move from austerity alone to austerity with structural
adjustment. Thus even though there were in 1985 some positive effeccs of the
improved fiscal policies (e.g. decline in inflation rate), the major
improvement in policies geared towards further stabilization as well as
structural adjustment came with the 1986 budget statements, and in subsequent
.iKitiatives. These make siginificant progress in energy pricing and a good
start on exchange rate, public expenditure and parastatal reforms.
B.   The Agricultural Sector
1.04      Agricultural Sector Characteristics.  Nigerian agriculture accounts
for 26% of CDP and employs 60% of the labor force. About 16 million ha are
farmed annually, most in the form of mixed crops. Production is mainly by
smallholders who supply around 97% of the domestic food supply, using
traditional, manual technology; Annex 1. In the north, cattle and annual
crops (grains, cotton and groundnuts) predominate, while in the south tree
crops (cocoa, oil palm and rubber) are the traditional cash crops with food
needs met from root crops and grains. Less than 1% of the total cropped area
is covered by assured irrigation so that traditional, rainfed farming systems
dominate the country's agriculture. Agricultural performance in the last
decade has been undermined by disincentives created by and in the wake of the
oil boom. The sector has faced intense competition for labcr and skills from
other parts of the economy, and many young people have left agriculture for
the towns. Inflation has raised production costs (especially hired labor)
but first oil revenues and then government policy maintained a high parity
for the naira, so that competition in world markets and with imports at home
has become increasingly difficult for the sector.
1.05      Foodcrop Production.  As a result of a poor data base, there are
conflicting estimates of the growth in domestic food production since the
early 1970s. However the Bank's most recent analysis 1/ concludes that in
the period 1970-82 food production in Nigeria increased in absolute terms
probably at or somewhere under the assumed population growth rate (2.7%).
The overall demand for staple food probably grew at about 2.9% per annum and
part of this growth was met by imports. Encouraged by import and fiscal
policies, there was a dramatic increase in food imports, with an elevenfold
rise from US $174 million in 1973 to about US$2.8 billion in 1982. This
reflected the appreciation of the exchange rate, combined with the demand
from an increasingly urbanized population for wheat, rice, and convenient
preparations of starchy foods. Recent changes in fiscal and import
1/        Agricultural Pricing Policy, June 15, 1985, Report No. 4945-UNI.



policies have reversed this trend (imports fell to about US$1.5 million in
1984 and maize & rice imports have recently been banned) and are encouraging
increases in domestic foodcrop production and favoring further development of
improved processing techniques for rootcrops (cassava and yams).
1.06      Government Objectives.  FMG is committed to increase support to the
sector to: increase output and productivity on a sustained basis, reduce
dependence on imported food, increase the supply of raw materials for
domestic industry and reestablish exports, and improve rural living
conditions. The objectives for increased food production are consistel.; with
the national food production plan, wIiich, prepared with Bank assistance in
1980, set out a five year program for bringing ADPs to a large segment of
Nigeria's rural population to achieve this goal. In support of these
objectives, agriculture's share of the Federal Capital Budget was increased
to 202 in 1984 and state governments have similarly committed a larger share
of resources to agriculture. In addition, recent policy initiatives have
demonstrated FMG's intention to move away from heavy reliance on the public
sector and decisions have been taken: to privatize fertilizer importation
and distribution to abolish by December 31, 1986 the Commodity Boards, which
had for a long time enjoyed a monopoly in the purchase and marketing of cash
crops; to discontinue the River Basin and Rural Development Authorities'
direct agricultural production activities; and to wind up eleven parastatals
involved in various agricultural production activities.
1.07      Bank Operations.  As already noted, Bank assistance to the Nigerian
agriculture sector has emphasized increased food production. Lending for
this purpose has been through ADPs; at first implemented in specific areas
within states, and later as statewide operations. To date, the Bank has
committed loans totalling US $785 million for 13 ADPs with a total project
cost of US $2.14 billion. At the Federal level, three Bank-assisted projects
are ongoing: (a) the Agricultural Technical Assistance Project (ATAP) (loan
US $47 million, total costs US $120 million) which is designed to strengthen
the Federal Government's ability to prepare, appraise and supervise projects;
(b) the Agricultural and Rural Management Training Project (loan US $9
million, total costs US $30 million) which has established an institute
(ARMTI) for training project management staff; and (c) a fertilizer project
(loan US $250 million) which provides assistance for the import of fertilizer
for two seasons (1984 and 1985) and should lead to: (i) the progressive
commercialization of the importation and distribution process; and (ii) a
gradual reduction in the financial subsidy for complete elimination by 1989.
Under the ATAP loan, the Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU) with
three 2/ regional offices and the Agricultural Projects and Monitoring
Evaluation Unit (APMEPU) were established to provide the Federal Department
of Rural Development with the capacity to supervise and assist with
implementation of the ADP program. A fourth FACU regional office was
established in Jos during 1985. Assistance has also been provided for the
tree crop, forestry, and livestock sub-sectors (total loans US $101 million).
The lessons learned from the ongoing ADPs are related in paras 2.15-2.17.
2/        FACU is located at Ibadan and the three regional offices are at
Benin, Enugu, and Kaduna.



-4-
1.08      IFAD has funded a number of programs at IITA for the genetic
i1provement of traditional food crops, particularly cassava, yams, and sweet
potatoes, as well as research on biological control of cassava pests and
staff training. Significant progress has been achieved through these
programs particularly in respect of developing improved cassava varieties
suitable for Nigeria (para 2.13).
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND
A.   Development Constraints
2.01      After, it came into power in 1986, the Federal Military Government
(FMG) stated its full commitment to revitalizing the agricultural sector and
dealing with the constraints which have hindered agricultural development in
the past decade. These constraints include: (a) an incentive framework
with prices, taxes, subsidies, exchange rate and marketing which have worked
against the development of an efficient agriculture; (b) an institutional
framework which has encouraged duplication and inefficient operation of
services to the sector and failed to make suitable arrangements for
maintenance of investments; and (c) a technology framework which has failed
to improve the general level of agronomic practices. or increase labor
productivit-y.
1.  Incentive Framework
2.02      An oil dominated and appreciating exchange rate, erratic trade
policies and a largely ineffective system of support prices for domestically
consumed staples have resulted in fluctuating returns and no consistent
incentive for farmers to make the commitment necessary to sustain increased
domestic production. Since 1970, import policies have favored consumers
through the import and sale of cheap wheat, rice, maize, and vegetable oils
at negligible duties. On the export side, farmers suffered initially from
the heavy taxes and retentions imposed by marketing boards and subsequently,
when farm costs rose above export prices, the subsidies offered were
Imadequa"e-to encourage farmers to rehabilitate plantations or harvest crops.
Disincentives caused by trade policies vere aggravated by shifts in the
exchange rates, an overvalued Naira in the 1970's putting exports at a
further disadvantage and strengthening the competitive edge already enjoyed
by imported grains.
2.03      However, while these policies resulted in low producer prices  in
the past, since 1983, due to drought and reduced imports, farmers have been
enjoying high prices and good returns from fooderops. It is important that
consistent incentives are maintained in the future; accordingly provisions
for assisting FMG to achieve this are incorporated under the proposed
project. These provisions follow from the analysis done for the Bank's
report "Macro-Economic Policies for Structural Change" (August 1983) and for
the report "Agricultural Pricing Policy" (June 1985),  which set out the broad
magnitude of changes required to strengthen the incentive framework for
agriculture. During appraisal of the proposed projer-, FXG was advised that
the Bank would wish to reach agreement on the general principles of



- 5 -
agricultural trade policy and set up a mechanism for consultation between the
Bank and FMG. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
2.04      The Government would make appropriate institutional arrangements to
ensure proper coordination of trade policy and set up a mechanism for
consultation with the Bank on the relevant elements of agricultural pricing
and trade policy. Assistance to equip and strengthen the group mandated to
carry out this function would be provided under the proposed project (para
3.31). Bank staff have discussed possible alternative institutional
arrangements with the Government which is discussing options internally in
order to determine which institutional arrangement would be most effective.
2.   Institutional Framework
2.05      Federal activities.  Although constitutionally agricultural
development is a state government responsibility, the Federal Ministry of
Agriculture has become increasingly involved in implementation at state
level. Following the Federal Ministry of Agriculture's merger with the
Federal Miaistry of Water Resources to form the Federal Ministry of
Agriculture Water Resources and Rural Development (FMAWRRD) early in 1984,
improved coordination of federal and state interventions is expected.
Federal Department of Agriculture (FDA) programs, which include support to
maize, cassava and rice production and provision of subsidized inputs and
tractor services, are being wound up. Direct federal intervention in the
states will be confined to the operations of the eleven River Basin
Development Authorities (RBDA). Their main role will be the development of
new rural infrastructure (water supply, feeder roads, irrigation) and
maintenance of irrigation schemes. While arrangements for coordination of
RBDA and state activities have been strengthened, the details of RBDA
involvement in rural infrastructure development (link with Local Government
Councils (L(GCs) and maintenance responsibility) have not been worked out and
the states covered by the MSADP rejected an earlier Federal Government
proposal that funds for roads and water supplies should be channeled through
the RBDAs. Since (a) the RBDAs are in an early stage of development, and, in
most cases, have only the capacity to look after their own developments, and
(b) the first phase of the proposed project would focus on maintenance and
spot improvement of existing feeder roads through strengthening LGC capacity
(para 3.19), the appraisal mission endorsed this decision. The RBDAs,
however, would be permitted to tender for work subcontracted by ADPs (para
3.20).
2.06      The Fertilizer Procurement and Distribution Division (FPDD) within
FMAWRRD is responsible for fertilizer procurement and distribution to the
states. At the state level, fertilizer is distributed by the Ministry of
Agriculture and National Resources (para 2.07). Although supplies of
fertilizer have increased substantially in 1984, distribution procedures are
so cumbersome that there have been strong disincentives to increased uptake
by smallholders. Storage conditions are often poor and in some states there
has been significant spoilage of stocks left from earlier years. These
problems are being addressed through the fertilizer import loan (Ln.2345-UNI)
under which FMG is covenanted to prepare a countrywide marketing plan. A
marketing plan has been prepared with the assistance of the International
Fertilizer Development Corporation (IFDC) and, following review by the
Government and the Bank, found to be acceptable. Provision by FMG of a



- 6 -
fertilizer marketing plan acceptable to the Bank was made a condition of
Board presentation for the proposed project. While good progress has been
made on reducing the financial subsidy on fertilizer (it came down from 85%
in 1983 to 50% in 1984, one year ahead of schedule, and to 34Z in 1985),
continued high inflation in Nigeria and only marginal exchange rate
adjustments have meant that the economic subsidy was unacceptably high
(economic subsidy expected to be 50% in 1988 when financial subsidy reduced
to 25% as required under the fertilizer loan). Following negotiations
Government agreed to accelerate the pace of subsidy reduction. The subsidy
level has now been reduced to 28% and the Government plans to eliminate it by
1989.
2.07      State Ministries of Agriculture.  In each of the states covered by
the project there is a Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR)
responsible for state interventions in agriculture. In addition, some states
(Benue, Plateau) have parastatal Agricultural Development Corporations (ADC)
which have been handling more direct interventions sometimes on a joint
venture basis with private companies. State MANRs have responsibility for
agricultural extension services and input distribution (primarily
fertilizer). MANR extension services face four major problems at present:
(a) an imbalance between supervisory and field level staff with too many of
the former in relation to the latter, so that the proportion of workers who
have any contact with farmers is low; (b) a lack of any clearly defined
objectives, stemming in part from the shortage of proven technical messages
acceptable to smallholders; (c) the non-payment of allowances and claims
which makes staff reluctant to travel; and (d) low morale largely due to (a)
- (c) above and to the under-utilization of trained staff. These constraints
have resulted in a situation in which a large staff, who are without
operating funds and whose salaries absorb 85-90% of state MANR budgets, has a
negligible effect on the farming community and on agricultural production.
2.08      Within selected states, the Bank-assisted ADPs have addressed these
constraints and, under the authority of semi-autonomous management units,
have concentrated resources on improving key agricultural services and
infrastructure in support of small farm production (para 2.15). The existing
ADP network covers much of the northern, and part of the middle belt and the
proposed project would extend it to much of the south, but on a modified
basis taking account of lessons learnt from completed projects (para 2.17).
In addition to Bank assisted ADPs, Government introduced an Accelerated
Development Area (ADA) program. The ADA, distinguished from the ADP by
limitation in project scale to a basic services package (improving extension
services, ensuring an adequate and timely supply of crop production inputs
and upgrading feeder roads) was viewed as potentially providing a more
immediate impetus to production in areas not already included in an ADP. ADA
projects have been launched successfully in Gongola, Borno and Imo states,
albeit at lower levels of funding than originally planned.
2.09      Local Government Areas.  There are between 10 and 23 Local
Government Areas (LGAs) per state and each is run by a council (LGC) with
responsibility for feeder roads and water supply maintenance -- a
responsibility which has not been fulfilled over most of the proposed project
area. The LGCs have been poorly financed until now and are subject to
considerable political interference. The new military Government set up a
National Commission to address these issues and, following its



recommendations, funding arrangements and the LGC administrative structure
have been strenigthened.
3.   Technology Framework
2.10      Limited Acceptable Technology.  In the humid and sub-humid zones of
the south, in which mixed cropping with the dominant staples of cassava, yams
and green maize is the major agricultural activity, scope for significant
change in farming practice is limited by environment and by farmers'
priorities and goals. Agricultural research has not identified mixed
cropping patterns which are of proven superiority to those developed by
farmers over long periods of time. Choice of planting material is determined
not only by yield but also by such factors as period of maturity, ease of
storage, palatability and suitability for processing. Consequently new
cultivars on offer from research stations are expected to be only gradually
incorporated into existing farming systems. Fertilizer use is becoming more
widespread in these zones. On land which is in its first year after an
adequate fallow there is little response to fertilizer, but in subsequent
years, or where the fallow is too short for proper soil regeneration there is
usually a worthwhile yield increase at current prices, and growth of
fertilizer use will be the main focus of crop development in the southern
states. In the drier areas, grain crops (maize and sorghum) are important.
Although research findings indicate that yield increases can be obtained
through the modification of planting dates, weeding practices and plant
populations, there has been little response on the established ADPs to
extension efforts which focus on these practices. This situation has
continued on the Lafia and Ayangba (para 2.15) projects which are within the
area of the proposed project. Also new varieties of sorghum and millet have
not proved widely acceptable to farmers on other ADPs. While research
continues, acceptable varieties are unlikely to become available during the
implementation of the proposed project.
2.11      Agricultural Research.  Research work at the International
Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA) 3/ - a CGIAR-supported institution
- is focusing on new approaches to developing a sustainable agriculture in
the sub-humid zone. Potential solutions under test include a system of
alternate strips of planted trees (to provide mulch and stakes) and annual
crops, and the use of herbicide to destroy weeds instead of the traditional
burn. These innovations are not yet sufficiently tested to form the basis of
an extension program and, despite its exploitive nature, the existing farming
system is expected to continue for some years, with changes being related to
the use of new inputs (such as fertilizer and herbicides) rather than in the
system itself. In the absence of alternative strategies from the research
institutes, growing population pressure and declining soil fertility are
expected to stimulate fertilizer demand in order to maintain production.
2.12      National research institutes have had little impact on farming
practice in Southern Nigeria over the past twenty years for the following
reasons: (a) difficulty of maintaining soil fertility, and particularly soil
3/        Located at Ibadan.



- 8 -
pH in the humid tropics; (b) low morale and motivation of research staff -
which stems from a variety of causes including the absence of obvious impact
of their work on farming, declining government support, frequent
reorganizations and isolation from the main stream of agricultural
development; and (c) absence of either formal or informal links between the
research institutes and the extension services and the farming population.
The proposed project addresses the last issue (para 3.16).
2.13      Improved Planting Matefial.  Although there is a significant
potential demand for improved planting material for cassava, maize and rice,
less than 10Z of the cropped area is planted with new varieties. In some
areas there are no improved varieties which are as acceptable as those
traditionally in use, while in others the lack of efficient multiplication
arrangements is the main cause for the low level of adoption. Within the
states covered by the MSADP, the National Root Crop Research Institute
(NRCRI), at Umudike, is responsible for work on the area's major crops
(cassava and yams); but little new information or planting material has been
released from the station for some years. IITA, however, has released a
number of mosaic and bacterial blight resistant or tolerant varieties over
the last ten years. Trial results have shown these improved varieties to
generally outyield local varieties both with and without fertilizer.  In some
areas there are problems of adaptability to traditional farming systems and
preparation methods, but existing improved varieties coupled to the ongoing
development of further improvements provide an acceptable basis for a cassava
multiplication program. Furthermore, IITA has made good progress with
introducing predators of two serious cassava pests - mealy bug and green
spider mite - accidentally introduced into Africa from Latin America some
years ago. A predator of the mealy bug has been released in Nigeria and
appears to be effective; work on identifying a predator of the mite is
continuing.
2.14      Overall responsibility for production and distribution of new
planting material lies with the National Seed Service (NSS) but the states
also have their own multiplication programs. NSS, established under FDA in
1976 with headquarters at Ibadan, is responsible for coordination of breeder
seed production by the research institutes, production of foundation seed and
seed testing/certification. Initially NSS worked on cereals and legumes with
FA0/UNDP assistance.  In 1980 it was given responsibility for cassava
multiplication but has received inadequate budgetary and management support
to work effectively. The state programs have functioned erratically in the
past but the basic structure exists on which the project will build the
cassava and rice programs. Maize seed production is now being developed by
the Nigerian Seed Company which will be the major national supplier.
B. Lessons from Earlier ADPs
2.15      Five World Bank-assisted ADPs have now been completed -- the three
northern enclave ADPs of Gusau, Funtua, and Gombe completed in 1980, and
Lafia and Ayangba in the middle-belt completed in 1983. All five ADPs were
designed to increase smallholder incomes and foodcrop production through a
core agricultural package of support services (input supply, seed
multiplication and extension) plus an important infrastructure component
comprising construction of feeder roads, farm service center network and
water supplies. In Lafia and Ayangba design was more complicated with pilot



- 9 -
livestock, fisheries and forestry components in addition to the core
agricultural package and infrastructure components. In all projects the
infrastructure components were well received by the rural population and
implemented successfully. In the northern projects, improved fertilizer
availability had a positive impact on production in the project areas which
is estimated to have increased at 5% per annum, about double the rate for the
country as a whole. Although the recommended sole crop packages were not
acceptable, farmers applied selected inputs (mostly fertilizer but some maize
seed and seed dressing) to their traditional mixed cropping pattern. The
Lafia and Ayangba projects, while closely modeled on the northern enclave
projects followed too closely to benefit from their experience. The more
complicated design overburdened management and there were serious shortfalls
in local funding from 1980 leading to implementation delays. The core
agricultural development program, although stimulating production, was not as
successful because there was little acceptable improved planting material and
fertilizer was in short supply; as a result the estimated economic rate of
return of 6% for Lafia and Ayangba was lower than that for the northern ADPs
where it was estimated at 15Z.
2.16      Weaknesses common to all five completed ADPs were:  first, the poor
research support to extension - the extension services were asked to promote
an inadequately adapted complete package of inputs on a sole crop basis
rather than working within the traditional mixed crooping system which
generally performed better in terms of risk aversion and returns; second,
extension staffs' inability to relate to the farming population; and, third,
there was a lack of timely monitoring to aid project management in correcting
design mistakes. While the project organization was effective, with
weaknesses inherent in the state Ministries of Agriculture overcome by
setting up semi-autonomous management units with expatriates in many key
positions, this was at the expense of continuity after project completion.
Recurrent costs of the more elaborate management structure were not
sustainable and there was inadequate provision for post-project maintenance
of feeder roads and water supplies which are the responsibility of LGCs.
There is also some doubt as to how agricultural initiatives are to be
maintained in the post project implementation period. Since the road and
agricultural components in Lafia and Ayangba were implemented more or less
independently, it is alsc questionable whether it was necessary to place
responsibility for road maintenance and construction under the ADP. To
address the issue of continuity, FMAWRRD recommended in September 1984 that
the states adopt the organizational change made by Kano State under which an
Agricultural Development Authority has been created to act as the
implementation arm for MANR, leaving MANR primarily with a policy-making role
(see para 5.09 for impact of this on the proposed project).
2.17      Lessons learned from completed ADPs include:  (i) the need to
understand and work from the traditional cropping system through a program of
adaptive on-farm oriented research; (ii) concentrate initial production
efforts on a core agricultural package offering farmers better access to
available planting material, fertilizer and crop protection inputs; (iii)
avoid heavy investment on training additional extension staff which are not
warranted in the absence of well-defined technical messages to be transferred
to farmers, and adequate financial resources to support an expanded civil
service; (iv) only embark on projects when state and Federal funding can be
reasonably well assured; (v) do not overstrain state managerial capacity; and



- 10 -
(vi) ensure that arrangements for project implementation make adequate
provision for post-project maintenance, inclIding roads and water supplies.
These lessons have been taken into account in the design of the proposed
project as follows. Firstly, a phased program is planned of which the
proposed project would be the first phase and during which each statewide ADP
would provide for a program of adaptive research, i.e. on-farm research based
on a step-wise approach, starting with a diagnostic survey of typical farming
systems (para 3.16). Secondly, in reorganizing agricultural extension the
focus would be on creating a smaller, but more effective service selected
from existing staff (para 3.14) and would promote a small number of proven
messages, e.g. better use of fertilizer, improved cassava, maize and rice
planting material and better weed control including use of herbicides.
Thirdly, project size has been brought in line with managerial capacity and
local funding capability and provision is made to ensure greater state and
Federal commitment (para 4.05). Finally, implementation arrangements for the
road component which involves other agencies (Ministry of Local Government
and LGCs) with limited resources, focus on maintenance and spot improvement
of existing feeder roads and tracks and close participation of these agencies
in implementation (para 3.21). The water supply program would be lI'mited to
pilot investments with handpumps (para 3.23).
C.  Project Area
1.   Population
2.18      Total population in the seven states (Anambra, Bendel, Benue, Cross
River, Imo, Ogun and Plateau) covered by the first phase MSADP project is
estimated at about 29 million witb about 2.5 million farm families; of which
some 53% are in the south east and 47% in the south west and middle belt.
Summary statistics on the participating states are given in Annex 2.
2.   Location and Ecology
2.19      The project area stretches from the coast to the highlands of
Plateau State, with a rainfall ranging from 4,000 mm per year in Cross River
state to 1,200 mm in the north of the project area; map IBRD 15065R8. For
agricultural purposes three broad zones can be distinguished:
(a) the humid farest zone which is represented in Cross River,
Bendel, Imo, Anambra and Ogun States. High rainfall leads to
the rapid leaching of nutrients and the progressive
acidification of soils under any form of annual cropping
system. Once the forest cover is removed and bush fallowing
given up, there is at present no known technology for
maintaining the fertility of these soils under long term
arable use without heavy applications of organic manures,
which are not available in significant quantities.
Consequently there is a progressive decline in soil fertility
under increasing population pressure. Yams, which demand a
high level of fertility, are being replaced by cassava as the
dominant crop which now occupies 80% of farmland in coastal
areas. The climate is too humid for maize grain production
and this crop is mainly grown to be eaten green;



- 11 -
(b)  the sub-humid forest zone, much of which is now covered with
derived savannah. This is represented in northern Cross
River, Anambra, Bendel and Ogun States and in Benue and
Plateau. Leaching is not as severe as in the humid zone and
although there is widespread soil degradation, technology is
being evolved which could lead to stable agricultural systems
in these areas in the future. Yams are of considerable
importance and some maize is grown for grain although the bulk
of the crop is eaten green; and
(c) savannah country with natural grassland and lower rainfall.
This exists in Plateau State and a small segment of Benue. In
this area grains and legumes become more important than root
crops as the staple foods.
2.20      Throughout the first two of these zones in the project area much of
the land is being subjected to an intensity of use which is exploitive,
resulting in a decline in soil fertility. A reversal of this trend is likely
to be slow and initiatives being proposed under this project are at best
ameliorative in the absence of technically proven and economically viable
solutions.
3.   Farming Systems
2.21      Shifting cultivation, with a bush fallow to restore soil fertility,
is the main farming system throughout the project area. The development of
an adequate cover of deep rooted trees to mine leached minerals from the acid
subsoil is critical to the success of this system in the wetter areas. 4/
Burning of the slashed fallow growth is essential for the rapid recycling of
nutrients; in addition, it destroys weeds so that only a minimum of
cultivation is necessary for crop establishment after the fallow.
Progressive shortening of the rest period under the impact of population
pressure is the most obvious change that has taken place in recent years.
2.22      In the southern states two crop mixes accorat for the bulk of the
annually planted area. The first of these mixes consists of yams planted
early in the rains with maize and various vegetables. In September the field
is planted to cassava which then leads in to the fallow. The second is
cassava and maize planted early in the year with the maize being harvested
green and the cassava leading i. to the fallow after harvest.  It is not
expected that extension will bring about any significant changes in the basic
farming pattern since: (a) both crop associations have built in factors
which preclude the introduction of greatly changed planting dates (e.g.
shading of young yams by cassava and of cassava by maize); and (b) crop
spacing is determined by a series of factors (e.g. the relative cost of yam
sets and labor, the market for green maize) which are not purely agronomic.
4/        A fallow period of about 25 years is required to achieve this in
the wetter areas.



- 12 -
2.23      In the less humid areas there is a more complex situation involving
a wider range of major crops, including cassava and yams in the wetter parts
and a sorghum, millet, cowpea mixture in the drier districts. Maize for
grain is steadily growing in popularity and offers scope for improvement as
specialized growers move in to sole cropping. A similar potential exists for
commercial cowpea production in pure stands. For the bulk of the upland
farming system, however, there are at present very few proven technical
innovations available apart from fertilizer use. Both Benue and Plateau
stater have substantial areas of swamp rice cultivation, while there are
smaller areas in Anambra and Imo states. This crop is grown in pure stand
and offers scope for increased productivity.
4.   Infrastructure
2.24      Roads.  Participating states, with the exception of Plateau and
part of Benue, have adequate networks of state and LGA roads constructed to
varying standards although suffering from neglect and lack of maintenance.
In Plateau and part of Benue the network is less intensive and farm to market
access more difficult. LGA roads are either constructed on contract or more
usually by a community, village or group of villages each utilizing the Rural
Works Unit of the Ministry of Local Government; unfortunately the majority of
the equipment available through this agency is now unserviceable (see
para 3.19/3.23 for project proposals).
2.25      Water Supply.  The vast majority of the rural population in each of
the eight states obtains water from treditional sources (open streams,
springs, shallow wells, ponds and root rainwater collection). These
traditional sources represent a health hazard and, in addition, they are
often seasonally variable and located at considerable distances. Between 2Z
and 10% of the rural population of each state has access to a piped water
supply but the condition of many of these supplies is unsatisfactory with a
large number of piped rural schemes either not working or working only
intermittently. Little progress has been made with setting up satisfactory
maintenance arrangements or cost recovery mechanisms (see para 3.24 and
5.22/5.23 for project proposals).



- 13 -
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Rationale, Objectives and Summary Description
1.   Rationale and Objectives
3.01      The core of the Food Production Plan proposed by the Bank assisted
Food Strategies Mission (FSM) in 1980 was the expansion of the ADP concept,
which had been initiated through three enclave projects (Funtua, Gusau, and
Gombe). to the remainder of the country. This concept was based on two
fundamental perceptions. Firstly, that a wide range of technical innovations
was available for adoption by farmers. Secondly, that to accelerate such
adoption an intensively managed project was required to break through the
inefficiencies of existing structures. Experience from completed and ongoing
ADPs has been that: (i) the range of technical innovations available is
smaller and project benefits less than anticipated at appraisal; and (ii) for
effective implementation some measure of autonomy is required but their
management structure should be scaled down. The rationale of the proposed
project is to launch in each participating state the first phase of a program
of adaptive research, involving farmers, research and extension services, to
develop appropriate innovations and to explore strategies for initiating
improved services to farmers by the more efficient and cost effective use of
available staff resources. Each statewide ADP would be developed in a number
of phases: the first four-year phase being limited to well proven components
within the financing and managerial capacity of the states, and which are
judged to have an acceptable economic return in terms of increased food
production, coupled to the adaptive research program and pilot exercises to
prepare for subsequent increasingly intensive phases. The proposed statewide
projects accordingly represent a logical evolution from the ADP concept, and
take into account the lessons learned from completed and ongoing ADPs, as
well as from experience with the Accelerated Development Area (ADA) projects
initiated by the Federal Government without the Bank's assistance (para
2.08). The first Multi-State Agricultural Development Project (MSADP) would
be expected to be followed by two further phases each of three to four years
duration, so that the proposed project would represent a time slice of a ten
to twelve year development program for the area.
3.02      Under the proposed first MSADP, the investment program would assist
the development of phased state-wide ADPs in six states (Anambra, Bendel,
Benue, Cross River, Imo, and Plateau) and more limited assistance (para 3.08)
to Ogun state, in the southern and middle-belts. 5/   Grouping the seven
5/        Lagos State which had been included in FDRD's original proposal
was excluded since its development potential lay primarily in
horticulture and fisheries, rather than cereals and root crops
which would be the focus in the other states. Rivers State ADP
was appraised but subsequently excluded on grounds of very low
Economic Rate of Return, both for a full ADP and more limited
assistance as proposed for Ogun State.



- 14 -
state projects under one loan provides the basis for a much wider impact in a
shorter period of time than processed as individual loans. The grouping
strategy also provides the basis for professional backstopping by the central
core of specialists at FACU (1.07), which has been set up to service all the
projects, and consequently reduce the need to employ large numbers of senior
professionals, especially expatriates, in each state. Although grouped under
one loan, funds would be channelled to discrete state-based ADP operations
for which project agreements have been negotiated between the Bank/IFAD and
each state.
3.03      A number of alternative proposals were considered prior to
appraisal. During preparation, project design was subject to an extended
interchange of views between the Bank and the Federal Department of Rural
Development (FDRD). Initial proposals which came out of the first stage of
preparation included livestock, fisheries and forestry components in addition
to the core agricultural program for crop production, but were considered
overcomplex by the Bank - particularly in light of experience then emerging
from the Laf:ta and Ayangba ADP project completion reports (para 2.17). The
Bank also considered that agricultural benefits had been overestimated and
that the management structures were too costly with provision for excessive
incremental staff. Subsequently two options were considered: (i) the
funding of phased ADPs in three or four southern states together with a
skeletal program of pre-project investments in the other states; or (ii) the
funding of a minimum package program (plus spot improvements of feeder roads
and a small water supply component) similar to the ADA approach (para 2.08)
in up to eight states. The Bank and FDRD subsequently agreed to the second
option since it was more in line with the perceived objectives of: providing
for a less extensive, simpler implementation schedule which would make less
demands on FACU while being more likely to remain within the states' funding
capacity. It would also reduce the need for expatriate management staff. As
noted, the Bank also suggested, and this was accepted, that the Cassava
Improvement Project to be funded independently by IFAD, but to be appraised
by the Bank, be merged with the MSADP. The merger of the IFAD initiated
proposal with the MSADP would effectively integrate the cassava components as
essential activities of the MSADP, as well as provide the IFAD initiative
with the necessary support of MSADP components.
3.04      Assistance to the MSADP would be consistent with both the
Government's agricultural sector strategy, which places increased emphasis on
raising foodcrop production and reducing the level of imported basic
foodstuffs, and the Bank's assistance to the sector. Bank involvement in the
project is justified by the impact it would be expected to have on the more
efficient use of existing resources in participating states, and, at the
Federal level, the development of capacity within Nigerian insitutions to
prepare and implement agricultural development projects (para 3.05(d)).
Within the states, Bank participation would encourage the reallocation of
resources from direct intervention (e.g. state farms) to smallholders. It
would support the commercialization of input distribution initiated under the
Fertilizer Loan and would promote the more effective use of existing civil
service staff, particularly in extension services. Bank assistance is needed
to further develop FACU into a viable institution capable of promoting
agricultural development and drawing on, inter alia, past project experience
for improved design and implementation of projects. Furthermore, the project



- 15 -
would be used as a vehicle for introducing appropriate policy changes in the
agricultural sector to ensure that farmers receive adequate incentives.
3.05      Project objectives would include to:
(a) increase foodcrop production and the incomes of small farmers;
(b)  develop a flexible, phased approach to development with
initial emphasis on implementing well-proven components goared
to the agricultural potential and within the financing and
managerial capacity of the states, while embarking on an
intensified program of adaptive on-farm agricultural research;
(c)  assist the states In rationalizing current activities through
a move to reorganize and commercialize input distribution and
develop a smaller but more effective extension service;
(d)  prepare for the transfer of a greater share of the
responsibility for project appraisal and supervision to
Nigerian institutions.
2. Summary Description
3.06      State-wide ADP Components.  The principal objective of each
state-wide, phased ADP would be to increase the production of foodcrops
(mainly cassava, yam, maize, and rice - increased production of plantains,
fruit and vegetables would also be promoted). Each ADP would be expected to
include some or all of the following components:
(a)  Crop and Farm Development
-    provision of incremental fertilizer requirements;
-    multiplication and distribution of improved cassava
planting material at state level;
-    multiplication and distribution of improved planting
material for rice and potatoes;
-    gradual reorganization of rainfed crop extension services
along performance oriented lines;
(b)  Agricultural Research
-    a program of on-farm adaptive research;
(c) Commercial Services
-    provision for improved fertilizer and other input
distribution;
-    assistance for crop processing;
(d) Roads and Workshops



- 16 -
feeder road maintenance and rehabilitation;
-    workshops
(e) Water Supply
-    investments in a program of boreholes and dug wells for
hand pumps following study in year 1 (para 3.07(e))
(f) Project Management, Monitoring/Evaluation. Planning
and Manpower Development
-    establishment and operation of project management,
monitoring/evaluation, planning and manpower development
units.
3.07      Federal components would comprise:
(a) Cassava Multiplication and Development
-    variety development and initial multiplication of
improved cassava material including assistance to the
National Root Crops Research Institute (NRCRI) and
National Seed Service (NSS);
-    assistance to NRCRI for monitoring biological control of
cassava pests and provision of a fund for purchase of
green spider mite predators;
-    assistance to non-participating states for multiplication
of cassava planting material;
(b) Processing
-    revolving fund for cassava grater motors;
-    research;
(c) Support for Agricultural Pricing Policy Unit
-    support to strengthen the analytical capacity of the unit
responsible for agricultural pricing and trade policy;
(d) Pilot Projects
-    pTovision for as yet unidentified pilot projects as
forerunner to phase II statewide ADPs;
-    development of "appropriate technology" for increasing
productivity of farm labor;
(e) Studies



- 17 -
-    development of improved agricultural data as a basis for
better sector planning including foodcrop marketing
study;
-    feasibility study for water supply program; and
-    preparation studies for phase II.
3.08      The project would cover a five year period and total costs are
estimated at N256.4 million (US $256.4 million). Costs cover implementation
of statewide ADPs in six states (Anambra, Bendel, Benue, Cross Rivers, Imo
and Plateau) and assistance for adaptive research, agricultural extension,
multiplication of improved cassava, provision of inputs and water supply in
Ogun State. The more limited program in Ogun State reflects benefit estimates
insufficient to support the full program of investments (economic return
below 10%). In addition, in Ogun State there is already an established
Agro-Service Corporation fully equipped to handle input supply and no further
investment is required to improve distribution.
B.  Detailed Features -  Statewide ADPs
1.   Crop and Farm Development
3.09      Crop Development Program.  The major food crops on which the
project is expected to have an impact vre listed below, together with
estimated areas - although subject to doubt these provide some indication of
the cow arative importance of the various crops within the seven
parti- pating states.
Major Food Crops in Seven Participating States
'000 ha)
Cassava        830                  Sorghum        271
yam=s          720                  Groundnuts      107
Maize          577                  Plantains        52
Rice           275                  Potatoes         13
Source: FACU.
The current range of proven technical innovations which are managerially and
financially attractive is limited, and the project's initial emphasis would
be upon the increased use of fertilizer resulting largely from improved
distribution and also from the promotion and production of some improved
planting material.
3.10      Fertilizer use is an established practice in much of the project
area and it provides attractive returns to farmers (para 6.06). The project
staff would be expected to influence the efficiency of fertilizer use thlough
the more appropriate allocation of particular compounds to different major
crop areas and through some improvement in terms of the rates and mode of
application. Some 5% of project benefits would be expected to derive from
these latter activities while 60Z would come from better availability - and
the remaining 35% from improved planting material. It is anticipated that
price adjustments will result in more efficient allocation of the resource by



- 18 -
farmers, but that government will retain price incentives adequate to
encourage fertilizer use in those situations in which the economic return to
the economy is positive. New varieties of cassava are available which have
proved popular in the sub-humid zone and are expected to have a more limited
impact in the humid zone. By establishing an effective method for
multiplying and distributing the present cultivars (paras 3.12 and 3.25/3.28)
the project would provide a sound method for popularizing future releases
from the active cassava research program. There is an established demand for
improved swamp rice and Irish potato varieties and the project's initiatives
are intended to strengthen existing mechanisms for meeting that demand (para
3.13). Popularizing the newly introduced hybrid maize varieties (paras 2.14
and 3.13) would be one of the functions of extension in the middle belt
states. While the fertilizer and planting material initiatives would be
expected to provide the main source of benefits in the first phase of the
project, there are other possibilities which would be followed up by the
extension staff. These include: (a) specialized seed yam production through
the use of minisetts; (b) the limited introduction of herbicides; (c)
improved technology for the production of plantains, citrus, pineapples and
vegetables; and (d) small scale irrigation in tl.e dry season for the guinea
zone. Cooperation with the research institutes combined with more systematic
staff training should provide fresh messages for extension workers from the
above possibilities, and so develop a broader stream of benefits from a later
phase of the project.
3.11      Farm Inputs.  The project would fund the procurement of total
fertilizer requirements in the first year and the incremental requirements
thereafter, the importation of incremental herbicides and small pumps 6/ , as
well as inputs for fruit tree nurseries. Fertilizers would be sold to
farmers at the uniform, nationally determined retail price. Herbicides and
-mall pumps would be sold at market prices while fruit tree seedlings and
seeds produced by a state project would be sold at full cost. Assurances to
this effect were obtained at negotiations. Fertilizer would be procured
through the federal procurement agency and with other inputs would be offered
for sale through project (state) operated wholesale-cum-retail depots to
farmers and private retailers (para 5.24).
3.12      Multiplication and Distribution of Improved Cassava Planting
Material. At the state level the project would provide for a program of
multiplication, distribution, and demonstration of improved cassava planting
material. Material for initial multiplication would be provided to the
states by the National Seed Service (NSS) (para 3.26). Multiplication within
the states, which would be the responsibility of the state seeds services
(para 2.14), would be decentralized and located at existing facilities
including seeds farms and agro (farm) service centers. Some 30-50 ha would
be funded per state per year; a total of 350 ha for the seven states. Funds
would be provided for the purchase of vehicles and equipment as well as
associated incremental running costs for the state seeds services, including
management and quality control and development of a multiplication area.
Distribution of planting material would be the responsibility of the state
6/        For dry season irrigation in Benue and Plateau States.



- 19 -
extension service. Multiplication activities at the farm level would be
initiated through a demonstration program covering 100-260 ha per state or
about 1,240 ha for the seven states. The project would provide planting
materials, fertilizer and farm chemicals without charge to farmers. In
return farmers would be expected to give back a similar amount of planting
material in the following year to the extension worker which would be sold to
the other interested farmers in the group. The bulk of the additional
planting material would be distributed through the sale of privately grown
improved material in village markets and farm to farm.
3.13      Multiplication and Distribution of Improved Rice and Irish
Potatoes. Assistance for seed production under the proposed project would be
confined to rice and seed potato development. Maize seed would not be
produced because recently a commercial firm has been established in Nigeria
to grow and sell newly tested hybrid maize varieties. The existing rice
programs would be supported with funds for improving standards of field
inspection, provision of production inputs, purchase f seed from contract
growers and for packing and distribution costs. Improved Irish potato seed
production in Plateau State has been hampered in the past by the difficulty
of storing seed between harvest and planting. The project would support
expanded irrigated production in the dry season and the provision of cold
storage facilities for high quality seed stocks.
3.14      Agricultural Extension.  The project would begin reorganization of
the rainfed crop extension service. It would provide for acquisition of
vehicles including motorcycles, vehicle running costs, limited amounts of
equipment and supplies, and for the development of mass communication
materials. It is not expected that any incremental personnel would be
recruited from outside the states' MANR for the extension service, but that
careful selection and training wouid provide the opportunity for improving on
overall performance. The number of extension workers (EW) to be incorporated
would range from 126 (Ogun State) to 385 (Plateau State) reflecting the size
of the state and the number of qualified staff (minimum level Ordinary
National Diploma holders as now decreed by FMG) which could be retrained
during the project. This would give a ratio of EW to farm families of
between 1:1000 and 1:2500 according to population density. Based on lessons
learned from earlier projects (para 2.17), this is considered appropriate
with the present level of technology to disseminate.
3.15      The project would address the problems faced by extension services
(para 2.07) through more appropriate staff selection, by providing a
performance orientated work program based on successful completion of farmers
demonstrations, paying allowances promptly and by in-service training. An
agricultural extension specialist and an agronomist would be based at each
FACU regional office to provide technical assistance to state extension
services (three states per regional office) for the reorganization,
reorientation, and training of staff (para 5.17/5.19). The reorganizat'on
would be phased over a three to four year period. In order to obtain an
immediate impact from the major extension messages, the project would fund
through FACU a short term consultancy input to upgrade the quality of radio
and television programs now being provided by state MANRs.
2.   Agricultural Research



- 20 -
3.16      The project would fund off-station adaptive research in all the
states in addition to supporting some on-station work with cassava
improvement at the NRCRI at Umudike (para 3.25).   The adaptive research
component would involve staff of research institutes, universities, extension
services and a research unit within each ADP. The project would fund
equipment, vebicles, trials materials and transport costs for existing staff
as well as contracts with the Research Institutes - one per state - for the
provision of scientific services. This component would bring research staff
into closer contact with farmers and extension staff, and would provide an
opportunity for experiments to be designed in relation to the constraints
perceived by farmers. Work would proceed in a stepwise fashion: (a) a
diagnostic survey of typical farming systems to determine key constraints to
be tackled at (i) institute and (ii) farm trials; (b) planning and execution
of appropriate farm trials; and (c) analysis of results and review with
extension services. This approach has already been used in three states
under FACU's initiative and from the earliest study in Bida some fresh
messages for farmers have been developed. The states would enter into
contractual agreements with the institutions involved with FACU's assistance
and supervision. There are a number of practical problems 7/ faced by
farmers which could be resolved through this approach and lead to some
recommendations for phase II.
3.   Commercial Services
3.17      Input Distribution.  The project would provide for improved input
distribution including the commercialization of fertilizer marketing. It is
the intention of FMG to move ahead with the commercialization of fertilizer
distribution and satisfactory arrangements have been worked out with the
assistance of IFDC (para 2.06). The project would promote a system
consistent with FMG's objectives. At present, there are a whole series of
stores and FSCs from which the states retail fertilizer. Under the project,
state governments would agree to sell from not more than one FSC per LGA
(except where anticipated turnover in year 4 exceeds 2,000 tons - in which
case an additional store(s) would be approved for every additional 2,000
tons). Sub-retailers (private retailers and/or cooperatives) would be
expected to lift quantities of fertilizer (and other inputs) from FSCs and
sell in outlying areas. Fertilizer would be sold at one price with a
discount for quantity. FSCs would sell any quantity to anybody in the state
up to a limit of 10 percent of total throughput. The project would fund
transport for commercial services staff and limited distribution, incremental
staff and operating costs and rehabilitation of stores where necessary. In
exceptional circumstances, funds would be provided for a new store but only
against submission of the states' plans for distribution and with FACU's
approval. States' initial plans for fertilizer distribution would be
prepared during the ATF' start-up work (para 5.14) and would be subject to
review by the Bank.  in each state, Bank approval of distribution plans would
7/        Such as:  (a) the best application methods for fertilizer in a
hign cost labor situation; (b) alternative systems for staking
yams in the face of rapid deforestation, and (c) the integration
of new short season cowpeas into existing farming systems.



- 21 -
be a condition of disbursements against this component. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations.
3.18      Crop Processing and Storage.  Cassava, in addition to being of
overriding importance in the project area is the crop which is extensively
home processed. In support of the highly flexible village cassava processing
industry, the project would provide at state level demonstrations of tried,
but not widely applied, improved village processing including an improved
capacity single operator frier, post fermentation presses and cassava
graters. A post would be created in each state for a processing officer who
would be assisted by support staff from within the existing state cadre, and
who would liaise with the FACU agro-industry engineer. A 4WD vehicle, office
facilities, and equipment would be supplied together with running and
subsistence costs. The processing officer would be responsible for: (a)
arranging and monitoring two ongoing demonstrations in his state; (b)
organizing the sale of graters built using imported engines (funded centrally
para 3.29) giving priority to remote (deprived) villages; and (c) generating
basic data concerning present levels of agricultural processing, processing
parameters, felt needs and attractive innovations. Project staff would also
advise on on-farm storage methods for all crops and prevention of
post-harvest losses.
4.   Roads and Workshops
3.19      The objective of this component would be to:  (i) ensure, in view
of the heavy rainfall, virtual all-weather access to farm service centers and
fertilizer retail stores to facilitate input distribution and crop marketing
by farmers; (ii) begin to build a permanent capacity in the LGCs to maintain
their roads, and (iii) strengthen the Nigerian institutional capability to
prepare, implement and monitor execution of a feeder road program. In
general, the road program is designed to provide an initial minimum level of
service, which would satisfy agricultural needs, after which further
improvements could be considered. The component for a typical state would
consist of: (a) rehabilitation and spot improvements, tentatively covering
about 600 km spread over four years; (b) recurrent (mechanical) maintenance,
covering about 400 km twice a year; (c) routine, mainly manual, maintenance;
(d) the equipping of one workshop in each state, and incremental operating
costs for four years; and (e) procurement of equipment for items (b) and (c),
and for (a) where this task is to be carried out by force account.
3.20      The rehabilitation and spot improvement program is designed to
raise the level of service and accessibility by improving the relatively
short sections of road at particularly difficult points, usually associated
with water crossings, or poorlv drained areas. In order to carry out these
works with maximum flexibility, and siruicaneously in several areas in the
state, the preferable method of execution is by contract. In addition to
private contractors, these could be with RBDAs or state Ministry of Works
depending on local circumstances. A study has been completed in Anambra
State to establish the availability of contractors and the relative
efficiency of their use against force account, and similar studies have been
launched in the other states. The results of these studies will be reviewed
with the Bank before work programs are finalized. Where contractors are not
available, a force account unit would be established, as was done under
previous ADPs. Because most of the works will use existing alignments



- 22 -
setting up tormal design standards for curvature and gradients is not useful.
The longitudinal profile would not be modified just to achieve a theoretical
design standard, but only where necessary to raise the road above flood
level. In the light of experience with previous feeder road construction in
Nigerian conditions a typical cross section has been established for sections
improved under the project; Annex 3-2. Cross drainage would be by pipe
culverts and improved fords. The emphasis would be on providing the
necessary level of access at least cost.
3.21      In each state one mobile unit would be established to carry out a
program of twice - yearly recurrent maintenance on about 400 km of roads. As
roads are improved under the rehabilitation and spot improvement program,
they would be added to the program for recurrent maintenance. The LGCs
should be closely involved in the planning of this component, and would be
progressively involved in the execution depending on the capability of each
LGC, with a view to increasing the number of units under phase II of the
project. There would also be close liaison with LGCs to establish routine
maintenance capability on about 1000 km of roads in each state. Routine
(manual) maintenance would be executed by LGC crews with training (to be
provided by ADP engineers), supervision and equipment supplied under the
project. For states where the spot improvement program is to be carried out
by force account, the maximum use would be made of existing plant and
facilities. The major plant items, selected by the project engineers, would
be transferred from LGCs and state Ministries of Local Government to the ADP,
and rebuilt under project financing where economic. New plant, equipment,
incremental salaries and operating costs for the recurrent maintenance unit
(and where applicable the spot improvement unit), would be financed under the
project. Financing of recurrent maintenance costs is justified on the need
to overcome a backlog of deffered maintenance and improve future capacity.
Under the proposed force account organizations and operating methods, the
cost per km including equipment depreciation are estimated at US $385/km for
routine (manual) maintenance, US $1,115/km for recurrent (machine)
maintenance and US $8,320/km for rehabilitation.
3.22      In view of the present status of LGC funding, there is some
uncertainty on their capacity to maintain roads after the project
implementation period. However, the project is seen as only the first phase
of a longer term program (para 3.01) and additional support could be provided
under a second phase. The development of road maintenance capacity and
funding provisions would be reviewed annually by state governments with ADP
managements, LGCs concerned and FACU engineers. Assurances to this effect
were obtained at negotiations.
3.23      To give logistical support to the force account operation the
project would fund equipment and incremental operating costs for one existing
workshop in each state. The workshop would handle routine maintenance and
light repairs while all reconditioning of existing plant and heavy repairs
would be subcontracted to existing private sector dealerships. To allow for
import of spare parts, Government were advised at negotiations that adequate
import licenses (for up to N150,000 per state ADP per year) would need to be
made available. In view of the shortage of repair services for agricultural
machinery, in one or two states these workshops would also be used as a basis
for testing the feasibility of providing repair services for agricultural
machinery and equipment on a commercial basis.



- 23 -
5.   Rural Water Supply
3.24      The project would fund a feasibility study (para 3.32) to be
carried out in year 1 covering the seven participating states to identify the
priority areas and actions within the criteria set (Working Paper C.8). The
feasibility study would follow an initial review of the needs of the rural
sector now underway by the Bank's Water Supply Division, and the project
investments can be seen as providing some initial pilot development prior to
possible nationwide institutional development of the rural water supply
sector with which it is proposed that the Bank assists the Government. The
project would concentrate on low cost water supply systems. Project
investments would include rehabilitation of existing open wells, handpumps
and boreholes and construction of new shallow or deepwell handpump supplies.
Pilot or demonstration projects would be constructed and monitored in each
project state to assess the effectiveness and acceptability of alternative
low-cost water supply systems prior to full scale adoption. Training of
future operatives and assistance in establishing suitable, effective
operation ane maintenance procedures including spare part availability and
cost recovery systems would form an important additional part of the ADP
program.
6.  Project Management, Monitoring/Evaluation, Planning and
Manpower Development
3.25      The project would provide for project management and finance units
as well as for monitoring, evaluation and planning (para 5.15/5.16) and
manpower development (para 5.1715.19). Funds would be provided for
incremental salaries, vehicles, equipment and operational costs.
C. Detailed Features -- Federal Components
1.  Cassava Multiplication and Development
3.26      Variety Development and Initial Multiplication.  At the national
level, the National Seeds Service (NSS) would be responsible for contracting
supplies of breeder material from the National Rootcrops Research Institute
(NRCRI), which would be encouraged to seek assistance from the International
Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA), and for the production of
foundation material for supply to both MSADP 8/ and non MSADP 9/ states in
Southern Nigeria.  NSS would contract with NRCRI as follows:
(a) Contract supply of breeder material from NRCRI. The project
would fund ancilliary equipment and inputs plus an allowance
per hectare to defray labor costs for the production of 6 ha
of breeder material per annum. Breeder material produced
would become the property of NSS, while roots would remain the
property of NRCRI (or IITA).
8/        Anambra, Bendel, Banue, Cross Rivers, Imo, Ogun, Plateau.
9/        Kwara, Lagos, Ondo, Oyo, Rivers.



- 24 -
(b)  Contract for plant breeding and research.  Plant breeding and
continued research would be important in the medium to long
term to ensure that multiplication arrangements to be
established by the project continue to be effectively used.
The project would contract with NRCRI to augment the existing
levels of activity in these fields.
(c)  Biological control.  Funds would be made available to enable
NRCRI to assist with the process of the release and monitoring
of beneficial insects to control mealy bug and green spider
mite, as well as for the purchase of green spider mite
predators once available from IITA.
3.27      Production of foundation material by NSS.  The project would
provide for the development and running of six NSS multiplication farms 10/
which would produce between them 60 ha of foundation material each year.
These farms would be replanted each year with breeder material obtained from
NRCRI (para 3.25). Funds would be provided for land development, office,
stores, and workshop, vehicles and equipment, as well as for incremental
recurrent expenditure to run the farms for a 4 year period and strengthen
management. Revenue derived from the farms, which would sell foundation
planting materials to the states and roots to the public, would be used to
establish a revolving fund to make the NSS farms increasingly
self-supporting. During negotiations it was agreed that NSS would set up a
revolving fund for this purpose.
3.28      The project would support a staff development program to strengthen
NSS's cassava multiplication unit under an officer-in-charge cassava.
Additional staff would be recruited to run the program, develop accountancy
and commercial procedures and to initiate quality control by developing
standards, inspection and identification procedures. Technical assistance in
accountancy and consultant advice on farm management and quality control
would be provided. Six vehicles and office equipment would be provided with
adequate support funds to run the facilities and ensure payment of travel
allowances. The present structure of NSS (para 2.14) would be retained.
Both local and overseas training would be provided. Local training necessary
to ensure staff familiarity with program objectives, technical and commercial
requirements would be carried out at NSS Ibadan, Ubiaja and Ugwuoba. The
project would provide funding to improve local training facilities and for
overseas training, which would take the form of study tours concerning
quality control (18 man-months) and farm management (32 man-months).
3.29      Cassava Multiplication in the Non-ADF States.  The project would
support multiplication of certified cassava planting material in five non-
MSADP states (Kwara, Lagos, Ondo, Oyo, and Rivers).   NSS would provide
10/       Ajase Ipo and Ijebu Ife which are run at present by NSS; Ubiaja
and Ugwuoba which are used in cooperation which FDRD and are also
training centers (Technology Transfer Stations); Umudike which
belongs to NRCRI but where facilities are provided to NSS; and
Calabar which has yet to be located.



- 25 -
improved planting material and would be responsible for ensuring that
arrangements for multiplication are adequate, while FACU would assist with
planning suitable arrangements for use of the material, particularly through
the existing area ADP's in Kwara, Ondo, and Oyo.
2.   Crop Processing
3.30      In support of cassava processing (para 3.18) the project would
provide at the national level funds for importation of grater engines and for
some urgently required applied research linked to the new varieties.
(a) Importation of Small Engines. FACU would organize the
importation of 500, 3 HP engines which would be used to drive
graters to be manufactured locally. Engines would be sold for
cash at prevailing commercial prices to grater manufacturers,
who would fit them to graters built in local workshops.
Motorized graters would be for sale in the more remote parts
of the project area.
(b) Research. The project would support increased research
activity both on the quality of available raw material
(cassava roots) and processing development with funds to be
made available for contract research. These funds would be
administered by FACU under contracts which would be drawn up
with suitable local institutions or universities. Research
topics are summarized in Working Paper C.11.
3.   Support to Agricultural Pricing Policy Unit (APPU)
3.31      The project would provide for technical assistance, studies and
equipment to strengthen the analytical capacity of the unit -- either a
strengthened existing unit or a new one (para 2.04) - responsible for
agricultural pricing policy coordination.
4.   Pilot Projects
3.32      Funds (N1.2 million) would be provided for financing pilot
sub-projects intended as a forerunner to investments in the follow-up phase
to the proposed project. Sub-projects for testing developments in fisheries,
forestry, livestock, and crops, would be submitted by the states to FACU who
would be responsible for appraisal according to criteria agreed with the
Bank. Appraisal criteria are set out in a side letter agreed during
negotiations. Funds (N500,000) would also be provided for the promotion of
appropriate technology. A technical committee in FMAWRRD would approve
expenditures by existing institutions for the development of innovations to
increase labor productivity in crop production and processing.  Use of these
funds would be controlled by FACU.
5.   Studies
3.33      Consultancy services totalling 286 man months would be funded as
follows: (i) Agricultural Planning Data studies (60 man-months) would be
supported to fill some major gaps in data on natural resources, farming
systems and settlement patterns required for effective planning. The studies
cover analysis of existing data as well as new surveys and would be handled



- 26 -
as three separate contracts. In support ol these studies funds would also be
provided for aerial photography (90,000 km ) where there is no national
coverage and for strengthening FACU's land use planning capability; (ii) a
Food Crop Marketing study (90 man-months) would derive food crop
consumption/production balance sheets, identify surplus/deficit areas and
determine ways of improving marketing and distribution systems; (iii) a Water
Supply Feasibility study covering the seven states (100 man-months) would be
undertaken prior to rehabilitation of existing wells, new boreholes supplies
and the pilot investment program - see paras 3.24 and 5.22; and (iv)
Preparation study for the second phase MSADP (36 man-months) would also be
supported. Outline terms of reference are set out in Working Papers C.9 (for
(i) and (ii)) and C.8 (for (iii)). Terms of reference for preparation work
on the second phase PADP (iv) would be drawn up in PY2 in light of early
experience under the proposed project. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that prior to engaging any consultants: (i) detailed terms of
reference for their employment would be reviewed and agreed with the Bank;
and (ii) they would have qualifications and experience acceptable to FMG and
the Bank.
IV. COSTS AND FINANCING
A.  Cost Estimates
4.01      Total project costs over the five 11/  year development period
1986-91 are estimated at US$256.4 mn (N256.4 imn) of which US$143.6 an or
about 56% would be foreign costs. If taxes and duties are exclAded, total
costs would be US $245.6 mn (N245.6 mn).  Base costs are estimated using
prices for goods and services obtained during post appraisal updated to
reflect the prices of September 1985. Estimates for civil works for road
improvements are based on cost accounting data for ongoing ADPs, and on
informal quotes from contractors. Equipment estimates are based on recent
prices in Nigeria. Both of these have also been updated to September 1985
levels. Foreign exchange base costs and physical contingencies have been
converted at an exchange rate of US$1.0 - 11.0. Project costs include: (a)
physical contingencies equal to 10% of base cost for civil works, buildings,
herbicides and fertilizer, and 5% for all other items except for technical
assistance, salaries and wages; (b) price contingencies have been applied for
local costs at 14% for 1986 onward compounded annually; (c) price
contingencies have been applied for foreign costs at 7.5% for 1986 and 8.0%
for 1987-1990. FMG has taken some i.mportant positive initiatives as part of
the 1986 budget. However uncertainties continue regarding future
macro-economic policies, namely the timing and extent of a medium-term reform
program. For the purpose of estimating project costs, it has been assumed
11/       Each state ADP would be implemented over four years but the total
MSADP would span five years to allow for a staggered start-up.



PROJECT COST SUHMARY
Per Cent of:
Foreign          Base
Local       Foreign       Total         Local       Foreign           Total           Exchange          Costs
(Naira Million)                      (US 5 Million)
A. STATEWIDE ADPS
1.  CROP AND FARM DEVELOPMENT
Farm Inputs                          10.8         52.9          63.7         10.8          52.9             63.7            83               35
Cassava Multiplication                3.1          3.0           6.1          3.1           3.0              6.1            49                3
Seed Production                       0.8          0.9           1.7          0.8           0.9              1.7            53                1
Extension Services                    9.8          9.7          19.5          9.8           9.7             19.5            50               11
Sub-total                            24.5         66.5          91.0         24.5          66.5             91.0            73               50
2.  AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH                 1.2           1.0          2.2           1.2          1.0              2.2             45                1
3.  COMMERCIAL SERVICES                   6.6           2.6          9.2           6.6          2.6              9.2             28                5
4.  ROADS & WORKSHOPS
Road Rehabilitation                   6.9         11.4          18.3          6.9          11.4             18.3            62               10
Road Haintenance                      5.3          5.5          10.8          5 3           5.5             10.8            58                6
Workshops                             6.2           5.7         11.9           6.           5.7             11.9             48               6
Sub-total                            18.4         22.6          41.0         18.4          22.6             41.0            55               22
5.  RURAL WATER                           7.5           8.1         15.6           7.5          8.1             15.6             52               9
6.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                                                                                                                                  a
Manag. Admin. & Finance               8.7          5.5          14.2          8.7           5.5             14.2             39               8
Manpower & Training                   2.5           1.4          3.9          2.5           1.4              3.9             36               2
Planning and H/E                      3.3          2.4           5.7          3.3           2.4              5.7            42                3
Sub-total                            14.5          9.3          23.8         14.5           9.3             23.8             39              13
TOTAL BASE COSTS - ADPS              72.7        110.1         182.8         72.7         110.1            182.8            60              100
Physical Contingencies                3.4          7.9          11.3          3.4           7.9             11.3            70                6
Price Contingencies                 29.3          16.2         45.5          29.3          16.2            45.5             36               25
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS - ADPS          105.4        134.2         239.6        105.4         134.2           239.6              56             131
B.  FEDERAL COMPONENTS
Cassava Multiplication                     2.3          1.6           3.9          2.3           1.6             3.9             41               32
Cassava Processing                        0.2           0.7          0.9           0.2          0.7              0.9             78                7
Support to APPU                           0.2           0.3          0.5           0.2          0.3              0.5             50                4
Pilot Projects                            0.6           0.6           1.2          0.6          0.6              1.2             50               10
Studies                                    1.2          4.5          5.7           1.2          4.5              5.7             79               47
TOTAL BASE COSTS - FEDERAL                4.5           7.7          12.2          4.5           7.7            12.2             63              100
Physical Contingencies                    0.3           0.3          0.6           0.3          0.3              0.6             50                5
Price Contingencies                       2.6           1.4          4.0           2.6           1.4             4.0             35               33
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS - FEDERAL              7.4          9.4          16.8          7.4          9.4             16.8             55              138
TOTAL FINANCING REQVIRED                112.8         143.6        256.4         112.8        143.6            256.4             56



- 28 -
conservatively that the Government will compensate for half the differential
between domestic and international inflation rates either by allowing the
nominal exchange rate to depreciate or through containing domestic inflation.
For the purpose of this analysis, the latter has been assumed, i.e. a
constant nominal exchange rate with domestic inflation contained at 14% --
below the level it would reach if the exchange rate depreciated in nominal
terms. Total contingencies calculated on the foregoing basis are equivalent
to about 24% of the total and 31% of the base costs.
4.02      Project costs which are detailed in Annex 4-1 and summarized on the
following page, cover those investment and operational costs over and above
present expenditures by state MANRs which are estimated at N19.4 mn a year in
base price terms and N113.9 mn over the five year project period in current
prices for the seven states. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the State Governments would meet the salary costs of existing staff
seconded to the project and would budget for the non-incremental fertilizer
requirements in addition to their contributions to incremental costs.
Details of project costs by state are at Annex 4-2.
B. Proposed Financing
4.03      Of the total project cost of US$256.4 mn (N256.4 mn), the Bank
would finance US$162.0 mn (N162.0 mn) at the standard variable interest rate
and for a period of 20 years including a five-year grace period. The Bank
loan representing 66% of total project cost excluding taxes and duties, would
cover 94% of foreign exchange cost and 24% of local costs. FMG has requested
a loan of US$12 mn from IFAD to finance primarily the cassava multiplication
component. .The IFAD loan would be at 4Z interest rate for a period of 20
years including a five-year grace period. Fulfillment of the conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD loan agreement would be a
condition for effectiveness of the Bank loan (para 8.02 (i)). FMG's
contribution would account for 19% of project costs amounting to US$49.5 mn
(N49.5 mn).  The remaining 13% of the project costs US$32.9 mn (N32.9 mn)
would be financed by the State Governments (SGs). FMG's and SGs'
contribution to project costs net of taxes and duties would be 18% and 11%,
respectively.



- 29 -
Pro ect Financing Plan
IBRD      IFAD       FMC       SGs       Total
Civil Works                    20.0        0.7      3.5        2.5        26.7
Plant, Vehicles,
Equipment & Spare Parts       54.2        7.3      6.3       4.5         72.3
Training,Consultants &
Studies                        7.5         -       2.6        -          10.1
Farm Inputs                    63.7         -       9.4        6.5        79.6
Salaries & General Services   16.6         4.0     27.7       19.4        67.7
Total Project Costs           162.0       12.0     49.5       32.9       256.4
Percentage                     63          5       19         13         100
US$ million                   162.0       12.0     49.5       32.9       256.4
A summary of the seven ADPs' total financing requirements, consisting of
project costs as well as their current level of expenditures during the
project implementation period is given in Annex 4-3.
4.04      The Bank loan of US$162.0 mn would be made to the Federal
Government of which US$151.3 mn would be on-lent on the same terms as the
Bank loan to the seven state governments under subsidiary loan agreements
drawn up between the FMG and the relevant state government. The balance of
US$10.7 mn would be retained by FMG to finance studies and pilot projects
under the central fund. Of the IFAD loan, US$7.4 mn would be onlent to the
states and US$4.6 mn retained by FMG to finance NRCRI and NSS. Central funds
would be controlled by FACU on behalf of FMG. FACU would also be required to
clear release of federal funds to a state. Effectiveness of the Bank loan
would be subject to at least three states meeting the conditions listed at
para 8.02 (ii). Federal participation in state ADPs would be calculated at
20Z of a state ADP's approved annual budget excluding existing staff and
would be provided as grants paid quarterly in advance.
4.05      In order to secure more reliable counterpart funding, assurances
were obtained during negotiations that: (a) separate bank accounts for each
of the state projects and for the central fund (FMG) would be opened with
commercial banks, and FMG as well as each state government would make an
initial deposit equivalent to the first six months budget for incremental
costs; and (b) each state government would prepare a letter instructing the
Central Bank to debit its own account in accordance with its obligation as
specified in the program financial plan and credit the corresponding ADP
account on a monthly basis in advance. Completion of these steps would be a
condition for disbursement of any external funds. In addition, it would be
recommended that a line of credit with a commercial bank be established for
each state ADP equivalent to 12 months budget.



- 30 -
Initial State   Federal Government Deposita
(N Million)
SG        FMG
Anambra                        0.7        1.1
Bendel                         0.6        0.9
Beuue                          0.7        1.0
Cross River                    0.6        0.9
Imo                            0.7       0.9
Ogun                           0.1        0.1
Plateau                        1.0        1.5
Central Fund                    -         0.3
Total                       b.4       ___
4.06      The World Bank would deposit funds of US$0.5 nn in a Special
Project Account for each state.  The account would be established in foreign
exchange and held with a commercial bank in the state concerned. The account
would be used to meet foreign expenditures as well as local expenditures for:
farm inputs, civil works contracts and/or force account, training and studies
and for extension services Including field and night allowances but excluding
salaries. The disbursement application for replenishment of the account
would be supported by: (a) statement of transactions on the pecial Project
Account certified by the commercial bank; (b) a certificate signed by FACU
engineer or independent engineer acceptable to FACU and the Bank certifying
the quality of civil works completed; (c) reconciliation of withdrawals and
deposits with statement of permitted expenditures and IBRD disbursements
certified by the Project Manager and the Financia'l Controller; and (d)
statement containing the quarterly contributions made by FMG and the
corresponding state government. Replenishment of the account would be
subject to state and Federal governments remaining current with their
contributions. Should any disbursement be made from this account which is
not acceptable to IBRD, a state government would deposit the corr.sponding
amount in the account. A similar arrangement would be made for cenacral funds
handled by FACU on behalf of FMG. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations.
C.   Procurement
4.07      Goods and Services.  All goods and services financed under the Bank
loan would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts valued
at US$300,000 or more for plant, vehicles, equipment and spare parts would be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB). Purchases would be
grouped into packages of at least US$300,000 whenever possible; contracts
valued at less than US$300,000 but more than US$60,000 would be procured
through local competitive bidding (LCB) or limited international bidding
(LIB) under procedures acceptable to the Bank. LCB procedures used by FMG
have been reviewed and found generally acceptable with some exceptions. LCB
procedures for the participating states have been reviewed and similar
exceptions found. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that FMG and
state tender documents for procurement by LCB under the project should
specify: (a) criteria for evaluating tenders which should be clearly set out



- 31 -
in the tender documents and should specify that award would be made to the
lowest evaluated bidder; (b) tenders should be accompanied by a tender
security or bid bond; (c) all tenders should be opened in public and
tenderers' representatives allowed to attend; and (d) successful tenderers
should be required to submit a performance security on release of the tender
security. Contracts of less than US$60,000 would be procured through direct
competitive shopping based on at least three quotations. Items would be
bulked to permit optimum use of competitive bidding. State requests for
procurement under ICB would be bulked up by FACU whenever practicable. The
services of consultants, internationally-recruited staff and training
assistance valued at N9.6 million would be obtained in accordance with Bank
guidelines.
4.08      Works.  Contracts for building comprising offices, and fertilizer
stores totaling US$6.8 mn (N6.8 mn) would be procured by LCB, due to the
scattered nature of the works applying procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Where road rehabilitation and spot improvements are to be executed by
contract, the total value would be about US$3,000,000 in each state. The
works are likely to be spread across a state in 10-15 lots, several of which
would be constructed simultaneously. Such works, even if grouped, are too
small to be attractive to international contractors not already installed in
Nigeria. However to cater to international contractors in Nigeria who may
wish to bid, part payment in foreign currency would be permitted. In cases
where state ADPs, with Bank approval, undertake civil works on force account,
the required equipment and materials used would be procured in accordance
with para 4.07.  Procurement arrangements are summarized on the following
page:



- 32 -
Amount and Methods of Procurement
(US$ million)
Project Component              ICB        LCB       Others          Total
Plant & Equipment,             45.5      20.0         6.8            72.3
Vehicles & Spare Parts    (45.5)    (8.7)                        (54.2)
Civil Works & Building           -       20.0         6.7            26.7
(15.0)       (5.0)          (20.0)
Fertilizer                     57.2        -         14.4            71.6
(57.2)                               (57.2)
Other Farm Inputs               4.0       3.0         1.0             8.0
(3.5)    (2.4)        (0.5)          (6.4)
Training Consultancy             -         -         10.1            10.1
Services & Studies                                (6.6)           (6.6)
Salaries                         -         -         67.7            67.7
& General Services            -        -         (17.6)          (17.6)
Total                       106.7    43.0        106.7           256.4
IBRD                       (106.2)  (26.1)       (29.7)         (162.0)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by IBRD.
4.09      Contract Review.  All bidding packages for goods and services
over US$ 200,000 equivalent when bulked by FACU, and for civil works over
US $500,000 equivalent, would be subject to the Bank's prior review,
resulting in a coverage of about 80% of the value of such contracts. The
balance of contracts would be subject to random post-review by the Bank
after contract award. Bidding packages for goods and services over
US$100,000 equivalent when handled by the state would be subject to FACU's
prior review.
D.   Disbursement
4.10      The Bank loan of US$162.0 mn would be disbursed over a six year
period from the first semester of FY1987 co the second semester of FY1992.
The disbursement schedules at Annex 4-4 -overall) and Annex 4-5 (categories
by state) and chart, Annex 4-6, are based on the following assumptions: (i)
a four year implementation period for each state ADP; (ii) five year
disbursement period for each state ADP which includes start-up delays;
(iii) that the loan portion allocated to any single state can be disbursed
if the loan has been declared effective and the state has met the
conditions for disbursement; and (iv) that in some cases the time required
to meet the effectiveness conditions may last up to one year from the
signing date. The disbursement profile for area development projects in



- 33 -
West Africa is seven years with about 93% being disbursed over the first
six years. The accelerated disbursement over a shorter period of six years
is justified by a shorter planned implementation period (four against five
years for each state ADP), the very small infrastructure program and
start-up assistance to be provided by FACU. The proposed allocation of
loan proceeds and the disbursement percentages are given below:
Summary Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Amount of
thc Loan              Z of Expenditure
Category             Item             Allocated (US$)          to be Financed
1.        Plant, Equipment              48.9                1OZ of foreign expenditures
& Spare Parts                                  if imported and 75% if
procured locally.
2.        Civil Works                    18.1                100X of foreign expenditures
and 75Z if procured locally.
3.        Fertilizer and Other           57.2                100% of foreign expenditures
Farm Inputs                                    and 80% local expenditures.
4.        Training, Consultancy           6.6                100%
Services & Studies
5.        Operational Cost               15.0               402 excluding salaries
& General Services
6.        Unallocated                    16.2
Total IBRD                162.0
IFAD (presented for information)
1.        Cassava Multiplication,        7.7                100% of foreign expenditures
Farm Demonstration &                           if imported, and 75% if
Biological Control                             procured locally.
2.        Adaptive Research               1.8                100% of foreign expenditures
if imported, and 75% if
procured locally.
3.        Cassava Processing              1.3               100% of foreign expenditures
if imported, and 75% if
procured locally.
4.        Unallocated                     1.2
Total IFAD                 12.0



- 34 -
4.11      All expenditures would be fully documented and disbursements
would be made either against authorized contracts or certified SOEs which
would be checked during the course of supervisLon missions. SOEs would be
allowed for: Mi) contracts of less than US $60,000 equivalent for civil
works and less than US $20,000 equivalent for other categories; (ii) force
account civil works; and (iii) operating and general service costs.
Disbursement into the Special Project Accounts would be made according to
procedures discussed in para 4.06. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that all supporting documents for SOEs and withdrawal from the
Special Account would be maintained in readily available form and made
available upon request for inspection by the Bank. Provision has been made
for up to US $2.0 mn per state ADP of retroactive financing from the
launching of the Program Facilitation Team for project start-up. Of this
sum no more than US $750,000 would be made available for start-up costs
(para 5.14(a)) and the initial distribution costs for farm inputs, and the
balance for farm inputs.
E. Accounts, Auditing and Reporting Requirement
4.12      Each of the state ADPs and FACU (Federal components) would keep
financial records in accordance with sound accounting practices to reflect
their operations and financial positions, and would have the accounts
including special account and statement of expenditure audited annually by
a firm of independent external auditors acceptable to the Bank. The
audited accounts and the auditor's report, including a statement as to
whether or not Bank funds had been used for their intended purpose, would
be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
4.13      Each state ADP and FACU would prepare annual budgets and work
program based on appraisal estimates, amended where necessary to reflect
changes in costs and project development policies. With the assistance of
FACU, a uniform budget format would be introduced in the first project
year, which would adequately portray project activities, unit costs,
benefits, and productivity and form the basis of a proper management
information and accounting system. Agriculture and Infrastructure
components would be clearly separated. At the time the annual work program
and budget are prepared, each state ADP and FACU (for the Federal
components) would also prepare a procurement program for the coming year,
giving items and quantities required, sources of funds, timing and
procurement methods (whether ICB or other). This program would be
submitted along with the annual budget to FDRD for approval, and to the
Bank for information. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations. The state ADPs and FACU (Federal components)) would prepare
quarterly cash flow statements, which would be submitted to FDRD and the
Bank, and would operate on the basis of these statements. On the basis of
the approved budgets and procurement program, the Federal and the state
governments would make budgetary allocations and thereafter would release
the necessary funds monthly in advance.
4.14      Each state ADP and FACU would submit quarterly reports to FDRD
and the Bank showing actual and budgeted expenditures, statements of
progress achieved and objectives for the forthcoming quarter by each
project component. The quarterly reports would contain summaries of



- 35 -
expenditures and use of funds to date. After completion of the project
each state ADP and FACU (Federal components) would prepare a project
completion report, analyzing the implementation of the project and its
impact in relation to its objectives, and would submit them to the Bank
within six months of the closing date. Assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Overall MSADP Organization
1.  Role of Participating Federal Institutions
5.01      Implementation of the MSADP would be the responsibility of the
Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Rural Development
(FMAWRRD) acting through the Federal Department of Rural Development;
organogram Annex 5-1. A project advisory committee chaired by the
Permanent Secretary Agriculture and including the directors of Rural
Development, Agriculture and Water Resources, the director of the National
Seed Service (NSS), the Secretary for Local Government in the Federal
Ministry of the Interior, and representatives from the Federal Ministries
of Finance, National Planning, Works and Scientific Education (responsible
for the National Root Crop Research Institute (NRCRI)) and the Central Bank
(CBN), would oversee project implementation and use of Federal funds. FACU
would act as secretariat to this committee and would clear the release of
Federal funds to NRCRI, NSS etc. as well as to the participating state
ADPs.
5.02      FACU acting on behalf of the Federal Government would:(a) provide
implementation assistance to statewide ADPs with project start-up and with
carrying out individual components; (b) supervise project implementation on
behalf of FDRD; (c) clear the release of Federal funds; (d) contract for
and supervise studies; (e) assist with procurement.
5.03      APMEPU would provide technical *apport to each statewide ADP for
project monitoring and evaluation and would oversee ex-post evaluation.
2.  Cassava Multiplication
5.04      The Cassava Multiplication Program would involve NSS, NRCRI, as
well as participating (in MSADP) and non-participating states. NSS would
be responsible for the provision of foundation material to the states
(twelve in all) while breeder material to supply NSS would be grown under
contract by NRCRI. The National Cassava Center/NAFPP program for cassava
would be absorbed by the proposed program at NSS and NRCRI to avoid
duplication of activities. FMG would commission an evaluation of NSS's
total operation for review by the Bank by June 30, 1987. Assurances to
this effect were obtained at negotiations.
5.05      NSS would develop a discrete cassava program within its present
organization with the objective of putting the program on to a self
financing basis. A provisional cash flow at Annex 5-4 shows that annual



- 36 -
income by PY4 should be adequate to cover multiplication farm costs but not
other management overheads. The program would be based at Ibadan under an
officer-in-charge responsible to the Director NSS. The program would
comprise Farm Management, Commercial and Quality Control Sections;
organogram at Annex 5-2. An accountant to be supplied on contract would be
employed for two years to develop a system of physical and financial
records and accounts to provide the basis for pursuing the program on a
self-financing basis. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
officer-in-charge and accountant would have qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Bank and IFAD. Their appointment would be a condition of
loan effectiveness. Job descriptions for key NSS staff are given in
Working Paper C.5.
5.06      NSS, through the quality control section, would develop a system
of inspection and standards, for genetic purity of material and assessment
disease and pest levels, to be used on NSS farms and in the states. NSS
quality control staff would check NSS planted material as well as doing
spot checks in the states and help with strengthening state seed services.
5.07      The Cassava Multiplication Program is expected to be staffed from
a mix of existing NSS staff, reassigned FDRD staff and new recruits. In
the cost provisions (Working Paper C.14) senior and middle level staff have
been assessed as incremental. Provision is made for in-service training of
NSS staff as well as for some out-of-country orientation and training in
farm management and quality control.
B.   Implementation Statewide ADPs
1.   ADP Organization
5.08      Each statewide ADP would comprise two main sets of activities;
one technical (agricultural) and commercial (input supply) services - which
are under the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR); and two
- roads and water supply - which are the responsibility of other state
agencies. A number of organizational structures were reviewed during
preparation and appraisal taking into account experience with completed
ADPs (para 2.17) and the need to provide for continuity, attract suitable
staff and minimize costs. The need for some financial and implementation
autonomy was strongly supported by state MANRs and was a major factor in
the decision to retain the concept of a semi-autonomous Project Management
Unit (PMU) within MANR. However, although a semi-autonomous organization
with a policy making executive committee (para 5.10), the ADP would be
within the responsibility of the state MANR for the purposes of budget and,
in the first phase, would implement the rainfed crop extension and input
distribution services of MANR. Furthermore, the project would differ from
existing ADPs in that much greater reliance would be placed on existing
MANR staff and improved services would be extended gradually to statewide
coverage. Other MANR activities such as livestock and fisheries, would not
be covered except on a pilot basis until phase II. Road and water
components would also be executed through the state ADP by an Engineering
Services Division which would draw heavily on staff seconded from other
agencies and would work closely with LGCs.



- 37 -
5.09      Since all MANR activities within a state would not be managed by
the ADP, the proposal from FMAWRRD that each ADP should be created an
Agricultural and Rural Development Authority to absorb MANR staff and
become the latter's implementation arm (para 2.16) would be reviewed for
each state at the time of the FACU assisted start-up work (para 5.14(a)).
Should such an Authority be created then the first phase ADP would form one
self-accounting management unit within the Authority. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations.
5.10      ADP Executive Committee (ADPEC).  An executive committee
responsible to the State Governor in Council would oversee the project.
ADPEC would be chaired by the state Commissioner for Agriculture and
Natural Resources and would include representatives from State Governemnt
Ministries whose regular activities are relevant to the ADP, from the
farmers and from those Federal organizations with supervisory or
implementing functions. Determination of the proportion of Federal and
State Government representation is based upon the general recognition that
the ADP is a State program, in which the Federal Government has an interest
because of its substantial financial and operational support. The Project
Agreement would stipulate two-thirds State Government membership and
one-third Federal. Representation at state level would normally be:
Commissioners for Agriculture and Natural Resources (normally chairman);
Local Government; Finance and Economic Planning; Works; Commerce and
Industry; the Head of Service or representative; and Project Manager as
secretary; Director, Federal Department of Rural Development (FDRD), or his
representative; Head of FACU or his representative; the General Manager of
the River Basin Development Authority. The Federal Government appointees
would serve two functions: as representatives of Federal interest and as a
liaison between the ADPs and other Federal programs and projects in the
state. The executive committee would meet at least once every two months
for the first two years of the project. In addition to policy, financial
and coordination matters, which would include a periodic review of
participating ministries, the committee would approve the annual budget and
work plan and ensure that adequate funds would be available. It would also
approve appointments of senior staff and contracts over N100,000.
5.11      An infrastructure development sub-committee would be created
within each ADPEC to oversee coordination of zonal road programs. Chaired
by the Permanent Secretary MANR the sub-committee would include: Project
Manager ADP, Chief Agricultural Officer, the PS Ministry of Local
Government and Ministry of Works, Chief Engineer ADP and Chief Planning
Officer ADP.
5.12      The ADP Management Unit (ADPMU) would have responsibility for
establishing and operating the ADP, under the clear policy guidelines and
direction of ADPEC and in accordance with the conditions of the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. The Project Manager would
oversee three operational divisions: (a) Technical services comprising
agricultural extension, adaptive research, and cassava and and other
planting material multiplication; (b) Commercial services comprising input
supply, processing, and marketing services; and (c) Engineering services
comprising road maintenance & spot improvement, and water supply; and three
support units: (i) Project Management, administration and finance; (ii)



- 38 -
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation; and (iii) Manpower Development. See
organogram at Annex 5-1.
5.13      ADP Zonal Development Committees.  In most states it is expected
that Zonal Development Committees would be established to provide a range
of specialized advice and counsel to the ADP. Membership would include
zonal officers from Technical and Commercial Services, representatives of
LGCs within the Zone, farmers and the RBDA. The committee would be
responsible for ensuring consultation with local government officials and
RBDA over program implementation on such matters as selection of feeder
road and water supply projects, and siting of farm stores. The committees
would also be used to obtain farmers and local government opinions on
project implementation and future annual work plans. The committees would
meet quarterly under the chairmanship of the project manager or other
senior project member.
2.   FACU Support
5.14      Each FACU Regional office would be responsible for providing
start-up and implementation support and supervision of up to three
statewide ADPs participating in the MSADP as summarized below. During
negotiations understandings were reached that FMG would provide an adequate
remuneration package to attract suitably qualified and experienced
personnel (both Nigerian and internationally recruited). Staffing of the
Benin, Enugu and Jos FACU Regional offices to a level acceptable to FMG and
the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
(a) ProJect Start-up. Assistance to project start-up would be
provided through a Program Facilitation Team (PFT)
comprising FACU staff and consultants (see Working Paper
C.12), following a pattern already tested under the Kaduna
ADP and existing ADAs. Each PFT would be set up jointly
with state officials who would act as counterparts to the
FACU team members. In-state expenses would be met from
initial deposits by the state and Federal governments. The
PFT would work in each state for a period of 3 months and
undertake an intensive program, including assistance in the
establishment of a management unit and a project management
infrastructure, and the development of first year's work
program. It would set up personnel, accounting and other
administrative systems. The sustained effectiveness of its
operation would depend, however, on having a group of
counterpart staff recruited by the time the PFT begins its
work, who, subject to their competence are available to
continue on a permanent basis after the PFT has been
withdrawn. It is expected in most states not less than
three quarters of appointments to Project Management Unit
(PHU) positions would be made from counterparts to the PFT.
PFT counterparts who demonstrate the necessary skills and
other qualities required for permanent senior management
positions in the ADP and who have experience and
qualifications acceptable to the Federal Government and the
World Bank, would be appointed at the end of PFT period.
Where it appears unlikely that a PMU position can be filled



- 39 -
from within the state Civil Service, national and
International advertising would be initiated to secure
persons with the requisite qualifications and experience.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment of key ADP staff, namely, project manager,
financial controller, chief agriculturist, commercial
services manager and chief engineer would be acceptable to
PMG and the Bank. Formation and management of the PFT would
be the responsibility of the FACU Regional office. For
Benue and Plateau (following enclave ADPs) and Imo (ADA),
modified forms of PFT operation are likely to be necessary -
because of the existing project organizations with personnel
who can undertake at least some of the start-up activities
without outside assistance.
(b)  Project Implementation.  In addition to assistance with
project start-up FAhU, mainly through regional office
personnel, would provide direct implementation support for:
(i) the reorganization of extension services and for the
adaptive research program; (ii) preparation of annual work
programs and longer term planning; (iii) setting up
accounting systems and MIS; (iv) procurement and
importation; (v) manpower development. FACU would
participate at ADP Executive Committee meetings and on
supervision missions with Bank staff. FACU would also
facilitate the dissemination of information among the
various ADPs by serving as an information clearing house and
by sponsoring periodic workshops and conferences for ADP
staff.
(c) Project Monitoring. A management information system (MIS)
developed by PACU for existing ADPs would be implemented in
all participating states. FACU MIS personnel would train
project staff in the system and data would be consolidated
quarterly for use by management. FMG, and the Bank. A
project implementation schedule is given in Annex 5-3.
3.   Project Evaluation and Future Planninfg
5.15      The planning division in each ADP would be responsible for
project evaluation under the technical guidance of APMEPU. Specific
evaluation activities would include: (a) conducting basic farm inventory
surveys to serve as the basis and benchmark control for future project
impact assessment; (b) implementation of an annual field survey program
identifying the project's impact on target beneficiaries; (c) conducting
special surveys on specific or anticipated problems that may occur during
implementation and on matters relevant to overall sector policy analysis.
Identification of relevant problems would include such subjects as:
selected market price surveys, the impact of specific components and the
review of adoption rates etc.



- 40 -
5.16      In addition to annual surveys the evaluation process would
comprise two major events: the mid-term review to be conducted by FACU
during the third year of the project, and the project completion review to
be conducted by APMEPU at the end of each of the ADP projects (para 4.14).
Apart from guiding project management, the mid-term review would provide a
basis to decide whether or not the project should proceed to a second
phase. Planning of future phases would be a prime responsibility of the
state ADP. However, provision of data, establishment of criteria, advice
on techniques and coordination to achieve consistency, would be the
responsibility of agricultural planning staff in FACU.
4.   Training and Manpower Development
5.17      The short-term role of training in the ADP would be to ensure the
availability of skills required for achievement of the project objectivps.
Number of staff involved are relatively small and the project time period
short. The approach would be concentrated, personnel intensive and with
limited payoff. A long term role would be to put in place a structure
which would define real traini.ng needs, introduce a systematic in-service
program, reflect changes in t,chnology and policy and contribute to staff
development initiatives. This approach would involve strengthening
existing MANR training structures, providing additional personnel, and
arranging for staff skills upgrading through the involvement of ARMTI and
FACU as technical assistance/trainers.
5.18      The first phase ADp period would represent a phase during which a
needs analysis, training of trainers and the development of a training
system would take place. At the end of the four year ADP, MANR would have
in position a skilled team of training and staff development personnel, an
agricultural extension department with a training program underway and the
institutional capability to apply the same techniques to all areas of MANR.
5.19      The additional (incremental) training staff employed to assist
the ADP would be integrated into the MANR and the combined MANR/ADP
training staff under the leadership of ARMTI/FACU, would: (a) undertake a
Project Related Training Component design exercise for the ADPs; (b)
complete detailed job descriptions for all categories of ADP staff; (c)
participate in training of trainers courses; (d) undertake routine and
special in-service training for ADP staff; (e) develop suitable audio and
visual materials for training and field extension worker support; (f)
design and test training evaluation instruments; (g) produce a detailed
staff personnel record for the ADP; and (h) analyze training costs. A
program for training activities is at Annex 5-5.
C. Infrastructure Planning and Implementation
1.  Roads
5.20      Planning procedures for Rural Infrastructure Development would be
carried out by the Project Planning, Monitoring & Evaluation Unit (PMEU) in
cooperation with FACU and senior staff of the Engineering Services Division
which would be responsible for implementation. PMEU would have one
Planning Officer who would be a specialist in physical planning with
experience of engineering activities. Road programs would be subjected to



- 41 -
pre-screening & economic evaluation in accord with World Bank guidelines
following procedures and evaluation criteria developed by FACU; see
Annex 5-6 and Working Paper C.7, Annex 2. Candidate roads selected on
grounds of road condition would be prescreened by PMEU against a checklist
of: (a) place in road network; (b) access provided to farms and other
rural services; and (c) engineering requirements. An economic evaluation
based on criteria includuing produce surplus estimates and vehicle
operating cost savings would be used to rank prescreened roads on basis of
ERRs and net present values. Annual programs would be subiritted to FACU
and the Bank for approNal four months prior to the beginning of the
calendar year. FACU engineers would certify to the Bank satisfactory
completion of roadworks and retain certificates for inspection. Assurances
to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
5.21      Development of rural infrastructure involves a number of Federal
and state Ministries and Agencies to be coordinated through the
infrastructnre development subcommittee of each Project Executive Committee
(para 5.11). The organizations most closely affected by, and directly
involved with the ADP rural infrastructure program would be the LGCs
representing local people and communities. LGCs would be directly involved
in planning and maintaining the ADP infrastructure program from the very
onset of the project. Planning committees comprising the relevant project
officers and LGC's secretaries for each zone would be set up through the
Zonal Development Committee (p-kra 5.13). During Phase I, the project would
establish and train LGCs capacity to assume full responsibility for
infrastructure maintenance by the end of the Phase, by providing
supervision, training of personnel, and assistance in financing. Training
would be provided primarily 'on the job' by ADP engineers assisted by the
Training and Manpower Development Unit (para 5.17), who would monitor and
report on progress.
2.   Rural Water Supply
5.22      A feasibility study would be undertaken by consultants prior to
investment to identify the relative levels of investment in new and
rehabilitation of existing wells and borehole supplies and the most
appropriate form of implementation for each type of scheme. Subsequently,
ADP management units would identify the target communities. This selection
process would be undertaken in consultation with state water corporations,
the RBDA's if appropriate and representatives of the LGCs and target
communities. A commitment on the part of those who will be responsible for
operation of the schemes to provide an adequate operation and maintenance
service, and on the part of target communities to contribute to recurrent
costs, will be a pre-condition to investment in any particular project.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations. The consultant
would prepare the necessary contract documents.
5.23      The practical involvement of the recipient communities and the
LGCs in the construction of all low cost schemes would be encouraged as
this would render subsequent operation and maintenance of the schemes by
these same groups more likely to succeed. This involvement could take the
form of providing some basic construction materials free of charge and/or
the provision of local labor to assist with site clearing, manual
excavation and construction of simple concrete structures. On this basis



- 42 -
the ADP management team would provide technical assistance and supervision,
particularly in the early stages, and would also purchase handpumps and let
drilling contracts. To provide robust handpumps, specifications would be
based on the UNDP/World Bank handpump studies. 12/ Conversion of partially
constructed piped water supplies to low cost supply schemes may require
some contractor input but final selection of implementation methods would
await the recommendations of the feasibility study. In parallel with the
construction of improved or new water supply schemes, assistance in
training of local operatives and the establishment of locally based
operation and maintenance units would be provided.
D.   Input Procurement and Distribution
5.24        Each of the six ADPs would set up a Commercial Services
Division (CSD) under a commercial manager, whose experience, qualifications
and terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to FMG and the
Bank. In the case of Ogun state, which has an agro-service corporation
established under state law, the project would not support establishment of
a CSD. CSD would, in consultation with private retailers as well as
project extension staff, determine well in advance of the season, the
quantities, types, and timing of fertilizer requirements, and arrange to
procure through the Federal government's agencies, all the fertilizer
needed by farmers. The commercial services units' main task would be to
stock fertilizer at strategic locations (or primary distribution points
("PDPs"), and establish arrangements to keep all FSCs, and through them all
retailers, well supplied with fertilizers. This unit would monitor
availability and prices on a continuing basis during the fertilizer
application season, and also monitor the performance of all retailers with
a view to weeding out the inefficient, and appointing new ones.
Progressive privatization of fertilizer distribution without Jeopardizing
availability would be the dominant approach of the unit with a view to
minimizinig system costs.
5.25      Imported pumps, equipment and seed produced, packaged and labeled
by state ADPs would be sold through the CSD on a consignment basis, while
herbicides would be marketed through existing retailers.  CSD would be
allowed a retailer's margin (approximately 10% of the sale price) on these
items. The project seeds unit would have responsibility for seed pricing,
revalidation of labels and unsold stocks.
E. Status of Project Preparation
5.26      Start-up work for the Statewide Agricultural Development Projects
was launched in Imo State in June 1985, and Program Facilitation Teams
(PFT) - para 5.14(a) - completed work in five states (Anambra, Bendel,
Cross-River, Imo and Plateau) by end November 1985, and in the remaining
two states (Benue and Ogun) in February 1986. In all states, project
12/       Trials on a range of handpumps are being conducted in a number of
African countries as part of a Worldwide Water Supply Handpumps
Program funded by UNDP.



- 43 -
executive committees (ADPEC) and management units (ADPMU) have been set up
but key staff appointments have still to be approved by FDRD and the Bank.
Work plans and budgets for 1986 have been drawn up and project activities
have commenced using funds deposited by states as one of the conditions of
effectiveness. Federal deposits (para 4.05) have been made in four of the
seven states and are expected in the remaining three states and central
fund by end June 1986. An inventory of equipment held by MANR, Ministry of
Local Government and LGCs, has been completed and procurement documents
drawn up for spares to rehabilitate selected items (para 3.21). The first
training course for subject matter specialists in state agricultural
extension services was launched in September 1985; follow-up courses are
planned. During the PFTs, the Agricultural Research programs were prepared
and link between state ADPs and Universities and Research Institutes
established. The National Seed Service has the selection of key staff and
preparation of a work plan and budget in hand. Terms of reference for the
Water Supply Study (para 3.24) have been agreed with the Federal Department
of Water Resources and the recruitment of consultants initiated.
VI. DEMAND, MARKETING, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.  Demand
6.01      Nigeria is a net importer of food and while the Bank's most
recent analysis concludes that total food production in the period 1970-80
probably just kept up with population growth (para 1.05) this allows
nothing for the further increase in population growth (which is shown in
recent Bank projections), or for an increase in per capita consumprion that
is usually associated with growth in national income. Furthermore, recent
changes in fiscal and import policies are likely to encourage a further
increase in demand for the staple food crops which form the major output of
the project. Food imports have been cut back and while it is possible that
these measures could be relaxed, especially if the oil economy were to
bounce back, such a scenario is less likely to occur in the short to medium
term. The project includes provisions for strengthening trade policy and
maintaining incentives for local producers (para 2.03).
6.02      The estimated overall impact of the incremental sales of crop
production inputs deriving from project initiatives, the increased
production calculated to result from the improved efficiency of use of
fertilizer and use of improved cassava planting material are given in Annex
6-1 and summarized at para 7.01. The annual incremental production,
totalling about 310,000 tons foodgrains equivalent, which represents only
2% of nrcional demand, expected to be generated at full development should
be reauily absorbed in the domestic market.
B.  Marketing and Processing
6.03      The food crop marketing systems of the project areas are
dominated by small private traders and farmers. While the system, which
involves a large number of buyers and sellers at wholesale and retail
levels, is relatively competitive and efficient in its overall distribution
function, lack of market information between, and sometimes within, markets



- 44 -
results in spatial price differentials which cannot be explained by
transport costs alone. Other shortcomings of the system include,
pronounced seasonal price variations and cycles, especially for the root
crops, reflecting storage problems stemming from lack of a better processed
product with a longer shelf life; and lack of reliable all-season
trafficable roads in some areas which constrains movement of produce from
farm to market, especially of the bulky crops like yams. The provision of
market intelligence, principally in the form of reliable crop price
information, by the CSD within each ADP would help farmers identify
suitable outlets for their crops. The CSD would also closely monitor the
operation of the marketing system, identifying actual and potentia
deficiencies and recommending inanagement solutions to constraints. Th'e
program of assistance for crop processing (para 3.29) would further
encourage improved processing at village level and would complement work
already initiated under the Bank supported Agro Industrial Development
Scheme (AIDS). The program of road maintenance and spot improvement would
also help in the movement of crops from farm to market in the areas where
lack of all season trafficable roads constrain movement.
C. Prices
6.04      Food crop prices in Nigeria have increased in nominal and real
terms for most crops, especially for the root crops, since 1979, with the
pronounced seasonal and spatial price differentials mentioned above. Since
the imposition of food import restrictions, beginning in 1982, and the
drought of 1983, domestic food prices have increased more rapidly. The
financial and economic farmgate prices used in the analysis are shown in
Annex 6-2; and a forecast of the economic price for fertilizer is given in
Annex 6-3. Financial prices used in evaluating farmer incentives (para
6.06) were based on data obtained in the field and derived from retail
prices prevailing in 1983 suitably discounted to the farmgate. There is a
marked disparity between prices for home-produced food grains and
corresponding world market prices. For example, in Plateau State, the
farmgate price for maize grain at N600 (US $600) per ton compares with an
import parity price of about N239 (US $239) per ton. Similarly, paddy rice
sells at about N800 (US $800) per ton at the farmgate against an import
parity price at N172 (US $172) per ton. Prices for yam tubers in the
participating states are estimated to vary between N550 and N430 per ton
paid at the farmgate, while an economic price of N268 - 211 per ton has
been used in the economic calculations. For cassava, the prices are
between fl00 and 200 per ton (financial) and N50 to 97 per ton (economic).
Economic prices for internationally traded maize grain and paddy rice are
based on IBRD projections of January 1985 and those for non-traded cassava,
yams and green maize on average local prices in the states adjusted by the
consumption conversion factor (para 7.05). Reductions in the disparities
between financial and economic prices would be expected as exchange rate
distortions are removed, the economy improves and imports are freed up.
Since it would be important to maintain adequate farmer incentives, the
project includes provision for an annual review with FMGN on producer
prices, tariff and import levels (para 2.03). Farmgate prices for
foodgrains used in calculating crop budgets for 1990 (para 6.07 and Annex
6-4) have been derived from import parity prices plus a tariff of 130% to
compensate for exchange rate distortions. Relative prices between non-



- 45 -
;r. :_ops, which studies show to be readily substituted for foodgrains,
and traded crops have been projected to remain constant.
D. Financial Analysis
6.05      Farm Incomes.  Benefits to participating farm families have been
evaluated in terms of benefit-cost ratios on use of the inputs and improved
technology which would be offered by the statewide ADPs. In view of the
project's focus on input supply as the major source of benefits, the
assessment of project impact has been related to the uptake and effect of
inputs, rather than to what might happen on a given area of land. This
approach is particularly appropriate for the mixed cropping systems which
predominate in the project area and for which an estimate of the yield of
any one crop poses considerable problems. The impact of fertilizer has
been related to the incremental yield derived from lkg of "useful"
nutrients, assessed on the basis of the compounds available in relation to
the needs of particular crops. While only an approximate guide, it is
expected that fertilizer recommendations will improve over the project
period and that an increasing proportion of the nutrients applied will be
fully used. The increment(.l production for each 1 kg of nutrient used
would be: yams - 14 kg; cassava - 20 kg; maize - 6 kg; rice - 6 kg; sorghum
- 3 kg; potatoes - 14 kg. Other inputs, including improved cassava
planting material, imprc-ed rise seed, herbicides and irrigation pumps
(Benue and Plateau) have been similarly evaluated and the following
incremental production e-stimates used: for each 1 kg rice seed - 4kg
incremental production; for 1 bundle cassava cutting - 38kg in densely
farmed areas and 62kg where fallowing is still possible.
6.06      In order to assess the farmer's financial incentive under the
project an analysis was made of the benefit-cost ratios from use of inputs
under three price/cost regimes, namely: (a) at present prices with
fertilizer subsidy at 50% (1984/85); (b) at present prices but with the
price of fertilizer increased to reflect a reduction in financial subsidy
to 25% (1986/87); and (c) at output prices reflecting import parity for
foodgrains plus a tariff of 130% (para 6.04) and with the price of
fertilizer further increased to eliminate the financial subsidy and reduce
the economic subsidy to around 35% - (1990).  Crop budgets at Annex 6-4
show the financial benefit-cost ratios from use of fertilizer on the major
crops in the project area (yams, cassava, maize grain, rice, green maize
and sorghum) under these three sets of assumptions, as well as in economic
terms for 1990. Although in the face of increasing fertilizer prices,
financial benefit-cost ratios would be expected to fall from the present
extremely favorable levels, projections for 1990 still show a strong
incentive for the purchase of fertilizer with a ratio of benefit to cost of
fertilizer alone of over 2:1 for yams, maize grain and rice. The return
from improved cassava planting material is very attractive (benefit-cost
ratio of 5.1 to 12.5:1, see Annex 6-5), and although the return to
fertilizer would be a little low (1.8:1), there is a strong incentive to
use the combination of improved inputs on cassava. In the case of green
maize and sorghum, benefit-cost ratios would fall more sharply and use of
fertilizer on these crops would be expected to fall off. Returns from
herbicides (benefit-cost ratio at 2.5:1) and on small irrigation pumps
(financial return of 45%) are acceptable.



- 46 -
6.07      Annex 6-6 shows the cumulative effect of use of additional
fertilizer on farms in the three ecological zones covered by the project.
On typical farms in the project area the effect of using fertilizer (an
incremental 6 bags or 300 kg is anticipated) would be to increase food
production in foodgrains equivalent by 30 to 40%. For example, in the most
densely populated south east (Imo, Anambra) the effect of fertilizer would
be to increase food production from yams and cassava by about 40% and yield
an extra 720kg foodgrains equivalent, enougb to meet the basic food needs
of 3-4 people per year.
6.08      Labor.  For many farmers in the densely populated southern states
asy increase in farm size results in a comparable decrease in fallow period
with a consequent accelerated decline in soil fertility and a more serious
weed problem resulting from poor bush regeneration and an inadequate
pre-planting burn. For these farmers fertilizer use to intensify
production on a reduced area should result in an increase in long term
labor efficiency through reduced weeding, and higher productivity per unit
of labor invested. This may not be immediately obvious to the farmer and
the main stimulus to fertilizer use is likely to be a desire to stem the
decline in yields. For those farmers in areas less constrained for land
there is a much more obvious trade-off between investment in labor and
investment in purchased inputs. At current prices it is more profitable to
apply fertilizer than to extend the area under cultivation. Improved
availability of fertilizer combined with high wage rates, which although
falling are still relatively high, could readily lead to substitution of
fertilizer for farm size.
6.09      Financial Implications for State Governments.  The project will
generate little direct government revenue, as farmers' output is not taxed.
Some indirect public revenue generation can be expected as project
beneficiaries will spend part of their increase income on consumer goods,
services and imports subject to tax. Additional revenue might be generated
at the state or local government level through increased payments of market
related fees. A precise quantification of such increased tax revenue is
not possible but an upper limit may be suggested. If 50Z of incremental
benefits enter the cash economy and are spent on goods carrying an average
tax of about 152, the additional public revenue would be about N600,000 per
year in a typical southern state.
6.10      Financial costs to the state government, during the project
period may be divided into three categories: (a) state's share of the
project costs; (b) state's responsibility to maintain existing
non-incremental costs, mainly staff; and (c) state's share in the
fertilizer subsidy for incremental and non-incremental uptake. The states'
project financial obligations are detailed at Annex 6-7 and summarized
below:



- 47 -
Average Annual Cost to State Governments
on Account of Project during Project Implementation
(N Million)
Incremental    Nonx-incremental     Fertilizer
Project Cost      Staff Cost         Subsidy  a/    Total
Anambra                   1.3             2.5            0.5              4.3
Bendel                    1.1            2.2             0.2              3.5
Benue                     1.3            3.5             0.5              5.3
Cross River               1.1            2.5             0.1              3.7
Imo                       1.2            5.0             0.5              6.7
Ogun                      0.2             1.0            0.1              1.3
Plateau                   2.0             3.4            1.7              7.1
a/  Both incremental and non-incremental.
Based on the relatively small incremental cost to be financed by the state
governments it is expected that the financing requirement will be within
the capabilities of the participating states.
6 11     Financial Implications for Federal Government.  For the total
four years program, direct FMG contribution would amount to N84.7mn or an
average of N21.2 mn annually; including the fertilizer subsidy. In
computing the fertilizer subsidy it has been assumed that (a) 70% of the
net cost of the fertilizer subsidy would be borne by FMG and 30% by the
state governments; and (b) the financial subsidy for 1986 would be 30%, for
1987 20%, for 1988 10Z and zero for 1989 and onward. Of the total FMG cost
of N84.7 mn, 41% (N34.6 mn) is attributable to the fertilizer subsidy for
incremental and non-incremental consumption.
6.12      Project Sustainability.  Key components requiring continued
support at the state level in order to achieve production targets during
the post-project implementation period, would be agricultural extension and
seeds multiplication services, input supplies and feeder road maintenance.
Project management, other administrative costs and adaptive research
components would be covered by further development phases (para 3.01).
Commercial services and the other stages of cassava multiplication would be
expected to become self-financing. The annual incremental cost of the
remaining MANR extension and seed services in a typical southern state
would be about N600,000 (1985 constant terms). Income from taxes on
incremental consumption resulting from the project would be expected to
meet part or all this cost subject to the effective tax rate (para 6.09
shows that an effective tax rate of 15% would be required to cover this
cost). In addition, incremental costs of feeder road maintenance, which is
the responsibility of LGCs, are estimated at about N500,000 for a typical
southern state, or N25,000 per LGC. In view of the status of LGC funding,
there is some uncertainity on their capacity to meet this cost and maintain
roads after the project implementation period, but progress on this issue
would be kept under review during implementation (para 3.22). At the
Federal level, the key components to be supported post-project would be the
Naticnal Root Crops Research Institute (NRCRI) and National Seed Service



- 48 -
(NSS) in order to maintain the flow of improved cassava varieties (yields
are expected to rise gradually as a result of new introductions). Annual
incremental costs at NRCRI would be about N106,000 and would represent a
small charge on the Federal research budget. The project includes
provisions to put the cassava program of the NSS on a self-financing basis
and the annual costs of the multiplication farms would be covered by the
end of the project implementation period (para 5.05). Net incremental
management overhead costs of about N160,000 per year would be covered under
the NSS budget.
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits
7.01      The project would:  (a) increase food production and the income
of some 350,000 smallholders; (b) establish a better link between research,
extension and the farmer and initiate development of improved production
technology appropriate to farming systems in the area; and (c) strengthen
planning and implementation capacities of existing Federal (FACU, NSS AND
NRCRI), state (MANR) and LGC (road maintenance) institutions.  The project
would be expected to result in an annual increase in food crop production
at full development (year 15) of 614,000 tons cassava, 78,000 tons yams,
3,400 tons potatoes, and 36,000 tons cereals (maize, rice and sorghum) -
Annex 6-1; in total about 310,000 tons foodgrain equivalent. Yams and
cassava would account for about 75% of total incremental production.
Farmers in some of the most intensively populated parts of Southern Nigeria
would benefit from a considerable improvement in the availability of key
inputs, particularly fertilizer, as well as herbicides and improved
planting material. As a result of the application of proven technology
with acceptable financial returns, food production on typical small farms
would increase by about 35Z. In addition to the direct benefits of making
available improved planting material and fertilizers, support for the
cassava pest control program including the distribution of beneficial
insects for the control of Green Spider Mite would generate considerable
additional benefits over the whole country.
7.02      The project would strengthen state MANR extension services and
establish the vital link between research, extension and the farming
community which would be essential for further development of smallholder
farming systems. The adaptive research program would be expected to lead
to the development of improved technology for use in a future phases of the
MSADP. The project would not only strengthen MANR rainfed crop extension
services but also provide support to MANR for a manpower development
program for the whole ministry. At the Federal level the project would
strengthen NSS and NRCRI and set up a sustainable system for the
multiplication of improved cassava plant material. This would strengthen
NSS and state capacity to exploit new releases from both the national and
international research institutes. The project would also build up the
capacity of FMAWRRD - through FACU - to supervise project implementation.
7.03      The project would develop the capacity of the local government
area councils in road maintenance and reinstatement. The road component



- 49 -
would have a considerable impact in some parts of the project area where
poor road maintenance has led to problems of difficult access, and thereby
generate benefits (as yet unquantified) from improving market access.
Finally, the project would support improved potable water supplies in rural
areas and consequent reduction in waterborne disease.
B. Economic Rate of Return
7.04      Economic Rates of Return (ERR) and Net Present Value (NPV) have
been calculated for each statewide ADP. Three values have been calculated:
First, setting the total benefits against total costs excepting 50% of road
and workshop costs, and the cost of water supply and adaptive research
components. The 50% of the road and workshop costs were excluded since the
feeder road study for Anambra State (the one study completed to date)
demonstrates that benefits at the farmgate (the point at which ERRs are
calculated) contributed 50% or less of the benefits from the road program,
the remaining 50% accruing from transporting and marketing and vehicle
operator cost savings beyond the farmgate. No benefits have been
calculated for the water supply component which is a pilot effort following
study, while benefits from adaptive research would accrue in a later phase
of the project. Second, in order to demonstrate the return to the
extension package, the 5% of benefits from improved use of fertilizer
attributable to the extension services (para 3.10) plus the benefits from
uptake of improved cassava planting material in which the extension
services would play a key role (para 3.12), have been set against the
incremental costs of extension and cassava multiplication services. Third,
the return from extension and improved cassava planting material has also
been calculated with the cost of existing staff included - on the
assumption that the state would have the option of laying off the staff if
they were ineffective in the without project situation. Allowances for
centrally funded NRCRI and NSS costs, for 'upstream' multiplication of
cassava material, and FACU support costs were included in calculating
incremental costs. The makeup of benefit and cost streams for Anambra
State are shown in Annex 7-1 vhile ERRs and Net Present Values (NPV) for
all states are shown in Annex 7-2. ERRs are summarized below:



- 50 -
Economic Rates of Return
(percent)
Statewide ADP
"all" costs          Extension and Cassava
State               & benefits a/          Multiplication b/
I          II
Anambra                   18                 17        10
Bendel                    12                 22        16
Benue                     29                 23        14
Cross River               11                 22        15
Imo                       39                 22        10
Ogun                      - c/               20        12
Plateau                   35                 21        12
a/  All incremental benefits and costs excluding 50% of road and workshop
costs and costs of the water supply & adaptive research components.
b/   I - Incremental costs and benefits from extension impact and cassava
planting material.
II = Incremental costs and benefits as for I plus cost of existing
extension staff.
c/   Below 10% and therefore only modified program included (para 3.08).
7.05      All ERRs were calculated on the basis of incremental returns
compared with the anticipated 'without' project situation. The growth of
fertilizer sales without the project was assumed to level off in 1986/87
due to difficult supply conditions. With the project, sales were assumed
to level off in 1988/89 in the face of rising prices. The assumed growth
rate with the project is equivalent to 7.5% per annum over five years.
Project life was assumed to be 20 years, including a four-year investment
period in each state during which development activities would be
substantially completed. For the calculation of project costs, farm inputs
were costed at full, unsubsidized economic costs, but net of taxes which
are transfer payment to the national economy as a whole. On-farm labor was
costed at going rates - N 8 to 4 - per day; on the assumption that the
shadow wage is equal to 1 and, since this is a non-traded input, the rates
were multiplied by the SCF of 0.45 to give a rate in border N of between
N3.4 and 12.5 according to crop and mix of male and female labor. All
other costs were converted to border N using a standard conversion factor
(SCF) of 0.45. These adjustments allow for distortion to local costs
resulting from import duties and quotas. Project benefits comprise the
value of increwental crop production, priced at farmgate economic prices
derived from import parity for internationally traded goods (maize and
rice) and their immediate substitutes, and adjusted for transport and other
local costs. For non-traded outputs (yams, cassava and green maize),
domestic retail prices were adjusted to border values by use of the
conversion factor. To calculate the N landed value import prices were



- 51 -
based on IBRD forecasts 13/ in constant dollars converted at the official
exchange rate.
7.06      Based on the above assumptions, the overall ERR for the project
covering seven states is 23%; see Annex 7-3.
C. Sensitivity and Risks
7.07      Sensitivity analysis were undertaken to evaluate the potential
impact of various unpredictable factors on the ERR and to determine which
variables would be most crucial to project success. As a measure,
crossover values 14/ were computed, using an opportunity cost of capital
(OCC) of 10%. The numerical results, discussed below, show that returns on
the overall statewide ADPs are fairly resilient and remain viable under
various adverse situations for all states except Bendel and Cross River.
(i) Yields and Prices. The crossover values for total
incremental production vary between 4% (Cross River) and 60% (Imo) below
the expected incremental benefits for the state ADP and between 32% (Cross
River) and 57% (Benue) for the return to extension and cassava
multiplication investments alone. In both the south and middle belt, yams
and cassava are major contributors to benefits and incremental production
could fall below expectations if farmers applied lower quantities of
fertilizer or took up new cassava varieties more slowly than expected.
While in four states (Anambra, Benue, Imo and Plateau) a relatively large
reduction in both fertilizer and uptake of improved cassava would be
required to reach the crossover value on state ADPs, in the other two
states (Bendel and Cross River) returns are relatively sensitive. In
Bendel State the crossover value would be reached with a 36% reduction in
fertilizer or 20% reduction in cassqva uptake, while in Cross River State
the values would be 16% (fertilizer) and 5% (cassava). Although prices
have already been heavily discounted and assumptions on fertilizer response
rates and farmer uptake of both fertilizer (7.5% annual growth) and cassava
(20% coverage by year 15) are modest, so that falls of this order are not
expected in Bendel, in Cross River the situation is marginal. Given the
overall ERR of 21% (para 7.06) which is relatively resilient, the risk on
inclusion of Cross River State is acceptable. A 4% growth rate in
fertilizer uptake would be sufficient to yield a 10% ERR overall.
(ii) Costs and Development Period. The state ADPs are much less
sensitive to cost increases or delayed implementation reflecting the
relatively small fixed capital investment program - major emphasis is on
13/       At January 8, 1985.
14/       The crossover value is the value of the variable tested for which
the NPV discounted at the OCC is zero; it is a measure of how far
the variable can differ from its most likely value before the
project becomes economically unacceptable. The crossover value
may, therefore, also be interpreted as the value of the variable
tested beyond which the ERR would be below the estimated OCC.



- 52 -
providing essential operating funds to make existing investments
(particularly manpower) more productive.
7.08      Risks.  The state ADPs face a number of risks associated with:
(i) ability of FACU to provide adequate professional backstopping support;
(ii) supplies of improved cassava material from NRCRI and NSS; (ili)
shortfalls in state and federal funding; (iv) delays in reorganizing state
input distribution systems and shortfall in fertilizer supplies; and (v)
lower than anticipated farmer response to project services. Firstly,
technical support from FACU which is essential for implementation of the
agricultural components might not be forthcoming if recruitment of suitably
qualified staff continues to be a problem. This risk has been minimized by
conditions on remuneration to be offered for both Nigerians and expatriate
staff (para 5.14). A major recruitment drive is underway and early
indications are that the new terms will attract qualified and experienced
staff. Also the strengthening of NRCRI and NSS may take longer than
expected leading to a delay in multiplying up new varieties. However
fairly modest uptake rates have been assumed, varieties are already
available and retroactive financing would be provided to enable a start to
be made on reorganization following negotiations. Secondly, implementation
could be delayed by funding shortfalls. Again project design - smaller
scale project and tighter conditions on funding - has sought to minimize
these risks (para 4.05). Thirdly, there are questions about future
supplies of fertilizer outside the project. However FMG now attaches great
importance to the adequate and timely supply of fertilizer and there is no
reason to doubt that this policy will change. The project provides for
total requirements in year 1 and incremental requirements thereafter, in an
attempt ti mitigate this risk. At the state level it might take longer
than expected to reorganize input distribution including retailing a major
part through the private sector. A number of participating states are
expected to use private sector retailers in 1985 and project design
provides a system of part state and part private sector which has been
accepted in principle by all participating states. Finally, farmer
acceptance of the improved inputs which form the basis of the agricultural
development program could be lower than expected. Following from
experience with completed ADPs (para 2.17) this aspect received
considerable attention during appraisal and both design and evaluation of
project financial and economic returns reflect a cautious approach.
7.09      Successful implementation of the road component is dependent upon
mobilizing the resources of LGCs and there is some risk that the project
implementation period is too short to create a self sustaining road
maintenance capacity in the lifetime of the project. However the project
is seen as only the first phase and further support could be provided Urnder
the second phase if necessary.
D. Environmental Considerations
7.10      The project would have no adverse impact on the environment.
There is no sign at all that land in the humid zone will be returned to
forest and tree crops under current population pressure, so that a slowing
down of the soil degradation by the provision of additional plant nutrients
will provide additional time for research workers to evolve new patterns of



- 53 -
land use for these areas which both satisfy farmers' need and are
sustainable.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government on
the following points:
(i)  Retail prices for farm inputs would be fixed so that:
(a) for herbicides and small pumps the market price
would be paid; and (b) for seeds and fruit trees the
full cost of production and distribution would be
recovered (para 3.11);
(ii)  States would annually review with ADP management, LGCs
concerned and FASU engineers the development of road
maintenance capacity and funding provisions (para
3.22);
(iii)  NSS would set up a revolving fund for proceeds of sale
of cassava planting material and tubers and this would
be used to finance recurrent costs of the
multiplication program (para 3.27);
(iv)  State Governments would provide for the salaries of
staff seconded to the project and would also budget for
non-incremental fertilizer not financed by the project
(para 4.02);
(v)  FMG's share of project costs would be calculated at 20%
of a state ADP's approved annual budget excluding
existing staff and would be paid as a grant quarterly
in advance (para 4.04);
(vi)  The Special Accounts would be operated under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank and replenishment
would be conditional on state and Federal governments'
release of their contributions (para 4.06);
(vii)  FMG and state documents for LCB under the project
should specify: (a) criteria for evaluating tenders
which should be clearly set out in the tender documents
and should specify that award would be made to the
lowest evaluated bidder; (b) tenders should be
accompanied by a tender security or bid bond; (c) all
tenders should be opened in public and tenderers'
representatives allowed to attend; and (d) successful
tenderers should be required to submit a performance
security on release of the tender security (para 4.07);
(viii) State governments would submit an annual budget and
work plan for project activities as well as a



- 54 -
procurement plan at least four months prior to each
fiscal year for the approval of FDARD and the
information of the Bank (para 4.13);
(ix) FMG would commission an evaluation of the operations of
NSS for review with the Bank by June 30, 1987 (para
5.04);
(x) Qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment of key staff in the ADPs, namely project
manager, financial controller, chief agriculturist,
commercial services manager and chief engineer, and in
NSS, namely officer in charge cassava multiplication
and chief accountant, should be acceptable to FMG and
the Bank (paras 5.05, 5.14 and 5.24);
(xi) Should an Agricultural and Rural Development Authority
be established in a state to implement all MANR
activities then the ADP would form a self accounting
unit within the Authority (para 5.09);
(xii) Project Agreements would stipulate state and federal
representation on the ADP Executive Committee at
two-thirds and one third, respectively (para 5.10);
(xiii) Feeder road programs would be submitted annually and
would include an economic evaluation following the
methodology developed by FACU, and FASU engineers would
certify to the Bank the satisfactory completion of
roadworks and retain certificate for inspection (para
5.20);
(xiv) State governments would make satisfactory arrangements
for the operation and maintenance of rural water supply
schemes funded by the project including beneficiaries'
contribution to recurrent costs (para 5.22).
8.02      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be:
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
~he IFAD loan agreement had been fulfilled (para 4.03);
that at least three states had met the folloving
conditions (para 4.04): (a) signing of the subsidiary
loan agreement (para 4.04); (b) State Governments would
(i) open a project account and make an upfront deposit
equivalent to six months of their contribution to
project costs and (ii) send a letter instructing the
Central Bank to debit the states' account and credit
the project account with the states contribution
quarterly in advance (para 4.05); (c) the Federal
contribution for six months to be deposited in advance
(para 4.05); (d) State Government to have established



- 55 -
the ADP management unit and appointed key staff (para
5.14);
that the central fund account had been opened and
Federal contribution for six months deposited in
advance (para 4.05);
that the Benin, Enugu and Joe FASUs were staffed to a
level acceptable to FMG and the Bank (para 5.14).
that NSS had appointed the officer-in-charge cassava
and accountant (para 5.05);
8.03      Conditions of disbursement to a state would be:
that conditions under 8.02(ii) above had been met; and
submission of satisfactory plans for fertilizer
distribution including participation of private
retailers for disbursement against farm inputs (para
3.17).
8.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US $162 million to the Federal Republic of
Nigeria.



-56                                     nnum I
IIRIII
Key Features of the Agricultural setor
Unit          1974-76 Ay.          1934
I   Peulatton a/
Total (grnwth rate)                    Millton          74.9 12.5)         93.6 (3.1)
Rural as I Total                           Z             1K1                78
Rural Fsailiem                            00oo          10.211             12.2lAs
2   ISeonomic noverview
OhtPI/Head of Total fopulatioa n                          521                767
ARrce. ClP/Head of Rural Population    3                  III                233
Agricultural CDIP aa I of Total            2               24                 30
3.  Land lIRe !/
Land Area c/                           sq. km.          910, ;'O           910,770
Forest                                  '000 ha          16.357             14.000
Perennial Crops                         '000 ha           2.497              2.535
Annual Crops                           'o0o he           27,50             27.900
Of Which:  Aria Irrigated  /         '000 ha                Is                32
4.  Outputs                             69-71 Av.   Ica
I.  Root Crops                                              104                 90
2.  Sorghum                                                  200                83
1.  mIllet                                                   Ill               107
4.  Groundnut (in shell)                                      23                32
Livestock
Cattle                                                   100                106
Sheep/goats                                              109                125
Poultry                                                  107                197
Pigs                                                     113                163
Cereal Production/Head of Total
Population                                                90                 Ho
Cereal/Head of Rural Population                              92                 83
S.  Inpute
ertrilizer                             '000 tons             124.              608
Pesticides                             '000 litars          i.r.               n.e.
Tractorm !t                               units           7.500              9.500
6.  Trade */
Total Exports                              s              9.312             11.314
O0 WhIch:
Agricultural Products                  2                   S                4
Of Whibh:
1.  Cocoa and Products               2                                   4
2.  Rubber                           2                   6               6
3.  Palm Produce (kernals. oil)   7                     14               10
Total Importa  S/                           a             5.670             13.437
Or Whict1:
Agricultural Products                                      A               13
1.  Cereals and 'reparation                             398             42
2.  Sugar and Honey                  2                  23              73
3.  Dairy Products and Eggs          2                  19               9
Agrfcultursl Inputs                    2                   2                6
7.  Government Expenditures b/
Total Recurrent Budget                    S a             :.040              R.562
O' which:  Agriculture                     '                   I               I
Total Capital Budget                      S a             5,332              3.0n;4
Of Which:  Agriculture                                         2              13
al  Data for 1983 only.
ir  Federal Covernnt only.
r/  Ramitlng land area  e under permanent pasture snd other land use.
Data Source:-  (t) FAO Production. Ferttlizer and Tr-de Yesrbooks; (11) Nigeria
Country Fconmic hemo (Dec. 1985); (t1i) Nigeria Agricultursl Pricing Poliey Peport
(Oct. 1984); (tv) Review of Public Ependitrure Program in Nigeria (Oct. 19B%l; Ivl
EPD Dbats Ramb and (vi) WAlA's Key Indicator Table of 1/8f.
WAPAB
anwuary 1986



NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary State Characteristics
Sub-total
Sub-total                                          South-ast &   GCAD
Anambra   lmo    Cross-River               South-East   Bendel   Ogun   benue   Plateau   fiddle-blt    TOTAL
Population (million)a/                      6.1      4.4        5.6                    16.1          4.2      2.6      3.3      3.1         13.2          Z9.3
Rural Population (miljion)                   4.9     2.9        4.9                     12.7          2.3      1.4     2.9      1.9          8.5          21.Z
Surface Area ('000 kmi)            2        17.3    12.8       28.6                    58.7          36.3    16.4    46.3    54.0          155.6         214.3
Rural Population Density (per km )        283      226        171                     216           63       85       62       35           55            98
No. Farm Families ('000)                   382     391        542                    1315           336     150      385      311         1182          2497
Average Family Size                          9.5      7.4       9.0                      9.7          7.0     6.8      7.5      6.0          6.6           8.5
Cultivated Area ('000 ha)                  399     390        415                    1204         500/600  150/200   n-a   945            1670 bI       2574 b/
Number of LGAs                              23      21          17                     61            19       10      13       17           59           120
Source: State ADP appraisal reports prepared by FACU.
a/ Estimate for 1982 based on 1963 census with growth rate at 2.5Z for rural and 51 for urban population.
b/ Excluding Benue.
WAPAB
September 1985



- 58 -
Annex 3-1
NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Basis for ARricultural Production Coefficients
A. Derivation of Reasponse Data for Impact of Fertilizer on Crops
1.        In assessing the possible impact of fertilizer on the major crops
in the project area two assumptions were made:
(a) that as most fertilizer is supplied as compounds, plants would be
receiving two or three major nutrients and that the impact of
nitrogen would not be inhibited by phosphate or potash deficien-
cy; and
(b) that the overwhelming majority of farmers use application rates
involving less than 60 kg. of N per ha. and are consequently in
that section of the response curve in which responses are almost
linear (i.e. the response to 40 kg N is double the response to 20
kg N).
2.        Three major sources of data were used to estimate crop responses:
(a) research data from IITA; (b) the FAO fertilizer trials from 1970-75;
and (c) the minikit demonstrations on farmers fields in the late 70's and
early 80's.
3.        IITA results were reviewed for rice, maize and cassava.  For rice
there were response rates of between 6.5 and 30 kg. of grain per kg. of
nutrient, with 6 to 12 kg being the most common. For maize the data
available shows response rates varying from S to 14 kg per kg nutrient.
The cassava data indicates that the crop was grown on fertile soils and
there are few records of any response to N but after two years of
cultivation there are responses to K of the order of 40 kg.
4..       FAO data is drawn from small experimental plots on farmers fields
and provide a wide range of responses from different zones, as follows:
Kg per kg nutrient
Yams                 19 - 63
Cassava              24 - 52
Maize                 4 - 18
Swamp rice            3 -  8
Sorghum               2 - 12
5.        The minikit trials were on plots somewhat larger than those used
for the FAO work and provided results considerably lower than the FAO
figures. The mission has sought advice from field staff and corraborated



- 59 -
that with the above information to produce the following factors (kg per kg
nutrient): Yams - 14 kg; Cassava - 20 kg; Maize - 6 kg; Rice - 6 kg;
Sorghum - 3 kg.
6.        Although APMEPU figures have gained a reputation for unreliabili-
ty their 'cleanest' data has been synthesised to provide estimztes of
fertilizer response, and these are only slightly lower than those being
used in this document.
B. The Performance of New Cassava Varieties
7.        The new cassava varieties bred at IITA in recent years have
demonstrated significant yield increases of 5 tons over existing material
in the sub-humid zone under research conditions, and 3 tons in the humid
zone. The mission has used 50% of this figure to reflect what is expected
under farmer conditions. At the same time, there is an ongoing and active
research program in operation in Nigeria and it is anticipated that new
varieties will be released over the next eight years which would offer
increases at the farm level of 3 tons per ha. in the sub-humid zone and 2
tons per ha in the humid zone. Experience with ongoing ADPs in the
sub-humid zone has demonstrated the popularity of the new material in that
area which would substantiate the assumptions being made in this appraisal
for comparable areas.
WAPAB
September 1985



- 60 -                                     Annex 3-2
NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Design Standards for Feeder Roads
1.        Most of the roads will be improved following the existing alignment.
The longiLudinal profile will not in general be modified except where nece-
ssary to improve drainage. Therefore no standards for horizontal and
vertical alignment will be imposed in the loan agreement.
2.        Cross section and pavement structure standards to be employed are:
Clearance width                   12 m
Width ditch d to                   9 m
Width granular surfacing           5 m or 6 m
Surfacing thickness              150 mm
(to be increased to 200 or 250 mm over soft subgrade soils)
3.        Drainage will be by lateral ditches, corrugated metal pipe culverts,
and gabion or concrete paved fords. Exceptionally box culverts or small
bridges may be necessary.
WAPAB
September 1985



- 61 -
Annex 4-1
NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEvELopNETr PROJECT
Prolect Coat-Estimate by Componennt and States
(hilre million)
hANABRA    BERDEL    BEOUE    CROSS RIVER    DC    00111    PLATEAU    TOTAL
1.  CROP MID FARM DEVELOPMEN
- Farm Inputs
Fertilizer                            9.1        3.2        8.4         1.7          9.2     1.8      26.1        59.5
Herbicide                             0.8        0.4        0.7         0.2          0.8     0.2       0.7         3.8
Tubewells                                                   0.2--                                      0.2        -0.4
Sub-total Farm Inputs                 9.9        3.6        9.3         1.9         10.0     2.0      27.0        63.7
- Cassava Multiplication&
Processing
Multiplication  Farm                  0.5        0.5        0.4         0.5          0.6     0.4       0.4         3.3
Farm Demonstration                    0.1        0.1        0.1         0.1          0.1     0.1       0.1         0.7
State Seed Service                    0.2        0.2        0.2         0.2          0.2     0.2       0.2         1.4
Processing                            o.i        0.1        0.1         0.1          0.1     0.1       0.1        -0.1
Sub-total Cassava Multi-
plication & Processing              0.9        0.9        0.8         0.9          1.0     0.8       0.8         6.1
- Seed Production
Fruit tree nurseries                   -         0.1        0.1          -          0.1      0.1       0.1        0.5
Potato Seed                            -          -          -           -            -       -        0.4         0.4
Rice Seed                             0.2         -         0.2          -          0.2       -        0.2        0.8
Sub-total Seed Production             0.2        0.1        0.3          -          0.3      0.1       0.7         1.7
-  Extension Services                    2.3        2.2        3.2         2.6          3.2      1.3      4.7       .19.5
Total Crop & Farm Development           13.3        6.8       13.6         5.4         14.5     4.2      33.2        91.0
2.  AGRICULTURAIL RESEARCH                    0.2        0.2       0.6         0.2          0.2      0.2      0.6         2.2
3.  COMMERCIAL SERVICEs                       2.2        1.4       1.1         0.6          1.0       -       2.9         9.2
4.  flOADS AUD3 uor.icni1o?'
-  Road Rehabilitation                   3.4        3.6        2.5         3.4          3.4      -        2.0        18.3
-  Road Maintenance                       1.4       1.4        2.2         2.2          1.4      -        2.2        10.8
-  Headquarters                          0.6        0.5        0.6         0.5          0.6      -        0.8         3.6
-  Mechanical Services                   1.2        1.3        1.1         1.2          1.5      -        1.0         7.3
-  Buildings                             0.1        0.2        0.1         0.3          0.2      -        0.1        -1.0
Total Roads £ Workshops                  6.7        7.0        6.5         7.6          7.1      -        6.1        41.0
5.  RURAL WATER                               2.6       2.6        2.6         2.4           -       2.0      3.4        15.6
6.  PROJECT MAINAGEMEN
-  Management & Administration           2.5        1.9        1.8         2.5          1.5      -        1.5        11.7
-  Finance                               0.5        0.4        0.5         0.4          0.4      -        0.4         2.5
-  Manpower & Training                   0.7        0.6        0.7         0.6          0.6      -        0.7         3.9
-  Planning & MWE                         1.0       1.0        1.0         0.9          0.9      -        0.9        -5.7
Total Project Management                 4.7        3.9        3.9         4.4          3.4      -        3.5        23.8
TOTAL BASE COSTS                             29_.7       1        28.3 ii:6                26.3      K7j   ~-y9         182
Physical Contingencies                        1.5        1.1        1.8        1.1          1.7      0.3      3.8        11.3
Price Contingencies                           7.5       6.1        7.6         5.9          6.3      1.6      10.5       45.3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                          38.7       29.1      37.7        27.6         34.2      8.3     64.0       239.6
WAPAB
September 1985



NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPVMWT PROJECT
Prolect Cost Estimate (by States)
(N million)
2 of
Category                                 Anambra    Bendel    Benue    Cross River    Ima   Oun    Plateau    Central Fund    Total             Base Cost
Building                                    1.3       0.8        0.8          0.7         0.5     0.1       1.0           0.1           5.3        2.7
Civil Works                                 2.2       2.2        2.2          2.2          -       1.7      2.8           0.3          13.6        6.9
Plant and Equipment                         5.7       5.0        4.6          4.8         5.0     0.6       4.6           2.2          32.5       16.8
Vehicles                                    3.2       3.3        3.7          3.6         3.8     1.2       5.3           0.7          24.8        12.7
Farm Inputs                                10.4       3.7        9.4          2.0        10.3     2.1      27.3            -           65.2       33.4
Salaries                                    3.1       3.5        3.6          3.0         2.9     0.3       4.7           0.9          22.0       11.2
General Services                            3.8       3.5        4.0          4.3         3.7     0.4       3.9           1.3          24.9        12.8
0.
Overseas Training and Studies                         -                      -                                            6.7           6.7         3.5           M
Total Baseline Cost                     29.7       22.0       28.3         20.6        26.2     6.4      49.6          12.2         195.0      100.0
Physical Contingencies                      1.5       1.1        1.8          1.1         1.7     0.3       3.8           0.6          11.9        6.1
Price Contingencies                         7.5       6.0        7.6          5.9         6.3     1.6      10.6           4.0          49.5       25.4
Total Project Cost                      38.7       29.1       37.7         27.6       34.2      8.3      64.0          16.8         256.4      131.5
WAPAB
September 1985



- 63 -                              Annex 4-3
NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Program Cost Financing Plan
(N million)
Total    IBRD    IFAD    FMGN       SG       Farmers
Project Cost                256.4    162.0   12.0    49.5       32.9
Existing Staff               84.8     -         -      0.6     84.2         -
Fertilizer:
Non-Incremental             369.1     -         -      4.8       2.1     362.2
Subsidy on Iucremental       16.0     -         -     11.2      4.8         -
Total                     726.3    162.0   12.0    66.1    124.0       362.2
Percentage                100.0     22.3    1.6      9.1     17.1       49.9
WAPAB
September 1985



- 64 -                                                Annex 4-4
NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE ACRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(USS million)
IBRL Fiscal Year                                   Cumulative      Cumulative Disbursement        Cum iLative Z of Agricultural
and Quarter                      Disbursement   Uisbursement          as I of Total Loan            Disbursement Profile a/
FY87  lot Quarter                     4.3            4.3                     3
2nd    of                      10.6           14.9                     9                               0
3rd    "                        4.4           19.3                    12
4th    "                       10.3           29.6                    18                                1
FY88  1st    "                       12.0           41.6                    29
2nd    "                       11.4           53.0                   32                                5
3rd    "                       10.6           63.6                   39
4th                            12.4           76.0                   47                               12
FY89  let    "                       11.2           87.2                    53
2nd    "                       12.0           99.2                   61                               20
3rd    "                        6.2          105.4                   65
4th    "                        5.2          110.6                   68                               29
FY90  sot                             6.9          117.5                    73
2nd    "                        6.9          124.4                    77                              39
3rd    "                        4.3          128.7                    79
4th                             4.5          133.2                    82                              50
FY91  1st    "                        5.8          139.0                    86
2nd                             5.8          144.8                   89                               60
3rd    "                        4.5          149.3                   92
4th    "                        4.7          154.0                    95                              70
FY92  1st                             2.0          1:6.0                    96
2nd    "                        2.0          158.0                   98                               78
3rd    "                        2.0          160.0                   99
4th                             2.0          162.0                   100                              86
ryn   1st
4th    "                                                                                              95
FY94  1st
2nd                                                                                                   99
3rd
4th                                                                                                  100
a/  Based on Disbursement Profile for Nigeria - Agriculture. Area Development.
9/11/85.
WAPAB
November 1985



NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Scbedule by Categories & States
(US$ million)
Total
Statevide    Central
IDRD                                               Anambra    Bendai    Benue    Cross River    Ioo    Ogun    Plateau               ADPm           Fund       Total
Civil Worka                                          3.3         2.9        3.0           2.8         0.4    0.1          3.8         16.3           0.4        18.1
Plant, Vehicles, Equipment & Spareparts              7.7         6.9        7.1           7.1         7.6    1.2          8.6         46.2           2.4       48.9
Training, Consultants & Studies                      0.2         0.2        0.5           0.1          0.1    0.2         0.5           1.8          4.8        6.6
Farm Inputs                                          8.9         3.2        8.3           1.8         9.3    1.8        23.9          57.2            -        57.2
Operation Costs                                      2.3         2.2        2.5           2.3         2.0    0.2          2.8         14.3           0.7       15.0
Unallocated                                                                                                                -             -          16.2       16.2
Total                                            22.4        15.4       21.4          14.1        19.4    5.2        39.6         137.5          24.5      162.0
IFAD
Cassava Multiplication                               0.7         0.7        0.7           0.7         0.8    0.6          0.7          4.9           2.8        7.7          e
Adaptive Research                                     0.2        0.2        0.4           0.2          0.2    0.2         0.4           1.8           -          1.8
Cassava Processing                                                                  -                   -       -          -             -           1.3         1.3
Unallocated                                           -           -                                                                                        1      .2
Total                                             0.9        0.9         1.1          0.9          1.0    0.8         1.1           6.7           5.3       12.0
WAPAB                                                                                                                                                                       x
Septenber 1985



NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPENT PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT CHART
uS                                  ,            ;          ""' 
«Wj  /              ,,2""""                         e   ffi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
B  /             ,,.@"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a,  /       ,.w"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/   ,,."~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Z -    /  ,.#~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/              .aC.N ISlN
8- /   ,.             w-e-- DISBU"EHWT PROFILE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
eL ;; ;                                            l   1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2F 874  F2   4   Y   4   2   4   2   4   FY92 4   sFY934   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
WAPAB November 1985~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Hf                                                                                                                                     E
ii      5                                                                S
I.                                                                          S                                            -
7                                                                S
I!!                                                                         S
9                                                         5                                           Ii
S                                            a
-                                                                S
ill              I              m                                           S*                                                         I
-                                                               S
11                                                             '---V
SS                                         =
4                                                                                                           hi
g.                              S                                           -                        C
-                        S                                                                    I.-
*
I      *
S                                                         I
S                                                         I
I        I       *                                          14             I
S                                          14                        5
I                                                                          I
Lii:                                                                 I
S                                                     ri-i
S
I               S
S                                                     iii!;
i                S                                                         I
I                                                                          I
I               SS                                                        I-.
I               S
*               S                                                          I
7                          -            I                I
I               S
5  -    I EIH



NIGERIA
MULTISTATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MufliplIcation of Improved Cassava Plonting Material
Organogram - Link between National Seed Seivce (NSS) and Stote ADP
NSS                                                                                            Ste
(D trtct)                                                                                         AP
_______)    -~To reoeach stats ns 
I crmo Prorm       I                                                         Tei 1 .c          on    .                     .oci
Of6cet i/c      Je I                                                                 Sosr 1m                        1 on
QuolFly           rAultoiplcticn        Cnmcil           -. --    .  - - . --     Seed Seirvce     -. -  -R .s..              ElCho
Control        ~~Frms                Section
B                                                                  I
l~~~~ --                             I                                                                                                                    w   
i RJolny ~I  tni   I  II I
L…- -                              Stat                QuoSr              CcE._..iwT
Executive Con _nond  A____nb0ee F m                          Cn        |edion
I~~ _
I                                                             I-
Legend                                                                                                                        'Ii
-   --- -&D m vd fo rwntity  VaitV d P ontng Matera              I
Sale & Reioseo    anting Matena|
Wo1 Bw*-272D9



NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementoatn Schedule
YEAR   1964            195                 1936                1017                1196                19W9 
MONTI   AX DfEC   JAMIJU4    J ULDEC   JAN AM     ULDIEC  JAN AI   AL DEC    MIM         AL EC   JAN AN    ADfC   PA LW   JA,
I LOAN PROCESSING RJNO
Efectrv
- UOmg                                            00 ooo oo  ooo  on0    _    _    _   _   _    _    _   _   _
FMGNi,SIArE S
- k&u0cWa civ.Ont Adgre4t'Int                                   smug mm
2 ADP START-UP
- TrOtk COksr.t SNQ1                                                        I1
- State Qo=d Pk_                                                                                                                       _
- FACU PIT
.. APNm                                            m     -    - -
3 IMPLEMENTATION STATE AO_I_
srL6fEs~~m -                                                -a -M         - -c  m l       mB   m 55      m = =_  =-             _- =   _
4 CENTRAL COMPONENTS
APPk  -Set uc,
recr AIstarcme                                                         m  i _ _                                 m _ _ _
set .,0 CC4scp ~.t't 
fony-~ftatcnm m                                                             m    m m       m    m                                               
C ortroct NrKcm                                             m
e    vaiefa E   r                                                   m I       m    m1   m _    _   _  1   1                     _       1      _    _
B.o Contro                                                                                  m    m m       m    m m                              
5lIS -V  i  t9                                                   ii  mm   m m                  m    m    m         m    m m          
Na'ef iKicvv                                                mm  m
%egktK1.y' ptc        Stud  IxW FACU
m   's,lerrvr+tci    | ryor tA study tr- 4rwrct Si/&5 attmem 8S 9 



NIGERlA
MULfI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOFMENT PROJECT
National Seed Service - Cash Flow (1985 Constant Term)
Year I         Year 2         Year 3         Tear 4         Tear 5 onwards
-- '000 -- --3
1. INFLOW
Sales of planting material!'           -             35.0          75.0           180.0            180.0
Sales of roots b/                      -              5.0          37.5            90.0             90.0
TOTAL INFLOW                        -             40.0         112.5           270.0            270.0
2   OUTFLOW
A. Multiplication Farms
Capital c/                    229.2         289.0          163.0            14.0            69.5
Recurrent
- incremental                45.0          100.4         130.9           127.3           127.3
- non-incremental            19.9          49.6           66.9            66.9            66.9
'S
Sub-total Multiplication Farms   294.1           439.0         360.8           208.2           263.7 7
B. Management Overheads
Capital c/                    112.9           13.7           -              -                12.7
Recurrent
- technical assistance       59.7         103.9           51.9             7.7             -
- other incremental          52.3         113.1          113.2           113.2           113.2
- non-incremental            25.9          54.6           54.6            54.6            54.6
Sub-total Management Overheads   250.8           285.3         219.7           175.5            167.8
TOTAL OUTFLOW                     544.9          724.3         580.5           383.7            431.5
3. NET CASH FLOW Surplus (deficit)
- total                             (544.9)        (684.3)       (468.0)         (113.7)          (161.5)
- excluding management overheads   (294.1)         (399.0)       (248.3)           61.8              6.3
a/ 400 bundles per ha * 37.50 per bundle. Area increasing from 25 ha in Tear 2 to
60 ha thereafter. Sales lagged one year. Year 2 sales from existing area.
b/  Roots at 15 tons/ha and 3100/ton.
c/ From Year 5 capital entered at 10! total investment.
WAPAB
September 1985



- 71 -
Annex 5-5
NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training Program
A.   Work Program for Statewide ADPS
1.   The combined MANR/ADP training staff in each state under the
leadership of ARMTI/FACU would:
Action                              Timing
(a)  undertake a PRTC design exercise               To be completed
for the ADP                                    within three months
of ADP effectiveness
(b) Participate in training of trainers courses
, initial course                         - MANR/ADP training
staff to undergo
initial course with-
in six months of ADP
effectiveness
, follow-up courses                      - requirements and
timing to be decided
following evaluation
initial course
(c)  Draw up routine and special in-service         To be completed
training programs for ADP staff                within six months of
ADP effectiveness
(d)  Carry out training programs agreed             At least one program
under (c) (NSS staff would assist with         for each of major
training State Seed Service) personnel         disciplines (manage-
ment, agriculture,
infrastructure) to
be carried out with-
in each twelve
months of the proj-
ect period.
(e)  Develop suitable audio and visual              Initial material to
materials for training and field               be developed and fed
extension support                              into courses over
first twelve months.
Material to be up-



- 72 -
dated regularly
(f)  Design and test training evaluation           Within two year. of
instrument.                                   project effective-
nefs
(g)  Produce a detailed staff personnel record    Within two years of
for the ADP                                   project effective-
ness
(h)  Analyze training costs                        Annually
2.   ADP infrastructure staff would, with the guidance of FACUI
implement an on-the-job training program for Local Government Council staff
concerned with road rehabilitation/maintenance and water supply components.
Rural Infrastructure Coordinators with the ADP Chief Engineer would:
Action                                   Timing
(a)  Survey LGC capacity and identify training    Within twelve months
needs and extent to which these can be        of project effec-
met by on-the-job experience and special      tiveness
courses
(b)  Implement program designed at (a)             Annually from PY2
(c)  Evaluate training program and capacity        End of PY3
LGC staff
B.   Work Pro3ram for Federal Institutions supported under ADF Project
3.   Training assistance for the National Seed Service (NSS), the main
Federal institution to be supported under the MSADP, would be provided as
follows below. NSS would itself provide training for the State Seed
Services to be strengthened under each statewide ADP.
4.   In-Service Training Progra.  Each head of section would be
responsible for the in-service Lraining of section staff. Training
facilities are available at Ibadan, at Ubiaja and Ugwuoba:
(a) NSS Ibadan. In service conferences would be organized in the
existing adequate facilities at NSS headquarters. In particular,
senior management orientation conferences would be held during
which the alms and objectives of the program would be reviewed
and the roles and inter-relationships of the several centers of
operations and the sections within those centers clarified. The
initial conference would be followed up each six months when
progress and new developments would be reviewed.
(b) TTS Ubiala and Ugwuoba. The Technology Transfer Statians at
Ubiaja and Ugwuoba which would be brought into fully operational



- 73 -
condition, would be used for training courses/conferences to be
organized by regional Cassava Program staff with support from
headquarters. Conferences would mainly concern the interchange
of information, programs and results between the regional office
cassava program staff and senior officers of the State Seeds
Service and the State Extension Services of their regions.
(c) Training courses intended mainly for State employed staff would
concern particular work aspects of the program mainly at the
interface between NSS and State. They are not intended to
replace within State training. They would include:
-    Quality control which in addition to providing annual
refresher programs for quality control personnel would
include familiarization with new varieties.
-    Farm management courses intended to update knowledge on
management techniques for cassava planting material and
introduce new developments. These courses would include an
element on accountancy methods and procedures and farm
records.
-    Commercial courses intended mainly to assist the NSS and
State programs to overcome bottlenecks in the timely supply
of requested planting material.
5.   Overseas Training.  While no formal education would be financed study
tours and periods of practical training and orientation would be provided
as follows:
(a) The development of effective quality control ctandards for
cassava planting material is probably without precedent, and
would benefit from experience of the standards applied to crops
such as potatoes, strawberries or raspberries and bulbs.
Allowance is made for 6 periods and 3 months of overseas
orientation and training.
(b) A further 10 periods each of 2 months of farm management study
would be made available to allow incumbent managers from the
participating states to gain experience elsewhere on the
production of vegetative material.
6.   Training arrangements would be made by NSS but a provision of the
funding would be that 2/3 of all training would be made available to state
staff with every interested state participating.



- 74 -
Annex 5-6
NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Criteria for Evaluating State Feeder Road Programs
A.   Prescreening
1.        Poor road condition will be the main criteria for selecting
candidate roads. There is need therefore to develop survey, assessment and
scoring procedures for road condition, in order to decide which roads
require rehabilitation, which require recurrent maintenance. In order to
involve LGCs in the Road Program from the start, LGCs will be invited to
submit their list of candidate roads. Prioritizing of roads by LGCs will
assist projects in developing subsequent work program which will have the
support of local communities and authorities, particularly where community
assistance with the work is envisaged. Prescreening will be carried out
based on the following socio-economic and engineering criteria which were
used in conjunction with local participation on the Bida and Sokoto ADPs to
develop their candidate roads and five year work programs:
(a) Network:
-- density: no reconditioned road to be within 5 kms of a
parallel reconditioned road;
-= a reconditioned road must connect to an all weather
road.
(b) Access:
-- high potential agricultural areas: hectares of land
suitability classes (51, 52 and 53, not suitable);
--   population:  population density; number of farm fami-
lies/km of road;
-   social infrastructure:  clinics, schools, markets;
-    agro-industries:  mills, parboiling plants, gari
plants;
(c) Engineering:
-    earth moving quantities: cu. meters/km.
-    laterite surfacing quantities:  cu. meters/km.



- 75 -
reshaping requirements:  meters/km.
resurfacing requirements:  meters/km.
--   grading requirements:  meters/km.
--   culvert requirements:  units/km.
--   earth tovements:  haul distances (average).
The engineering criteria can be reduced to cost values for comparative
purposes.
B.   Economic Evaluation
2.        Roads selected by the above mentioned prescreening criteria will
then be subjected to economic evaluation to determine the actual program of
works. FACU has produced as part of the PADP appraisal exercise a computer
program using an expanded Visicalc spread sheet for operation on a
micro-computer to generate the incremental crop benefits, incremental crop
production, and incremental fertilizer used. The model requires data on
the crop mix, crop areas, existing crop yields, and estimates of farm
adoption rates. It uses fertilizer nutrient content and incremental crop
coefficients to generate incremental yields. Utilizing the data collected
in the initial survey phase it is relatively simple to generate the produc-
er surplus within any area of influence.
Benefits
3.        Two groups of benefits will be estimated:  those related to
increased agricultural production, and those related to traffic which is
contributing to increased agricultural production. For the first group,
estimates of increased producer surplus, farm benefits (i.e. the increase
in the net value of agricultural production), will be generated using the
FACU farm model program. Because of the relatively low elasticities of the
two main crops, yam and cassava, it has been decided to assume: (a) there
will be no change in home consumption, and therefore, (b) all incremental
production will be exported from that area.
4.        Vehicle operating cost savings will be calculated for traffic
which is not related to the increased agricultural production. Consultants
have been engaged to estimate vehicle operating costs with and without the
various types of road improvements envisaged under the project.
Costs
5.        Four cost streams will be calculated:
Road costs:  reconditioning costs PYI, + Annual Routine
Maintenance costs PY2 - PY20 except PY7 and PY14 when



- 76 -
Periodic Maintenance costs vill be used at 50% of recondi-
tioning costs.
--   Extension service costs:  pro-rata of total extension costs
by proportion of extension agents in zone of influence to
total number of agents.
--   Commercial services costs:  pro-rata of total Commercial
Service cost by proportion of incremental fertilizer tonnage
into zone of influence as a proportion of the total incre-
mental fertilizer tonnage.
-- Other project costs: remaining project costs will be
calculated by the proportion of total population in the zone
of influence to the total rural population.
Analysis and Ranking
6.        All assumptions and parameters used in the project economic costs
benefit analysis methodology will be used in the road appraisal calcula-
tions (Working Paper C.13). The cost and benefit streams will be netted
over 20 years. No residual value of road or equi'-ment is assumed.
7.        For each road the economic rate of return and the net present
worth (at 12% discount rate) will be calculated. Roads will be ranked
according to their NPV.
WAPAB
September 1985



NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Production
Cassava               Rice           Maize                                   Green
State            Yams           Yr. 5         Yr. 15        (Paddy)         Grain       Sorghum      Potatoes       Maize
-------------------------------------'000 tons…----------------------------------------    lllion cobs
Anambra              13.0             28.0          60.2          2.8              -                         -           1.5
Bendel                7.5             9.7          75.0           0.5              -           -             -           1.3
Benue                14.3             6.3          58.3           4.0            3.5          0.7            -            -
Cross River           3.3             7.4          81.0           0.3              -           -             -           0.3
Imo                  12.4            31.8          83.5           2.9                          -             -           3.4
Ogun                  4.3             3.6          27.1            -             0.5           -             -           2.8
Plateau              23.3            13.4          52.2           7.6           11.1          2.2           3.4           -
Sub-total            78.1            99.2         437.3          18.1           15.1          2.9           3.4          9.3
Non-PADP State- /      -              4.5         176.6                                 -                                -
TOTAL             78.1           103.7         613.9          18.1           15.1          2.9           3.4
a/ Kwaru, Lagos, Ondo, Oyo, Rivers.
WAPAB
September 1985



- 78 -                          Annex 6-2
NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farmgdte
Financial and Economic  Prices for Commodities
(Constant 1985 N/ton)
Financial                       Economic4
1984/85       199OS'        1986       1990        1995
South Easte/
Yam (tubers)              546          388           235         235        235
Cassava
- gari                 625                        269        269         269
- roots                125           90            54         54          54
Green Maize               0.15         0.10          0.06        0.06       0.06
Rice (paddy)              800          472           152         207        201
Middle Belt&/
Yam (tubers)              431           306          185         185        185
Cassava
- gari                 986                        424        424         424
- roots                197           140           85          85         85
Maize Grain               600          490           239         233        233
Rice (paddy)              800          510           172         227        221
Sorghum                   500          477           238        239         238
a/ For details see Working Paper C.13.
b/ Estimates from miLssion field work based on 1983 prices.
c/  Used in Annex 6-4.  Assumes import parity for cereals plus tariff
of 130%. Prices for yams, cassava and green maize assumes
percentage fall equivalent to that for maize and rice (71X).
d/ Prices used in economic analysis of state ADPs.
e/ For Anambra.
f/ Prices per cob.
1/ For Plateau.
WAPAB
September 1985



NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Price for Fertilizer
(Constant 1985 N/ton)
Type (N.P.K.):               -----------15-15-15 --------               -----------12-12-17-2-------
1986        1990        1995               1986         1990            1995
Cost per nutrient ton a/                 141         160          1b4               130          147              150
Cost of bags                              15          15           15                15           15               15
FOB b/                                   156         T75          179               145          16               165
Freight and Insurance                     45          45           45                45           45               45
CIF, Nigerian Port (US$)                 201         220          224               190          207             210
CIF, Nigerian Port (N) cl                201         220          224               190          207             210
Port Handling and Clearance d/            16          16           16                '6           16               16
Transport to State                        60          60           60                60           60               60
In State Transportation and
Handling                                35          35           35                35           35               35
Total Distribution Cost                   95          95           95                95           95               95
Total Distribution Cost (Economic) e/  51             51           51                51           51               51
Economic Price f/                        268         287          291               257          274             277
a/  See Working Paper C.13 (Annex 1) for calculation.
b/  Cost per nutrient ton + cost of bags.
c/ Hi - us $1.0.
d N30 X 0.45 (SCF).
e/  Total distribution cost X C.54 (TCF).
f/  Price (CIF) + Port Hand]lng and Clearance + Total Distribution Cost (Economic).
1qAPAB
September 1985



- 80 -                                                   Annx 6-4
Page 1
NIGERIA
MULlI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Returns to Fertilizer at Farmets !/
Physical                        FINANC A                        ECONOMICS'
Rates         19P4 /85              1986        1990              1990
---------------------- -- --------
(Constant 1985 tens)
1. YAMS
Incremental Returns
Yield per kg useful nutrient (un)         14:1              7.75                7.75         5.50            2.36
Incremental Costs
Fertilizer-lkg useful nutrient            2un:352,          0.43                0.60         1.02            0.69
38Z,40Z
Labor-ain. per kg                         38                0.54                0.54         0.45            0.20
Sub-total costs                                             0.97                 1.14        1.47            0.89
Net Return                                                  6.7£                6.61         4.03            1.47
Benefit:  Cost Ratio-/                                      8.0:1               6.8:1        3.7:1           2.7:1
el                                    18.0:1              12.9:1        5.4:1           3.4:1
2. CASSAVA
Incremental Returns
Yield per kg useful nutrient (un)         20:1              2.54                2.54         1.80            0.77
Incremental Costs
Fertilizer-lkg useful nutrient            Zun:35Z.          0.43                0.60         1.02            0.69
38Z.402
Labor-mins. per kg                        10                0.14                0.14         0.12            0.05
Sub-total costs                                             0.57                0.74         1.14            0.74
Net Return                                                  1.97                1.80         0.66            0.03
Benefit:  Cost Ratio-                                       4.5:1               3.4:1        1.6-1           1.0:1
_/                                     5.9:1               4.2:1        1.B:1           1.1:1
3. MAIZE GRAIN
Increoental Returns
Yield per kg useful nutrient (un)         6:1               3.60                3.60         2.94            1.39
Incremental Costs
Fertilizer-Ikg useful nutrient            Zun:30Z.          0.52                0.71         1.16            0.82
33Z.35Z
Labor-mins. per kg                        37                0.53                0.53         0.44            0.19
Sub-toral costs                                             1.05                1.24         1.60            1.01
Net Return                                                  2.55                2.36         1.34            0.39
d/
Benefit:  Cost Ratio-i                                      3.4:1               2.9:1        1.8:1           1.4:1
e/                                     6.9:1               5.1:1        2.5:1           1.7:1
4. RICE (Paddy)
Incremental Returns
Yield per kg useful nutrient (un)         6:1               4.80                4.80         2.93            1.36
Incremental Costs
Fertilizer-lkg useful nutrient            Zun:25%,          0.63                0.71         1.02            0.72
33Z.40Z
Labor-mins. per kg                        65                0.93                0.93         0.77            0.34
Sub-total costs                                             1.56                1.64         1.79            1.06
Net Return                                                  3.24                3.16         1.14            0.30
Benefit:  Cost Ratio-/                                      3.1:1               2.9:1        1.6:1           1.3:1
e/                                     7.6:1               6.8:1        2.9:1           1.9:1



Annex 6-4
Pea 2
S. GREEN MAIZE
Incremental Returns
Yield per kg useful nutrient (un)           13:1 fl           1.95                 1.95         1.30            0.5
Incramental Costs
Fsrtiliaer-Ikg unsful nutrient             Zun:38Z.           0.41                 0.59         0.99            0.70
402,41S
Labor-sins. per kg                          10                0.14                 0.14         0.12            0.05
Sub-total costs                                               0.55                 0.73         1.11            0.75
Not Return                                                    1.40                 1.22         0.19           (0.20
Benefit:  Cost Ratiod/                                        3.5:1                2.7:1        1.2:1           0.7:1
4.8:1                3.3:1        1.3:1           0.8:1
6.  SORCHUM
Incremental Returns
Yield per kg useful nutrient (un)          3..                1.50                 1.50         1.49            0.71
Incremental Costs
Fertilizer-lkg useful nutrient             Zun:30Z.           0.52                 0.71         1.16            0.82
332.352
Labor-mlns. per kg                         27                 0.38                 0.38         0.32            0.14
Sub-total costs                                               0.90                 1.09         1.48            0.96
Net Return                                                    0.60                 0.41         0.01            (.5
Benefit:  Cost Ratio-/                                        1.7:1                1.4:1        1.0:1           0.7:1
eI                                      2.9:1                2.1:1        1.3:1           0.9:1
a/ 1985 terms.
b/  Financial returns for 1984/85 and 1986 based on 1983 weighted average output prices over seven states at Yams
3554/ton, Cassava 3127/ton, maize M600/ton. Rice (paddy) 3800/ton, Green Maize NO.15/cob and Sorghum 3500/ton.
Fertilizer subsidized to 502 in 1984/85 and 25Z in 1986.
For 1990 output prices based on cereal import prices plus 130Z tariff - maize (N490/ton). Rice (W489/ton).
Sorghum (N499/ton); Yams (3393/ton). Cassava (390/ton). and Green Maize (NO.10/cob) price derived from
percentage fall in cereal prices upplied to 1983 prices. Fertilizer at full financial cost plus
surcharge (about 302) to reduce economic subsidy to 352.
Real wages expected to fall from 36 to 35 per day between 1986 and 1990.
c/ Economic prices assume consumption conversion factor for yams, cassava and green maize at 0.43. other prices
at import parity and SCF (0.45) applied to labor costs.
d/  Incremental Returns:  Incremental Costs of fertilizer and farm labor.
e/ Incremental Returns: Incremental Cost of Fertilizer.
f/ Measured in cobs.
WAPAB
September 1985



- 82 -                               Annex i-S
NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Return to Improved Cs.aavn Planting Material
Densely Cultivated         Land Free Zones
Incremental Production        Zones (South Eact)            (Middle Belt)
Year 1                   Years 1-4    Yearl              Years 1-4
________________-____--   N  Per ha ------ …---------------
5/    ~ Mgb/                                        Cf
Cassava roots-/   1.5 tonscN90 /   135.00        428    2.5 ton,ON140 *4 350.00   1109
Incremental Costs
Planting material
at 40 bundles
per ha.            40 e N2         -80.00-     73                       80.00-o   73
Farm labor           4 hra @ NO.85  - 3.40        11                         5.10     16
83.40      84                        85.10      89
Incremental Gross Margin              51  6- T;T                          74 su    TZLV
Benefit Cost Ratio                               5.1:1                          12.5:1
Note:  Figures for Years 1-4 show discounted values over four years on assumption
planting material replaced every four years.
a/  Return of 38 kg per bundle in densely populated areas of low soil fertility
and 62 kg per bundle in areas where long bush fallow still possible.
b/  Farugate prices average for Southern states.
c/ Farmgate price average for middle belt states.
d/ First year only.
e/ At 3 minutes per 20 kg. for harvesting incremental production in form of
larger tubers. Labor averaging N6 per day.
B. Return to Herbicide Use on Rice
Incremental Production and Costs Saved
N per ha.
Production - 120 kg/ha e NO.80                       96
Labor saved 30 man days e N6           -            180
276
Less: Additional Costs
Herbicide @ N75/ha a/            -             78
Net increase in gross margin   -              198
Benefit:  Cost Ratio (net)       -            2.5:1
a/  Includes chemicals at 160/ha and amortization of sprayer (1 sprayer at
1100 per 2.5 ha amortized over 3 years at 15%).
WAPAB
September 1985



NIGERIA
HULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implications for Individual Farmer Purchasing 300 kg. of Fertilizer in HuSid, Sub Staid and Guina Zones
Projection for 1990 (in 1985 constant terms)
Humid                                  Sub-Humid                              Guinea
Cassava          Yams         Rice          Cassava        Yams          lice           Yams            Maize
Amount of fertilizer used kg.                        180             90          30              120          150           30             120             IS0
Useful nutrients kg. a/                               72             36          12               48           60           12              48              63
Incremental production kg. b/                      1,440           504           72             960           840           72            672              378
Incremental value N c/                               144           202           36              96           336           36            269              189
Incremental labor required (person
hours) d/                                          10            19           13               7            33           13             19               23            X
Cost of labor and fertilizer N e/                     79             49          21               53           83           Zi              61              92
Gross martin N                                        65            153          15              43           253           15             208              97
a/ The useful nutrients assumed to be availble from appropriate fertilizers are:
Yams 40, Cassava 40, Rice 40, Haize 35, per 100 kg. of fertilizer.
b/ Incremental production per kg. of useful nutrient is assumed to be (in kg.)
Yams 14, Cassava 20, Rice 6, Maize 6.
c/ Crop prices have been calculated at (N/kg)
Yams .4, Cassava .1, Rice (paddy) .5, Maize .5.
d/ Incremental labor per kg. of useful nutrient applied has been computed as (in minutes)
Yams 38, Cassava 10, Rice 65, Maize 37.
e/ Labor costed at N.71 per hour and fertilizer at N20 per 50 kg.
WAPAB
September 1985



NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Average Annual Cost for State and Federal Government During Project Implementation Period
(ii '000)
Cross                                               Central
Anambra        Bendel       Benue        River         I o         Og         Plateau       FYd            Total
A.  State.
1.  Project Contribution                1.318         1,136         1,348        1,115       1,186         165         1.966                       8.234
2.  Existing Staff                      2,536         2,204         3,515        2,541       4,983       1,057         3,421                     20.257
3.  Fertilizer Subsidy
(a) incremental                       2Z4            8U          212           47          228          44          692                       1,527
(b) non-incremental                   328           107          310           69          288          54        1,028                       2,184
Sub-total                             552           187           522         116          516          98         1,720                      3,711
4.  Total Program Cost                  4,406         3,527         5,385        3,772       6,685       1,320         7,107                     32,202
5.  Incremental Project Cost            1,542         1,216         1,560       1,1b2        1,414         209         2.65R                      9.761
(I + 3a)
B.  Federal Government
1.  Project Contribution                1,786         1,540         1,827       1,512        1,608         235         2.667          1,20W      12,375    c
2.  Existing Staff Cost                  -             -             -           -            -                          -              155         155
3.  Fertilizer Subsidy
(a) incremental                       523           186          494          110          533         103        1,614            -          3.563
(b) non-incremental                   764          249           722          160          672         127        LO39"                       5.093
Sub-total                          1,287           435         1,216         270        1,205         230        4,013            -          8,656
4.  Total Program Cost                  3,073         1,975         3.043        1,782       2,813         465         6,680          1,355      21t186
5.  Incremental Project Cost            2,309         1,726         2,321       1,622        2,141         338         4.281          1,200      15,93J
(1 + 3a)
WAPAB
November 1985



RAT! -STATE AORIClLfltM [ELILOPMET, P*IC?
AIMAhh E:wecuic RATE WF 1ETU51
:9k  In'    1788    :729    3990l`?    277  19921   3993    1994    195       96    1I",        S       r       0C       G Iu             34    2cc4    29u
WAIENt'(TA  M.  E LI2c   a,                  50. 32  947.9go :w.*  16.3  i6024.9 1592.59 1592.59 1597.59 3154.43 1514.41 1514.43 1354.43 2304.4  134.01443 156-3154.43 194.4C  ULW43 334.0
IFMaIED USE EXIST, FERT.  t.            -         -309.15 1la4.05 1937.77                            -        -       -        -       -        -                -        -       -        -       -
CASSAA MLTIF1.ICATIIm           -        -    4.72   fl~~~~~~~1.40   96.s  27.14  38* &19.90  836.36 3171.95 1299.9  1692.4  1769.97 179.12 In,'S.12 IM.12 I1.12 171512 171. 12
*"'   :C'~'0;:37.1 J 0.'                                         74 3742-.al 1579. 671 2qv. 73 :991.4r 221l:.49 2420.77? 2706.3C Y4.4   3M7.21 13354.40 WVI-I337. 3379-5    " %3379.  WP.35 3379.
EXIENCION                          AXIC   25.)~~~~~~~~~~ £~~.4O  2~~195.85  174.65  19'.80  27¾20   103.65L  303.75  274.35  174.55  162.75  1sI.5   111.75  161. 5  1*3.75  141.7,5  1   1.5
CASSAVA MILTra.4m. Jn4,                                       1 *  50.40   vi:     "C4  75.64   SZ.'0 1c. ?. 50   9a. 5C   38.35   55.00)  217.1)   95.10   53.00  lOXI1S   79.29  53.38   Z7.13   47.79V
FROAC1 RANAElEOT                                          3   .  2.3   4 1.3SC  200.34  240.65  21.30  ?11.60  200.-30  200.32  :40.65  :0-.0   31.30M-    24.3   311.60 40 4*.A  29 1  36.3   268.3  266.30
ROADS 3 U0RNSICP~~~~~                8z. '~~ 3D.7    1:3~I.18  122.40  12 r.i   418.03  173.16    LI 1.18  32.40  I23.1   1 33.1   123.13I  413.9   232.42  123.11  123.11    12315  1.23
COMERCIAL SEWVICE                               I~..           'IC   12 1. 9   Y'7..M   I'.90  1611.43)  132.90  I31.51D r1.i.0  231.90  131.90)  131.90  2111.4)  Tit."  13,3.9;  ma11.c. 121.9   13.1.9i.
t(A1NmNK  I 94                     56.~ .1%                                                          -        -                        -        -        .--                                       -       -
nn:~~~~NRcr1 ~~~~4 7.5.                                 1~~.. '  4.0    17b97             .Z0   14.05   27. 9      80.70    4 .0   14.05   12.KC    3.71    4.30   Itt    22.9  9 .A           6.31
P Ast                     ~~~~~60.210    o0. 30.
'OTAL COSr                        4279.10  l07,'0O C'52.0 1q0-C5   v. -    3o2S.5  725.53, 1143.13  746.13  e7&.47 1015.45  699.53  a791.38    l 0733    1114.43U  .17.5  711.3  wa.r'  bg.r   uu:.
'(1 PINENir 1s                    4,227.90 153       438.27   :5.O 2740.68 ~.           '95.20  833.36 146..36 1744.36 1691. 93 2154.90 259.  U322.47 724.07 :439.75 2061.17 Z03.fl f7luX  2439.43
Nojember 13. :ws 15:370
a T KENEF1Ti VLOM IKCREACED URTM.E rEcrLZU.
0  N(T BEiKFltj r&on INTrUWO ramNAATIN 41ciEV lTICHG  AWZIC(E ON115111I6 rURTIL [KR. rtoxCT MC  MnUM   FINM 1Tl1 WU  fACT?Y of STREAM.
c. NET SCKIEF2: rIQA IWWOVED CA&~sAvA NATERIMLS. NOTE: ALL KMErITS APE MET OF 1NJCArIVTiM FWA LAWS AnD 0 FERTILIZE COST In La).
Ir.wi   --rst 'a     of  ftAJrn of -ttitrveis:                                                                                                                                                                                  d
~~~w.3j,. ~ ~       .........2



NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and the Net Present Value a  (NPV) for Statewide ADPs
Statewide    ADP                              Extension Services I Cassava  biltiplication
A                      I
ERR        NPV                                ERR      XnV          ERR          WV
percent     U an                             Percent    I an       Percent       U MD
Anambra                  18        4.85                               17        2.27        10           0.02
Bendel                   12        1.61                               22       4.83         16           2.81
Benue                    29       12.28                               23       5.76         13           2.06
Cross River              11        0.47                               22  --  5.44          15           3.10
Imo                      39       18.07                               22       4.68         10          0.Z1
Ogun                      -         -                                 20       2.19         12           0.55
Plateau                  35       15.05                               21       5.62         12           1.53
A = Incremental costs and benefits from extension Impact and cassava planting material.
B - Lncremental costs and benefits, including cost of existing extension staff.
a/ at IOZ OCC.
WAPAI
November 1985



NI6ERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PIGICCT
..... ................ .................... . ......_
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURK
. .....................
(Nalra '0003
........ ................................. ............................................ .. .. ........... ................. b............. .........................................................
BENEFITS        1   1986     1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005
Anaabra                   0    350   1257   2209   3432   1700   1921   1981   2212   2421   2706   2894   3277   3354   3380   3390   3380   3310   3310   3380
lendel                    0    234    659    998    855    066   1097   1397   1797   2192   2652   2967   3390   3504   3545   3545   3545   3545   3545   3545
Benue           1         0    870   1565   2814   3912   3935   2209   2553   2953   3390   3916   4277   4746   4888   488?   4819   4889   4689   4N9   498
Cross River               0    134    374    581    926    596    860   1191   1659   2092   2694   3050   3728   3880   3929   3929   3929   3929   3929   3929
lao State       i        u    942   2324   3919   5119   3227   3550   3945   4249   4547   5009   5166   5512   5512   5512   5512   5512   5512   5512   5512
OCun                       0    42     85    119    161    199    319    469    668    865   1100   1257   1464   1526   1546   1546   1546   1546   154I    1546
Plateau Stit              0    8135   2790   5053   7020   2258   2633   3015   3583   4007   4566   4899   5276   5276   5276   5276   5276   5276   5276   5276
Total                     0   3387   9052  15592  21314  10779  12499  14501  17121  19494  22642  24509  27393  27940  28076  29076  28076  29076  28076  28076
...... ........ ... ... ............................ ........................................................ .......................................................... ..........................................................    
COST                19896    199    1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997  1398   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005
............................ ..................................................... ................................................................... ....................................................................... ...........................
Anuabra               4229   1903   1745   1693    691   1037    726   1148    746    676   1015    700    679    734   1114    940    718    68b    66l    681
Bendel                3911   1532   1519   1211    707   1139    785   1293    767    729   1124    783    838    618   1111   1132    112    750    609    608
Oenue                 3633   1626   1784   1694    377   1001    618   1172    625    549   2053    616    660    614    992   7I7    572    414    506    438
Cross River           4269   1750   1707   1416    590   1134    773   1286    678    653   1131    770    734    562   1084   1332    972    614    559    529
ISo State             3bil   1815   1950   17tb    621    944    900   1527    954    641    939    798    929    698   1165    902    679    722    696    696
Ogun            i      699    416    423    272    130    373    196    247            115    153    384    194    179    102    173    317    220    193              69     69
Plateau State 1       4393   2091   2028   1994    892   1664    990   1573    983    829   1675    983   1018    947   1320   1699   1049   1016    944    762
Total                24642  11133  11057   9926   4008   7291   498S   9247   4769   4228   7320   484   4936   4276   6860   7040   5022   4866    4042   3783
NET BENEFITS        199l6    1997   1999   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   2996   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005
... .. .... ..... .......................... ................................................ .....................................................................................................................................*
Aniabra              -4229  -1552   -489    526   2741    663   1095    933   1466   1744   1691   2195   2598   2620   2265   2440   2661   2691   2719   2698
lendel               -3811  -1297   -961   -214        140   -274    312    105   1030   1454   1528   2155   2543   2866   2434   2412   2733   2795   2937   2937
Benue                -3633   -755   -219   1120   3535    934   1591   1381   2329   2832   2865   3662   4086   4274   3946   4172   4317   4275   4383   4451
Cross River          -4269   1616  -1334   -835    226   -538           98   -105    980   1439   1563   2289   2994   3318   2945   2597   2957   3045   3370   3400
leo State            -3618   -973      474   2052   4497   2283   2750   2331   3395   3906   4070   4369   4694   4914   4347   4610   4833   4790   4816   4916                          I
Ogun                  -699   -374   -338   -152         31   -174    122    222    553    712    715   1063   1295   1424   1373   1229   1326   1354   1477   1477
Plateau State 1    -4383  -1277        762   3169   6128    594   3643   13501   2600   3178   2991   3911   4258   4320   3956   3576   4226   4260   4332   4514
Total               -24642  -7745  -2004   5666  17306   3489   7601   6254  12352  15267  15323  19661  22447  23664  232     21036  23054  23210  24034  24293
ERR                '3.042
Noveeber 39685



IBRD 1S6R9
N      I      G       E        R                                      R                                         ''                               NIGER IA
\~~~}                 HE~IRD ASSISTED
AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS
N ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  
BE~NI                                                                                                                                                                                      --E
r, y ~ A  U  , - 7      r    A, F IL.. Si-  ,
, _ ,  .....................~~~~~*r                             .   ,,  -.. S,  ,, .h ._.O..  5 o  CA   -...E -
FRV". .;  B.n   ..   ,,,         t             ,,                      , -  .                     JUNE 1SNE~~~~~~~~~~~~I .-  .AASN
C- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
I- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ -
NORTH  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       *    [LANGZGA-ASII~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
A-,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~'r!
S.         A~SGNl.
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  A, A-Al



