no~~f
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4339-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$162 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 5, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1985        May 1986
Currency Unit =      Naira (N)             N
US$1          =      NO.89                 N1.02
Ni            =      US$1.12               US$0.98
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton (m ton)    =   2205 pounds
1 hectare (ha)          =   2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)         =   0.62 mile
ABBREVIATIONS
ADPEC     -    Agricultural Development Project Executive Committee
ADPMU     -    Agricultural Development Project Management Unit
APMEPU    -    Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation, and Planning
Unit
APPU      -    Agricultural Pricing Policy Unit
ATAP      -    Agricultural Technical Assistance Project
ECA       -    Export Credit Agency
EFF       -    Extended Fund Facility
FACU      -    Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
FDA       -    Federal Department of Agriculture
FDRD      -    Federal Department of Rural Development
FMAWRRD   -    Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources
and Rural Development
FMG       -    Federal Military Government
FPDD      -    Fertilizer Procurement and Distribution Department
IFAD      -    International Fund for Agricultural Development
LGA       -    Local Government Area
LGC       -    Local Government Council
LNG       -    Liquefied Natural Gas
MANR      -    Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
NRCRI     -    National Root Crops Research Institute
NSS       -    National Seed Service
PFT       -    Program Facilitation Team
RBDA      -    Ri. er Basin Development Authority
SAL       -    Structural Adjustment Loan



OIL OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiaries:           Federal Republic of Nigeria, Anambra State, Bendel
State, Benue State, Cross River State, Imo State,
Ogun State and Plateau State.
Amount:                  US$162 million equivalent
Terms:                   Payable over 20 years, including five years of grace,
at standard variable interest rate.
Cofinancier:             International Fund for Agricultural Development
Relending Terms:         The Federal Government would on lend US$22.4 million
(un) to Anambra State, US$15.4 un to Bendel State,
US$21.4 mn to Benue State, US$14.1 mn to Cross River
State, US$19.4 mn to Imo State, US$5.2 mn to Ogun
State and US$39.6 mn to Plateau State, on the same
terms as the Bank loan. In addition unallocated
funds of US$13.8 mu may be on lent in the course of
the project. The States would carry the foreign
exchange risk.
Project Description:     The project would support implementation of the first
phase of statewide Agricultural Development Projects
(ADP) in six states (Anambra, Bendel, Benue, Cross
River, Imo and Plateau) and a modified program in
Ogun State, with the objective of Increasing fooderep
production (mainly cassava, yams, maize and rice) and
the income of small farmers. The project would fund:
(i) farm inputs and multiplication of improved
planting material (cassava, rice and potatoes); (ii)
the reorganization of rainfed crop extension
services; (iii) on-farm adaptive research; (iv) the
strengthening and comercialization of input
distribution system; (v) feeder road maintenance and
rehabilitation, and improved workshops; (vi) rural
water supplies; and (vii) project management,
monitoring/evaluation and planning, and manpower
development and training.
At the Federal level, the project would support: (a)
the development and distribution of improved cassava
varieties; (b) improved village level processing;
Thi d_cnt ha a _d       dhinb;uon  d       by ucoiwients only in the perfofncen|
of t  ls aScutidsum Its  teotst mayr oot o ewrwm be didozd without World Bank authozon



- ii-
(c) strengthening of institutional capability for
agricultural trade policy; (d) pilot projects as
forerunners to phase II ADPs; and (e) studies for
upgrading agricultural planning data and preparing a
follow-up project.
Estimated Costs:
Local      Foreign     Total
State Components                                        US$ million
Crop and Faxi! Development                  24.5          66.5      91.0
Agricultural Research                        1.2           1.0       2.2
Commercial Services                          6.6           2.6       9.2
Roads & Workshops                           18.4          22.6      41.0
Rural Water                                  7.5           8.9      15.6
Management & Support Services               14.5           9.3      23.8
Total Base Costs - ADPs                   72.7         110.1     182.8
Physical Contingencies                     3.4           7.9      11.3
Price Contingencies                       29.3          16.2      45.5
Total Project Costs - ADPs               105.4         134.2     239.6
Federal Components
Cassava Multiplication & Processing          2.5           2.3       4.8
Support to APPU                              0.2          0.3        0.5
Pilot Projects                               0.6           0.6       1.2
Studies                                      1.2          4.5        5.7
Total Base Costs - Federal                 4.5           7.7      12.2
Physical Contingencies                     0.3          0.3        0.6
Price Contingencies                        2.6           1.4       4.0
Total Project Costs - Federal              7.4          9.4       16.8
Total Project Costs                      112.8 a/     143.6     256.4
a/ Of which US$10.7 million in duties and taxes.
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                        26.4        135.1       162.0
IFAD                                         3.5         8.5         12.0
Federal Government                          49.0          -          49.0
State Governments                           32.6          -          32.6
Total                            112.8       143.6       256.4



- iii-
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year:         1987      1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
-        ---- US$ Million
Annual               29.6     46.4    34.6    22.6    20.8       8.0
Cumulative           29.6     76.0   110.6   133.2   154.0   162.0
Benefits and Risks:       The project would:  (a) increase food crop
production and the incomes of some 350,000
smallholders; (b) establish a better link between
research, extension and farmers and initiate
development of appropriate improved pruduction
technology; and (c) strengthen planning and
implementation capability of existing federal, state
and local government institutions. At full
development the expected increase in foodcrop
production (mainly yams, cassava, masize and rice)
would total about 310,000 tons foodgrains equivalent
per year. Main risks are associated with (i) the
ability of federal agriculture staff to provide
professional backstopping; (ii) shortfalls in
funding and supply of fertilizer; and (iii) lower
than anticipated farmer response. Project design
takes account of experience with earlier ADPs in
order to contain these risks.
Rate of Return:           23 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 5527-UNI, dated June 3, 1986
Map:   IBRD  15065R8



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA FOR A
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$162 million to help
finance a Multi-State Agricultural Development Project.. The loan would have a
term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate.  The Federal Government would onlend US$22.4 million to Anambra State,
US$15.4 million to Bendel State, US$21.4 million to Benue State, US$14.1
million to Cross River State, US$19.4 million to Imo State, US$5.2 million to
Ogun State, and US$39.6 million to Plateau State on the same terms as the Bank
loan. The individual States would carry the foreign exchange risk for the
portion of the loan onlent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The assessment of the Nigerian economic situation in this report is
based on the findings of economic missions that visited Nigeria in November
1984 and in March/April 1985 for economic updating and policy dialogue,
supplemented by reviews of the 1986 budget and of other recent policy
initiatives of the Federal Government. Annex I presents selected social and
economic indicators for Nigeria.
Macroeconomic Developments
3.        Structural Legacy of the Oil Boom (1973-80).  The buoyant oil market
over the 1973-80 period dramatically altered Nigeria's resource position.
During this time the main objective of the Government was to translate the
large oil revenues into investments in social, economic and physical
infrastructure.  While there were successes -  a large functional network of
interstate roads was established, power generating capacity tripled, primary
school enrollment ratio doubled - the political and administrative systems at
federal and state levels were not adequately equipped to handle the new-found
wealth. Uneconomic investments were prevalent, while the policies pursued led
to structural changes which left the economy with substantial price and other
distortions and with great vulnerability to external shocks.
4.        The economy became almost completely dependent on the oil sector: by
the beginning of the 1980s, oil earnings accounted for 96 percent of exports
and over 80 percent of Federal Government revenues. The economy soon began to
exhibit the usual features of the "oil syndrome": booming oil revenues, an
appreciating currency, and domestic inflation, with the consequent shift in the
structure of production away from non-oil traded goods, the increased
dependence on imports, and growth of the public sector. The impact on the
agricultural sector - the major source of GDP and exports before the oil boom
1/  This section is unchanged from Part I of President's Report No.
P-4135-UNI dated June 5, 1986, for the Transport Parastatals Project.



-- was particularly severe: by 1980 its share of non-oil GDP had fallen to 30
percent, from around 50 percent in the early 1970s. Exports of palm products
and groundnuts (of which Nigeria was the world's largest exporter) had
virtually disappeared. In addition, the overvalued exchange rate, combined
with the structure of trade taxes and controls, encouraged the growth of
import-based light consumer goods industries which contributed little to value
added. Thus, by 1980 imports had reached a level of 24 percent of GDP, nearly
double the percentage prevailing in the immediate pre-boom years.
5.        The public sector grew in size and importance.  Nigeria entered the
1980s with around half of its GDP and two-thirds of its modern sector
employment accounted for by the public sector. Government recurrent
expenditures had risen to 11 percent and public investment to 15 percent of
GDP, the latter accounting for over half of total investment. A large part of
the recurrent expenditures supported a much increased civil service. Many of
the public investment projects were undertaken without sufficient attention to
their viability, the appropriateness of their design and the implementation
capacity of the Government agencies. By the beginning of the 1980s, there were
around 70 non-commercial and 110 commercial federal public enterprises, many of
which require extensive financial support to cover operating losses.
6.        The Economic Crisis (1981-85).  Nigeria was ill-equipped politically,
administratively and structurally to deal with the abrupt end of the oil boom
in 1981. Partly because of expectations that the downturn would be
short-lived, the Federal and State Governments reacted only slowly to the
falling oil revenues: measures aimed at curbing and redirecting expenditures
were insufficient. Consequently, sizeable external and fiscal imbalances
emerged; external reserves fell and at the same time there was a large-scale
accumulation of arrears on top of substantial public borrowings to finance the
investment programs.
7.        Through the predominant use of demand management policies, involving
large expenditure cuts and the application of import controls, the two
successive military Governments 1/ reduced the budget deficit to GDP ratio from
10 percent in 1983 to 5 percent in 1985 and the external account deficit to GDP
ratio from 5 percent to a slight surplus. However, no significant steps were
taken to reduce the misalignment of relative prices, the administrative
controls and the public sector inefficiencies. The naira continued to
appreciate in 1984 (although there was some real depreciation in 1985).
Sectoral ceilings for credit allocations by banks were enforced and interest
rates were at levels resulting in negative real yields (although this has been
reversed in the past year). While actions were taken to improve the system of
trade taxes, continued price and other trade interventions served to reinforce
distorted signals. Moreover, fiscal austerity was characterized by expenditure
constraints without sufficient regard to necessary expenditure reallocations:
public investment cutbacks proceeded across the board without adequate
cognizance of priorities and stage of completion. Outlays on supplies, spare
parts and routine maintenance were eroded. Significant sums were set aside to
1/  The military government which took cver in August 1985 replaced one which
had come to power at the end of 1983.



-3-
support operating deficits of inefficient parastatals and to provide heavy
subsidies.
8.        In essence, the structure of the economy inherited from the oil boom
remained largely intact and this, combined with the sharp deterioration in the
terms of trade, resulted in poor economic performance over the 1981-85 period.
Production and employment in all sectors - except agricultural production for
the domestic market - remained depressed, with real GDP in 1985 being some 15
percent lower than at the beginning of the 1980s, even after allowing for the
slight upturn estimated for 1985 as a result of increased oil production and
improved harvests. Construction and other service sectors were hard hit by the
diminished public expenditures and declined at a faster rate than GDP. The
much reduced supplies of raw materials and spare parts to the import-dependent
industrial sector led to widespread plant closures, a substantial drop in
capacity utilization (to about 25 to 35 percent) and extensive layoffs of the
workforce. Severe shortages of goods boosted the inflation rate - peaking at
around 40 percent in 1984 but receding substantially thereafter - with
scarcity rents of up to 400 percent for many essential goods accruing to
traders who, unlike manufacturers, were not subject to price controls. The
population growth rate of an estimated 3.3 percent per annum led to significant
declines in per capita real income and consumption; in 1985 these were well
below the levels recorded in the pre-oil boom 1970s.
9.        National savings halved in real terms due to the decline in both GDP
and terms of trade, with the savings ratio in 1985 being around 17 percent of
GDP. As a result, the reduction in investment expenditures was substantial:
investment fell to under 14 percent of GDP in 1985, half the peak level of
1981. The across-the-board public expenditure cutbacks meant further delays in
completing viable projects, thus escalating their costs and depriving the
economy of their benefits. Private investment shrank at twice the rate of
public investment and by 1985 constituted only a quarter of the total.
10.       Meanwhile, external debt service requirements increased to 40 percent
of exports and continue to accelerate. The external debt outstanding and
di'sbursed at the end of 1985 of US$19.4 billion included an estimated
US$11.9 billion of medium and long-term public debt and trade arrears of
between US$5 and US$6 billion, of which US$1.3 billion has so far been
rescheduled. Paris and London Club creditors each account for around
one-third. There are also short-term external debts estimated at around
US$1 billion and private external debts of a further estimated US$1 billion.
The severity of Nigeria's debt situation relates not so much to the total stock
of debt (which in 1985 amounted to around 140 percent of annual exports
compared with the 255 percent average of all middle-income heavily indebted
countries) but to the "hump" of debt repayments becoming due in the period
1986-89, combined with the poor short-term outlook for the oil market.
Adjustment Policy Issues and Recent Initiatives
11.       The Nigerian economy, already beset by financial imbalances and
structural weaknesses, was dealt another blow by the further sharp decline in
oil prices in the first quarter of 1986. Given the inadequate policies of the
past, this shock cannot be absorbed in a single year, nor by Nigeria alone, at
least during the next few years when the "hump" of debt repayments becomes due.
However, even though financial support from the international community is
needed to ease the burden imposed by the unfavorable debt repayment profile, it



- 4 -
is imperative that appropriate policies be adopted now in order to improve the
ability of the economy to cope with such external shocks, as well as with the
effect of declining oil reserves in the medium term. Such policies should
shift the structure of production towards efficient non-oil traded goods
sectors, reduce the import dependence of the economy and widen its resource
base, and lessen the dominance of the public sector and enhance the role of the
private sector.
12.       Recent Initiatives.  The previous military government had committed
itself to rectifying Nigeria's economic problems through austerity alone, but
the new government, which came into power in August 1985, declared its intent
to move from austerity alone to austerity with structural adjustment.  Thus,
even though there were in 1985 some positive effects of the improved fiscal
policies (e.g. the decline in the inflation rate), the major improvement in
policies geared towards further stabilization as well as structural adjustment
came with the 1986 budget statements, and in subsequent initiatives. These
make significant progress in energy pricing and a good start on exchange rate,
public expenditure and parastatal reforms. The key reforms which have now been
implemented include: the introduction of an across-the-board temporary import
surcharge of 30 percent, to serve as an implicit devaluation on the import
side;   the reactivation of the customs tariff drawback scheme to boost further
non-oil exports, and the raising of the foreign exchange retention allowance of
non-oil exporters from 10 to 25 percent; the removal of the financial subsidy
on energy products, which increased the prices of petrol about 100 percent,
diesel 170 percent, and fuel oil 250 percent (kerosene prices were left
unchanged); and a commitment to phase out the fertilizer subsidy by 1989.  The
credit allocation system was simplified by reducing the number of sectors with
ceilings on bank lending. Finally, substantial reductions were made in the
salaries and fringe benefits of civil servants and the freeze on hiring staff
in a wide range of positions continued.
13.       In addition, the Government has announced that it intends to open up
a second-tier market for foreign exchange; this could be the first step in
moving towards an appropriate exchange rate. It has also announced its
intention to adopt further measures in the area of public resource management
policies: transfers to commercial parastatals are to be cut to 50 percent of
their 1985 levels and the Government intends to divest itself of public
holdings in commercially-oriented enterprises and to entrust to the private
sector the procurement and distribution of fertilizers and other agricultural
inputs. The budget incorporated additional measures for financial
stabilization (based on oil prices of US$25 per barrel) which, if carried out
in full, would bring the federal budget deficit down to only 2 percent of GDP
in 1986; however, given the fall in oil prices, the budget will have to be
adjusted for the deficit to be contained at that level.
14.       Many of the above measures are in line with recommendations made
earlier by the Bank in discussions with Nigerian officials. However, they
still fall short of the requirements for a viable structural adjustment effort,
with the lack of significant direct action on the exchange rate and on import
liberalization being the major shortcomings. The priorities for further policy
reforms would be: (i) correcting relative prices through exchange rate



-5-
adjustment, import liberalization and dismantling price controls; (ii)
overcoming the considerable public sector inefficiencies through improved
public expenditure programs and the speedy rationalization of the parastatal
sector; and (iii) reducing the severe imperfections in the financiFl system,
and maintaining appropriate interest rates.  Tight discipline om monetary'
expansion would have to be naintained with the Government continuing to place
strict constraints on the budget deficit. While improved revenue measures
should be pursued, these should not be seen as a substitute for a slimmer
bureaucracy and the privatization of public commercial activities. In
addition, special focus should be placed on the removal of technological and
supply constraints discouraging private initiative and inhibiting efficient
responses to favorable market conditions. While the basic exchange rate,
trade, incentive and financial policy reforms will be crucial in this regard,
constraints may exist at the sectoral level (e.g. specific infrastructural
deficiencies, lack of particular skills) on which action must be taken to
ensure the desirable responses to the improved price signals.
15.      Prospects and Financing of Development.  As noted above, the severity
of Nigeria's debt situation, which has been made considerably worse by the
sharp fall in oil prices in the first quarter of 1986, relates not so much to
the size of the debt overhang, but to the unfavorable payments profile and poor
imediate outlook for oil: the "hump" of debt repayments becoming due in the
period 1986-89 coincides with the drop in oil prices. The projected
improvement in both factors in the early 1990s will mean a sharp improvement in
debt-service ratios. For 1986, however, the debt-service ratio (on current
estimates of debt) has shot up to an unsustainable level of 64 percent,
assuming oil prices remain at about US$15/barrel for the rest of the year.
While the country could easily cover the interest payments on the debt (which
constitute 17 percent of exports), it is clear that, even if the oil market
recovers, Nigeria will need a very substantial reform and refinancing package
to tide it over the difficult years ahead. In the absence of such policy
reforms Nigeria's creditworthiness would be limited, and it would thus be
necessary to re-examine the level of Bank lending, constraining it to the
sectors of longer-term impact which are relatively im-une to the system of
price incentives.
16.      However, the Government realizes the urgency of the situation and has
asked the Bank to assist it in putting together a medium-term policy reform and
financing package which would be submitted to its financial partners for their
support during the very difficult adjustment period. This package would aim at
a fundamental restructuring of the economy, together with an orderly reduction
of debt-service ratios. This would smooth out the payments profile between the
late 1980s and early 1990s and allow a modest increase in imports from their
drastically low current level, while at the same time building in mechanisms to
cope with uncertainties in oil revenues.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA 1/
17.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of March 31, 1986 amounted co
US$2,760.2 million (net of cancellations).2/ The amount of loans and credits
disbursed as of March 31, 1986 was US$1,710.4 million, leaving an undisbursed
balance of US$1,049.8 million. Agriculture accounts for about 43 percent of
total commitments; transport, power, and water supply together for about 35
percent; and education, industry, urban, health, and the post-war
rehabilitation loan for the remaining 22 percent. There have been only two IDA
credits to Nigeria, totalling US$35.3 million; both are fully disbursed. IFC
has made six loans to borrowers totalling US$25.0 million, and six equity
investments totalling US$4.5 million. Of these amounts, US$6.3 million have
been repaid, terminated, cancelled, or sold. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments.
18.       As a result of the abrupt decline in earnings from oil, public
revenues have fallen sharply, causing many of the ongoing projects to run into
serious counterpart funding problems. The Bank, the Federal Government, and
the relevant State Governments are making concerted efforts to alleviate the
situation. To speed up disbursements, the Bank reallocated the proceeds of
several loans and increased disbursement percentages.   Working within very
severe and continuing resource constraints, the Federal and the State
Governments are instilling a greater degree of discipline in their budgeting
process and cutting back on new capital expenditure in order to fund existing
obligations.
19.       A number of important policy changes were announced in the 1986
budget speech. Provided these and other appropriate policy changes are
undertaken, the Bank's lending program would aim primarily at the urgent
diversification of Nigeria's economy to reduce its excessive dependence upon
petroleum as a source of foreign exchange and fiscal revenue. At the same
time, the Bank would continue to support efforts to raise the productivity of
the lowest income groups and thereby diminish the incidence of absolute poverty
in Nigeria. As in recent years, the Bank would continue to provide support for
agriculture and rural development with emphasis on institution-building and
transfer of technology, in order to raise the standard of living of its
population, particularly the rural poor. The Bank would similarly support
efforts to stimulate trade liberalization, including a well-balanced and
integrated development of Nigeria's industrial sector focusing on import
substitution and in the longer run, on non-oil exports. This approach would
entail a combination of intensive sector work and policy dialogue with the
Government, as well as Bank assistance for industrial projects in crucial
subsectors.
20.       Projects in the agriculture. water supply and urban sectors together
should account for a large share of Bank lending in the coming two to three
years. Effective support for the commodity producing sectors will also require
1J   This section is unchanged from Part II of President's Report No.
P-4135-UNI dated June 5. 1986, for the Transport Parastatals Project.
2/   Including a US$5.0 million loan for an Industry Technical Assistance
Project which has not yet been signed.



strategic investment in production-related infrastructure. There are good
opportunities for the Bank to make a significant contribution in energy
development and highway maintenance particularly since the Government announced
its decision in January 1986 to substantially increase petroleum product
prices. Similarly, there is a strong case for continued lending to education.
In this context, vocational, technical, and teacher training would be given
special emphasis. Finally, the Bank would support the Federal and State
Governments' efforts to spread the benefits of growth to the social sectors.
It is envisaged that some of the pressing problems of rapid urbanization will
continue to be addressed through a number of urban development projects
focussed on the needs of the urban poor and resource mobilization for urban
areas. The Bank is also assisting the Government in tackling the country's
health problems with a project aimed at both federal and state (Sokoto) levels,
and is continuing a dialogue with the Government on population issues, perhaps
leading to lending in this area.
21.       Although annual disbursements have increased from US$52 million in
FY78 to nearly US$199 million in FY85, Nigeria's disbursement performance has
lagged behind that of other countries in the region. The undisbursed balance
now stands at 38 percent of some US$2.8 billion in loans and credits approved.
One of the reasons for this development is the rapid expansion of the Bank's
loan portfolio since 1979 as well as the fact that the closing dates for a
number of large loans, with relatively large, planned disbursements during the
early years, were extended during this period, mainly for agricultural
projects. In many cases, however, disbursements have been slowed by long
delays in loan effectiveness and institutional and management problems.
Recently, the inadequate counterpart funding of projects by the Federal and
State Governments, resulting from lower oil revenues, has further slowed
disbursements. The Federal Government, with the assistance of the Bank's
Resident Mission, is now carefully monitoring loan disbursements with a view to
identifying problems early and taking corrective action. Also, the Bank has
taken a series of measures aimed at accelerating disbursements under both
ongoing and new projects (para. 18). These efforts are showing results.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Background
22.       Agriculture continues to be the leading non-oil sector in Nigeria,
directly supporting about 60 percent of the population, providing 26 percent of
GDP, 5 percent of total exports, and 98 pe;cent of non-oil exports.
Agricultural production is almost entirely in the hands of smallholders; the
typical unit is a family farming about 2-4 hectares (ha) of land. Less than
one percent of the total cropped area is covered by assured irrigation; as a
result, traditional rainfed systems dominate agriculture. The use of modern
inputs, such as fertilizer and improved seeds, or mechanized techniques, is
limited. Consequently, yields are low and in some cases have even declined
because of deteriorating soil fertility. Although there is some cultivation of
cash crops -- oil palm, cocoa, and other treecrops in the south and groundnuts
in the north -- almost every farm family grows some of its food requirements.
An increasing proportion of these food crops is entering commercial trade as
food demand rises in the urban areas.



- 8 -
23.       During the period 1973-81, agriculture was depressed due to
disincentives created by the oil boom. Real wages probably rose mainly due to
the rapidly increasing demand for labor-intensive services in the construction
and service sectors. At the same time, oil revenues were utilized to finance
large increases in food imports which depressed prices received by farmers.
This was primarily due to the cheapening of food imports resulting from the
overvaluation of the naira. For the farmer, the gap between the increasing
real cost of production and the decreasing real cost of competing imports grew
rapidly, and competition in world markets and with imports at home became
increasingly difficult. Thus, until 1981 farmers were caught in a tightening
price-cost squeeze without any time for technology and institutional support to
"catch up" and lead to off-setting increases in productivity.
24.       Although firm estimates of production and production trends are
difficult to make because of a poor data base, it seems that agricultural
production has stagnated or at best kept pace with population growth. Some
estimates place the rate of increase in food crop production for the 1970-82
period at about 2.7 percent -- the same as the estimated population growth
rate. The demand for staple foods is estimated to have grown faster, at an
average of about 2.9 percent annually. The food import bill rose substantially
from US$174 million in 1970 to about US$2.8 billion in 1982 and agricultural
exports declined to negligible values.
25.       Since 1982, however, real wages have begun to decline while food
prices have risen as food imports have been curtailed falling to about US$1.5
billion in 1984. Indeed, as a result of extreme foreign exchange scarcity
imports of rice and maize have been banned recently. As a result, the terms of
trade for farmers have improved. This attenuation of the 'price-cost' squeeze
faced by the farmer has led to increased production.
Government Strategy
26.       Nigeria's agricultural goals are stated in the Fourth National
Development Plan (1981-85) and are essentially the same as those in the Third
Plan (1975-80). Both Plans have emphasized the following objectives:
achieving food self sufficiency and higher nutritional levels; promoting export
crops; generating agricultural employment; increasing the supply of raw
materials for domestic industry; strengthening the institutional framework; and
improving rural incomes and living conditions. Underlying these broad national
objectives is the Federal Military Government's (FMG) concern to prepare the
economy for the post-oil era by developing a viable agriculture sector, and
reducing Nigeria's overwhelming dependence on the oil sector.
27.       FHIG's agricultural strategy is quite different from that of the
1970s. During the 70s, strong emphasis was placed on large-scale irrigation
and intensively mechanized government-run schemes with generally disappointing
production results. Emphasis was also placed on maintaining a balance between
treecrop and food crop production. The basic elements of the current strategy
are a greater emphasis on food crops rather than cash crops; investments geared
to improving input supply and delivery in order to boost production; and a
focus on smallholder agriculture in recognition of the fact that this is the
more effective mcans of increasing food production. The objective of
increasing food production is consistent with the "Food Production Plan"
prepared with Bank assistance in 1980. And the near doubling of Government
expenditure on agriculture to about N800 million annually in the early 1980s



-9-
compared to the Third Plan period illustrates the Government's determination to
reduce the growing domestic food gap and food imports. In addition, recent
policy initiatives have demonstrated the Government's intention to move away
from heavy reliance on the public sector and decisions have been taken: to
privatize fertilizer importation and distribution; to abolish by December 31,
1986, the Commodity Boards, which had for a long time enjoyed a monopoly in the
purchase and marketing of cash crops; to discontinue the River Basin and Rural
Development Authorities' direct agricultural production activities; and to wind
up eleven parastatals involved in various agricultural production activities.
Sector Constraints
28.       Farmer Incentives.  The overvalued naira, erratic trade policies and
a largely ineffective system of support prices for domestically consumed
staples have in the past resulted in fluctuating returns for farmers and acted
as a disincentive for farmers to increase production. During the period
1973-81, import policies favored consumers through the import and sale of cheap
agricultural products. On the export side, farmers suffered initially from the
heavy taxes and retentions imposed by marketing boards and subsequently, when
farm costs rose above export prices the subsidies offered were inadequate to
encourage farmers to grow food.
29.       However, since 1981, prices have improved dramatically in favor of
domestic agriculture following the imposition of stringent import restrictions
due to foreign exchange scarcity and more recently as part of FMG's austerity
program. The need now is to make these incentives more consistent and
systematic, taking advantage of the "natural protection" afforded by the
balance-of-payments difficulties, and avoid erratic swings in trade policies to
ensure sustained progress. Measures to improve coordination of trade policy
are included in the proposed project (para. 59).
30.       Institutional Complexities.  One of the more difficult problems in
developing Nigeria's agriculture is the overlap in the functions of the
agencies dealing with the sector. Both the Federal Ministry of Agriculture
(FMA) and the State Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) are
involved in agricultural development at the state level. Because of
overlapping responsibilities, the task of planning, implementing and
maintaining agricultural investments is a difficult one. The problem is
compounded by the limited managerial and technical capabilities of the relevant
agencies at the federal, state and local government level. FMG is taking
measures to reshape the organizational framework. To improve coordination, FMA
was merged with the Federal Ministry of Water Resources in 1984 to form the
Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Rural Development
(FMAWRRD). In streamlining federal/state activities, FMG has decided that the
Federal Department of Agriculture (FDA) and the Federal River Basin Development
Authorities (RBDAs) will no longer be responsible for providing agricultural
inputs and services to farmers.
31.       Efforts are also underway to improve fertilizer operations.
Currently the Fertilizer Procurement and Distribution Department (FPDD) is
responsible for procuring fertilizer and distributing it to the states, and at
the state level, fertilizer is distributed by the State MANR. Neither agency
is, however, equipped to distribute fertilizer efficiently. Accordingly, under
the Bank-financed Fertilizer Loan (No. 2345-UNI), FMG has decided to privatize
fertilizer importation and distribution and is in the process of establishing a



- 10 -
private company (the National Fertilizer and Agricultural Inputs Marketing
Company, LTD.) to handle procurement, import and distribution of fertilizer to
the states.
32.       State MANRs have, for the most part, been unable to provide effective
extension and input distribution services due to several factors. These
include:  a top-heavy staffing structure and, therefore, too little worker
contact with farmers, a lack of clearly defined objectives stemming in part
from a shortage of proven technical packages, insufficient funds for workers'
operating expenses and low morale. Local Government Councils (LGCs),
responsible for feeder road and watqr supply maintenance, have so far been
unable to maintain the infrastructure 'equately because of insufficient
funding and political interference. Ad'ditional federal funds are now being
provided for them and the report of a National Commission on their structure is
under preparation.
33.       Technology Framework.  The lack of proven technical packages which
would fit with the farmers' mixed cropping patterns, and therefore, be
acceptable to them continues to constrain agriculture. At the same time,
technical packages which are available are not reaching farmers in remote
arcas. Although there is a significant demand for new varieties of planting
material for cassava, yams, maize and rice in the humid and sub-humid zones,
the production of these crops is constrained because planting materials are not
adaptable to traditional farming systems in some areas and in others, materials
are in short supply due to a lack of efficient multiplication arrangements.
Fertilizer use on these crops, which are responsive to it, is becoming
widespread in areas where because of population pressures, the fallow is too
short for adequate soil regeneration. In the less humid middle belt and
northern areas where grain crops are important, improved varieties of maize and
cowpeas offer scope for increased productivity but new varieties of sorghum and
millet have not proved widely acceptable to farmers.
34.       Research efforts are ongoing but new approaches to farming systems,
for example, different planting patterns and weeding practices are not yet
sufficiently adapted to traditional systems to provide the basis for an
effective extension program. To increase the impact of the work of national
research institutes on farming practices, which has thus far been limited,
concerted efforts need to be made to strengthen their links with extension
services and with farmers and to draw them into the mainstream of agricultural
activity. Measures to strengthen research activities are included in the
proposed project (para. 48).
The Bank's Role
35.       Agriculture has formed the core of the Bank's lending to Nigeria.
The main objective of Bank assistance for the sector is to increase food
production and raise rural incomes and standards of living. And a major effort
is being made to develop the capabilities of federal and state agencies
responsible for managing the agriculture sector and preparing and implementing
development projects. Since 1971, 25 loans totalling more than US$1.25 billion
(net of cancellations) have been approved for agriculture. There have, so far,
been 9 loans for the development of specific crops, forestry, and livestock,
and 13 loans for the comprehensive agricultural development of target areas
(ADPs). The Bank has also made a loan for the establishment of an Agricultural
and Rural Management Training Institute (ARMTI), and a loan for an Agricultural



- i1 -
Technical Assistance Project (ATAP) -- under which the Federal Agricultural
Coordinating Unit (FACU) with regional umits was established -- to strengthen
federal capability to prepare, appraise and supervise projects, and a
Fertilizer Import Loan. The implementation of the ADPs, which were designed in
a period when domestic resources were not constrained, suffered in the recent
past because of acute shortages in counterpart funding following the downturn
in the economy. FNG and the state governments are making concerted efforts to
alleviate the problem and are instilling a greater degree of discipline in
their budgeting process. The commercialization of fertilizer operations under
the Fertilizer Import Loan is progressing well and reduction of the financial
subsidy on fertilizer from 85 percent to 28 percent has already taken place in
advance of agreed target dates. Further, FMG plans to abolish the subsidies by
1989.
Experience with Past Lending
36.       Five ADPs have been completed and the results reviewed in two Project
Performance Audit Reports (PPARs). The PPARs concluded that while the first
three northern ADPs had been implemented satisfactorily, the implementation of
two middle belt ADPs suffered from lack of local funding and staffing problems.
Lessons learned from the completed ADPs include the need to improve adaptive
on-farm research; keep crop recommendations simple and flexible in a relatively
unknown farming environment and improve farmer access to inputs; avoid large
investments in additional extension staff unless there are proven technical
packages for them to disseminate; keep the project scope within the local
financial and managerial capacity; and provide for post-project maintenance.
37.       The proposed project takes account of the findings and
recommendations of the PPARs. First, a phased program is planned of which the
proposed project would be the first and during which each statewide ADP would
provide for a program of adaptive research, i.e., on-farm research based on a
step-wise approach, starting with a diagnostic survey of typical farming
systems. Second, in reorganizing the agricultural extension service, the focus
would be on creating a smaller, more effective service to promote a limited
number of proven messages. Third, the project has been brought in line with
domestic managerial capacity and provision made to ensure timely and adequate
state and federal funding (para. 69). Finally, the infrastructure components
include arrangements to help ensure that project roads and water supplies will
be maintained adequately.
38.       Given an appropriate policy framework, adequate institutional and
infrastructural support, and the introduction of measures to overcome some of
the constraints mentioned above, Nigeria has the potential to achieve
significant increases in agricultural production over the coming years. And
the Bank expects to continue to play an important role in helping Nigeria to
realize this potential.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The project originated in a request from the Federal Government of
Nigeria in May 1982 for the Bank to participate in extending a phased program
of state Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs) to a number of southern and
middle belt states. The project, which was prepared by FACU, was the subject
of an extended interchange of views with the Bank as a result of which design
was modified to take account of lessons emerging from completed and ongoing



- 12 -
ADPs, and to incorporate a project for the multiplication of improved cassava
planting material which had been identified by the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD). Since the ADPs in the southern states
included an important cassava component and the IFAD-assisted project would
require the ADP extension services for demonstration and multiplication of
improved planting material, FMG, IFAD and the Bank agreed to combine the two
projects. Project appraisal, undertaken jointly by the Bank and IFAD, was
completed in December 1984. Negotiations were held with the Nigerian
authorities in Lagos in July 1985 and completed in Washington August 1985.
IFAD participated in the negotiations. The Staff Appraisal Report
(No.5527-UNI) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Area
40.       The project would cover seven southern and middle-belt states
- Anambra, Bendel, Benue, Cross-River, Imo, Ogun and Plateau - an area
stretching from the coast to the highlands of Plateau State, with rainfall
ranging from 4,000 mm per year in the southern most areas to 1,200 mm in the
middle belt. The total population is about 29 million, with about 2.5 million
farm families. The area covers three broad ecological zones: humid forest,
sub-humid forest, and savannah country with natural grassland and lower
rainfall. Yams, cassava and green maize are the major food crops in the humid
and sub-humid zones and maize grain, sorghum and cowpeas predominate in the
savannah. A limited amount of swamp rice is grown in all three zones. In the
humid and sub-humid zones the soil is becoming less fertile because population
pressures do not allow adequate periods of fallow.
41.       Inadequate infrastructure has added to the villagers' problems.
Plateau and Benue States lack feeder roads; and although the networks in the
other states are adequate in coverage, they are poorly maintained making farmer
access to markets difficult. No more than 10 percent of the rural population
in each state has access to piped water supplies which are either in disrepair
or working only intermittently.
Project Objectives and Bank Role
42.       The project would represent the Government's first comprehensive
effort to develop the fooderop potential of smallholdings in Nigeria's southern
states and to raise the farmers' incomes and standards of living. It would
strengthen the federal and state agencies responsible for agriculture and
introduce technological improvements to increase agricultural productivity and
production. And it would upgrade rural roads and water supplies for the
benefit of farm families. Institution-building would include the strengthening
of the Government's capabilities for agricultural planning, project
preparation, implementation and supervision. Technological improvements would
include the provision of planting material, the reorganization of extension
services and a program of on-farm adaptive research to develop technical
packages.
43.       The project's objectives are consistent with both the Government's
agricultural sector strategy, which places strong emphasis on increasing
foodcrop production and reducing food imports, and with the Bank's assistance
for the sector. With this project, the Bank would help extend the smallholder
focus of ongoing Bank-financed ADPs in the northern states to the middle belt



- 13 -
and southern states. It would also help promote the more efficient use of
financial and human resources in participating states, and further strengthen
the capabilities of federal agencies -- established under earlier projects with
Bank assistance -- to prepare and implement agricultural projects. Drawing on
the agricultural pricing policy analysis prepared recently by the Bank, under
the proposed project, the Government would introduce measures to improve the
coordination of trade and price support policy aimed at ensuring adequate
financial incentives for farmers - an important policy objective highlighted
in the Bank's analysis.
Project Description
44.       The project would include the development of agriculture and rural
infrastructure in selected states and cassava development, institution-
building, pilot projects and studies at the federal level.
State Agricultural Development Project Components
45.       These would consist of an integrated package of inputs and services
for statewide agricultural development in six states - Anambra, Bendel, Benue,
Cross-River, Imo and Plateau -- and a more limited agricultural development
program in Ogun State. Investments in supporting rural infrastructure would
complement the agricultural program. The project would launch the first phase
of a ten to twelve year program to increase the production of cassava, yams,
maize, rice, and fruits and vegetables through the introduction of proven
foodcrop production technology, together with a long term program of adaptive
research, involving farmers, research and extension services to further improve
technology appropriate to farmers' needs. Each statewide ADP, which would be
implemented over four years, would include the following components:
(a) Crop and farm development;
Cb) Extension services;
Cc) Adaptive research;
ud) Commercial services;
(e) Road maintenance and rehabilitation;
(f) Rural water supplies; and
(h) Management services, monitoring and evaluation, planning and manpower
development.
46.       Crop end Farm Development Program.  The project would provide farm
inputs including fertilizer, herbicides, pumps for small-scale irrigation and
inputs for fruit tree nurseries together with their improved distribution. It
would establish effective systems to multiply and distribute improved planting
material for cassava, rice and Irish potatoes. The project would also promote
specialized seed yam production, improved technology for fruits and vegetables
and small-scale irrigation on a limited scale. In this regard, the National
Seed Service has already selected key staff and prepared a work plan and
budget.
47.       Extension Service.  The rainfed crop extension service would be
reorganized drawing from the states' existing extension workers and providing
them with in-service training, vehicles, equipment, and supplies. FACU staff
would provide technical assistance to help reorganize and train the workers and
develop performance oriented work programs. Mass communication materials
including quality radio and television programs would also be developed. The



- 14 -
first training course for subject matter specialists in state agricultural
extension services was launched in September 1985 and follow-up courses are
planned.
48.       Adaptive Research.  This component would comprise an off-station
adaptive research program under which states would contract with existing
research institutes to provide scientific services to the state ADP's research
unit. Equipment, vehicles, and materials for trials would be provided.
Research staff would be brought into closer contact with farmers and extension
staff, thereby ensuring that experiments would be designed to address
constraints perceived by farmers. Work would start with diagnostic surveys of
typical farming systems to determine key constraints followed by appropriate
farm trials and culminating in analysis and review of the results of the trials
with the extension service. Some technical packages should be ready for
dissemination to farmers by the time the project is completed. Recent progress
in this component include the preparation of the agricultural research programs
and the establishment of a link between state ADPs and research institutes and
universities.
49.       Commercial Services.  Poor in-state distribution and late deliveries
of fertilizer continue to constrain its increased uptake. The marketing
arrangements for other inputs such as pesticides, herbicides, tools and
implements are, for the most part, commercialized, although some gaps remain.
Under the project, the state governments would reduce the proliferation of
stores and Farm Service Centers (FSCs) through which they currently retail
fertilizer to not more than one FSC per Local Government Area (LGA) unless
justified by turnover. Similarly the remaining gaps in the distribution system
for other inputs would also be filled. Within an LGA, distribution would be
handled primarily by private retailers and cooperatives. The project would
provide for the construction or upgrading of FSCs and a Commercial Services
Division (CSD) which would oversee input supply, processing and marketing
services. Approval by the Bank of satisfactory plans from each state for
fertilizer distribution including the participation of private retailers would
be a condition of disbursement for farm inputs (para. 73). CSD would also
promote simple, improved equipment for village level cassava processing.
50.       Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation.  The project would provide
improved access for input distribution and crop marketing, build up Local
Government Council (LGC) capacity for road maintenance and strengthen the
capabilities of domestic institutions to manage feeder road programs. Each
state would implement a program of feeder road maintenance and rehabilitation.
In a typical state, the component would consist of: (a) a four-year program of
rehabilitation and spot improvements over about 600 km; and (b) a routine
maintenance program, including recurrent maintenance over 400 km twice a year
and manual maintenance over about 1,000 km. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that, annual work programs (based on economic evaluation of roads
according to agreed criteria) would be submitted to FACU and the Bank for
approval by September 1 each fiscal year, and FACU engineers would certify
satisfactory completion of the work and retain certificates for inspection.
51.       Rehabilitation and spot improvements would be carried out by contract
or force account and units for the latter established as necessary. One mobile
unit for recurrent maintenance would also be established in each state. States
carrying out maintenance activities by force account would be equipped with one



- 15 -
workshop per state. LGCs would be actively involved in planning and
implementation and in equipping force account units. The capabilities of the
LGCs to maintain infrastructure would be strengthened through financial and
technical assistance, the aim being to ensure that the LGCs could assume rull
responsibility for maintenance by the end of the project period.
52.       Rural Water Supplies.  The project would fund a feasibility study to
determine the water supply needs in each state followed by a pilot investment
program.  The studies would be linked to an initial review of the rural water
supply sector in Nigeria being carried out by the Bank. The emphasis would be
on low cost water supply systems including the rehabilitation of open wells,
handpumps and boreholes and the construction of new shallow or deepwell
handpump supplies. Communities to be served with water supplies would be
selected in consultation with state water corporations, representatives of the
LGCs and the communities themselves. Alternative schemes would be constructed
on a pilot basis to test their effectiveness and acceptability before
full-scale implementation.
53.       Measures would be taken to ensure adequate maintenance of the water
supply schemes. To provide durable handpumps, the specifications would be
based on the findings of a global UNDP-financed handpump program. In addition,
local operation and maintenance units would be established and local operators
trained. To ensure adequate maintenance of the rural water supplies, it was
agreed at negotiations that prior to the rehabilitation of existing or
investment in new schemes, the states would furnish the Bank with the
arrangements made to ensure adequate operation and maintenance of the schemes
including arrangements for contributions from beneficiaries to the recurrent
costs of schemes.
54.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  A planning, monitoring and evaluation
unit would be established in each ADP to provide a timely flow of information
to project management. Emphasis would be placed on limited, well defined
surveys to assess the extent to which qualitative and quantitative objectives
were being met to enable managers to modify the project as necessary.  FACU
would carry out a mid-term review in the third year of the project to measure
progress and to provide a basis for determining whether and how to proceed to a
second phase. Under the guidance of the Federal Agricultural Project
Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit (APNEPU), the monitoring and
evaluation staff would also undertake the surveys required to evaluate project
benefits.
55.       Training and Manpower Development.  A comprehensive training program
to meet the needs of the staff of each statewide ADP, the LGC staff involved in
the rural roads program and the National Seed Service (NSS) staff handling
cassava multipl'cation and development, would be carried out under the guidance
of ARMTI/FACU. The key features of the training program for staff of the
statewide ADPs would include a careful matching of staff capacity, job
descriptions and project objectives, a program for training of trainers with
regular evaluation and updating, and routine and special in-service courses for
ADP staff. Training staff would also assist with the development of
audio-visual materials to support the farmer trainer program carried out by
agricultural staff. Infrastructure staff of the ADPs would, with the guidance
of FACU Rural Infrastructure Coordinators, train LGC staff in road maintenance
and rehabiliLation. Training assistance for NSS, the main Federal institution
covered by the project, would include in-service training using the existing



- 16 -
Federal Department of Rural Development (FDRD) facilities and periods of
practical training and orientation through short-term study tours. Training of
NSS staff would be coordinated with training of subject matter specialists of
ADP extension services and state seed service staff. Progress with the
training program would be evaluated at regular intervals against a schedule
prepared at appraisal. Experience in implementing a structured training
program would be drawn on by each state MANR to extend improved training
programs to other agricultural staff outside the ADP.
56.       Ogun State would implement a more limited program, consisting of
agricultural extension, agricultural research, cassava multiplication, and
provision of farm inputs.
Federal Components
57.       Cassava Development.  Cassava production would be increased and
processing improved through an integrated package of measures. These include
the multiplication of improved planting material, pest control, the provision
of processing equipment and strengthened research activities for both planting
material and processing. The National Rootcrops Research Institute (NRCRI)
would produce about 6 ha of breeder material annually and supply it to NSS.
NSS would produce about 60 ha of planting material annually on six
multiplication farms; and the farms would sell the planting material to the
states. To make the NSS farms increasingly self-supporting, it was agreed at
negotiations that the sales revenue would be used to establish a revolving fund
to meet the farms' recurrent costs. Planting material would also be multiplied
in five non-project states where cassava is an important crop - Kwara, Lagos,
Ondo, Oyo and Rivers. To help develop the indigenous processing industry,
about 500 small engines to be fitted into cassava graters would be procured for
sale to local grater manufacturers at prevailing commercial prices.
58.       NSS management would be strengthened and additional staff, vehicles
and equipment would be provided to revitalize its operations. New accounting,
commercial and quality control procedures would be established. Technical
assistance and training would be provided to help improve farm management and
to set up new procedures. Agreement was reached at negotiations that as a
condition of loan effectiveness, an officer-in-charge of the cassava
multiplication program and a chief accountant would be recruited for NSS, and
their qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment would
be satisfactory to FMG and the Bank. Because of the importance of efficient
NSS operations for cassava development, it was also agreed that FMG would
commission an evaluation of NSS operations for review with the Bank by June 30,
1987.
59.       Trade Policy Coordination.  Recognizing the need to provide adequate
financial incentives to farmers on a systematic basis, FMG would establish an
agricultural pricing policy unit, or suitably strengthen an existing unit,
responsible for coordination of agricultural trade and pricing policies, and
set up a mechanism for annual consultation with the Bank. Additional staff,
technical assistance, training and equipment needed would be provided under the
project to strengthen the analytical capabilities of this unit and enable it to
carry out its responsibilities. The work by FMG on the medium-term adjustment
program which contains major trade policy reforms are ongoing and it will be
some time before FMG can specify the terms of reference and best "institutional
home" for such a unit. Therefore, in the meantime, FXG will monitor



- 17 -
agricultural prices through the Price Intelligence Agency in the Federal
Ministry of Trade.
60.       Pilot Projects.  In order to identify new areas suitable for
investment in a second phase project, participating states would implement
pilot projects in the crop, livestoc&, forestry and fisheries sub-sectors.
FACU would appraise the projects on the states' behalf according to appraisal
criteria set out in a supplemental letter agreed during negotiations. The
aggregate cost of the pilot projects would be about N1.2 million. This
component would also include a discretionary fund of N500,000 for the promotion
of appropriate technology under the supervision of a technical committee in
FMAWRRD.
61.       Studies.  The proposed project would provide for about 286 man months
of consultant services to carry out the following studies: a feasibility study
for the water supply component in each state (total 100 man months); a study to
improve the agricultural planning data base (60 man months); a foodcrop
marketing study (90 man months); and a study for the preparation of a second
phase of the proposed project (36 man months). The terms of reference for the
proposed project's second phase study would be drawn up in the second year of
implementation in order to benefit from experience gained; the terms of
reference for the rpemining studies have been prepared. Agreement was reached
at negotiations that the qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment of the consultants would be satisfactory to the Bank.
Project Implementation
62.       Each statewide ADP would be implemented by a semi-autonomous Project
Management Unit (ADPMU) under the guidance of an Executive Committee (ADPEC)
responsible for policy and financial matters (including the approval of the
annual work plans and budgets) and overall coordination. The ADPEC would be
chaired by the State Commissioner for Agriculture. Agreement was reached that
representatives of state and federal agencies would comprise two-thirds and
one-third of its membership respectively. Although operationally
semi-autonomous, ADPMU's budget would be a part of the state MANR budget.
Unlike earlier Bank-financed ADPs, the proposed project would draw on and train
existing MANR staff to the extent possible rather than recruiting additional
personnel, thereby limiting incremental recurrent costs and allowing for a
smoother transition to a sustainable staffing structure in the post-project
period. ADPMU would consist of three operational divisions: a technical
services division responsible for agricultural extension, adaptive research and
the multiplication of planting material; a commercial services division
responsible for input supply, processing and marketing services; and an
engineering services division responsible for the roads and water supplv
components. Three support units responsible for administration and finance;
planning, monitoring and evaluation; and manpower development would also be
established. An infrastructuire development sub-committee would oversee the
zonal road programs. To ensure that farmers' and local governments' perceived
needs and views are taken into account in drawing up work programs, and in
determining locations of project facilities, etc., Zonal Development
Committees, which include farmers and LGC representatives in their membership,
would be established to provide advice to ADPMU.
63.       To ensure efficient start-up, it was agreed at negotiations that as a
condition of loan effectiveness, at least three states would establish ADPMUs



- 18 -
and appoint the project manager, financial controller, chief agriculturist,
commercial services manager and chief engineer with qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to FMG and the Bank. To
minimize implementation delays, it was also agreed that at least four months
before each fiscal year, each state ADP would submit its annual work program,
the corresponding budget, and the procurement program to FDRD for approval and
to the Bank for information. Agreement was also reached that, should a
proposal currently being considered by FMAWRRD to establish each ADP as a
separate authority be put into effect, the ADP structure under the proposed
project would form a self-accounting unit within the authority.
64.       Staff of FACU's Regional offices at Benin, Enugu, and Jos would
provide professional support for the start-up, implementation, and supervision
of the state ADPs. Start-up assistance would be provided by a Program
Facilitation Team (PFT) comprising FACU staff and consultants following a
pattern already successfully tested under the Kaduna ADP (Loan 2436-UNI) and
other Government funded agricultural development projects. PFT would work with
a team of state officials designated for the key ADP managerial posts.
Staffing of the three FACU regional offices to a level acceptable to FMG and
the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
65.       FDRD would be responsible for the implementation of the federal
components. A Project Advisory Committee chaired by the Permanent Secretary,
FMAWRRD, and comprising representatives of relevant federal agencies would be
established to oversee implementation and the use of federal funds. FACU would
act as a secretariat to this Committee, approve the release of federal funds to
the participating states, NRCRI, and NSS, etc., and contract for and supervise
studies, and assist with procurement. APMEPU would provide technical support
to each statewide ADP for project monitoring and evaluation and oversee ex-post
evaluation.
Status of Project Preparation
66.       With the assistance of PFTs, start-up work in all seven states were
completed by February 1986 and substantial progress has been made towards
completing conditions of loan effectiveness. In all states, Project Executive
Committees (ADPEC) and Project Management Units (ADPMU) have been set up and
appointment of key staff are being approved by FDRD and the Bank. All
participating states have already made the up-front deposits required as a
condition of effectiveness. Federal deposits have been made in four of the
seven states and deposits for the remaining three states and the Central Fund
account are expected to be made by end June 1986. Work plans and budgets for
1986 have been drawn up and project activities have commenced.
Project Costs
67.       Total project costs are estimated at US$256.4 million (including
taxes and duties of US$10.7 million) with a foreign exchange component of
US$143.6 million, or 56 percent. A breakdown of costs by major category is
provided in the Loan and Project Summary. An allowance has been made for
physical contingencies equal to 10 percent of base costs for civil works,
herbicides and fertilizers, and 5 percent for all other items except salaries
and wages. Price contingencies for local costs are estimated at 14 percent
annually, and for foreign costs at 7.5 percent for 1986 and 8.0 percent



- 19 -
thereafter. On this basis, total contingencies are estimated at 31 percent of
base costs.
Project Financing
68.       The proposed Bank loan of US$162 million would finance 66 percent of
project costs net of taxes and duties, and would cover 94 percent of the
foreign exchange costs and 24 percent of the local costs.   Of the total loan,
US$151.3 million would be onlent by FMG to the seven participating State
Governments on the same terms as the Bank loan. Each State Government would
carry the foreign exchange risk on the relevant portion of the loan. The
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) would provide a loan of
US$12 million, covering the remaining six percent of the foreign exchange costs
and three percent of the local costs. Of the IFAD loan, US$7.4 million would
be onlent to the states and US$4.6 million retained by FMG to finance the
cassava development component. Conditions for effectiveness of the Bank loan
would include: the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between FMG and
at least three State Governments; and the fulfillment of all the conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD loan agreement.
69.       To ensure the provision of timely and adequate counterpart funding,
it was agreed at negotiations that as conditions of effectiveness of the Bank
loan, the following actions would be completed for the federal component and at
least three state ADPs: (a) each state would open a separate project account
with a commercial bank, with an initial deposit from FMG and the relevant State
Government equivalent to the counterpart funding requirement for the first six
months; (b) each state government would send-a letter instructing the Central
Bank to debit its account in accordance with its obligation under the project
and credit the corresponding ADP account on a monthly basis in advance; and
(c) FMG would open a Central Fund account with an initial deposit equivalent to
the counterpart funding requirement for the first six months.  Most of these
actions have now been completed and early loan signing and effectiveness is
expected once the project is approved by the Board (para. 66). Agreement was
also reached at negotiations that audited accounts for each state ADP and the
federal components would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end
of each fiscal year, together with statements from the auditors certifying that
Bank funds have been used for the intended purposes.
Cosr Recovery
70.       Chemicals and small pumps would be sold at the prevailing market
prices. Agreement was reached at negotiations that seeds and fruit tree
seedlings would be sold to farmers at a price sufficient to cover the full
costs of production and distribution. Agreement has been reached with FMG to
accelerate the pace of reduction in the fertilizer subsidy and to abolish it by
1989. (The fertilizer subsidy has so far been reduced from 85 percent in 1983
to 28 percent.) With fertilizer in short supply farmers have already been
paying well above the official price. Crop budget projections show that even
with full recovery, use of fertilizer would show satisfactory financial returns
on the crops supported under the project. There are a number of formal credit
schemes operated by FMG and the Bank is supporting a study of agricultural
credit in Nigeria. Thus shortage of credit is not expected to constrain the
uptake of inputs projected under the project.



- 20 -
Marketing
71.       During the 1970s, the demand for staple foods increased at a faster
rate than domestic food crop production. As a result, Nigeria is importing
food. In the face of import restrictions which FMG is expected to continue to
impose as part of its austerity program, and increasing population pressure,
the demand for domestic food crops will grow further. At full development, the
annual incremental production of fooderop under the project is estimated at
about 310,000 tons of foodgrains equivalent. This incremental production -
accounting for only about 2 percent of national demand -- is expected to be
readily absorbed into the domestic market. And marketing will be facilitated
with the improvements planned in the feeder road network, crop processing, and
the market intelligence system.
Procurement
72.       Contracts for plant, vehicles, equipment and spare parts costing
US$300,000 or more, would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding (ICB) In accordance with Bank guidelines.  Goods estimated to cost
US$60,000 or more but less than US$300,000 could be procured under local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.  Goods estimated to cost less than US$60,000 could be procured on
the basis of local competitive shopping. Domestically manufactured goods
procured under ICB would be allowed a 15 percent preference or the applicable
import duty, whichever is lower, for purposes of bid evaluation. The aggregate
cost of the above items expected to be procured locally is estimated at about
US$24.4 million. Due to the scattered nature of the works, contracts for
buildings totalling US$6.8 million would be procured by LCB, applying
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Road rehabilitation and spot improvements
consist of small and scattered works not likely to attract international
contractors. These contracts would, therefore, be awarded on the basis of
satisfactory LCB procedures. The following table summarizes the amounts and
methods of procurement with the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan shown
in parentheses:



- 21 -
Amounts and Method of Procurement
Project Element                    ICB       LCB          Other       Total
-        -- US$ million) -
Plant & Equipment,                45.5        20.0         6.8         72.3
Vehicles & Spare Parts         (45.5)      (8.7)                    (54.2)
Civil Works                        -         20.0          6.7         26.7
(15.0)       (5.0)        (20.0)
Fertilizer                        57.2        -           14.4         71.6
(57.2)                               (57.2)
Other Farm Inputs                  4.0        3.0          1.0          8.0
(3.5)      (2.4)       (0.5)         (6.4)
Training, Consultant                          -           10.1          10.1
Services & Studies                                      (6.6)        (6.6)
Salaries                                      -           67.7         67.7
& General Service                -          -          (17.6)       (17.6)
Total                          106.7       43.0        106.7        256.4
(IBRD)                         (106.2)     (26.1)       (29.7)      (162.0)
Disbursements
73.       The proposed loan would be disbursed over the period FY87-FY92.
Disbursements would be made as follows: vehicles, equipment, spare parts: 100
percent of foreign costs for imports and 75 percent of local expenditures; farm
inputs: 100 percent of foreign costs for imports and 80 percent of local
expenditures; civil works: 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 75 percent
of local expenditures; training, consultant services and studies: 100 percent
of costs; and operational costs and general services; 40 percent excluding
salaries.  Incremental recurrent costs for  aanagement and support services
would be financed on a constant percentage basis, firstly since the project
would be the first phase of a 10-12 year program (para. 45), and, secondly,
since a major share relate to initial development and would not be required to
sustain investments. The conditions of effectiveness of the Bank loan
described in paras. 63 and 69(a) and (b) aihove would be conditions of
disbursement for each state ADP. Also, satisfactory plans from each state for
fertilizer distribution, including the pa-;ticipation of private retailers,
would be a condition of disbursement for farm inputs (para. 49).
74.       To eliminate the need for the implementing agencies to pre-finance
expenditures eligible for financing under the Bank loan, a Special Account
would be established in foreign exchange for each state ADP and FMG for the
federal component. An initial deposit of US$500,000 would be made into each of



- 22 -
these accounts from the proceeds of the Bank loan. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that the replenishment of each of these accounts would be subject
to FMG and the relevant state government remaining current with their
contributions. All expenditures would be fully documented and disbursements
would be made either against authorized contracts or certified Statement of
Expenditures. Following expenditures would be on the basis of Statement of
Expenditure: contracts of less than US$60,000 equivalent for civil works and
less than US$20,000 equivalent for other categories; civil works carried out by
force account; and operational and general services costs. Provision has also
been made for retroactive financing of up to US$2.0 million for each state ADP
to reimburse the costs of start-up activities, operating costs and farm inputs
from the time of inception of PFT -- the first PFT was launched in June 1985 in
Imo State and start-up work was completed in all seven states by February 1986.
Economic Benefits
75.       The overall economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated at 23 percent
for components accounting for 80 percent of the total project costs. The
agricultural research and rural water supply components for which benefits were
not quantifiable and 50 percent of the cost of the roads component were
excluded. One half of the relevant road costs were excluded because a feeder
road study completed thus far demonstrates that 50 percent of the benefits
accrue from transport, marketing and vehicle operator cost savings beyond the
farmgate, the point at which the ERR is calculated. The ERRs on the individual
state ADPs range from 11 percent for Cross River to 39 percent for Imo.
Sensitivity tests show that the ERRs are fairly resilient for Anambra, Benue,
Imo and Plateau; those for Bendel and Cross River are more sensitive. Assuming
an opportunity cost of capital of 10 percent, the crossover value would be
reached for Bendel with a 36 percent reduction in fertilizer application or a
20 percent reduction in cassava uptake. For Cross River, the crossover value
would be reached with a 16 percent reduction in fertilizer or a 5 percent
reduction in cassava uptake.
76.       Some 350,000 smallholders cultivating less than 3 to 4 ha of land
each would be the major beneficiaries of the project. With an average family
size of 7-8, some 2.6 million people would be expected to benefit from the
project's agricultural components. At full development, 614,000 tons of
cassava, 78,000 tons of yams, 3,400 tons of potatoes and 36,000 tons of cereal
-- maize, rice and sorghum -- in total about 310,000 tons of foodgrain
equivalent, are expected to be produced annually. These increases in foodcrop
production resulting from the application of proven technology would increase
farm incomes by 35 percent.
77.       In addition, the project is expected to yield several unquantifiable
benefits. These include the upgrading of the rural infrastructure which would
improve the living conditions in rural areas, and the strengthening of
institutions responsible for managing the agricultural sector and providing
services to farmers.
Project Risks
78.       The state ADPs face several risks.  One is the possibility that
implementation would be delayed due to inadequate staffing, limitations in the
abilities of FACU to provide professional backstopping, and insufficient and
erratic counterpart funding. Measures have been incorporated in the project to



- 23 -
contain these risks.  Key project staff are to be appointed in at least three
states as a condition of loan effectiveness; additional recruitment for FACU
is already underway; the project has been scaled to fit within the state and
federal funding capabilities and additional safeguards have been built in to
ensure timely and adequate cash flows for the ADPs.
79.       Second, NRCRI and NSS may not be able to gear themselves up to reach
the projected multiplication rates for cassava planting materials. In order to
minimize this risk, the process of strengthening NRCRI and NSS would be started
early using retroactive financing provisions. Furthermore, incremental cassava
production estimates are based on fairly modest uptake rates of the new
varieties by farmers.
80.       Inefficient distribution of fertilizer and other farm inputs
represent a third area of risk. Participating states have already agreed in
principle to reorganize distribution including retailing a major portion of the
inputs through private retailers. This concept will be incorporated in the
states' plans for fertilizer distribution, submission of which is a condition
of disbursement against farm inputs.
81.       The implementation of the infrastructure components could also be
delayed and project roads and water supplies may not be adequately maintained
until LGC resources and capabilities are built up and local support is
mobilized. The emphasis on low cost investments and the measures to be taken
to step up their maintenance would, however, represent a substantial
improvement over the current situation.
PART V - RECONMENDATION
82.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 5, 1986
Washington, D.C.



- 24 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
3103314               - S0CIA I"UfltE3*SCA      _
uiodaf*                  hDflin~~~~ee ou      ue caon  1u s  p
mmr                      (MMi  -co   numTs) 4
KIDLIB INCOME 4COI      mc uc
aa~~ ~  ~ a. .   m. a0
b"  tw&bt Imamm                 AICi S. Or  LAA    . APICA & NO  AT
NrAL                               M23A       9238        923a
ARIOhLT17AL                        *71.0      07.4        Mn.A
a  P  Chit  ()                          .                    770.Q             1033.3                   1134.9
CL       r F OIL *qvau.r)           20.0       31.0       163.0             561.5                     623.9
POA_    A0  rL SA_U
P0OULAflOU.ND-T3AR CTN0WU )  51598          6132.0    93442.0
3 nPO AWE  CZOF TOTAL)        3.1       16.4        22.0              32.0                      49.0
vavuLaOni nwsonm
POUTIOI U VEln  2000 (MILL)                             162.7
STATIMf POPUTf06 CatLL)                                 532.0
POFULZATON M    t                                        2.0.
PaATuLlal DsiTn
P  SQ. Km.                       55.         71.6       101.4              65.1                      37A
MSQ. IN. at. LAM                1O0A       133.0       171.4              124.                     470.1
POPULATION AC SSTUUTURE CZ)
0-14 URS                         45.4       4.6         47.5              456                       43.5
15-64 US                         52.2        30.9       49.9               51.5                     53.0
65 AI3D3A                          2.3        2.3         2.4               2.7                       3.3
POPULATION GONTSx mAnI (2)
TOraL                              2.         2.5         2.7                2.9                      2.3
gamys                              4.7        4.7         4.9               5.1                       4.A
CRUDE 31B1M RAn (PR T1O00)         51.5        50.9       49.5               47.0                     40.0
CRO   RAn   ts PE CE 010)          25.0        21.1        16.7              15.0                      11.5
G3OSS bUOhlCuIC  KATE               3.4         3.         3.4                3.2                      2.8
AMILY PLANUING
hCCT0W. _UL  (i S                  .,         7.6
tISs CU or 1NR11D U )              ..         ..          60                6.4                      21.6
INDER OF FOOD P3D. FM CAPITA
(1963-71-100)                     100.0       102.0       *2A                U.9                      95.1
PER CAuzTA SuiPPLT OF
CAcGts CZ OF  7         )         6.0        31.0        94.0              93.5                     113.2
3M    s cA       DUr)            48.0        64.0 A8.0                     55.                       77.6
OF 0XC1 SNIGAL SM PULSE          10.0       11.0        IIA IC            164                       17.3
-ma (m  1-4) fAE  am               37.4        28.4        17.0              16.                       12.3
UlM EPbCT. AT 113 CYEARS)          39.0        43.5       48.6               52A                      57.3
IWAMT NW. AT  CSP TOONE)           163.5      140.4       113.0             101.8                     96f
ACCESS TO SANE MATS CxPor)
OtAL                              ..          ..          ..               42.                      67.2
m                                  ..         ..          ..               67.5                      93.4
i                                 ..          ..          ..               358                      45.8
ACCESS TO ECClS DISPOUL
(I OF OPOPoATIM)
TOUL                               ..         ..          ..               23.9                     45.9
1131                               ..         ..          ..               57.7                     63.0
L                                  ..         ..          ..               20.7                     23.6
rOPULATIC F  FUtLIM             73710.0    24670.0    12550.0 #           11791.7                   4331.0
PMP. Pit 33 FURSOM               4060.0      5070.0     3010.0             2459.                     1345.0
POP. Pi MoSfrrAL -
TOUL                            3020.0 f   2220.0      1180.0            31.1                     621.8
URBAN                           430.0      1 4t90.0     370.0A            36                        545.0
aURL                          25S63.0     1490.0      5490.0 a           4371.9                   2511.3
AUmaSSIOINS PER OSITA.L              ..         ..          ..               27.2                     25.7
AVERSE SIE OF NOUSIOLD
rota                      ..         ..          .                  ..
038*3                             ..           .7 lb
a                                  ..         ..          .                  ..
AVERAGE 30. OF PERSQNSI3OOK
TOTAL                             ..          ..
033*1                              3.0        2.2 /       .....
.-aU                                ..          ..          .                  ..
WWt                               ..          ..          .                  ..
038*1~                   31.3       *2.4/h        ....
a                                  ..         ..          .                  ..
:;~~~~~~~~gm                                              :           2/



-25 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
IGRIA                  - SOCIAL INICATO   DATA SIlET
NIGERIA                             REFERENCE GROS (WtEIGNtD AVERAGEI /a
MOST                    CMS RECEN ESTDIATE) 
19601k  19701Ik CENT           MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE  CW
1Ig6a      1970&! ESTIIAiTsL     ARIUCA S. OF SAIARA   N. AFRLCA & MID EAST
ADJUSTED ENROLLMNT RAIUOS
PRIHARYt  TOTAL                  36.0       37.0        96.0 Id           95.7                     69.6
UmLE                  46.0        47.0         ..              100.0                    103.7
FNALE                 27.0        27.0         ..               63.2                    75.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  4.0        4.0        16.0 fd           17.3                     42.9
MALE                   6.0         6.0        ..                25.0                    50.9
INHALE                 1.0         3.0        ..                14.8                    34.6
VOCAIoHNAL CZ or SECoNA)           4.6         6.5         3.1 Id            5.9                     10.0
PUPIL-TRACU  RATIO
PRIMARY                         30.0        34.0         ..               41.1                     29.7
SEGONDAR                         19.0       21.0         ..               25.5                     18.8
a-
PASSEIGER CABRS/THOUSAND POP       0.6         0.9         1.4 /t           20.6                     17A
RADIO REECIYERS/TlUSAND POP        2.8        19.3        72.9             107.6                    175.9
TV RC tIlERs/TUOsAID POP           0.0         1.1         5.0              20.6                     51.2
EVSPAPERt ("DALY GENRAL
INhZSTl) CIRACULAION
PM  THOUSD POPULaTION             5.5         4.6         5.6              18.4                     37.2
CUMs AUnIAL ATTENDAICEICAPITA       ..         ..         0.3 /d             0.4                      2.4
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (liS)         21766.0    25992.0    33544.0
FSHALE (PERCmIT)                 41.3       40.6        39.6              36.2                     11.0
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)            71.0       62.0        54.0 .9           54.5                     42.4
INDUSTRY (PIIUM?)                10.0       14.0        19.0 f            18.3                     27.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            42.2       39.3        35.8              36.J                     26.2
MALE                             50.3       47.3        4.0               47.1                     46.2
POMA1.                           34.4       31.5        28.3              27.2                      5.6
ECIONHIC DEPENDENCY RATIO           1.1        1.2         1.'               1.3                      1.6
INCOM DIE 3IJSIO
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BT
HIGHEST 507F HOUSIHOLDS           ..
HICHES 2SO F HOUSEROLDS           ..
LOVES? 20S or OUSULDS             ....
LOSEST  0107                      ..         ..          ...
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE FOYER IYhNCOM
LZVEL (US PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..         ..        696.0             590.7                    226.3
RURAL                             ..         ..        341.0             275.3                    134.0
-S         RELATIVE   -    -
LEVEL CUS PZR CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..         ..        621.0             545.6                   431.5
RURAL                             ..         ..        207.0             201.1                   326.0
ASTIHATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVZtY INCOME LEVEL (C)
mlu                              ........
RURAL                            ..          ..         ..                ..                      29.0
..NOT AVAILABLE
. NOT APPLICABLE
NOTES
/-The grasp averaeg for *ea indicator are popwlatioe-wmlgtzed aritbetic mane. Coverage of countrUec
aenon the Indicator. dependa on avala-blity of data and La not uniform.
lb  Unler  teutee *-ted. "Data for 1960" refer to an yea bewn 1959 and 1961; "Dta for 1970" betwee
1969 and 1971; ad daafor "oet Reat Neti " betwen 1961and 1963.
/e  1977; Id 1979; 1t 1962; /f  Incue a-North Cme rooe unde Iritibh a S-tratlen;  /A. 1976;  th 1972;
-      /Zw17a;l 1980.
JUNEZ. 1965
. ~ ~ ~ DI



- 26                                           ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DERNMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Noter Although mite dam ar drawn rm Surces generallyjuded the moat authoritative and miable, it should lso be notemd tlt they my not be internationaly
comparable becoue or the kek of standardied definition  nd accpto ued by differnt ountri in collecting the datmn The damn re nonethelk uefl to
describe ordus of magnitude. indicate trends, and chaacterie crtain maor diffrenc bdween countrie
The refnce groups are (1) the -u countr group of the Subject country and (21 a country group with omew  higher averag income than the country
group ofthe ubjoet ountry (xcpt for 'Hiha Iconice 01 Exportcrs" group where 'Middle Incomc North Afrca an Middk Eas is coen becaume of stronger
soeie-cultural sifitkis). In the refce group data the aveag  are population wegted arithmetic mes for each indicgtor and shown only when mjority
ofthe cAon  inagroup hs data fow taindilcator. Snc the covae ofo mntrics amon the indicator depend on the avaitbility orfdat and i not unifornm
caution tws he exercised in rdating averge orone indiator to another. The avcrag are only useful in comparing the value ofone indacawr at a ime antong
the coutry ad reference groups
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                          Crude Bnhk Rat (peffthoundJe--Numberof live births in tde year
Total-Total surface area cotmprising land area and inland waters:  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Cru  Dant Rate (per rhousud)j-Number or deaths in the year
Agrkcuhura-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or    per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops, pastures market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reprodqtin Ra-eAvemge number ofdaughters a woman
lie fallow, 1960, 1970 and 1982 data.                          will bear in ber nonnal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current       in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calculated by same conversion method as World       .hmiy    g-Accptws, Annal rhousandsj-Annual nun-
Rank Atlas (1981-83 basis): 1983 data.                         ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTlON PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  family planning program.
consumption of commrcial primary energy (coal and lignite,      kiuily  olming-Usm (pere  of aried w         roni)-The pecen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-  tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970, and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                     orchia-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49, although for
some countries contraceptivc usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                groups.
Toal Populaion. Mid- Year (thousdanda-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRMTION
and 1983 data.
Index of Feed Pnadsrcriaur Per Capita (1969-71 = 100)-Index of per
Urban Populto  (perceo tof ali)-Ratio of urban to total        capita annual production of all food commodities Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  cludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data,    indude primary commodities (eg. supgrcane instead of sugar)
POPuatio Pjwecu                                                which are edible and contain nutrients (eg. coffee and tea are
Population in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  excluded); they comprise cereals. root crops, pulses, oi seeds,
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetabtes. fruits. nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates, mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became-stationary.             Per Capita Supply ofCalrie (perC   ofrequhreieuts)-Comput-
Stationary populadon-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
sality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the proiccted characteristics of  and health considering environmental tenperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution ot population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                     waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Populaion Moments-ls the tendency for population growth to      Per Capita Supy of Pfaoin (grass per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply offood per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is, even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grans of total protein per
a atio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year e. given the assumption that fertility remains at replae-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year r onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Poplati  Density                                               average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqAkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               Per Caia Proein Supply Feom Animaload Pues-Protein supply
Per sqgkm. agricultual land-Computed as above for agricultural  offood derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-6.
land only. 1960,1970. and 1982 data.                            1970 and 1977 data.
Poplati  Age Structue (percet)--Children (0-14 years). work-   Chl (ages 1-4J Deart Rate (per theusand)-Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Popalasien Growth Rare (perceat)-total-Annual growth rates or  from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population For 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.    HEALTH
Populon Growth Rae (percent)t-uu--Annual growth rates    Lre Expetancy at Bink (years)--Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.     infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-27-                                        ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at the timi  of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life;  PupI-teacher Raiio - primary, and secondury-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 dataL                                     roled in primary and secondary 'levelc divided by numbers of
lIon   Martaity Rate (pgr dohand)-Number of infants who die    teaches in the corrsponding levels
before reaching one year of age per thousnd live births in a given
year; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPItON
Acces t Safe Wtw (percent of popIFtlon)-_toal uba. ad          Paswxer Cars (per e*sand populatimn-lassenger cas com-
Nral-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons: excludes ambul-
.me. to sre water supply (imcludes treated surface waters or   ances. hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  Rasls Rcedvrs (per thanadpopwlAtion)-AIA types of receivrs
borehoks. springs and  nitary wells) as percentages of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thou .nd or population;
tive populations In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  rgistrtion of radio sets was in effect: data for recent years may
as being within reasonable acms of that house. In riul are s   not be compamera  since most countries abolished licensing.
rasonable access would imply that the housewife or members of the
housdhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  rVR receivers (pve recivers for broadcast
in fetching the family's water needs.                          to general public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV
receivcrs in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
Access to Excreta Disposa (percent of, ndatnie)--total. -kman  in effect.
and rwal-Number of people (total, urban. and rural) served by
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  ALNs      Ciculatiox (per ehomndpopulaaonj-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may indude the colletion and disposaL with or  age circulation of 'daily general interest newspaper." defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording gral news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be dailr ir it appears at least our times a week.
Popslation per Phyciaa-Population divided by number of prac-   CGnen  AnnXa Atraen    e per Cita per Year-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university levl.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Popu_ltio per Nusing Person-Fbpulation divided by number of    drive-in cinermas and mobile units.
practcing male and femakl graduate nurss, assistant nurses,
pracical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                       LAOR FORCE
Poputon per Hosptl            , ub, ad ra-Population           Toral Labor Force (thotsand)-Economically active persons, in-
(total, urban, and rurl) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives,
hospital beds available in public and p r     iae, germal and spaialzd  students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rebabilitation centes Hospitals are establishmts  various countries are not comparabkl 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Fenial (perceark-FemaIe labor force as percentage of total labor
iding princpaly custodinl care are not included. Rural hospitals,    force.
howevcr include health and   dical centers not permanently staffed  Agricure (percest)-Labor force in farming. forcstry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
Of medical facilties.                                         1ndsry  (percer)-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
Adision per Hospia ed -Total number of admissions to or        facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds        force 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Prt*ad- RAte (percenJtHteora. n-k. andfiniale-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total. mail, and female labor force
Aveag Sie of Hoe ld (prsons  r hause       ,)-toe4 urba,       as percentages of total. male and female population of all ages
andrural-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates refcting age-sex structure of the population, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A fcw estimates are from national sources.
Aveag Numbe of Persons per Room-tot, Sba, and ral-             Econeoai Dependency Raie-Rltio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room ._ z!l urban. and rural     65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DlSfRIDBtlON
Perentage of Dweifngs wit Electriciy-totaf, urban, ad rura-   Percnage of Nea Disposabkle  om   (both n cafk ad kind)-
Conventional dwellings with dectricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups or households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban. and rural dwellings respectively.        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4sted Erolnelt Ratios                                        The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Pfimry showol - total, male and femakl-Gross total. male and  levels. and should be interpreted with consideiable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary klvl as percentages of  Esmated Absolute Poverty Incow Level (fUSS per capita)-urbon
respctive primary school-age populations While many countries  and ruralm-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are refkcted in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estimated Relive Poverty Income Level (US per eiapa)--rban
education. gross enrollment may exed 100 percent since some   and ruwra-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  averagc per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondmry schol - total. mak andfemale-Computed as above      living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Etimated Populaton Below Absoue Poverty Income Level (per-
mary instruction; provides general, vocational, or teacher traning  centD-urban and rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are -absolute poor.
ence courses are generally exduded.
Vocationa Enrolbleni (percent of secondary)-Vocational institu-          Comparative Analysis and Data Division
lions include tehnical. industnaL or other programs which operate     Economic Analysis and Projections Department
indepcnendy or as departments of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



-28 -                                    ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
ECONGC INDICATMRS
CROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1984                    ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (. Constant Prices)
USS Nlo                    1975-80         1982           1983
CNP at Market Prices           73001    100.0              3.5           -2.3           -5.9
Gross Domestic Investment       9568      13.1             1.2          -23.9          -20.4
Gross National Saving          11384      15.6             1.2          -39.4           13.0
Current Account Balance         -321       -               -              -              -
Exports of Goods and nfs       12341      16.9             5.5          -23.7           -7.3
Imports of Goods and nfs       10527      14.4             6.3          -15.9          -24.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVrIY IN 1984
Value Added           Labor Force  a/    Value Added per Worker
USS Mln        S          Mln         %        USSlin    %
Agriculture              22702        31.4        21.0       58.3       1081       53.8
Industry and Mining      24510        33.9         7.1       19.7       3452      171.7
Services                 25178        34.7         7.8       21.7       3228      160.5
Total/Average           72390       100.0        36.0      100.0       2011      100.0
GOVEMENT FINANCE b/
General Government (1983)         Central Government (1984)
N Mln         As % of GDP          N Mln       As % of GDP
1983         1983      1980-82     1984       1984    1980-82
Current Receipts                12328        25.3        29.1       7342      13.3      18.6
Current Expenditure             14840        30.5        19.7       7635      13.8      11.1
Current Surplus                 -2512        -5.2         9.4       -290      -0.5       7.5
Capital Expenditure              8246        16.9        26.5       2783       5.0      14.9
External Assistance (net)        2760         5.7         2.7        -16       -         0.7
;DNEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1977    1978   1979   1980   1981  1982  1983   1984
MrIltiiWl Rair-a-Mistiian-g Ea3-PerTod)
Money and Quasi Money                7050   7691   9849  14390  15541 16887  19369  21601
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)  2068   3337   3439   3589   6607  10528  15825  18200
Bank Credit to Private Sector        3443   4723   5417   7191   9654 11372  12354  12942
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % (GP       21.7   22.0  24.0  29.8  31.9  33.0  39.8
General Price Index (1975-100)      143.0  166.7  186.3  204.9  247.5  266.5  328.4  458.4
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                 15.4    16.6  11.8  10.0  20.8   7.7   23.2   39.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector       345.0   61.3    3.0    4.4   84.1  59.3   50.3   15.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector       42.8    37.2  14.7   32.8   34.3  17.8    8.6    4.8
- - Negligible.
Note: All conversions to US dollars are at the average exchange rate prevailing during
the period covered.
a/ Derived from planning documents and refers to the number of gainfully employed (based
on 1983 distribution).    -
b/ Based on the Government Budget estimates, IMF data, and World Bank estimates.
Kay 1986



-29-                                     ANNEX  I
Page 6 of 6
TRADE PAYHENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BA1ANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                       MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (1984)
1981   1982 a/   1983 bt  1984 c/                               USS Mn         __
CWflTionT US SY               Crude Oil                  1568         96.8
Cocoa Products              331          2.8
Exports of Goods, nfs           11894      12703     10890    12341       Palo Products                  7           -
Imports of Goods, nfs            24190     18353     13865    10527       Tin                           MA          NA
Others                       42         0.39
Resource Gap (deficit - -)       -5296     -5650     -2975     1814                                                -
Interest Payments (net)            262      -599      -970    -1302            Total                11948        100.0
Other Factor Payoents (net)       -916      -709      -355      -501      ETEAL DEBT, ECEM    31. 1985 d/
Net Transfers                     -565      -430      -395      -332                              USS Hln
Balance on Current Account       -6515     -7388     -4696      -321
Public Debt Including
-   -  -         Undisbursed               16730
Direct Foreign Investment          546       431       365       293      Non-Guaranteed
Private Debt
Net Official Borrowing             813      3040      3848       -64       Outstanding                1081
Disbursement                     1416      3677      4865      1911
Amortization                     -603      -637     -1017    -1975       Total Outstanding
and Disbursed            14257
Other Capital (net)                156      3630      2016       192      DEBT SERVICE  -IO FOR 1985 e/
Errors and Omissions                78     -1806     -1801         -
Overall Balance                  -4922     -2093      -268       100
Public Debt Including
-           -__________________  -   -     Undisbursed                            33.7
Reserve Movements (Incr. -)      4922       2093       268      -100      Km-Guaranteed
Reserve Level                     3895      1802      1534      1634       Private Debt                            2.8
Fuel and Related Material                                                 Total Outstanding
Imports                                                                   and Disbursed                         -3r;:S
of which:  Mineral Fuels        288        262       201      165       TURD/1DA LENDIN  AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1985
Exports                                                                  ___________S_F _______1_18
of which: Petroleum           17401      12777      9857    11568                                   IBRD         IDA
EXCHANGE RAIE                                                             Outstading and
1978 - N1.00 - USS1.57                                                    Disbursed                   1267        34.7
1979 - N1.0O - US$1.66                                                    Undisbursed                 1011         --
1980   N1.00 - USS1.83
1981 : N1.OO - USS1.63
1982 : N1.0O - USS1.49                                                    Outstanding Including
1983   N1.00 - USS1.38                                                     Undisbursed                2278        34.7
1984 -N1.00 - US$1.31
1985  N1.0o   USS1.12                                                     IRD/IDA share of External DOD            9.1%
IBRD/IDA share of External Debt Service 2.9%
- - Negligible.  NA - Not available.
a/ Provisional. b/ Official Estimates.
cl World Bank Estimates. The 1985 BOP cannot yet be completed
as the level of imports and debt data are still being reconciled
(see footnote d/ below).
d/ External Debt estimates refer to medium and long-tern loans,
including S1306 million of the 1984-85 rescheduled uninsured trade
arrears. The MLI data base is presently being updated by EPD. The
DOD figures at end 1985 are likely to be revised upwards. EBtimates
of short-term debt range between S4.5-5.0 billion. It is expected
that between S3.5-4.0 billion of this, in the form of trade arrears,
is likely to be reconciled and rescheduled as MLT by end 1986.
e/ Ratio of HLT debt service to exports of goods and non-factor
services.



-30-                                                      ANNEX It
Tot n&tui or BANK GUlP OUATlOulS
A.  iTATuwft 0733  Claw OTIPUTlu xo macima La
Lean or                                                                  CMai
credit                                                                  les
!fnesr  Tour  U  srur_er
Thancy eight Ieami a   tw  crdit. fully disbursed             703.7    55.3 lb
,II      197*     lgerias   EXC Stats Oil Pal                  19.0                3.0
1331     1973     Nigeria    Nuc. tat. 5sllhuiOer o0l          30.6                0.0 e
1397     1978     Nut3       isiutrial Dewele_ut               31.9                3.3
1*67     1979     NgierIa    4rc. Dew. -  ldg                  23.0 .7
10*3     2979     Nigeria    hurSc. Des. - Il1flr              27.0                5.7
1279     1979     NIseria   Forestry                           31.0                1.&
1211      979    Nligeria    Maar supply - 1ade_               92.0               52.2
1719     1979     slgerla    Asic. 0 htael  1zt let.            9.0                3.0
17o      2930     NIPA Pesr Lapes                             20.0                67.3
1707     290       Niria    Urba Development - 'euchi          17.3                0.7
1233     29N0     114a    Apts. Dew. - Oe l-tnok               23.0 57.I
lUlL     1930     Nigeria    Larkc. U.'. - 3kizi-*hsba         32.1S              13.2
1333     290      Neria s     eeds                             70.0               17.6
1921    2131      nigeria    agns. Dew . - macmma             132.0               23.3
1962     112      NItgerie    Aie. Dew. - Naen                262.0               06.0
2029     1932     Nienre    Tech. Asistance - A4rs.            67.0              23.3
2036     1932     Nstirie    Meter Supply -   Sibre            07.0               62.3
lo33     1922     IDA        Pser - Dlectribulen               100.0              33.3
2133     1982     Nigtria    Agrlc. De. - Sokoto               147.0              SGI
2299     1933     wDs         Indutral Dewelnpuet              120.0             107.7
2345     196      Nlgeria    Fertiliser Imert                 230.0               30.0
2370    1294      IUCK      511 6 Medi  Scale Industry    41.0                   60.0
*2390     193'    KMC         Tach. Ast. - Ge taginseris        25.0               23.0
)                        2rU6     193      Niuria      arkI. Dew. - KIdna               122.0            121.7
2'86     1985     Nigerie    Tech.  tat                         13.0              12.2
:503     1985     sigria    Health - Sokoo                     36.0              3U.0
2528     1985     Nigeria   lMter Supply - lorns                72.0              72.0
2607     1935    Dligria    Urban - lao                        53.0               33.0
b2018      1925       igerias   Induetry - Tecb. Aeet.             5.0               5.0
2020     1933     Nisea    Urban   Lage Solid Usete            72.0               72.0
Teoel                                              2.7269      35.3  1.069.3
Of which ba  been repaid                                        3.8
otal  utseadln                                     2.i         2
Amunt sald                       1.6C
Of which hue been repaid         Nfl                   0.0
Total r_ held by Sak 6 IDa                         2.365.0    29.1
Total wnitebwrud                                                      1 049.8
3. STATUO         _ OF INC
(Au 1 Ma-rch 31f 195
Fleacl                                   Type of         A_,unt In USt MUt
Yer                                       uie-             n      411    S l
1 . 1297.   Arwe Textils Ltd.    Ttile Ntg.    1.0                0.0        1.6
2970
190'           Nigeria Inuutrial         De. Fla. Co.              1.C       1.6
Del_pmnt Bak Ltd.
1973           Isem Cottoseed            Veg. 01       1.6                  1.0
Cruaig Ltd. Cnebing
19'3. 197'    Nigeria AIhLMm             Aluminm        1.0       0.3        1.3
Kxnaeian Ltd.            Proeeming
1974           Lafiag  Sugar            SAgr                       0.1       0.1
Estate
1930           mmh                       Textiles       6.:        0.7       0.9
1981, 1985    Ilkje Naotl               Tourism        10.3        1.       212,
.s8S          T1sr Battery              Dry-cell       *-                   *
Total greo- ceneitnts                   25.0       4.5      29.5
Les cancellaslonc. ctalog-
tine. repyeues and I*u                           1.6       0.3
Total icotrnet now bald by ITC          20.3       2.9      23.2
Undluburued                              2.0       0.2       1.2
Not yet st ettie.
Not yet 5a5ed.
e  The sterus of the projecs lasted in Pert A is de-eribed in la a    ste
report oaf *Se nk/IDA financed pro3ects Ln executlon  whch la
upeated twice yearlve nc circulated to the EIecuti.e Director on
Apr.l 31 and October 31.
lb  Prior to exehenr  rate ejuutnents.
It   a2nAet  cc Small to be reflects d n this table.



- 31 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 2 years.
(b)  Project prepared by:  Federal Government of Nigeria.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:  May 1982
(d)  Date of first Bank mission to consider the project:  November 1983.
(e)  Date of departure of the appraisal mission:  May 1984
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:  August 2, 1985                       /
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:  November 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        The fol'lowing conditions would be fulfilled prior to loan
effectiveness.
i)   The officer-in-charge of cassava multiplication and the chief
accountant for NSS would be appointed (para. 58).
ii) The FACU Regional offices at Benin, Enugu and Jos would be
staffed to a level acceptable to FMG and the Bank (para. 64);
iii) All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD loan
agreement would be fulfilled (para. 68);
iv) The following actions would be completed in at least three
States: (a) a project account would be opened in a commercial
bank with an initial deposit from both FMG and the State
equivalent to six months local funding requirement; (b) a
letter would be sent instructing the Central Bank to debit the
State's account and credit the project account with the



- 32 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
State's contribution monthly in advance; and (c) ADPMU would
be established and key ADPMU staff with qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory
to FMG and the Bank appointed (paras. 63, 69); and
v)   FMG would open a Central Fund account with an initial deposit
equivalent to six months of the local funding requirement
(para. 69).
2.        Conditions of disbursements would be as follows:
i)   The fulfillment of the conditions set out in para. l(iv) above
would be a condition of disbursement of loan proceeds to the
relevant state (paras. 63, 69);
ii)   Approval by the Bank of satisfactory plans for fertilizer
distribution would be a condition of disbursement against farm
inputs for the relevant state (para. 49).
3.        Other special conditions include the following:
i)   States would submit annual work programs for feeder roads by
September 1 each year to FACU and the Bank for approval; FACU
engineers would certify satisfactory completion of the work
and retain certificates for inspection (para. 50).
ii)   NSS would set up a revolving fund with the revenues from the
sale of cassava planting material and tubers to finance the
recurrent costs of the multiplication program (para. 57).
iii)   FMG would commission an evaluation of the operations of NSS
for review with the Bank by June 30, 1987 (para. 58);
iv)   Herbicides and small pumps would be sold to farmers at the
market price and the full cost of production and distribution
of seeds and fruit tree seedlings would be recovered
(para. 70).



IBRO 15R'
r     ;.                    ,          ~~~~~~~~~~N I G   E    R                                     Rs+s                                                                  NIGERIA
,.                                                                                                          >             <      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGRICULTURA^iL PROJECTS
F X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- =)
le ^=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OMM
. * '> C ,. ,x1n Us/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,: -~
PE I                                                                                                                                             BOR  _ 
iN,, 00 f AS,>y, 1.<,, t-H-~~~~~~~~~~~uaWlE I lK>AI~~~~CE@';W* oo-
i:: G 0 / Cat.t 0 _--' _t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,>-' _ -- @4 ] !-_~~~~~HA                                                                                  s
. X , - - f . .== f - . f f . . C 0~~~~~~~~A



