Document of
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24349
ThL ADT L2A ,fl KTr A rTT(ThT fVTh ADT rTrCFnKT D 11DfND Tr
I.LVi .,LaL  Ld   rL IL 1W...I %.A.J1VII LA,i. lWil.i   I'-J.,i WJI%.A
(IDA-28 150)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 33.6 MILLION
(-US$50.0 MILLION EQ-U-IVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
JRJNP 24- 2002
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution andr may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 2001)
Currency Unit = Taka
Taka I = US$ 0.0175
US$ 1 = Taka 56.96
FTSCAT. VFAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARI              Agricultural Research Institute
ln   A n d       n   I 1o   A   L A A   A. -.1, . .  ...............  In A ------L   . _ 1.
D\,          D~~~.)ngaUVSlAub 11111UILLUdl V1V,0aLWl I-UUII9I
BARI             Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute
BAU              Bangladesh Agricultural Univursity-
BFRI             Bangladesh Forest Research Institute
BJKI             Bangladesh Jute Research institute
BLRI             Bangladesh Livestock Research Institute
BRRI             Bangladesh Rice Research institute
BSRI             Bangladesh Sugarcane Research Institute
CRP              Contract Research Program
DAE              Department of Agricultural Extension
DFID             Department for International Development, UK
FRI              Fisheries Research Institute
FSR              Farming Systems Research
GB               Governing Board
GOB              Government of Bangladesh
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IDA              Intemational Development Association
IRR              Intemal Rate of Retum
MIS              Management Information System
MTR              Mid-Term Review
NARS             National Agricultural Research System
NC-O             Non-goVeMrmnent Orgnizaton
NPV              Net Present Value
DpETDD A         D P,..,rn-4                 D   --U R  A--i.ce
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
SDR              Special Dr-a-w,,ng Rig,ht
TA               Technical Assistance
USAID            United States Agency for intemantional Development
Vice President:   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:    Frederick Thomas Temple
Sector Manager/Director:   Constance A. Bernard
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Robert S. Epworth



FIOD IXU'1i'T AT TTQ' U5E   T O
BANGLADESH
Agricultulra Research Mannagemnt Prige't
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5. Major Factors Affecting hmplementation and Outcome                                  8
6. Sustainability                                                                      8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    11
9. Partner Comments                                                                   12
10. Additional Information                                                            12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  13
An-nex 2. Pro,ect Costs and Financing                                                 15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  17
Ax 4. AD.-I, T-UL                                                                     18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  19
eUx1, V. RALUr. of 4IJIa. aJU Borrower Prei Li -m ce             20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 21
Amex 8. Borrowers Contribution to ule iCR                                             22
MAP: IiKRD NO. 27270: Agricultural Research Management Project
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
witnout vv oria Bank authoriz;aiion.






Project ID: 0UU9484                                        Project N4ame: Agricuiture Kesearchn management
Team Leader: Robert S. Epworth                             TL Unit: SASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         I Report Date: June 24, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Agriculture Research Management                  IC/T-FNumber: iDA-28i50
Country/Department: BANGLADESH                                             Region: South Asia Regional
OillLce
Sector/subsector: AR - Research
KEY DATES
Originali           jXevL.)dWAc,u4(4
PCD:    08/19/91                               Effective: 07/31/96            07/31/96
A l~ hi 71Ac                                    A X'rD. AnlilqnAO           I Am i /no
Appruais. a i:  0   117/                                 T IVA.. V71J0170          1VI0/:1/98
Approval:  02/08/96                                 Closing:  12/31/2001          12/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  Government of Bangladesh (GOB)/Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
10 A DC'\ , aglds A           D- ----. UT- D-    A OAT\ % .,A.    .
ItAJn.zXt., nan5Lavauzs n5, LuILuLG*  * .,wWs soLaua) kLn.sJ IJvWfla*U..*I
Research Institute (BRRI), Bangladesh Jute Research Institute (BJRI), Bangladesh
Livestock Research Institute (BLRT), Bangladesh Sugarcane Research Lnxtitlite
(BSRI), Bangladesh Forest Research Institute (BFRI), and Fisheries Research
Institute (FRI).
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:       Mieko Nishimizu                            Joseph Wood
Country Manager:      Frederick Thomas Temple                    Pierre Landell-Mills
SVePctor Manager:     Constance A. Bernard                       Ridwan Ali
Team Leader at ICR:   Robert Epworth                             John Mclntire
ICR Prnmar, Author-   Elon (3ilbert and Chris Finnev
(FAO-CP)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HiS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsaisfactory, HL=Highily Likely, L=Likeiy, UN=Unlikely, HIu=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainabilitv: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
OAG (if available)         ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Prniect at Rivk at Any Time: Yes



' A    --   .  .df 1   .. A.f L.  a    --    A       i- n.    tt -
3.   ssessment Ii Deveilpment Objecuve aiu Desigln, aiiuf Quaiiy at Ety
3.1 Original Objective:
The project objective is to increase the efficiency of the national agricultural research system (NARS) and
thereby generate profitable, relevant and sustainable agricultural technologies for Bangladeshi agricultural
producers. The project would achieve its objective through: (a) strengthening BARC's capacities in
research organization and management, including better research resource allocation; (b) supporting
priority research; and (c) strengthening research linkages to extension through participatory farming
systems research.
This objective was realistic and appropriate in relation to the policies of the Government of Bangladesh
(GOB), in that it contributed to the national objective of agricultural growth and poverty alleviation
through investment in human capital, physical infrastructure and institutional reforms needed to improve
the agricultural research system and promote technological change within the sector. The obiective also
supported IDA's 1995 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal of promoting the generation and adoption
of agricultural technologies that intensify land use, encourage crop diversification, create farm emplovment
and protect the environment. Although there were eight institutions involved in project implementation -
seven Agricultural Research Institutes (ARIs) and the apex research organization, the Bangladesh
Agricultural Research Council (BARC) - this did not introduce any undue complexity into project design,
as ARIs normally operate in a coordinated fashion under the leadershin of BARC.
3.2 Revised Objective:
No revisions were made.
3.3 Original Components:
The project has three components:
Research Organization and Management ($13.99 million) would strengthen research planning and
manageal capaubiues of BARC thrugh carrymg out of insuiutonal reiorms, improvea economic
analysis of research programs, technical assistance, construction and rehabilitation of civil works, training,
contract researcn and supervision of new master plans for participating ARis;
Priority Research ($4057 miuon) would be carried out in the ARJs on crops, fisheries, livestock and
forestry; and
Participatory Farming Systems Research ($4.56 milion) would strengthen farming systems research
programs through support to research-extension linkages and testing dissemination of appropriate
technology.
These components were appropriate and realistic in relation to the project objective and the situation of
BARC/ARIs at the time of appraisal. The earlier Second Agricultural Research Project (ARP II) ended in
1992 and the USAID supported ARP II Supplement in 1994. Although initial ARMP preparation started in
1992, appraisal did not take place until 1995. During this period, a significant number of well qualified
and experienced research staff left the NARS to seek employment elsewhere. As a result, crucial research
management practices that had been initiated under these earlier projects were beginning to lapse -
including research program priority setting, financial and human resource management and use of
management information systems. Hence, there was a significant element of institutional rebuilding in the



deqign of ARMP; concentrating on develoning and institutionalizing imnmved research manaaement
techniques, underpinned by substantive, well focused technical assistance and raining programs. This was
apnrnpriate inder the circusTainneq- hnit with hind-i6ht- mnre pnriect sipnnnrt was needed to ensure BARC
was able to recruit and retain the complement of staff required to effectively fulfill BARC's expanded role
e th,e NARS apexo nrgni7Aton; and to effectively nrarnni7P nndi mAnmae the Imrep trginin  and TA
program.
3.4 Revised Components:
No major revision of the components took place.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
This is rated as satisfactory. A great deal of thought went into project design, drawing from the lessons
le.ed from a series of earlier      p      f;A-    1,ced by A a"A nthevr Adon^v Th nrn.pe_t was
generally well conceived and the objectives supported the Govermment's priority of achieving food grain
SAfUl t       --U WA -A  cons SA+1   -VU.  nJOa'5UM- D .-.  A  FAS -l a; V ;J.fto' b
C) and pest management. The design clearly recognized the fact that improved research project
pi vio uzauiu auu asZoiLAAaW IIVeiuili&j Lii u. ,. a.aofarese.h ut vin Zv_s%Mh LuClLUr  toc uWg[
efficiency and effectiveness of agricultural research in Bangladesh, and that relevance and cost
eficuUVeneus VI u,i resU cmun wo uu Ur, IfUUIVI uliWIUVrU uy w.coLiu1agLur ngL UcorpeUUU Iu fUUnds UPLWbe U
institutions (contract research program) and improving linkages between research, extension and fams
iarmmg- sysuar;S     prvpiUi).  aUity EU cUy Wdb greauy ;  wU   uy uJz D1M b UiLbIUU LU Uvauy
appraisal until agreement was reached with the Govermment on the future role of BARC, solidifying it as an
apex organization fior NARS responsible for research organization and, utiih-iiely, rnseacuh funding. As a
direct result of this agreement, the BARC Act was approved in 1996 - creating a BARC Goveming Body
and Boards of Management for each ARi and iaying the groundwork for greater personnel, fin ancial and
research management autonomy being conferred on these new bodies. However, in hindsight, there was
probably insufficient appreciation by both the Bank and implementing agencies of the work involved in
operationalizing these principles, especially involving the granting of personnel and financial management
autonomy to organizations still operating within the public service system, and reliant on annual budget
allocations from the Govemment.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of project objectives is rated as satisfactory. There has been an improvement in the
efficiency and impact of public sector research organizations as measured by substantial progress in
research management effectiveness as well as gains in the productivity of the research system, as confirmed
by extemal reviews and ex-post economic analyses of research sub-projects. Particularly noteworthy
achievements have been the preparation of a national research strategy by BARC and management plans by
each ARI; the success of the contract research program, which has encouraged increased research
discipline, accountability and incentives for good performance; and the holistic approach adopted to
research through the fanming systems research activity. These initiatives are already enhancing efficiency
at the critical research sub-project level, and promoting the generation of technology of practical use to
farmers in enhancing productivity. However, the institutional and operational reform agenda is still
ongoing, and the extent to which the gains made under ARMP can be consolidated and built upon is
dependent on committed future leadership at BARC and ARIs and associated strong sunpnort from line
Ministries.
-3 -



12coovrh (Irgani7fatinn Anal Masnsapmpnt ({i:1tQ mrliinn)- Thp nvprqll anhiApvmment nfthiq mmnnnent
which supports improvements in research planning, development of contract research and underlying
nt;.atonnal r--fo.rm. s, i A ed-                      -       + as sadfaerv-
(az)   .wasa.  Parnin           g an     d flU  ..tIJfl5.  A 100 fivty is , t   aatac.ory. -. ACJ   has
prepared a Vision for Agricultural Research (2000 to 2020) that defines the overall goals of the
1rIILAND in lIation GLLF1.1 GoUve' L ment . poiy bjetUIve L, ar.d UL ajJpproach. Ir-eUUdA to aLLaJu uVoo r S.
Using this strategy, all ARIs have prepared or upgraded their Master Plans (2000 to 2005), based
on- agreed plotie     ------c ac--.ze  n    noloa       =ac       n -  --Jla --o-A  c
4iU FJIIULIUL.VU  MDUM.L,U dLL,YUVU5 WIU LI1IAIF1jA14UJJr ILL ILUIWal, dfU UIUIIJaiI LVbUUiI.,
requirements. Supporting this work were external reviews of the mandate and operational
efficiency of each ART, wiuh recoiuiinende action pians prepareu for ivianagement Boards; and a
separate exercise to identify duplication of facilities between ARIs and rationalize these wherever it
is practical. Strong ernphasis has also been given to assessing the field impact of research
programs, and several impact studies on research projects have been completed. The master
planning exercise and associated TA provided BARC and ARi staff with good training and
hands-on experience in using these planning procedures. The need for prioritization of research
activities is now widely accepted by scientists and much progress has been made in setting up
systems and enhancing capability within BARC/ARIs to use these. However, due the delayed start
to this exercise (awaiting the engagement of relevant TA), by Credit closing, practical application
of the planning process has been limited: BARC proposes to revise all plans in 2002, and will have
to take into account the likely absence of substantial extemal funding, and the effect this will have
on existing and future programs. To support the new planning process, training and TA has been
provided to help develop a management information system (MIS). Software has been installed at
all participating ARIs and basic data is currently being inputted. Utilization of MIS by senior
managers of BARC/ARIs is only just beginning, but there is the general perception that the system
is practical and will be used extensively in the future.
(b)    Contract Research: This is rated as satisfactory. With a budget allocation of US$7.7 million, the
contract research program (CRP) was a major activity of this component. A total of 242 research
projects were implemented and over 80% of the allocated funds were disbursed. A recent
comprehensive extemal review of the program concluded that it has successfully furthered the
concept of demand-led applied research. The shortcomings of the earlier ARP II supported
contract research program were effectively addressed in the design and implementation, with
procedures established to strengthen project selection; focus research on priority problems; foster
inter-institution and inter-disciplinary work; and utilize the scientific expertise of universities,
NGOs, and private sector research organizations. Through the project, contract research
management has improved considerably, applying the procedures set out in the CRP Manual
produced by BARC. Only 37% of the 650 proposals received were approved, indicating a rigorous
selection process. There has been good progress in improving the procedures for proposal review,
progress reporting and technical monitoring, and funds disbursement. As would be exnected- the
majority of contracts have gone to ARIs (56% by number, 64% by value) and this will have a
positive effect on improving the efficiency of public sector agricultural research, if key elementq of
the contracting process are also incorporated into the management of the core research programs.
A qignificantiv npoitive feature of the nrogrnm waq that 77% of rnntrac.ts went tn universitipc And
9% to NGOs, although only a handful of contracts went to private sector. About 8% of contracts
-4 -



weare arAeA for ,-ltAc.pB;rr, -an               -.,nror A rA or rfon fo the low
proportion of NGO and private sector involvement was the limited number of players, compounded
by thei; I.-I, ofr -l-opslpeao   capability  vral,-   +U,e contrac resea-1. iriia _e a
I.W.41i  1(4(Z  VI jJ1(JjJ.JCa   PI VjJaCLE.LI C.EjJaAJ1Ly.  '..JVILaiI, UIV  ..,UIIUa%,L  I a &%al.&  UutlauIV%*. UCO..
encouraged greater research discipline and greater accountability from participating researchers,
w.1Uch is critic O .0 iiApu1kiUVU  1 iihe  .Acie.Lq UI=l U1e sed.I.s SySstel.
W. I.41..LO....I%a TVR  ...... 1F1VLL  LiL,U   X  LUbUc ..R.  .lVL  t. L
(c)    Ju.uLuUunm RefCurms:; V.,u uba.ance, ahieuvemnuts were sausfactury-, inuougn uuhis ib aunongoin
process and more needs to be done. The authority and autonomy of BARC and the ARIs to set
researuh priorities aind manage their research programs nas been strengthened during tne project
period, building on the provisions of the 1996 BARC Act. Two Standing Committees on Budget,
and Research Programming have been established to review proposals submitted to the BARC
Governing Body, and this has enhanced the decision-making process. Criteria for promotions at all
autonom6us ARJs now specifically feature merit, whereas previously this was based largely on
seniority; and associated with this, objective criteria for the selection of candidates for higher
training have been developed and are now being applied by all ARNs. The BARC_ now has the
authority to operate as the apex organization for NARS, but because of a freeze on filling vacant
staff positions, is still constrained to some extent in exercising its expanded authority. Action to
correct this is still under process by GOB, but has been so for some time. Although independent
Management Boards have been created and are functioning in all autonomous ARIs, government
service and financial rules (which dictate how research'staff and finances are managed and
controlled) remain in place to a considerable degree, and this aspect of the institutional reform
process, in which BARC invested a lot of effort, is therefore still evolving.
After a difficult start caused by problems over software selection, considerable effort was made in
the latter stages of the project to enhance financial management of BARC/ARls. Software and
supporting manuals covering personal management, budget, accounting and auditing have been
developed. However, to date, the new system is only being used for payroll and accounting at
BARC and some ARls. The factors contributing to the slow implementation were the lengthy
process engaging qualified consultants to identify suitable software and modify it to the specific
needs of ARIs, the lack of computer-skilled financial management staff in research organizations,
and their inability to provide sufficient incentives to attract these staff, a generic problem of most
public sector organizations. BARC continues to upgrade the software to meet emerging demands,
and organize computerized financial management training for ARls recognizing that the only likely
solution to the staffing skills issue is to train those staff already in post.
Priority Research ($40.57 million): The achievement of this component is rated as satisfactory, covering
activities supporting the core ARI research programs and associated  training and TA, as well as
procurement of civil works, eauipment and vehicles.
(a)    ART Core Research Pronrams: This was rated as satisfactorv. Assessments of ART research
programs carried out as part of the external mandate reviews, and by the Bank's supervision team
in My/June 2001 all crncluded that simnific.Ant imnrmvevmentq had been mrnde in the nnAlitv and
quantity of core research activities. The external reviews looked at the research programs of each
ART in Snme detail and the findincrg were oenern1lv nneitive. Th-e e-nYpnot imnnnt a.sessmPntc
undertaken on several research program areas show high IRRs (Section 4.3). There is some
evidence of resPa--h therm.es and assessment criteria being modied in respnseto feedback from
farmers via the Farming System Research (FSR) programs, although this has not been pursued as
disciplntes an oaght hanizaional bounda   horied  confin e  mainly to o F  programs aottohin tag.ss
disciplines and organizational boundaries, but confined mainly to the FSR programs at this stage.



TueI oU oI LULiIy LU sV . U   -IlarV,ge UI1, -al EVGUi r1p.aac. u LLai aV3LW1 Un LU'., rese&Oh 'GL'.4a
the program and project level in the core research programs, either as participants or sources of
UUfLorLIUon anU suppUr. Was LUI-I. eU y UIV, l4W. VI priVate seLtLoc LcpAciLLY ULi tLis a.-ea, alUL1usUb LUe
post harvest technology work by BJRI is a notable exception.
(b)    Training and Technical Assistance: This aspect of the project is rated as satisfactory. This was
a major project activiy, accounting for haif ie CreditA amio and invol-ving tr4aining for 114
PhDs, seventeen Masters degrees, and over 400 short-termr training courses; complemented by two
hundred consulamnt months each of intemational and national techmncal assistance.  he scale andu
complexity of the program logistics proved too much for BARC/ARIs to handle, and eventually the
implementation was outsourced to a professional training finmL Aithougn this involved a start-up
delay of about two years, when the programs did commence under the new arrangement, progress
was excellent and in the end, the original TA and training programns were implemented fully. Tne
academic training and study tours were successfully implemented, enhancing the scientific skills of
BARC/ARI, particularly the younger institutes such as FRI, BLRI and B3SRI. The quality of
consultancy services was also generally high, and this has been instrumental in providing an
impressive body of infornation encompassing both assessments of current program performance
and proposed future directions tailored to the specific needs of BARC and individual ARls. Ideally,
both programs should have started earlier in the project, in time for staff to have on the job
experience in applying specific skills during the final years of the project, and to allow better
coordination between the two programs to ensure research staff who would potentially benefit most
were not on study-leave at the time the consultancy assignment took place. Notwithstanding this,
both programs have been successful in upgrading the skills base in all ARIs and BARC.
(c)    Civil Works and Equipment: This is rated as satisfactory. The civil works program at ARIs has
been completed in accordance with the project design and the vast bulk of infrastructure developed
was essential to achieving the project objective, particular at the newer, non-crop ARls, whose
facilities were clearly inadequate. Procurement of equipment and vehicles was completed in nearly
all instances in accordance to plan, although there was one significant case of misprocurement of
equipment at BLRI, because bids were not evaluated in accordance with Bank guidelines, and the
provision of the DCA. This resulted in US$1.37 million being cancelled from the Credit.
Procurement progress was slow up to the time of the 1998 MTR, due in part to GOB approval
requirements and in part to a shortage of experienced procurement staff in BARC and ARIs. The
corrective actions taken at that time, including the setting-up of Procurement Core Teams in each
institute and the preparation of procurement plans, resulted in a marked acceleration of the
procurement process. and procurement management was satisfactorv during the latter half of the
project.
Participatory Farming Systems Research and Linkages ($4.56 million): This component is rated
satsfacnto,v Thie nTrie,t nimeA to impnrnvp resPnrrsh.YtPionn lin,gpe hvy chnmp-ning nhipnt nrientitinin nf
FSR through greater participation of extension workers and farmers. In terns of the core activities to
sf."auhe > -t"tin b 1IATrC anti anhani-A +he onpretons of t.h. .;ffaaen FSR4Z sit.e rna.ged by +he
OL4-f5LLlf  t,fl- JJA4&%fl.               --   k.*…--. -  --     -  - .  .   .Aw' - .-b-   - *,
ARls, virtually everytiing that was envisaged under the component has been accomplished. Through the
p.;Ct, -11 si+-e bec&..e o .or     nPi3P  a --od of r--of na i3      due 'o n..nAn- o .A-- n
constraints, and the coverage was expanded to include two additional sites operated by the farming systems
ULUL aL ULIV BJaLarUdesh0U rLIi%,'tu&LULa kU iv%,it; k1UJfL, adUL L%o itLULM'. rUc1ial nIVw WoLrk in U1e FJLUdLrV oLUh
coastal zone. The quality and quantity of on-farm research activities involving farmer groups and
UIUUU~I.jJ11d.L UaLI~ U ~~4L,1~ ~UhI,L0- --A A-911..4LL -4 -11 J1 Lj A DT5  - ----- 4AU1U.L LU 41
=6USCl' ->uytearnls ofl rcsca.-clLOe irntcseadV %dUaLlaL1%,aL'Y at all pJaLr1ticiatLnbL VAD's, accoU1Irdin Lo an
extemal evaluation of FSR carried out in mid 2001.
-6-



The FSR orientation has gained acceptance by all participating ARIs, and beyond, in selected public and
private agricultural service providers. Memoranda of Understanding have been signed with a number of
NGOs and private sector organizations for collaborative research and development activities, promoting
technology generated by ARIs. Collaboration between the ARIs and the Department of Agricultural
Extension (DAE) has improved, but still needs strengthening, as do linkages between FSR divisions and
commodity research programs. There are also difficulties in the recruitment and retention of staff from the
non-crop disciplines (fisheries, forestry and livestock) for the FSR programs at the crops-related ARIs, and
vice versa. A whole-farm perspective is essential to the identification and development of technologies
acceptable and useful to farmers. While this fact is now appreciated by the majority of researchers, the
extent to which this is taken into account in planning research and setting performance criteria in individual
research projects (e.g. plant breeding) still varies considerably.
With support from ARMP, long-standing collaborative arrangements with a range of International
Agricultural Research Institutes and universities have continued to function and make important
contributions to the quantity and quality of ARI research activities. The character of these external linkages
continues to evolve with the relationships becoming increasingly collegial as BARC/ARI leaders and
researchers play more prominent roles in the planning and implementation of joint activities.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
As with the SAR, calculation of project NPV and ERR was not undertaken for the ICR, because of the
heavy project emphasis on institutional development and its lack of explicit production expectations.
Nevertheless, the project has clearly generated benefits, in the form of improved effectiveness of the NARS,
resulting from the institutional strengthening and related project activities undertaken, and the increased
agricultural production resulting directly from the technology improvements. Although there is still some
way to go to arrive at the type of sustainable, demand-led, bottom-up, research system required, ARvP has
undoubtedly strengthened effectiveness of BARC/ARls. It is premature to attempt an assessment of ARMP
production impacts, given the time lag between development of improved technology and practices and
widespread adoption by farmers. Agricultural production rose steadily throughout the project period, with
the average annual growth rate in agricultural GDP between 1996 and 2000 being 4.7%. While nearly all
of this growth is attributable to gains in factor productivity, most of the specific technologies are associated
with NARS research that predates ARMP. Economic returns to the development and dissemination of
successful technology improvements for major crops and other commodities are high. For example, project
ex-post analyses of new varietal development, based on post-1980 released varieties, showed IRRs ranging
from 15% to 59%/o for six major crops.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.J IIstiLutLiUal developm'ent impac:.
This ic rated as moderate TIntitlutional strenotheningr of the NARR wasa b hasic nroiect ohijrtive sand the
focus of all components. But while the impacts on BARC and participating ARIs are potentially
cianifir-nt the qi,qtini,hilitv nf theqp. nine r.r-nrninnq drepndent an the cnantinimPA rnmrmittA LP-ip.,vhin nf
BARC and ARIs to ensure the gains are institutionalized and the reform agenda continues to address the
Pvnlv,incr frmilna vgttminn in Tnludspch  nr.I the dFr mndric thic nputs n the Treear-h sstfpm  Tmrnpfat non
institutions outside the BARC/ARI system, such as NGOs and the private commercial sector have been
- 7 -



limited, although FSR and other activities have sensitized many of their staff to the techniques and benefits
of agricultural research.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Frequent hartals (political strikes) affected project implementation intermittently throughout 1996, as did
the major 1998 floods which stalled research for some months and affected civil works programs, but
overall these had little effect on the outcomes of the project.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The need for public sector financial stringency in recent years and consequent pressure on the Revenue
BuUge, a.--A a prUUer.: approaL   b  G1B ir .-esisg uwnecess-U inrse  in civi servic SWIIIIIg,
resulted in a reluctance to transfer incremental project staff in BARC and some ARI's from the
Jv-lop1riaent 'Lo U X Revenue BudgetU ii, p-ius iiie owureabucraeic mu--ivusuy processes involved in
changing Service and Financial Rules obviously had some effect on the progress the project was able to
make towaru enhancing incentives to scientists and improving management effectiveness in the public
agricultural research system. However, these underlying problems are generic to the civil service in
Bangladesh and do not apply just to the research system, nor just to this project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
After an initial slow start, overall management performance of BARC/ARIs has been fully satisfactory in
the latter half of the proiect. However, slippage in the program caused bv lack of Dro-activity on BARC's
part in the initial years of the project resulted in insufficient time being available to accommodate lengthy
GOB approval processes needed to amend Staff Service Rules and Financial Rules: delays in startinn the
TA and training program meant that these two programs did not complement each other as well as they
should have; and research management processes imnroved uider the pniect had insu ffiient time to be
fully institutionalized before Credit closing.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At appraisal, the total project cost was projected at US$59.1 million, financed by the IDA Credit of
US$50.0 million equivalent (SDR 33.6M) and US$9.1 million from GOB (see Annex 2). Actual project
costs are now determined to be US$ 49.5 million, with the 16% cost reduction came almost entirely from
TA and training and priority research recurrent costs. The Credit amount was reduced by 3% (cancelation
due to misprocurement) to about SDR 32.6 million in October 1999. At Credit closing, 98.6% of the
revised Credit amount had been disbursed, leaving SDR 0.47 million to be cancelled.
6. Sustainability
Given the many advances made under the project, on balance, sustainabilitv is rated as likelv. On the
positive side, BARC and ARIs now have a good stock of facilities and equipment; have developed
improved research management techniques and procedures; and have a nool of staff recently expnnsed to a
wide range of substantive training programs and technical assistance. In addition, because the project was
- 8 -



pUW Le    U bUkA. VZsul1y WIUIUUL uhe -ue ofUl a UIsIcLr[ r[UJrUL flerIflflU1atUI1 ULniL, XlAllUr1U-lenL tranIUUn
to a post-project situation has already been achieved. But counterbalancing this is the fact that without
some donor support, the prospcts for adequate funding from wOB for research operationai costs are not
encouraging, in which case, the reduced level of ARIs research activities could adversely affect the needed
fiow of technologies to farmers. Research mstitutes couid conceivably earn and utiiize revenue from
royalties on the technologies they generate (mainly new crop varieties), and the 1996 Act includes provision
for them to do this. But the reality is that this is not going to happen in the shortimedium run in
Bangladesh, and in any case would be limited, compared to total financial needs. There is some scope for
private sector support for research in commodities such as sugar, tea, jute and horticultural exports, but
this needs to be organized and developed. Amongst some NGOs, there is a growing capacity to implement
and support adaptive research in support of their existing agricultural development and natural resource
management activities, and there is scope for much greater collaboration between FSR programs and
NGOs to the benefit of both parties and farmers - but both these avenues of research need funding the same
as ARIs.
Ultimately, however, sustainability of ARMP initiatives is not dependent on access to more donor funds,
but instead involves using these n'ew skills and procedures to manage the research system within any future
budget envelope, focusing on priority research important to farmers. How well this is done will depend to a
great degree on BARC and ARIs having future leadership committed to carrying on and deepening the
reform agenda. A crucial indicator of how well this is done, will be the way the staffing issue is handled.
Both BARC and ARls are likely to face difficulties if some rationalization of staffing'does not take place,
and it is essential that this be done in a well managed and targeted fashion, to ensure declining operational
funding does not unintentiofially accelerate the attrition of the most qualified BARC/ARI staff, potentially
negating a major benefit of the project
The case for supporting public agricultural research in Bangladesh, in some form, remains compelling.
Further improvements in agricultural productivity continues to be a comerstone of GOB efforts to reduce
poverty and sustain economic growth. Technologies that will enable producers to increase productivity
while sustaining or even enhancing environmental quality are essential to economic survival and the
livelihoods of a growing population, particularly the rural poor. A strong NARS is critical to Droviding a
continuing flow of such technologies and, therefore, in practice this means that there must be some minimal
sustained level of support for the largest and most research-active component of the national research
system, BARC and the ARIs.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
From a management point of view, there is no requirement for special transitional arrangements, as the
activities supported by the project have been largely implemented by BARC/ARI staff in their existing
posts. The capacity now exists for improved operation and management of the research system, utilizing
the improvements in research management introduced by the project. An impressive aspect of ARMP was
that all project activities were managed and coordinated with ARIs by BARC line managers themselves
(without even project specific titles such as "Coordinator"), and not  through a special Project
Implementation Unit. In this sense, the management transition to regular operations has already taL;en
place.
9g=



7. Bsonlr anA Unrrower Perfnirmance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
This is rated as sausfacto7ry. Tne project was well prepared by an experienced team, taking iwtu a;uiit
relevant past project experience. It was consistent with the GOB strategic priorities given in the Five Year
Development Pian, as well iDA's Country Assistance Strategy and secwor pnrionues. rroject ownership was
enhanced by. the decision to delay appraisal until the borrower commitment to institutional reform had been
confirmed. in hindsight, however, the appraisal team should have taken more account in project design of
the limited capacities of BARC/ARIs in the critical areas of procurement and management of training and
TA.
7.2 Supervision:
This is rated satisfactory. The project was managed from Bank headquarters until 1996 and thereafter
fr6m the Dhaka office. The Bank's supervision teams contained an appropriate skills mix. with
procurement, disbursement and financial management specialists being brought in to help resolve the
prnblems th  amrse in the initial vearsc The MTRj and the actions which resulted from it. nroved effective
in bringing the project back on track and enabling it to be substantially completed on time and within
hbdget, and most imnortnntlv, to achieve its daevaennment nhiective. The qunervisinn nmvided thmuirhout
the project period was cost-effective, considering the size of the project and the need to accelerate progress
dlir ingr the nnct-MTR noernrd
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Based on the above, overall perfornance is rated as satisfactory. The proect was generally well designed
and well supervised. The Bank's adopted approach of facilitating implementation rather than directing it
made an important contnbution to project success, by ensuring implementing agencies took full ownership
of project initiatives.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Overall, this is rated as satisfactory. Levels of participation in the design by BARC/ARIs/Ministries
nAvw  rP-fllPrtnga the-n availahilitu nf2tnff ,m Pri-Pn.--PA in nrnippt rpmrepatinn  All lin.e Minictripc invnlvP-A in
agricultural research were included in the design process, but the lack of continuity of staff in key positions
nArrnmnAo A iAn, *hn iann nannA l.nt,noopn nrnnr.t nrnarotin snA annro;cal ,,mih taA CnrAnP ht ano*nct
effective participation by GOB in the design. In hindsight, the Vision of the NARS incorporated in the
a..nea  design ,,,c not as 1r,etlh, 01'0A nQ nmno perce.a,ae n,4thn t.oe nnar. ,n f_n r4dclarl,, n,I,n it
came to increased autonomy in financial and personnel matters. The effectiveness of participation of
nABC/A       .-      WV1    so.nh     v_.T1   p.A -s.4-u--, ic.  SWh. u.e neVVet verT, now VTa..,awI-A
that they did not fully understand the implications of specific institutional development features of ARMP
at uie ul-e of pr---tion. TKrL le *Le -w  p-aino uene         o               l ^    ;,e
a&r LU LUUI Ul  va9JLaU4UJ. TUv, IW u .ia  Wda ajJjL~.1IUwU" UI IJ.1 avuu ISAJ ""Fnuvrav"ta ui III uaana"~UL
systems, . there was limited understanding of the complexity of these changes and therefore an
unuer-esCoUIun oI uhe, umu UUU Ievel VI VIIU[L -wL WUdU ub Lreq-UdU.
- 1u-



7. Government implementation performance:
This is rated, generally, as unsatisfactory. GOB performance did not always help implementation of the
nmrnp.t with hirt-a1 trntir nrprv-irqc nrmidino nn m muisi Aplav in finali7ina and snnmving inecitit^innal
reform actions initiated by BARC/ARls. Shortcomings included the slow progress in approving the revised
Ser:ic  Ridesc miri FinanA is! PRilesc snA ,iltnmatalu tranicfpa-ng 5taff finm tho TVepwlnront to the Rievnuep
Budget at BARC and some ARls. As a consequence of the freeze on recruitment and promotions, BARC
invI4tltni21- r-_rt rv~n_in_A .--an,10i_-l A rlitiu tA tlk- _vnnA_A rnclilt_  nzio_n tA it ,.nAo,- ths
BARC Act. Frequent staff changes within the three Ministries directly concerned with BARC and the AUs
r.itg..,e against Cnro ess on key r-f-r ns, as nnnc.nsi.lc. 44m and  n.. v.ns req-ed o. *n  scesi
im.-tifl.-  -.na       ,l  l   sfs O  0   fO t J.-  U. UL                    VAt~il*  O  ~j4f0  UUuJ50b ~ O  
senior staff up to speed on various critical reform issues. Some were cautious and others possibly not
V.LLL,VcU Lmahat theI a.uLua     ULULax ree      MOb1VILL1VV17 1iiuU LeUe L f Lrom u4ul,1a&I LAJuUvrU1 overi
financing and staffing issues.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Based on the good post MTR implementation performance, the performance of BARC/ARls was rated as
satisfactorv In some areas. such as procurement, htrining and TA. there were delays during the early
stages. However, following corrective measures taken at the MTR, including outsourcing of the
organization of the training and TA nrorams. the nace of imnlementation picked un significant1v during
the remaining period of the project. Considering the constraints imposed by BARC staff capacity, it is a
creditable achievement that all maior activities of the pnrniet hnve heaen r--nmpletd-c This a.eni-^plishment is
attributable in large part to the efforts of leadership at BARC and ARIs, complemented by TA in
cimiinrtinu. rvneQ. Fin2nT-inl mrna,apment hu imnlpmp,nt ingc acrPnnPieS woe ap,narallu mvnetrahnpA h-, lank ^nf
qualified staff although financial legal covenants were in compliance, either fully or partially. During
.wn.ect inlp!ninnfntitin thf auditor- reAn WA aiit rwera,0 , *he iotq mo,4ft, of v,h;-iph w_ore o 1in
nature and mainly related to noncompLiance with government policy and procedures. Implementing
nnnt%.c. ronlmo onu4ofnnactril, to nil au..4+ n1ob_ a.on,nsn cors.de.-ent.e..al foran Itt Bank'so nannan+dv..
And although they have been proactive in attempting to resolve all the other audit observations, MOA has
I%AA^A-     t  nr- ^f 4-^4E t-^ntA  -At-                    -- t  _A A _;_   A  +1AA l--:'  A AA   tlA  A^+  A-,A +
v~f 0IVW  X w'E;';.r qssO *L%O5 VVA. AA       '4 AAa a       uu'.  uA. Foe ig A. V.V v IUJ L.UU
Directorate to resolve this issue.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
On balance, this is rated as satisfactory , because of the strong performance of the project agencies during
implementation, especially during the last three years of the project
8. Lessons Learned
*   Sustalnabllity of research projects with a heavy emphasis on institutional development, such as
ARMP, will nnt com.e abhout simply hv .zer  ring intinos foninr fiint'ncg. Suistain^aii,tyc i-a_ nnl,ybh
achieved by research organizations developing management skills and processes to allow work on
4nvr,tn rpepronh ta rnnt;ninu Pupn ;in the fspAe o%f rwAiiraA huiAeg-ts Pn^Vlvn,.L' thw%lirrh at,4pt f4"onr;0I
management and by ensuring appropriate staffing levels are maintained.
*   Effectiveness of TA and training would be increased if programs are well coordinated and linked
*In o-r1  . .. - 41+L., -.a.nnon,o-. on,l. fL.- A :--.o.4oA -- I,1.  #U- ...o.o+  +_ 4_11--.
nuc.acy o emwe Iy C1imlJAnenLAUt S  h o he;, d LIe lyii 1MU1.LLLIU VJ1) AU UIV IIUJVV& jJIIUU LV OUVW
benefits coming from these activities to be felt during implementation and to allow new processes to be
1-4



instniu-nonauizea oeiore tne projeci ends. m some cases, mis uiugnt mean outsourcmg management of
these programs, once the technical substance has been designed by implementing agencies, and
ensuring outsourcing arrangements are in place before Credit effectiveness.
* Procurement management capacity must be assessed reaiistically at appraisai. For research
organizations where procurement is not a core professional activity, capacity can be enhanced in
different ways including the development of procurement core teams or by outsourcing some activities
to procurement agents where this is more appropriate, or a combination of both.
*   Project Implementation Units are neither necessary nor desirable, as they tend isolate project
activities from the mainstrearn operations of implementing agencies, possibly depriving it of high-level
support needed for effective implementation and longer term sustainability. ARMP functioned without
a special Unit, and BARC line staff performed the coordination role in a creditable fashion.
9. Partner Comments
/a) Rnrrnw er/imnlementing' agener
In general, MOA and BARC endorsed the conclusions of the ICR, but made the following additional points
conceming problems with development of the financial management system and the efforts to increase
BARC/ARls management autonomy over personnel and financial matters: (i) time was lost trying to adapt
the ACCPAC financial management software which was originally proposed by the Bank team; (ii) as long
as organizations are dependent on govemment funding, they must follow existing government rules and
regulations regarding the use and management of this money; and, (iii) reforming service and financial rules
must follow the laid down procedures of Government before final approval is granted. These issues are
expanded on in the borrower's own project evaluation report presented in Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable
(c) O.her partners (NVGOs/private sector).
Not anpnic-nhpe
10. Additional Information



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
itI,';4R  IndicatorlMatrix                    Projected In last PSR                ActualLatest Estimate
Improved Institutional capacity at NARS for  Following BARC/ARIs Acts, 1996, BARC  This objective has been achieved to a
sustainable agricultural technology   has: consoidated the research coordinaton  substantial extent although the process Is by
garm.-auoI uIruugn. (a), uIf.IIUVIUI *-~wlwc  of uie Na~uona; Ayni~jwiwi Nesearch Syswm noU rneans cumpiww. I1[ugfl U1V IUIlTiOl'
organeation and management (b) supporting (NARS) to avoid research dupicaton;  made the ianstitutional framework and
priority research programs in promising  Initated prionty setting on research programs arrangements for agricuilural research
areas; (c) strengthening dent orienation;  through vision document and ARi research  management have been Improved
and (d) Improving research resource   master plans; improved resource allocation  considerably. Approval of the BARC Act and
aflocalion                        through annual ARls' program and budget  the 10 ARF Acts by Parliament in 1998 has
review; and supported priority research,  empowered BARC to coordinate research
contact research and holistic parUdpatory  across the NARS and has given the ARIs
Iferminn ovstem research npft - oQ n-r  ngretr au tn-n,u in mnnang,   2na
clients' need          -              operaion although this autonory canno t be
MTR grouped' the inswtional reforms into  exercised fully until the new Service and
.'wo phases: r-h iasaml, u--ose refuorns wuhich- -          U ; -  I  R sr oy G-OB (s
can be achieved within the BARC/ARls 1996 below). The BARC Governing Body, program
Acts, and Phas-1l, those reforms which  committees for research coordinaton and
need amendment of the Acts. It was    budget and financial management the BARC
expected that the Phase-4 refbrms, when  Coundl for ARls' coordination and the ARls
Implemented, could produce DO Impat   management committees have all been set
up and allow greater flexibUlity In day-to-day
research management Despite bt valuable
aItranfing rvidedd un-dr ARMP rcaaity In
BARC and some of the ARIs is still
constrained by staffing problems, however,
|~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.u It d                    a '.o sio prws'Jja In uausn ci.- ng stsff 'M
the Revenue Budget, especially In BARC |
inadequate Incentives, too frequent transfers
of senior staff and other problems.
Output Indicators:
*i-       -        ,         . . | rl nc-a-q--- ** a*-  -''  I.   . _nIaUa0 .OU,*,Su__I
(a)Improving re ch organIzaton and    Improvements in NARS research        IARMP has established a sound basis for
management BARC and AFf's Acts       lorganizaton and management have been  ImaJor improvements In research organzation
approved by the Pailament BARC       fmade by development of a natonal vision  and management as illustrated by the
Governing body and ARIs management    document-2020, finalizaton and        legislative and administrative measures
lhnrd f.vmad; Staff Sa  Ruins arnvAd, limnlamAntation nf ARI m  tar nlans   n lIIneA antnvwa thA nnnrflwtiuniA this
|Research Master Plans and Natonal   |(2000-2006) and nitiaton of research  Iprovided have yet to be fully exploited,
Strategc Plan approved;              I management Information systems (RMIS).  | however. A Strategic Research Plan In the
pi'-...yi'-y a.,~0yL. .at.            ,,qmod ndIr.;.en,,t wmrss'.Ill Vn-'sarUp-enfnvarou  VI.-noa visa,, tJ'AIIuIII Pt UIC u.2000-2
Jlnstitutonal reforms adopted following  period and Master Pans for each ARI have
approval of the BARC and ARls Acts by the  been prepared and approved. A study has
Paniament in i 996, sucn as a better  been carried out to address tne problem of
research coordination by the BARC     lexoessive duplication of research fadlides
|Executive CoundcGoveming Body (GB),   within the NARS, but its findings have yet to
more flexible management In the crop  be implemented on any scale.. BARC has
research institutes through ARlis     developed selection criteria for the hiring and
IManaoement Boards. development and   loromoion of staff which also allow staff
Implementation of recruitment, promotion and Imovement between APIs. New Staff Service
|                           I~~~~~~~~~~trainee seleoSon pmocedures and acUon plans |Rules and Fhnarcial Rules to fadlitate fth 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f- lrntwer~-ARIratonaliz-ton of aciE;vl             de    on of pv:,ta. to BA-RCand theAP'  I
|                                          btransferring of over 1700 saff posi  from |a eben drafted and approved by BARC
|th development budgetto t  go         and now awat Ministry approval. Although
cure trevenue) budget pruviding ob seurity; lover i ,900 ARi stan posts have been
and successful implementation of the human transferred from the Developmnt Budget to
resources development program and    Ithe Revanue Budget sinos 1996 some 1,050
jtedhnical assistance provision. Valuable  isUill remain to be transferred.
outcomes are already apparent from the  A major ARMP achievement has been the
-13-



numan resources development programs and development of a system, based on  .
the linkages established by the trainees with economic analysis and other methods, for the
their respective universities.       prioritization of research activities, and the
However, limited progress has been made in increasing recognition within the NARS of the
transferring BARC staff from the     need for and utility of prioritizatior. This
develoDment to the revenue budoet and  svstem has been introduced throughout the
revising and finalizing the Staff Rules and  NARS and is being increasingly appled.
Financial Rules (although these actions were Considerable scope stil exists, however, for
app,av,ed by 'he a.C Goveming, rOdy, bv H, s more iadespread ad-mn n nn as an pfahm^
waiting for Govemment approval for   planning and management tool.
implementation).
(b) Priority research programs in promising  The priority research programs have been  The ARMP prority research programs and
aeas Implemented                     successful In that there has been an  the Contract Research Program have been
in^ -aseo nu,mb f re!eases of imnrmvud  ssm^esslhu imp!emented and have hehaed
crop varieties during the previous five years. maintain the flow of technology Improvements
Many newly evolved technologies in crop  from the research system. The concept of
nianagir,efT-., isherimes, I,vestUA.,  c-J-UdV  I    -ian hasIbewm  ,ncrvann,y
horiculture, forestry and agro-prooessing are accepted. ARMP Impacts on agricultural
apparent and are more cquickly making their production are difficult to assess accrately.
way to farmers' fields. The contract research The fact that agricultural GDP grew by 4.7%
program (CRP), with 242 contracts initiated, per annum between 1996 and 2000 and
is nearing completion. Apart from delivering  Bangladesh has maintained virtual
valuable research outputs on spedfic priority |self-sufficiency in Its staple crop, rice, is a
problems, the CRP scheme has provided an Ipositive sign. Impact evaluations of new
1opportunitv for large-scale exposure to NARS varta deve!pmen.t mre ted IRRe af
scientists of competitve project proposal  between 15% and 59% for six majr crops.
procedures and Ume-bound implementation  There are concerns, however, as to adoption
requirements                         raesofnew            :...
due to seed supply, agricultural extension
and other constraints.
(c) Strengthening client orientaton through  |There is inceased awareness among  Client orientaton has been inproved and
fa,ming mystem research              scientists of the need br ampropriate on-farm better research-extension lnkages have been
evaluation of these technologies invoMng  established following adopton of new
dcient and fortheirwidespread dissemination, agicultural exensionpolcyIn 1996which
development (FSRD) program has dearly  programs by the regional agricultural
demonstrated how introducfion of several  technical committee and the naPonal
improved tecnnologies at viliage ievei can  programs oy tne ma6onai Agncumirai
substantially and quickly alleviate poverty,  |Technical Coordination committee where
I malnutrtion and gender bias. Impact analysis cdient representation Is 'prminent. The
has docmented several cases of successful Iintegrated farming system research in 17
reearch leading to adopfion and it is agreed Isites has demonstrated that poverty
Ithat this process should be expanded to  laileviation can be achieved, and malnutrition
record past successes and provide sound  and gender bias can be reduced in the rural
justification for continued research funding.  areas through inboducton of improved
I.-a,4,-l^eL. PDartehinp bIek n m--4h
and exension staff Including NGO's has
been strengthen.
(d) Improving research resource allocaton  BARC has adopted an annual research  IThe institutonal changes made and the
through better coordination, review and  review system to avoid reswarch duplicaton, Inewly inboduced research priofitizaion
lA-er. -nenn            . mofn-^ f1emant  -asenai-s.4nvi-, selfingr resean4,  nnf-m -a..R in- I, insnms,Adren, f
system, rules and regub6ti0ns for NARS.  activites within the NARS. BARC has  allocation within the NARS, althoug-gh the fuU 
system, rules and rIgulagons for NA  develop manuals as weG as a computefized  benrefits are yet to be obtained. Audit and
ifinancial managemeni system which has  ,cur.uuw ug iwals have ueen snuu d  E
been installed at BARC and ARls. However, but the cmputerized financial management
problems continue in initiatng its use  system developed under the project is little
because of the limited omputing experience used at present, due to problems with the
of ARI financial staff.              system itself and inadequate accounting staff
land computing skills. The need for an
effective FMS remains. BARC Intends to
coninue its efforts to Improve the system and
I______________________ I                                                 IJCICUIJISCUZ.C i CJU5UL"yvt^e^S Ii
End of project
-1 4-



AUDLEX 2. La QJ.t Costs anu   anc:,lg
I^ XVt~ %IVt WY            W-Pven s  S$.!n  t^e
1 Appralsal I Actual/Latest    Percentage of
,-.  V,,,;,,41,l,,l,o f *                           a Es*Ilmofa  I  Eitlm3teA  Annrisal
Project Cost By Component               US$imillion   USS million  |   _     _
PEucipa'wrj r&ssiing SySslii Resw^ch   1  4.13 1`        0.8 7l            20n
Priority Research                                     35.83           38.26             107
IResearci Organzauon ana management                  12.93             10.4i             81
ITotal Baseline Cost                                 I 52.88 R          49AQ 
Physical Contingencies                                2.21
Total Project Costs              59.09    |      49.49   |
Total Financing Required          [    59.09   J      49.49
Note on Actual/Latest Estimate: The cost reports prepared by BARC and the Bank presented the costs by
categories of expenditure (Works, Goods, Consultant Services and Training, etc.) rather than by project
component.
Credit-finded expenditure in dollar terms was only US$42.86M, 14% below the SAR prediction. Including GOB
-L  -    -f rrYC'VZ £,1f  ~L- J---I  es..  -,J-L- TYCGAfln CLIf  IIOZC  L-1... .L   r1f~lU
cor.ufoJULLun (J LJU.63'vi; tLVi,IflUaL  l LSy ItI,u, ut tLU Lbe L ty.JiVI, UIr 1 Ubel UoSUW the: uppruLaul a.Lfflum&.lJO
the estimated project cost of SDR33.6M: about SDR31.78M was reimbursed against expenditure; SDRO.99M
cancelled on Oc.tober 1!99, and atfinal dLsbusemen! . Aiay 2002, GOdB lst SDR 0.39 Mdue .to cross exchange
rate adjustment on disbursement made to the special account and about SDR 0.466M cancelled due to savings.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
[  ExpenditureCategory '-' - -                                                  Total.NCB  Other  |o |
1. Works                       0.00          9.50          0.00          0.00         9.50
(1.00)        (7.60)   1    (0.00)        (0.00)        (7.60)
2. Goods                 {     8.80          0.00          0.50          0.00         9.30
(8.20)    I   (0.00)    I   (0.30)    I   (0.00)        (8.50)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00         27.40          0.00         27.40
4. Recurrent Cost              0.00          0.00         12.80          0.00         12.80
I     U.UU)   I     U.UU)   I     o.jU)   I      .UU)   I   ku.J.U)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
I    (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (O.uu)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00     j    0.00    |     0.00          0.00         0.00
I                        1    (0.00)    1      (0.00)        (0.    00)(0         1   (0.00)
Total                 |     8.80     |    9.50          40.70    |    0.00     |   59.00
(8.20)    1   (7.60)    J   (34.00)   [   (0.00)    J  (49.80)
-15 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
-Expendture Category        ICB           NCB           ,            N.B.F.     Total Cost
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C .                  . .           2            .      II
1. Works                                I 0.00  | _7.90     1.99         0.00     |    _9.89_l
(0.00)        (6.32)    1   (i.6)         (0.00)   1    (I.YL)
2. Goods                  1    2.31           3.27          1.19          0.00         6.77
________________________  {    (2.31)    1   (2.29)    1   (0.83)    J   (0.00)        (5.43)
3. Services               I     0.00     I    0.00    I    24.10    I     0.00    |   24.10
(0.00)        (0.00)        (24.10)       (0.00)       (24.10)
14. Recurrent Cost              0.00                        8.73          0.00         8.73
5. Ml(0s-.0os0)                              (0.00)4       (5.41)       (0.00)    [   (5.41)
5.  (sea0.00       (0.00         (0.00         (0.00)        (0.00
o.mnn5sceuIneosu             u.uu          u.uu          U.uu          u.uu         u.uu
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0:, )        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        2.31          11.17        36.01          0.00         49.49
(2.31)        (8.61)        (31.94)       (0.00)    j  (42.86)
Figures in SAP cost tables are less than this table because the SAP tables accounted only the cost ofprior review
contracts by the Bank
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
;. i                                                       P|  | iercentage of Appraisal
Component             Appraisal Estimate          ActuallLatest Estimate
M .DA     | Govt.      CoF.      nDA   1  GOV|t.    CoF.      DA T   vL |CoF.
Participatory Farmlng    3.30  |   1.30     0.00      0.75      0.07     0.00     22.7   5.4    0.0
System Research      I         l         l        I         J            0        2      5      0.0
Priority Research       33.01     7.50   |  0.00     32.00      6.26     0.00     96.9   83.5   0.0
Research Organization and  13.69  |  0.30  |  0.00    10.11     0.30     0.00     73.8   100.0 | 0.0
Management           [         l         l        l          l [                l      l      l      l
Note on Actual/Latest Estimate: During implementation, most of the Participatory Farming System Research
expenditure was recorded within the Priority Research category, because of the difficulty of separating out the
costs of the two components.
- 16 -



Annowl 3 Econnmi}c (onc*o and RBnafife
Not applicable
- 17 -



Annex a4 Bank Inpnts
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle      j         No. of.Persons and Specialty          Perforimance Rating
|  (e.g. 2 Econoniists, 1.FMS, etc.)  .|lmplementation| Development
Identcat.olreaMon           J Count         Specialty                 j   Progress  I Objective
IIdentification/PreparationIII
09/1991                    2    2 AG
Appraisal/Negotiation
04/1995                     7   4AG, I IE, I AE and I EC
|Supervision                                                           I 
Supervision 5/1996                     2   1 AE, I AG                                     S
2/1997                      4   1 AG, I IE, I DO, I PS           S             S
9/1997                      4   1 AG, I DO, I 00, I FMS          S             S
3/1998                      7   2 AG, I DO, I 00, I FMS, 2       U             U
TA
8/1998                      8   2 AG, I OO, I FMS, I DO, I PS,   U             U
1 SAES, 1 TA
2/1999                      8   3 AG, I SAES, I FS, I DO, I      U             U
PS, I IS (FAO-CP)
6ii999                      2   2AG                              U             U
10/1999                     7   2 AG, I AE, I FS, I DO, IPS, I |               S
6/2000                      6   2 AG, I PS, I DO, I FMS, I TA     S            S      |
12/2000                     7   2 A, i A, i PS, iDuO, i FMS,     S             S
I TA
7i200i                     8   L AG, i EC, IiuD, i ra, i FMS,r|vi
I TA, I RMS (FAO-CP)
ICR
01/2002         |          2     1 RMS (FAO/CP), I AE
(F-AO;'CP)
AE - Agricultural Economist, AG - Agriculturist, EE - Irrigation Engineer, DO - Disbursement Specialist,
PS - Procurement Specialist, OP - Operations Officer, FMS - Financial Management Specialist, TA -
Team Assistant, SAES - Senior Agric. Extension Specialist, EC - Economist, RMS- Research
Management Specialist, IS - Institutional Specialist, RMS - Research Management Specialist, FA -
Financial Analyst
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle  L               Actual/Latest-Estimate
|_____ _-. No. Staff weeks        US$ ('0P0).
[Identification/Preparation             139.7         I            349.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                  44.8                       98.1
Supervision                           260.0                      489.6
ICR                                     7.5         |             37.2
Total                      J          452.0         |            974.8
- 18 -



AIInnex S. RatLIngs fUo ALInCVe.eInL Ul blUJcILIvC3I%tULpUL3 of CUoJmpoUenLt
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                       O H   OSUOM     O N  * NA
OSector Policies                      O H O SU * M    O N O NA
O Physical                            O H *SUOM       O N O NA
N Financial                           O H O SU * M    O N O NA
O Institutional Development           0 H   0 SUA* M, 0 N   0 NA
• Environmental                       O H OSUOM       O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction             O H   O SU-M    O N  O NA
es Gender                       OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)        O H   OSUOM     O N  O NA
1J Private sector development         0 H   0 SU O M 0 N   0 NA
O Public sector management            0 H 0 SU * M    0 N 0 NA
O Other (Piease specqy)               O H   O SU O M  O N O NA
-19 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
S=HLiFu1Iy O4LIDI4..LUIY, 0-04LUDIMAcuy, V-UnIMMI4LVIYAJy, KL-J=Hi'y U iisatisf4actoY)
6. 1 Bank performance                           Pati..g
M Lendine                                       OHS OS      OU    OHU
2 Supervision                                   OHS OS      OU    O HU
M Overall                                       OHS OS      OU    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperforrmance                        Rating
M Preparation                                   OHS OS      O U   O HU
o uver-imentirrplemen-tation perjor-mran-Ce     O     \J HS    LiS  U   O'U
M Implementation agencyperformance              0 HS 0 S    0 U   0 HU
vI L'veruLl                                    0O HS  O     OU    O n'U
- 20 -



A"n-x -7u-o. L   ist o..ns D       m   ts
1. Staff Appraisal Report (report no. 14467-BD) -Bangladesh Agricultural Research Management Project
(ARMP)
2. Development Credit Agreement (Credit number 2815-BD) - Bangladesh Agricultural Research
Management Project
3. All supervision packages of ARMP
4. The Impact of Agncultural Research: Returns To Research Investments, April 2001 - by Bangladesh
Agricultural Research Council
5. Bangladesh NARS-2020 - A Vision for Agricultural Research - by Bangladesh Agricultural Research
Council.
6. ARIs Master Plans.
7. Implementing agencies project completion reports consolidated by BARC.
8. Individual ARls' mandate review.
9. A Handbook for Farming Systems Development (BARC - June 2001).
10. Manual of Contract Research Program (BARC - 1997).
- 21 -



AUUddiUOB  ALh11X 8.Do rrower's ChUoLFIUUUUU LU Iu..i
TIhfDLK mfE5,AWn A n"^TIOT f'IThEfT DTTI^T.T 90D^nRT (TrIU
IIYAIL LjdJ .Edvi'11 I t  A  I WI.J V ...  J±YJI7J..I aA,..I'q L%J2A 'LRFI A kim-&%J
EXE'W1ff,N Tu,L 7
I1JAM%A Si IA IZ 0 Jr, VJLVLfl.LIL A
1.   ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT OBJECTIVE, DESIGN, IMPLEMENTATION AND
OPEiRA -1ON EXPER-MENCE
According to the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council Act, 1996, the Bangladesh Agricugnlual
Research Council (BARC) has the responsibility of coordinating the research efforts at various research
institutes dealing with crops, vegetables, fruits, forests, spices, condimnents, livestock, fisheries etc. After
completion of the ARP-1 and ARP-II, it was realized that development of appropriate technology and
their effective transfer is possibie only when programs are undertaken and properly implemented by an
efficient and well coordinated National Agricultural Research System (NARS). To achieve this goal and
considenng the current status and future extent of activities of NARS, the project entiued "Agricuitural
Research Management Project (ARMP)" was proposed for implementation under IDA assistance, and a
credit agreement to this effect was signed on 15 February, 1996 for a period of five years (1 July,
1996-30 June, 2001). However, the credit closing date was fixed on 31 December, 2001.
The project objective was to improve the efficiency of the NARS through: (a) Improvement of the
research organizations and their management, (b) support to prionty research programs on promising
areas; (c) strengthening client orientation, and (d) Improvement of research resource allocation. The
benefits envisaged from this project were: (a) Generation of more productive technologies in crops,
livestock, fisheries and forestry; (b) fostering stronger linkages among farmers, extension services and
NGOs, (c) promotion of the development of adoptable technology, and (d) establishment of a stronger
foundation for transfer of improved technologies to the clientele. The objectives were appropnate to the
research and technology generation needs of the country as well as government priority. The total project
cost was estimated to be US$59.1 million including an IDA credit of US$50.0 million and a provision of
US$9.1 million from the Government of Bangladesh (GOB). The ARMP was implemented by eight
component Institutes:. BARC, BARIL BRRI, BJRI, BSRI, BFRI (Forest), BLRI and BFRI (Fisheries).
The implementing Agricultural Research Institutes (ARI) has prepared their own Implementation
Completion Report (ICR). The BARC has constituted an Expert Teams involving NARR scientists and
distinguished experts and compiled the ICRs of ARIs to prepared a comprehensive ICR for the project.
Design, Implementation And Operation Experiences:
Research organization and Management: Considerable progress has been made by BARC in respect of
,mnprnvpA minern1wement nf NARR. The sthievementq inclnde- (1) Prenmpatinn of trAteiric Reqemrh Plan
for the years 2000-2020 : It outlines the overall goals of the NARS, their rationale and a broad strategic
,,oAa re red~A to afta, thnos nrnalk; (2 A visnion nlnprm.ent (R.AN(.U.ATP.T- NARW9AR 202LA Viinin
for Agricultural Research) : It incorporates imnportant notions relevant to management of modem and
progressive ari-lt-.l research orgizntio; () preparation anA implementation of the Mgcte Plan
(MPs) : Its purpose is to create awareness on research prioritization and planning within the NAPS.
-.. ILAM. (rAtV I)nAfC U-,. LU.. --- U., ni1 +14- MJA1D -"+S Tl- ?LA'D. U--- k0.
rwI vva.iaiuuout oVL ( an    bza   n   .frle%U  W by ah'   --- '.NAA.0 =     -h V.L  -  bee
reviewed by BARC to ensure relevance to national need and priority as weUl as to avoid duplication of
programsA; (* res.  prionty sett.ng .is 'has been one of the m.ost pott aievem-en-ts of the
- 22 -



BARC since it has been completed in all the ARIs. However, indication of resource allocation in terms of
shifting of scientists and fund to the most important projects are scarce. In the absence of such indication,
there remains a likelihood of diminished progress of priority projects due to inadequate manpower and
funding. It is, therefore, suggested that re-allocation of scientists and fund according to the need of
priority projects is necessary; (5) Extemal Reviews of ARIs : BARC     constituted separate
Review/Evaluation Teams for reviewing the mandate and operation of the NARS institutes including
management, current and future research programs, achievements,, HRD, fund and facilities, transfer of
technology, linkage within and outside etc. These comprehensive extemal reviews of the ARIs have been
completed. It wil be worthwhile for BARC to monitor the implementation of the most important
recommendations made in these reviews (6) research management information System : A computerized
Research Management Information System (RMIS) has been developed and installed at all NARS
institutes including BARC. The implementation process of the RMIS was seriously hampered at the
initial stage due to shortage/non-availability of trained manpower and lack of computers in some
institutes. BARC provided computers to these institutes specially for RMIS. However, further training
will be required for fully utilizing the system in individual ARls. This means that there will be need for
continuing the training programs in 2002 and beyond. BARC may form a core group from among the
already developed expertise in the NARS institutes to provide further training to their peers in ARIs and
(7) updating of Acts related to agriculture: BARC has developed drafts for numerous improvements in (i)
The New Plant Varieties Act of Bangladesh, (ii) Biodiversity and Community Knowledge Protection Act
of Bangladesh, and (iii) the proposed Bangladesh Biosafety Guidelines. In these drafts, explanations
concerning the purposes of Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) provisions as applied to agricultural
research and the international context of such regulations have been provided. In addition, a framework
for administering provisions of the "New Plant Varieties Act of Bangladesh" has also been developed.
Institutional Reform and Development: Many of the institutional changes critical to the project
implementation envisioned during the initial stages have been attained. The much needed autonomy of
BARC and the ARIs from the operational ministries has been partially achieved. However, the following
remarkable successes in the improvement of orgariiational and managerial capacities have occnrred: (1)=
Consolidation and coordination : The most important outcome of the promulgation of the Act of BARC,
1996 is that it helned in fnrging conslidation nf the tntal cvc,tem asqNARS On the nther hand the
amendment of the ordinances of ARIs into Acts ensured that these institutes are accountable to BARC for
the niir1ones of resparrh nhinnincr enniriinatinn :nd evPuhatinn Th-e reSltnnit n-ntionn lik*f nrF1,prnftinn of
MPs by ARIs, review of the MPs by BARC, prioritization of research programs, development of
Omidel;npe fnr nrn^o4tnn of scip.ntdsts &nd selictinn of n&"AiAat" fnvr T  T-1 nrepnt%nvn of atdon" "lone to
minimize duplication of research efforts and finalization of procedures to implement the action plan for
rstinncl;.,'ot4n nf race-aoh  -oil4aa of th. MAD)Q    --ctA it--1 ann,--rl se innrl nonneon--crroef tIw
consolidation (2) Management Bodies : The new Acts of ARIs provide for governance of the NARS
+lkA Iti5L   Ulk, t4OAtA  V tio  o iti Yr CA- -l  J-.,tL   if..ata  -tA  Lil,  Lat41  V  ...,ti,AJa.U  Ai nCI L -t   lrTA'.AJ
AV ..-..- cr .o ofe Govea..ing Bo\AY k    ( W) a.d ul  ,xeCuuvv Counc- ^,ZC) of BA%C ku%,e -S
secretariat), and Boards of Management (BOM) of the ARIs, namely, BARI, BRRI, BJRI, BSRI and
IDT DT T1M IDEDT (V~-   ,  ------ k.- - D,0.o..-A0V       f0DCrl2\ --A di- DEf)T      --A
LJ.Ld1%.L. eIV LBF PT kx,iI3Vii3J to isUmageu Uj LUY a Boa. .J-VdUUL 3 okvJfJ-%B ) auu LLIV. LJB. ,D , oLres+., andU
SRDI do not have any Management Body. These are managed like other Departments of the Government.
L31D is goversd Uby theV Tead Board. TheV Ac'sb ha-lve LconfeLJrUs grsa'.e JPUAWLoeL, IuLanialld adLI Mresearc
management autonomy upon the .BARC's GB and the AR's' BOM/BOG. However, the names and
L   "oUns1UU UI U1L  elJU 1 L UVULVb VI UIV, DtU-S.'. WtIU ULIV UUILIIJUULUL tU'.I 11LLt 1101 5simiw. 1 flC
Management Body of the BFRI (Fisheries) should have similar name and composition like those in BARI,
BNRN, BJNR, BSN anid BLRI for -the sake of uiformity and smooth functioning. The possibility of
making BFRI (Forest), BTRI and SRDI autonomous like other ARTs may be considered and similar
BOMs may be formed for tnese; (3) Rationalization and sharing of facilities : Action pians have been
prepared to minimize duplication in research and to ensure maximum utilization of facilities among the



NARS institutes and 11 Agricultural Research Regions have been identified for the purpose. The
principle agreed upon was that a suitable Research Station within a particular Region will be designated
as "Lead Centre of the Region" on the basis of availability of facilities like experimental fields,
laboratories, libraries, auditoriums, computers, meteorological stations and others. These Lead Centers
are expected to serve the local research efforts by itself as well as through coordination of other Stations
situated in the Region; (4) Transfer of staff from Development budget to Revenue budget:
Implementation of this aspect of the project has not been completed fully. No development staff of
BARC, BJRI and BSRI has been transferred to the Revenue set up. Transfer of Development posts to
Revenue budget in BARI, BRRI, BFRI (Forest) and BFRI (Fisheries) has been partially implemented.
Only BLRI has been able to transfer all its development posts to revenue budget. Consequently, all the
staff members of BARC, BJRI and BSRI as well as the left out officers and staff in the rest of the ARIs
have been suffering from job insecurity as well as irregular payment of salary and allowances resulting in
financial hardship; (5) Revision of Service Rules: The process of revision of the Service Rules of the
BARC and the ARIs for the purpose of developing uniform Service Rules for all concemed has taken an
unusually long time and it is still under processing. The delay is mostly due to bureaucratic bottlenecks
(6) Financial Rules for BARC: BARC has also prepared drafl Financial Rules which have been
approved by the GB of BARC on 19 August, 2001. The Rules have been sent to the MOA for further
action. This means that these Rules will have to be approved by the usual channel and are likely to face
similar consequences like the Service Rules; (7) Development of criteria for promotion and higher training
BARC has developed two sets of criteria for selection of candidates for promotion to higher posts and
sending abroad for higher education/ specialized training. These criteria are now being followed in all the
ARIs of NARS; and (8) Publication of Research Results and Memoranda of Understanding: The
scientists of all the ARIs have published results of experiments in national and intemational journals,
bnnkletq, leaflets and namnhlets= Some ha7'e nublished articles in extension manuals and nmduction
handbooks while a few have established WEB-sites and internet connections. All the ARIs have signed
Memnoranda of Underrtnnding (MOT)u with NG-Os and private sentnr organi7atinns for Aollhaorative
research and development.
Contract Research Program (CRP): BARC has developed guidelines to implement the contract research
ex,wir Tha ar en..al nrnnrn. cc rnnnr.to ror,rnaloA tt ma;nrti, At tD ('P c a,4AroCcaA itn-AnDrto tn"rtr. DS-
woo 0.*fl. a s s WS  p 6_AS_ Jvzw._VW *k . tvOv  V  S.&  UJJ  _lA.2  at  J  .tWv  aV. W._OO   Ajt  A
remarkable progress in these have been made. BARC has also developed key perfornance indicators for
e valuation of VA j p,-o1.
Al LUU2 01 o .f A 2 , vvi'WL a %.AJiULiU  UU OL VA aLPUUa t TL- 20V LUULLIULL IVA UI.IUI IJL _ L1VUd  7JU U(UI-ULo)
depending on nature of research had been awarded to 30 different institutions including NGOs. BARC
WIUUtUUUL IUUIUUlVUIg UW   InUl' 1UbU11.U M[Y LM_I_IIVVIg LUULUUWU1   1CUUth UU reVI_W Uy
a multi-disciplinary team of national and international experts, presentation in Annual Review
worksnops, and lastly, BARC has conracted ihe Bangladesh Academny of Agriculture (BAAG) w review
all the CRPs to prepare and publish a summary report of the findings. Although the contract research
findings indicated considerable achievements in certain areas of research, the total number of Cis rs i.e.
242 seems to be too large Therefore, in future: (i) The number of CRPs may be limited to a smaller
figure, (ii) Research capabilities in terms of technical manpower, laboratory and field facilities and past
experience of research project implementation of intending NGOs and private entrepreneurs should also
be scrutinized in addition to the merits of the projects before funding. (iii) Pre-award scrutiny should be
made by groups of specialized scientists belonging to different disciplines before selection of the projects
for funding. These groups can be formed by BARC by engaging experts from among retired scientists in
lieu of some remunerations/honoraria
-24-



T,he r.jrm-  J-t faced d.-rg:-  lpe.ertto of~ the C      :nclude: L         _rre.tto   ofnn- -as
ISM  aJV L   %GJ AI 1aUUIL0 IGA,~U UU1UI, A1F upI~I%,IItaUVLI VI UIV %...XLJ mL.1%,UU%,. JIIh1qp11Ii1.1ULIAJ11 VA ..IX  Wao
actually started in October, 1997 due to delayed clearance of the format for contract agreement by the
Itirn   --A                            _,V~~~~~~~…L  XTA '/1f''A  1'r1  T  _-   _   t-   __ .-
vv i, auu lenguLy app.-oval pirocess ir,cluding cU ..ceLL1IWiL VI   La4Le onl, Uth 1UUo W11e
required for approval was shortened to some extent by the GB of BARC. Secondly, the WB disagreed to
a:locate funld for capitl expeunse (equipmlent) during uei iial period uut, later on, it agreed to allow
20% equivalent of total cost of a particular project for capital expenditure. Delay in fund disbursement,
as comp-laied by the PIs, was resulved later on with IDA s concurrence through revising paymeni
schedule and fund release on six-monthly instead of quarterly basis.
Priority Research: Priority Research was undertaken in all ARls. After getting the ARMP support, the
ARis' priority research programs got momentum and as a result, a considerable number of improved crop
varieties and production practices have been developed. BARC has developed a system for priority setting
and NARS institution followed the system. The important point here is that priority setting was done by
the institutes' own scientists in their revised master Plans. However, all the ARJs have not put similar
emphasis on priority research. Since the beginning of the ARMP project in 1996, BARI alone has
released 88 new varieties of various crops and many technological packages have been developed for the
newly developed varieties as well as the previously released ones. During the same period, nine rice
varieties have been developed by BRRI, seven of which were released and the other two were
provisionally approved for release in the coastal areas. Management of saline soils for rice production
developed by BRRI is a remarkable achievement.
The BFRI (Forest) has developed improved wood products, better bamboo and mangrove management
and evaluation of germplasm belonging to different forest species. Considerable progress in the utilization
of biotechnology for genetic improvement and mass seed production of elite varieties of sugarcane has
been made in BSRI. Various types of sugarcane-based cropping patterns as well as biological control of
sugarcane diseases and pests have been developed by this institute. BFRI (Fisheries) report includes
advances in genetic improvement of some commercially important species of fish. BLRI developed
technologies which increased milk yield by 100%, reduced feed cost by 10% in small-holder dairies,
increased egg production by 566% in small-holder commercial intensive rearing of laying chicken and
increased meat production by 500% in intensive rearing of broiler.
In BJRI, prospective germplasm of iute, kenaf and mesta with higher and better quality fibre have been
identified. Biotechnological research yielded plant regeneration system in tossa jute as well as transfer
system of iute plantlets from culture vessels to soil. Input-output relationship studies revealed that
benefit-cost ratio was higher in medium-size farms and gross margin was higher in Faridpur district
compared to other areas. Technological research findings include different kinds of products and fabrics.
All the ARIs sunported by ARMP have not estimated the financial impact of the research carried out. The
estimated Internal Rate of Retum (IRR) for the total investment in research and extension of T. Aman
rice by BRRI was 59 ner cent and this resulted in foreign exchange savings of Tk 127 billion due to
reduced import of rice. On the other hand, the IRR for the total investment in Boro plus Aus rice was 28
ner cent resnlting ia foreign exchange saving of Tk 6s hillion. Ernnomric returns to investmernt nn the
variety BRI 1 showed an IRR of 85 per cent. The increased production from BR 1I saved foreign
-yrhhnone nf Tic I Q hillinn which uva Rfi ner nent nf thp tntal cnvinac frnm nil TVV T Amon rinp
varieties. The IRR for investments in other commodities were: 41 per cent for potato, 32 per cent for
wheat, 16 per cent for sugarcane and 15 per cent for ,utep Ex-pnmet  nn  aesessme.nts on other crops
such as mungbeam, radish, winter tomato, rapeseed and mustard conducted at BARI, revealed high IRRs
to ;nvestment The projected TDR from the recently conAducted PPR goat. vaccie research was about 230
per cent.



Farming Systems Research.The National Coordinated FSRDP was implemented in 17 Sites since June,
1996. BARI has been operating 9 Sites while BRRI, BJRI, BSRI, BLRI, BFRI (Fisheries) and B-R1
(Forests) have been implementing one Site each. Besides these, BAU has been operating two Sites with
project title "Studies on integrated Farming (SIF)". A considerable progress has been made and a large
number of packages of technologies on crops, fisheries, livestock, agro-forestry, home garden etc. have
been developed and many of which are being extended by the DAE, NGO, FSRD scientists and other
extension agencies like Departments of Livestock, Fisheries and Forestry. The activities of the FSRD
Sites were very recently reviewed by a four-person team of national and intemational experts. The team
was of the opinion that: (i) Self-sufficiency in food and inprovements in nutrition have been achieved
through the intensification and diversification of crop production and introduction of aquaculture,
livestock and agro-forestry technologies at the FSRD sites. (ii) Methods and technologies currently in the
pipeline have potentiality to sustain this progress in future and (iii) BARC has prepared a Compendium
of Packages of Technologies developed at different FSRD sites. As many as 94 technologies on crops,
livestock, poultry, fisheries, forestry and other integrated technologies suitable for different
agro-ecological zones have been described.
Integration with the core program of the ARIs: The ARIs like BARI, BRRI, BJRI, BLRI and BFRI
(Fisheries) had already incorporated the philosophy of FSRD in their core programs to variable extents
before launching ARMP. ARMP support was highly beneficial to most of the FSRD groups. ARIs like
BARI, BFRI (Fisheries), BRRI etc. have progressed substantially in integrating the FSRDPs within their
core programs. Major constraints identified during implementation are : (i) Staff recruitment was delaved
for several reasons and this hindered the implementation of the action program of the FSRDP. No NARS
institute has core staff for conducting on-farm research except BARI and BRRI. On the other hand.
BARI and BRRI, being crop-based research organizations, do not have scientists with educational
background in Livestock and Fisheries. Moreover. because of temDorary nature of iob a number of
scientists with education in Fisheries and Livestock have left their jobs and the posts are lying vacant in
recent years. In view of the dearth of well-trained and experienced manpower; implementation of FSR1)
program has been seriously constrained. (ii) According to IDA rules, some ARIs did not qualify to receive
incremental oneratina cost until March, 1999 As a result, FSRT) nmoamm could not be ctsrtd in the
beginning of the project period. Because of the cumbersome process, procurement of equipment and
romnuter etr waci delavyd at RtARCr andnA nsn at prftininntinu. ARTs This h2c imnpedd the prnmes of thA
project.
Fnancial Management System.
Financial autonomy of the institutes: The NARS institutes except BFRI (Forest) were made
autMomous but they h_A little/no autonomy in chalgirg 'the established financial rules. iThe us ngent
rules sometimes are not conducive to smooth and accelerated implementation of research endeavors.
Constraints in the system: (i) All of these institutes suffered from funding shortfalls. (ii) These
institute sau adcess to Mvianiagenment n'forMiatuon System for research pianning only. However, this miS
did neither have a budgeting and accounting component in it nor did the ARIs' accounting staff have
requisite uaining in IV.1S. (iii) introcuction oI Aivir orought aiong some new dimensions liKe: (a) Doliar
Special Account (DOSA), (requirement of WB), (b) Pre-Authorization of Project Aid (requirement of
BB), and (c) Deposition of unspent balance to GOB Treasury and attachment of the Treasury Chlian
along with the request letter for release of the next financial year's first quarter fund (requirement of
MOF).



Introduction of MiS for budgeting and accounting: Through the introduction of computerized MIS tor
budgeting and accounting system, it was proposed to complete the financial module of MIS for BARC
and the NARS. With this aim, M/S. ACNABIN & Co., was recruited by BARC as Financial
Management Expert (FME). The Firm completed development of computer software and prepared and
submitted Budget Manual, Finance and Accounting Manual and Training Manual.
The software debacle: The WB suggested to use "Off the Shelf' software, AccPac. The FME tried for
customization of the AccPac but failed to serve the NARS' purpose After a lapse of more than a year the
FME started writing programs again and developed "FoxPro" base software and installed in the BARC
and the NARS institutes.
Training of the clientele : After installation of the developed software, the FME imparted classroom
training to the Accounts personnel of BARC and all NARS institutions. They also conducted
institute-wise on-the-job follow-up training and, thereafter, monitored and installed the upgrade version at
all the NARS institutes.
Constraints faced by FME:: (i) Almost one year was lost in implementing the WB's suggestion i.e. use
of AccPac. (ii! Due to shortage of qualified manpower in the Accounts Sections. the institutes could not
compel their concemed people to give sufficient time for practical and class room training and (iii)
English version of the software was another vital reason for non-use of computers since most of the
accounting reports are prepared in Bangla.
Recommendations: Further training of the relevant staff, use of - staff members well-versed with
comnnuter oneration to teach peers in other institutes and inqtallation of a Bangla version of the software
may improve the situation considerably.
Technical Assistance Through Consultant Employment And Training.
Status of Technical Assistance through Consultant Employment : Almost all the approved
Person-r.oths of           -;ctor ny o h- aon ,, I+;.;-,A excpone n-n nrcnr,n,nntb fonr eac,h of TIT l on-
BARC. However, it is seen that the Intemational Scientists were engaged during the fag end of the
PD-ojects li.'.fe. 1 Qif-ly, al! toe Natim-a-1 Szc-#4.ts.n were  -or A  --as,,  Aons . 4-  J-n, 1000 to
June, 2001. It appeared to the ICR Expert Team that the findings, analyses and recommendations of the
WI131UIa"La %JMUlIA 113 3 UUALLOU 1111WAJlOju )IIJW 4I& 11 LUII, jIJ%JV-, 13. i UUOI 113 1a&V, 41011115 VI UlIO wyV01 La.
Icp.cetto o    fghr Edc'sn rainng SudyTor Smnar___               'Vo-hs alroal andu
AMU1ji11VULlUAUJU UR JJU65UJ1 E.IUU%,LK%UI, 1IiUh111115, 13LUUY I UUI, OCUIIU1AIW VY UI r.3Up J MulUUI
In-country Higher Education: Out of 173 person-months of provision for overseas Ph.D. and M.S.
degrees, 171 hIave been utiUied wLLeres 271 persons obtuined short-tem LraiLUlg froI ute plrovision of
304. On the other hand, 336 out of 360 persons availed the opportunity of attending Seminars and
WorKsnops abroad.
Aii the provisions of in-country Ph.D. and M.S. degrees, 55 and 9 respectively, were utilized. Satisfactory
performance was noted in case of in-country short-term training courses, workshop/seminar and field
days. As many as 93 persons from outside NARS went abroad for higher studies, training,
seminar/workshop, study tour etc. and the expert team feels that the proportion of this figure compared to
actual researchers is larger than necessary. Secondly, job descriptions of some of these incumbents were
not releVant to the courses attended. These points should be considered in a possible new project.



Procurement, DPurbemen UnU AtuUiL
Procurement of Laburatory- Equipment : Satisfactory progress iIn tie volume of procureient of
laboratory equipment has been made. About 80% of the estimated cost has been spent by all the ARls.
Procurement of Goods (other than laboratory equipment): The progress of procurement of goods has
been over 80% and this is considered as satisfactory.
Procurement of works : Implementation of the procurement of works was also delayed due to late
engagement of Architect Planner by BARC and Executing Architect by the ARIs i.e. around middle of
1998. This was a clear loss of two years, which affected timely and proper implementation of the Project.
However, the progress of civil work achieved so far has been 88%.
Disbursement: Computations revealed that 85.6% of the credit fund was disbursed as of 30 September,
2001. The disbursement upto 10 June, 2001 was reported to be 84%. It is, therefore, evident that there
was an increase of only 1.6% disbursement during almost four months. A substantial amount could have
been spent during the period of July-September, 2001 if the MOF had issued the PA-authorization of the
allocated budget annually at the beginning of the Fiscal Year (2001-2002) instead of quarterly.
It has been observed that the expenditure- including estimated cost in some categories exceeded the
provision in each. Therefore, the total requirement of the credit now stands at SDR 34,029,117.20 as per
actual expenditure upto 30 September, 2001 plus an estimated expenditure for October-December, 2001.
The demand for estimated expenditure has been increased compared to the DCA allotted SDR This
increased estimated expenditure is due to the devaluation of SDR against US$. The conversion rate of one
SDR was fixed at 1.49 US$at the time of signing of DCA. Presently, one SDR amounts to 1.29 US$.
Audit: So far, the accounts upto 1999-2000 have already been audited by the Foreign Aided Project
Audit Directorate (FAPAD). Tripartite meetings among each executing agency (BARC and ARIs).
FAPAD and the concemed Ministry were held for settlement of the audit observations upto the end of
1998-1999 FY. According to the decisions of these meetings, replies along with necessary papers were
sent to the FAPAD to resolve the audit observations. The audits of all the ARls for 2000-2001 have been
comnleted by FAPAD.
It appearq frnm the FAPAr)'s audit reports that snme of the nbservatinns were made following the MRB
rules and regulations. Since the project being financed by a donor fund, FAPAD should have followed the
rilere, n milafnns ^nAd nibhlidie  nes ianvr:ded in ippnT' anil MflF' a d.-Ipinneg The dirprtivq.c of the PPTn
and that of MOF provide that if a conflict arises between the rules of the GOB and those of the donor,
ITAAAA_nA learne : (i 'iu TLA-~IA-_A4;- A --_:  U-A _AS AAl D A D C!LA+ TD -IS . _-..A:- -..WIA  +
J4on~URID isUR U*Was  . vJ A Lla JJI.A,UV,ALU.Lr r;w1VWroI 3UUIU 3VUU JUaQU JL%F Ily jJLUVVuIu, OuLLL.dVIlIL
justification with documentary evidence within the specified time, (ii) The Agencies should follow up
vi,goruoly wiui ult  eviu -uy cuce.m.ed aiuu  'L eL re I AOffce fi r settler..er.t of audit oUbU-SWVaUlUU01S adU
(iii) Procurement Procedure and other rules set by the World Bank should be made known to Government
A-eUILU[N  avoi, cLVUU  LIcaIoUUM.



2. EVALUATION OF TILE GOVERNMENT/EXECUTING AGENCIES' OWN
PERFORMANCE
Financial Management : During evaluation and implementation of the ARMP project, the executing
agencies faced a few problems regarding financial management system. Some of the
constraints/bottlenecks experienced in the financial sector are described below:
Issuance of authorization for project aid: During implementation of the ARMP, its individual
components used to send proposal to the MOA with a request to obtain Project Aid (PA) authorization
from the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The MOF issued such PA-authorizations during the major period
(1996-2000) of the project life, on annual basis as per allocation in the Annual Development Program
(ADP). But during the fiscal year, July 2000 to June 2001, authorization was issued on half-yearly basis
and during the period July to December 2001, it was issued on quarterly basis. Due to this alteration
some serious problems occurred in implementation of the Project including delay in (a) payment for local
procurement and contingencies expenditure, operational expenses, payment of bills for procuring
equinment ordered during the previous year. (b) Onening of Letter of Credit. (LC) Nonpayment of
outstanding dues according to LC instruction i.e. 10% of the LC value, within the agreed period, and
lastlvy (d) Nnn-nrocurement of local items since it is the losining year and all payments and transactions
must be completed by 31st December, 2001. The Expert Teamn recommends that PA-authorization may
hp wa ived hv the GCO  for the AflP-altncated fiind-
Adi,ustment Order TLe ARls wprp e.ynfp-ted to cmh4imt n nl! Pervndittirfs ttprnpnts to flARC a't the
end of each fiscal year. But usually delays occurred for reasons like late issuance of PA-authorization,
and late release of fid by the M AOF delayed pa,--ert to sup-.lie,.c/contr .pto,./labeorprs et anrd
closing of books of accounting. Consequently, the ARI authorities submitted the expenditure statements
1UJ  A Dr' IA  ., Lr tL.)IJ.UnlWtA A.+. . - L  A CDXt tj QOU  LW. SO otJifljJ**e    ce .;OA
*vrx*vs "Mt lon                          -C"v  ;w. *uim Wn WV ;wX"  ... F.- aV+e  .. J^ S-  I9WG
from the ARIs and delays also occurred at the MOA in issuing the Adjustment Order to the Bangladesh
Lidr,k vB)1. ^-u 'I" -ULXedlays conveJV,rVed, UI.er-wun and re-sulted in+.o lXgaLX;Ve :- L%inX.--.c oni XU.LUIr paylue-,t1
of fund by the BB which hampered or even sometimes stopped the normal activities of the Project. In
VIeW of UUa sItUaUUIL, UIW reInIL TeaW,, Lb 01 UlIc UpUinii UI4L pciIUUig PdUJUbUnrill, %J1Udr f,-1. UlV
administrative Ministries, the BB may pay the fund for the first quarter of the next year for smooth
I u1m 1of u1e pLUjectLac UVliU .
Mnanagement of the unspent balance at ithc cad of the iiscai year: Durng the early yeais of tie
Project, the unspent money at the end of the financial year used to be kept at BARC and ARIs and
adjusted with the first quarter fund of the next financial year. Tnis practice was conducive to smooth
functioning of the Project. But, from the year 1999-2000 the MOF instructed the BARC/ARIs to deposit
the unspent balance in the GOB treasury and to attach the treasury chaiian with tne request ietter to the
Ministries for release of the first quarter fund of the next fiscal. These formalities hindered smooth
functioning of the Project since experiments suffered due to non-availability of fund in optimum time.
Delay in appointing Consulting Firms for (a) Recruitment of Consultants and (b) Implementation of
the Training Program: A delay of more than two years occurred from the effective date of the Project in
appointing those firms, and obviously, the Project suffered immeasurably. The lesson learned from this
episode is that major operational strategies for implementing any Project of this nature should be
meticulously discussed, finalized and agreed upon during the negotiation period itself. The delay in
appointment of the Consulting Firms and the consequent deferment of selecting and fielding the
Consultants by the Firm deprived the ARIs from the benefit of the recommendations of the experts during
the tenurial period of the project.
- 29 -



Similarly. delay in processing and placement of scientists for higher degrees and advanced training was
also detrimental to efficient implementation of the Project because it was expected that scientists would
bring the most modem scientific knowledge and apply those at least during the last two years of the
project.
Revision of PP : The BARC and ARIs submitted Procurement Plan for goods, vehicles and equipment to
the WR for allowing local nrmcurement under National Comnetitive Bidding (NCBR' as ner nrnvision of
RPA and GOB in the PPs. The WB insisted on procurement through Intemational Competitive Bidding
aICB) and advised to revise the PPs The PPs we.re revi:ed and the initial prnncrement of gords was
already delayed. The MTR Mission (1998-99) recommended for re-allocation of funds among the
Catpanrijec miintinneA in enhii IP.1-I nf nCAA Thb.t wwrmmPJntinn u.wa e dnrvpd iv hy bnth the ('(R antd
the IDA and also agreed upon by a Special IDA Implementation Mission (October, 1999). Accordingly,
the PPs of APiCr anid A lP uia vwr.iAcp f-,r the connd $i4e Procre. mpnt of ,-lc,mant i s wacs fi ..t 
delayed due to revision of PP for the second time. This obviously, had negative influence on the
saccessf-    I co!'.o  f 'Lke Pv,-ct
OULfl.&.OOLU    -4416                          I   -lAS14JU t_   II--   A_I- JL4L
uAHURIMILA~L LIIIW"I V& VVILU RZUUWIVAr"r, KMI 11 UU W1L  US i  UWU1ULLL LU. ULI V u4iy UUU LU LWU LU11V,
revision of the PP, lack of procurernent knowledge and shortage of professional manpower in the
vehicles and equipment.
Procurement Plan : Initially, no guidelines for procurement planning of goods and works were made
available to the ARis. Ultimately wncn it was obtained in 1998, it was observed to nave contained some
rules not practiced in the ARls. Since, it is a new concept, procurement personnel took long time to
understand it and hence preparation of procurement plan to get approved by WB was also delayed.
Preparation and Evaluation of bid: The personnel of ARis were not accustomed to the preparation of
Bidding Document as per guidelines of WB and, a long time was spent in bid evaluation at the BARC and
ARIs level and, as a result, award of contract was delayed. This delay was caused due to lack of
knowledge in procurement guidelines. Besides, the members of the Bid Evaluation Committee were not
full-time officers and hence they have been working in addition to their own duties.
Delays in taking decision at management level : In most stages of procurement process, e.g. from
evaluation to final work order, the management took unusually long time to take decision due to lack of
adequate acquaintance with the rules, regulations and donor's guidelines for procurement.
Translation of procurement guidelines in Bangla : Most of the procurement personnel are not
adequately qualified and proficient in English. A Bangla translated version of WB guidelines would have
facilitated timely procurement of the items.
Procurement Manual : There is no Procurement and Stores Manual in the BARC and the ARIs in
respect of procurement and maintenance of stores. Such manuals would have helped in smooth operation
of these two sectors.
Utilization of ARMIP provision for higher education, training etc by nonscientific personnel : As
many as 93 nersons from outside NARS went abroad for higher education. training, study tour etc. Many
of these courses of study did not conform with the nature of jobs of the officers/staff availing the
- 30 -



fellowships. In any future ornmect nromortinn of such nersonnel may he kent iunder limit and the course of
study should be relevant to the job description.
Conducting in-country short-term training courses, seminars/symposia and field days: Failure in
t-nnt4iiiptina chnrt-tprm trnaninur e-nuirvpc Q.Pm;n-,re cuimnnein anti fplA finuiQ li, thp enmp ARTie uae intdppt
conducin. sorff T  __nlg cowses, e.i) c syrpnosia -n field dsy s 'v bh.e o.e,,wside
inadequate due to shortage of fund allocation. The officers and staff in the administration, finance and
antCni n*ann rrln    n4cnf     An,,n*.r,aAlfr,          --4kut. -~ -,4nnn+--  ooni.t
t.rt,taaO, procltt. er..ty and *tt^fres,  entw4.i.onar.d i  lifl  sec, ~titfy CAsn *ad _n.__an.., pa .sci ic
staff including scientific assistants/fieldsmen etc. do not have any education or training in these
spec.i.l-Ad f;*Aie  p.io Ifto t. IU iejiJ U*oir.ai. .t. ,  .   tAJA1fly WILt leJ.. b^mia.flLeO. The
process hinders and sometimes proves to be counter-productive to project implementation. ARMP was
'so .icP.ted. v-h thUi r,  y. Observa o.fl J r   IelId da_y PI iesG vvUU.1 shave fos:ered unsfer of
the technologies developed through the ARMP directly to the farners/beneficiaries.
3. EVALUATION OF THE WORLD BANKS PERFORMANCE, LESSONS LEARNED
I[ - I- I1L I ILV W T V..A  I '.J I~ U I UI
.. . rv  as . 9 .. .. ..1- . r1 1. n . r
Recruitment of Research Management Expert: Tne WB iaentiiead ISNAR as a sole source ior
Research Management Expert (RME) but during negotiation, ISNAR requested for tax and duty
exemption which was not agreed upon by the GOB. Hence, as per iSINAR's suggestion, with concurrence
of the World Bank and approval of GOB, an agreement was made with the IFDC for appointment of the
RvM  who joined in December i998. ine whole process took about two years. Due to this unexpectea
delay, although the RME completed the assigned jobs in time, the implementation of Master plan during
the tenural period of ARMP was hampered.
Constraint faced in implementing Contract Research Projects: CRPs were invited through newspaper
advertisement in October, 1996 but implementation was stated in October, 1997. This long gap was
caused due to delayed clearance of the Contract Agreement Format by the WB and lengthy approval
process including concurrence of the ATC and NATCC. However, the process was later shortened by the
GB of BARC.
Dollar Special Account (DOSA) : The IDA allowed a DOSA with Bangladesh Bank for operation by
BARC for the ARMP project. The operation of DOSA aid fund management and disbursement system
was new to all the implementing agencies under the credit agreement. This was realized very late and a
Launching Workshop was organized one and a half years after launching the project and, by that time,
enough harm had already been accrued due to the delay.
Incremental Cost for Research Operation and Funding : The determination of incremental cost on
operating cost was also new to the accounts personnel of BARC and ARIs. It took quite a long time to
understand these procedures of withdrawal of fund. As a result, on 15 April, 1997, the IDA and the GOB
agreed to provide a revolving fund through ADP to meet incremental operating cost of BARC and ARIs,
but this was not ultimately implemented. The system of advance remained a very complex matter
throughout the project period, which had a negative influence on the smooth disbursement of fund.
Delav in emDloying Technical Assistance and HIRD related firms : Although the decision to aDDoint
two firms for implementing the Technical Assistance and HRD-related activities was taken on 12
December. 1996. it took two years to finalize the annointment. In addition, first consultant was fielded in
June, 1999 and, on the other hand, all the persons except one went abroad for higher training after April,
1999 Ohviously, almost three years were snent in fuilfilling formalities at varinous stages. Dliirin the nine
-31 -



mnnntkhs strt;ing fornm  8R Spntpml,pr 1007 tn !4 Timip 108 RAB^RC hntd tn r*nrre.-znnd uwth WRpicrht
times on the same issue. Some time could have been saved if the WB would have entrusted BARC with
UI,e jobI fo!!o4,a.gffI~  L444 preAs^rbe 61AdLtt.1M1.
De:ay i re.en.ng B.d:ng Doumentvan BldA     ID---+ a+o Pxps  T^6 '-hecs of Aor.e .Rs fv.g
IS I  V Ifl 155  iIum5 MVU5f11O  i  LIS flY -IIIIW-   -F-ty~  La fL  -S%4rIL  'JfIl£f
BLRI), the WB took quite a long time (May, 1998 to August, 1998) to review the Bidding Documents
-d Bid rV-lu-9io -pult     As - -consequence,selec'ino -l+'. U-xe-u'u.^ A-.+--+2c -an cort.+-O  was
4LLU LMU  I.~V4.IUaULVI LVjA)L iZ. ru;5 al %,LZ,U-Lm- av LJLII VI LL1V J.;,.%IULLLL5 C5.UWLI~.L   CuL QIIU LLW~IAU
delayed resulting in delayed construction of facilities.
4.    ACHIEVEMENTS DURING THE ARMP PERIOD
BARC: The most important achievement of BARC through the ARMP was the latter's invisible but
far-reaching consequences ieading to the establishment of BARC!s inevitable leadership in agricultural
research. Enactment of the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) Act, 1996 and the
amendment of the Ordinances of the institutes into Acts have been insrumental to forge the required
cementing so critical to implementation of the envisaged coordination among the NARS. BARC is now
the apex body to oversee the planning, coordination and evaluation of research in the ARis. However, the
ARI authorities are not accountable to BARC as they are to the MOA.
Some salient success stories of BARC are described here: (1) BARC has already reviewed the MPs of
the ARis for the years 2000-2005, (2) Prepared a Strategic Research Plan (SRP) (2020), (3) Prepared a
Vision Document Called, "Bangladesh NARS 2020-A Vision for Agricultural Research", (4) Developed
and introduced two separate criteria to select candidates for (i) promotion and (ii) higher training, (5)
Conducted large number of seminars/symposia/workshops etc. for the scientists of the ARIs including the
most important one called, "Foundation Training" in association with BARD, (6) hnplemented a modest
HRD program, (7) Arranged review/evaluation of the mandates and performance of each of the ARls.
Executed of a large number of Contract Research Projects (CRP), (8) Implemented Farmiing System
Research and Development Projects (FSRDP), (9) Introduced RMIS, FMIS and GIS for the NARS, and
(10) Developed a plan for Rationalization and Sharing of facilities.
However, BARC could not fully assert the required interventions due to serious dearth of its manpower,
specially in senior positions, and temporary nature of job, resulting in severe job insecurity. These two
problems should be addressed with utmost seriousness. Adequate number of quality manpower, specially
in the senior positions, should be provided immediately and the existing posts should be transferred from
development budget to the revenue set up.
BARI: As a multi-crop research institute, BARI has developed 88 varieties of different crops such as
wheat, pulses, oilcrops maize, millets, barley, vegetables, tubers, root crops, tubers and fruits. Besides
varieties, appropriate technologies on disease and insect pest management, fertilizer and water
management socio-economic studies. nost-harvest nrocessing of various crops have been developed. In
addition, remarkable progress has been made in cropping pattems and farming systems. Most important
achievern'nts are as follnws (i) Cent percent wheat area has been covered hy the high vielding varieties
along with the most productive packages of production, (ii) Total seed requirement of wheat is now met
up from. dor.nv.tieti soures and hence there ic non nPA fr imnport now, (iii) Wheat productinn saves the
country from spending foreign currency to the tune of US $0.38 billion, (iv) Seventy percent of the total
potto             ; area i  cred x%Ath T4VV IS releaedA 1y 'PART, fT() S jihvtn,i$al nrnnm,int nf nt,tton sPPd
import has been reduced through implementation of formal and informal seed development program,
sp...1 1- 4-1,r  o  e roduction -rA _of ,Aus=fre w, Vof-An.a  pTT c n otf (-s\ ;L.ranrnopag   banana
and pineapple suckers supplied by BARI created positive impact on production, and (vii) Potato digger



A TIT L--         ---- -  - ! -       --  ~     kT_   fl_.
UeveiupeU by BtU uas UcreLateUU 51gIu11UhiL illpeL on Uigguigg poiato m uite Norinem uisricts.
BRRI: Since inception of the ARMIPr, considerabie progress has been made in this institute. Some of the
remarkable achievements are briefly highlighted below: (i) Two varieties namely BRRldhan 40 and
BRRIdhan 4i have been recommended which can tolerate salinity stress of 8-10 ds/m at reproductive
phase, (ii) Thirty five percent of T.Aman and 65% of the Boro rice area have been covered by newly
released modem rice varieties, (iii) introduced highly profitable three cropping systems, BRRIdhan
28/BRRIdhan 29-BRRIdhan 30/BRRIdhan 31-Potato/Mustard, (iv) Introduced high gur (molasses)
producing sugarcane variety isd-21 & Isd-28 and good quality chewing type sugarcane variety, Amrita to
its FSRD sites, (v) Introduced modem wheat varieties (Kanchan, Sourav and Protiva) for medium
highland in a T.Aman-wheat cropping system, and (vi) Rice+flsh production system was identified as an
agro-economically viable technology and has been extrapolated at different locations of Gazipur district.
BJRI: A number of remarkable achievements have been made in both technological and agricultural
disciplines at the BJRI. These include: (i) Jute-based movable irrigation cannal and irrigation cannal
liner, (ii) Standardization of three processes of preparation of jute batching emulsion using jute seed oil,
castor oil and palm oil in a pilot scheme, (iii) Development of a wide range of unconventional diversified
products of reasonable quality (iv) Varietal improvement of jute through agrobacterium-mediated
transformation, (v) Development of a high yielding jute strain with a 75% IRK This is in the pipeline,
and (vi) Determination of input-output relationship ofjute cultivation.
BSRI: During the project period, BSRI released 4 sugarcane varieties and developed 37 production
technologies, (i) Three salt tolerant varieties Isd 28, Isd 18 and Isd 20 were developed for cultivation in
saline prone areas (ii) Spaced transplanting (STP) planting technique with polybag settlings was
recommended for wider adoption, (iii) STP + potato-mungbean in paired row system was recommended
for large scale adoption, (iv) Intercrop potato and onion with single row transplanted sugarcane was
recommended for large scale practice, and (v) Cabbage, potato followed by mungbean with paired row
transplanted sugarcane was recommended for large scale adoption.
BFRI (Forest): It is difficult to describe research achievements from research nroiects conducted on
forest species only after five years. However, some progress in the improvement of forest management
could be gathered from the ICR Renort of the institite (i) Studies on fanmn-management, tenmrial aspect;
relating to forestry and social forestry management, determination of financial relation of different
snpcr.ieq rrnpp rg pattemn, marketing system and other reated fields of agnr-forp_try and social forpstry
have been completed during the project period, (ii) Studies have been conducted at different tribal areas of
Balndtrh^n MTill fistrrt tn rerwnrd ijndigop s nii lewglpecp nf t-al cnmmumitie on ePthnnh1ntfnu dtiff4rPnt
aspects of bio-diversity conservation, land use and indigenous forest management. In addition, over 130
BotaniCal samples havinag mdiAcrinal values Were Corlect,M A along with their loc a names, and (iii)
Experiments regarding development of wood composite products revealed that cement-bonded particle
board is ,vkir.ly inr.n-,b-ctRle, Am-ble anA bhi,, roe*n+t against lq^ib wkh nr 1-Ar expfr.r.^.er.t
established the fact that bamboo, a short rotation renewable resource, can supplement the wood raw
rter.a!~ ~    T-A for  corel  ---L              n
technologies ranging from simple culture methods to fish strain development techniques as well as various
OuiCl inuUuatfon^iion related Uo Conservation VI aqu4uv, Lreso-uuc  anu  ri1vu7UIULunei. 1neseC iripruveu
technologies have been instrumental to the 8% growth in fish production in the country, which is a
retiarKable aciie-v-men.



Some of the major  hieve ment inclhde hecbr.o1onies 1e: (iA Tmnpurnupynt of r-arn cppA nmrAtiitinn antd
nursery management, (ii) Breeding and seed production of Pabda and Gulsha, (iii) Production and culture
of    yri Xu  -_u iv   iv) IAu, c-e    seed p.A and cf P1Di-.--                    -A. AA (
Identification and control of fish diseases and fish health management, (vi) Low cost fish feed production
a411U dL appul.-cuu, (-vii) 1-7-\  seed p-u-u-c-io in -ac'yaA- ua ; &d p-.vi _-e ir porAs -A
(viii) Environment-friendly shrimp and fish culture by crop rotation in the coastal area.
The CRP achievements include: (i) Recommendations for restricting some fish catching gears, (ii)
lie eImilii  UOl 1on of biovei1.y lii ie fUluoo piwiib, (iLi) LJDVeo1Ur,,enL Uo rI   seed pJIdUULUctI LVAr.o1o1g VI
endemic catfish, (iv) Survey and assessment of shrimp fry resources in the country, and (v) Identification
and controi of s'rimp- and prawn diseases.
T^ne FSRD program at the BrRi (Fisheries) resulted in opfimization o0 iarmners economic obnent uirougn
incorporation of aquaculture as a farming activity, recycling of inputs and different farming components
available in the households such as crop, livestock and fish. Tuis program has been impiemented in 15
sites of different AEZs incorporating three different components viz. Crop, Fisheries and Livestock.
BLRI: BLRI has made considerable progress in livestock and poultry improvement. The achievements
are as follows: (i) A nucleus breeding herd of selected Black Bengal goat has been established with the
objective of conservation and improvement of the breed, (ii) Different breeds/types of buffaloes have been
identified and the best genotype for dairy purpose was selected, (iii) A herd health management package
for dairy farms has been developed, (iv) Produced Pestedes Petites Ruminants (PPR) vaccine and applied
on the goat population. Goat mortality due to PPR is about 11%, resulting economic loss of US $40 m
annually. The cost-benefit ratio for use of PPR vaccine was shown to be 1: 15. It is, therefore, a highly
beneficial achievement, (v) Selection of improved duck from among the indigenous varieties was made,
(vi) Women's participation in raising livestock was enhanced through training. This helped in raising
family income, (vii) Developed protein concentrates from unconventional feed resources for feeding
livestock and poultry which is expected to reduce cost considerably, and (viii) Research in production
performance of different high biomass yielding grasses revealing that biomass yield was the highest in
Napier arusha, Napier bazra and Splendida both in plain and saline zone. The FSR programme of BLRI
successfully transferred the following technologies to the farmers: (i) UMS package for cattle fattening
and dairy cattle, (ii) Algae as substitute for green grass, (iii) Wet straw preservation, (iv) Fodder
production package, (v) Pullet, Cockerel, Broiler and Layer production packages, (vi) Duck-cum-fish
production, (vii) Layer-cum-fish production, and (viii) Poly-culture of fish in perennial ponds.
5. ACHIEVEMENT, SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE PROJECT OPERATION.
Contribution of ARMP: The foregoing achievements include a retrospective analysis of sub-sectoral
achievements in individual institutes and some of these are comparatively newer than others. Nonetheless,
the conbined effects of many of these develoned technologies had an overall imnact on the nroduction
scenario of the country e.g. 23.4 m ton food grains in 1999-2000 compared to 14.5 m ton in 1984-85.
Althnouh the a,phipvpm,pnt nf sf-suqiiffiri,nrv in fnnd iymins nnri-rrPed sis a resiIlt of resesrch and extension
endeavors of many years, it actually happened in 2000 i.e. during the ARMP period. The contributions of
ADD.T AP.P_TT ar,1 ARMP tn thic rpirkahlp dPvPlnnmPnt nnnnnt hp indprhP4I7imntPd
A A;disc3sA e^linr r  r--,ae outputs of ;mnwpovA ndnAirt4nn nan,4r   an.d nomn,rnrt,Aties h.n' hbp'n
As~ ~.OtO~~*~Sf~l CIIACMft.tS-                                 5-   -jj*_    -  -    -,-- -
obtained during ARMP period. Development of 88 new varieties of crops by BARI, nine varieties of rice
1.b.   ir A..d   sannme pe.odA snd a host of or ;ove ---,.A ,0.t0 of mafn,    cr  as   cc fbohr
packages of production in problem areas and improvements in agronomical, pathological, entomological,
-34



water management. etc. are glaring examnle of very useful achievements of the nroiect. The
inter-disciplinary and inter-institutional research through utilization of available scientific expertise of
universities NGOs. nrivate sector and other agricultural research entities was a new dimension in the
agricultural research system of the country which provided the BARC with potentially increased powers
to review, mnnitnr and evaluate research. The enhanced food grin prndurtion cnmplete with introdlction
of aquaculture, livestock and agro-forestry technologies at the FSRD sites improved the livelihood of the
f rm,,re thrmogh hettAr nlhiritonn
Thae Need forlfratarnative technii .and f?inandI supin-or  The resekar ch agenda anu tha aphsa-,manfte
described above reveal that the status of Core Research Projects, CRPs and FSRDPs are at various
stages o. developmen.                        'SOLpeidon Of   's.s -n   " DecSLADeemb.-, -001 is  SW.fl fo JeopaJrJdi  t..
successful completion of some of these highly prospective projects unless an alternative source of funding
4is ensur -. 1174,':-+o  -..--:4-- he- issues at stC be in 4ul pos-ADMLAD pe.;od it ca be- U_ ele ---+- Uh
i  Ualu   yV LL&SWJL& vanlUIIlrLU LU Lxv uj.Iaa  C L M%aa, LAl  LJLI, jJ  aLf1j-3,LXL   jIJLLOIU,  L  .JA I u,"   WU.   LA  UjLL
many important and prospective projects, specially in the CRP and FSRDP groups, will come to an
abuptj euu c.ausing enuuuuus uairn 'o ULe pa.-ial but baslic devvelop.-iiel-u achieved so far. Suc a situation
is likely to slow down the pace of growth in the Agriculture sector as a whole. The overall growth rate in
4W?1;U1LU, UL UV ,U U-buavilI glUWUIb kc.y. 070 111 l1in fihnUe) LanoL Ut hstiuWi d   WIUIIU-t Uht mqull-ud
technical and financial support from any quarter.
Preparation of an Action Plan: Under the circumstances, BARC has prepared an action plan to arrange
a modest fund from the GOB as a bridging-project until a fuly-funded project can be launched to carry
out the unfinished tasks to a successful end as well as to initiate some new prospective projects on the
basis of the experience gathered during the AKMr.
6     RE CONUIENUAT11IONS
*   Adequate resources are to be arranged by the GOB to implement the prioritized programs. Allocation
of GOB fund in the revenue budget of the ARIs is necessary for smooth functioning of programs.
*   Block grants may be introduced like BIDS, Islarnic Foundation, Bangladesh and University Grants
Commission. BARC should be allowed to disburse the money to the NARS institutes according to
need and priority.
* Revision of the MPs sometime in 2002 depending on changing research scenario, national need and
priority, specially with a view to super-impose the National Agriculture Policy (NAP) upon the Mrs.
*   Monitoring unit and criteria are to be established by BARC for judging the progress of achievements
in implementing the MPs according to the recommendations made by the individual Review Teams of
the ARIs.
* A core research group may be formed from among the already developed expertise in the NARS
institutes to provide training on RMIS and FMIS to their peers in ARIs.
*   The Management Bodies of BARI, BRRI, BJRI, BSRI, BLRI and BFRI (Fisheries) should have
similar names and compositions for the sake of unifonnity and smooth functioning. The possibility of
making BFRI (Forest), SRDI and BTRI autonomous like other ARls may be considered and similar
BOMs may be formed for these institutes.
* For implementation of the rationalization and sharing of facilities, a broad action plan for actual
operation and development of regional comrittees involving personnel of the Regional ARIs,
Extension and NGOs are now required.
* The number of CRPs may be reduced to a manageable figure after a thorough prioritization process
exercised at the BARC level.
*   Research capabilities of the NGOs and PEs in terms of technical manpower, laboratory and field
facilities, and past experience of research project implementation should be scrutinized before
- 35 -



awarding any CRP to the.n
*   Scrutiny of CRPs by groups of specialized scientists belonging to different disciplines should be
arranged by BARC before selection of contract research projects for fuiw.-g by engaguig expers-
from among the retired scientists in lieu of some remunerations/honoraria since BARC does not have
enough manpower.
*   The non-existence of Livestock and Fisheries scientists in the crop- and forest-based institutes as well
as concomitant job insecurity due to appointment in the Development set up should be removed by
creating/transforming a few permanent posts of scientific officers for these two disciplines in the
crop- and forest-based institutes.
*   Expansion of the scope of FSRD to cover the entire research and development activities through
further concept/methodology development and institutionalization should be attempted.
*   All possible technical and material support to FSRD activities should be given to continue the
program for helping the farmer to utilize his scarce resources in the best possible way. Immediate
steps are needed to ensure continuing financial support for inter-institutional FSRD efforts.
*   Development of R&D funding proposals addressing rural development though FSRD technology is
required.
* The higher education and training opportunities availed by personnel outside NARS should be
reduced to a reasonable number in a possible new project. In addition, these candidates should be
selected on the basis of the nature of their jobs and responsibilities.
*   Vigorous follow up with the concerned Ministry and the FAPAD office should be made by the
agencies for settlement of audit observations. All objections should be regularized within the project
period.
*   Procurement procedure and other rules set by the World Bank should be made known to the
Government auditors so that the auditors follow the Donor's rules rather than the GOB rules.
*   The delay in appointing consulting Firms for (a) Recruitment of consultants and (b) Implementation
of the Training Program points to the fact that major operational strategies for implementing any
Project of this nature should be meticulously discussed, finalized and agreed upon during the
negotiation period.
*   A series of in-service Training Courses should be conducted for the different types of staff of the
ARIs for smooth functioning and overall improvement of their efficiency.
*   Reform of Financial Rules should be a prime agendum for creating opportunities of smooth
imnlementation of the R&D proiects.
*   Unification of service Rules among the NARS institutes has still remained one of the most vexing
problems corroding the very philosophy behind coordination throughout the entire NARS system.
*   Preparation of procurement manual should be given top-most importance providing clear guidelines
nn the issue.
*   Appointment of critical manpower in the procurement section of every implementing agency should
bea pci,rprl if annthpr nmiprot is tindPrtAk-n
*   Manpower position in the Accounts and Finance Sections of the ARIs are in deplorable conditions.
.TN -.ew project ehn,di hbe  tiatotPd uthnuit  = gnathninc these inits Auith nrnnPr1v Pdicsitepd
manpower.









,^ Y  n                                ~~~~~~BANGLA DESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT |
Principal Project Research Stations          P
(Thakurgaon
f Thokurg$^ ,)  J   t,         * \            Research Sites by institute:  o  Seiected Cities and Towns
|                                                flX NOphomorhiI,  M EBARI  . FRI  Distrid Capitals
rffiBRRI MIIBLRI        ®   Division Capitals
I%    unol ki) npur   \  lIBFRI                      2fIMBJRI    Q     National Capital
_,   uinoMpur   \   Ez"P"t  w          E1 SRTI                    District  Boundaries
.~"'                                        - ffDivision Boundaries
<        \TGoib.ndh                                    - - - International Boundaries
The Distrid Capitals ore also the District names
!                                        /> 0  ---  rpur      Sunmgoni    (
-,   '     Noogoon /     gro    inoolp                                           t Netrokono  r  et
Xbf ©              ©      '~X~  U         M yensingh         J '
/s  i              >             S)KShorgomi           Moul boxor
Raishah)Noor    '   Seroigon                                    Hbign 
, _     ~~r ©o    rL-.       z', t, obi/on
esR.V                        /bHA     '-A\ /-\
Ro1bri i                  3'       -L   
-       o           -             /urGzipur.
Pbn3o'  Noa 1.       Oo~n      m     ii
Ro 2<t<-\ w )Nong~_MV/1,rin,>di        r0hrnon/  i
I_  A                                    ry %  7 iTt A  I N&u(
-     r -,l'.  1  _       .'      ' j  .
INDIA        )KHULNA       -       o   /@No        Lrno              ;F   \A          'rrl 
, .K - , KhuIna1  - V}     -     1         | Noakhol.        Knod
17          ; '5. l             tY,h il 05 1'0. h1"=gog _ 1 1    ,
4             an
'~~!~~lAY            . I ~~Chittagong Bodab'
The boundorioes, colors de44on, no, on,  j--
and any other informahe,n Sh..on .  l  .-
this mapdo notimplyo, a he co,,of       iV
The W ordBnk Group an  ng ec 
on the legal staktusrou anfaur, ;'e" o  or l ItR) 1  )  =_ t   F s l  
any endorsement or accepronce of such  *IIL--
iNDiA  |Mo   YANMfAo r|                                 B
ktim, -AiMI               0M  ..-.-  25 -  "'50.
Al /ftl</lOO- inmLlT7I ^ sP isP'3PI!s4IoiIbxE135 T 10 hn~ 









Report No.:        24349
IType:   ._ 



