Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14467-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 16, 1996
Agriculture and Natural Resources Division
Country Department 1
South Asia Region






CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(December 1995)
Currency Unit                 =              Bangladesh Taka (Tk)
Tk  1.00                      =              USS.024
US$ 1.00                      =              Tk 40.61 (Official Exchange Rate)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)              =              0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                =              2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m ton)          =              2,205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
AEZ        =  agro-ecological zones
APRW       =  Annual Program Review Workshop
ARIs       =  Agricultural Research Institutes
ARMP       =  Agricultural Research Management Project
BARC       =  Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
BARI       =  Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute
BFRI       =  Bangladesh Forestry Research Institute
BINA       =  Bangladesh Institute of Nuclear Agriculture
BJRI       =  Bangladesh Jute Research Institute
BLRI       =  Bangladesh Livestock Research Institute
BRRI       =  Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
BTRI       =  Bangladesh Tea Research Institute
CAS        =  Country Assistance Strategy
CDB        =  Cotton Development Board
DAE        =  Department of Agricultural Extension
DLS        =  Department of Livestock Services
DOF        =  Department of Fisheries
ERR        =  Economic Rate of Return
FAO        =  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FRI        =  Fisheries Research Institute
FSR        =  Farming Systems Research
GDP        =  Gross Domestic Product
GOB        =  Government of Bangladesh
IBRD       =  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1PM        =  Integrated Pest Management
HYVs       =  High Yielding Varieties
IDA        =  International Development Association
ISNAR      =  International Service for National Agricultural Research
LCB        =  Local Competitive Bidding
MIS        =  Management Information System
MOA        =  Ministry of Agriculture
MOEF       =  Ministry of Environment and Forest
MOFL       =  Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock
MTR        =  Mid-Term Review
NARS       =  National Agricultural Research System
NGO        =  Non-Government Organization
NPV        =  net present value
OED        =  Operations Evaluation Department, World Bank



O&M        =  Operation and Maintenance
PMEC       =  Planning, Monitoring, Evaluation and Coordination
SDR       =  Special Drawing Right
SOE       =  statement of expenses
SRDI      =  Soils Research and Development Institute
SRI       =  Sugarcane Research Institute
USAID      =  United States Agency for International Development
USS        =  United States Dollar (Currency)
GOB FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Credit and Project Summary ...................1i
Chapter 1. The Agricultural Section .
1
A. Introduction                               .1
B.   Crops, Livestock, Fisheries, and Forestry             .2
1. Crops                               .2
2. Livestock                             .3
3. Fisheries                             .3
4. Forestry                              .4
C. Agricultural Policies                          ..4
Chapter 2.  Agricultural Research                            .         .         .         5
A. Agricultural Research Strategy                     ..6
B.   The Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council             .      .       6
C.  The Agricultural Research Institutes                 .         .         7
1. Bangladesh Agricuitural Research Institute           .8
2. Bangladesh Rice Research Institute                .8
3. Bangladesh Jute Research Institute               .9
4. Sugarcane Research Institute                   .9
5. Fisheries Research Institute .10
6. Bangladesh Forest Research Institute .10
7. Bangladesh Livestock Research Institute            .1
D. Barriers to Better Research                      ..11
Chapter 3. The Prolect                                  ..15
A. Rationale for IDA Involvement                      ..15
B. Lessons of IDA Experience                        ..15
C.   Project Objective and Summary Description              .       .       18
D. Project Components                            ..19
1. Research Organization and Management .19
2. Priority Research .22
3. Participatory Farming Systems Research .27
E. Project Implementation            ..28
1. Project Costs .29
2. Project Financing .29
3. Procurement .29
4. Disbursements .32
5. Accounts and Audit .34
6. Supervision by IDA .34
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission of IDA to Bangladesh in April 1995.
The mission members included Messrs. J. McIntire (Task Manager), J. Baffes, J. Anderson, M. A.
Ghani, J. Weijenberg, and T. Islam (negotiations only) (IDA), and Z. Abedin (Consultant),
following a pre-appraisal mission of June, 1993 led by Mr. W. Schwermer. M. Nishimizu,
Department Director and R Ali, Division Chief.



F.    Benefits, Environmental Effects and Risks            ................................. 35
1. Benefits .................................                             35
2.  Enviromnmental Effects .................................              36
3. Risks .................................                                37
Chapter 4.    Agreements Reached and Recommendation    ...............        ................... 38
A.   Agreements Reached .................................                       38
B.   Recormmendation.                                      ................................. 40
Annexe
1.      Project Costs
2.      Estimated Schedule of Project Disbursements
3.      The Preparation and Approval of New Research Projects
4.      Economic Analysis of Research Priorities
5.      Implementation Schedule and Indicators and Impact Indicators
6.      The Policy Environment and Institutional Issues
7.      Supervision Plan and Reporting Formats
8.      Policy for Completing Institutional Reforms of the National Agricultural Research
system
9.      Related Documents and Data in the Project File
Tables in the Text
I .     Project Cost Summary by Year and Component
2.      Project Cost Summary by Expenditure Category
3.      Financing Plan
4.      Pocurement Arrangements
Fianres in the Tet
1.      Risk Analysis of Economic Rates of Return by ARI
Map
IBRD # 27270: Agricultural Research Management Project



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    People's Republic of Bangladesh
Beneficiaries:              National research  institutions, researchers, extension
workers, farmers
Executing agencies:          Eight national research institutions
Amount:                      Credit SDR33.6 million (US$50.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                       Standard, with a maturity of 40 years
Project objectives:          The project objective is to increase the efficiency of the
national agricultural research system. The project would
achieve its objective through: (a) improving research
organization and management;  (b) supporting priority
research programs on promising areas; (c) strengthening
client orientation; and (d) improving research resource
allocation.
Project components:         The project would have three components: (a) Research
organization and management (US$13.99 million),
focusing on institutional policy reforms and strengthening
research planning in BARC and ARls;  (b) Priority
Research (US$40.57 million) in the ARIs on crops,
fisheries, livestock and forestry and with other institutions
through contract research managed by BARC; and
(c) Participatory Farming Systems (US$4.56) research
linkages to improve technology transfer. The project would
finance civil works, local and imported goods and equipment
(farm, office, laboratory, and vehicles), contract research,
technical assistance, training, labor, and incremental staff
and operating costs.
Costs and financing plan:   Total project costs are estimated at US$59.1 million. Project
baseline costs are estimated at US$52.9 million; physical
contingencies are estimated to be US$ 2.2 million and price
contingencies are estimated to be US$ 4.0 million. An IDA
credit would provide US$50.0 million and the Government
of Bangladesh would provide US$9.1 million. Of the total
project cost, US$46.2 million would be for investment and
US$12.9 would be for incremental recurrent costs.
Benefits:                    The project would assist in the generation of more
productive agricultural (crops, livestock, fisheries, and
forestry) technology. Support to research linkages and
adaptation would lead to stronger linkages with farmers,
extension services and NGOs, and promote the development
of adoptable technology and a stronger foundation for the



- ii -
transfer of such technology to farmers, thus increasing
production and income.
Risks:                      There are four major risks. They are the Governmenes
ability and commitment to: (a) complete the agreed
institutional reforms; (b) manage research, including
interagency coordination; (c) allocate adequate funds to
research; and (d) implement all project provisions, including
technical assistance and training. These risks are addressed
as follows: (a) institutional reforms were agreed in advance
and are supported by a policy statement from the Minister of
Agriculture to IDA. The executive orders to implement the
new research management procedures would be issues
before   effectiveness;   (b) strengthening    research
management, staff development, and coordination among
agencies and clients, including extension, NGOs and
farmers; (c) a satisfactory arrangement has been made to
transfer adequate allocations to the revenue budgets for the
project. The Government agreed at negotiations that
adequate funds would be made available for the project; and
(d) timely establishment of a special account for each
implementing agency, appointment of key managerial
positions and recruitment of consultants, streamlining
implementation of training and contract research, and
maintaining a project subcommittee at BARC to monitor
implementation. IDA supervision and a mid-term review
will identify problems and suggest correctives.
Economic Rate of Return:    The economic rates of return (ERRs) of the expected benefits
of research on 35 major commodities, comprising more than
95% of agricultural output, were estimated to be greater than
12 percent for 32 of the 35 commodities. The average of the
values across ARIs was 53.4%, ranging from 11.1 % (BJRI,
jute research) to 90.7 % (BRRI, rice research).
Map:                        IBRD. No. 27270 - Bangladesh - Agricultural Research
Management Project.
Project Identification Number: BD-PA-9484



- iii -
Project Cost Summary
%       e/e Total
Foreign     Base
Local Foreign  Total  Exchange    Costs
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
Civil Works
New Construction                       4.7     1.2      5.9       20          11
Rehabilitation                         1.5     0.3      1.8       17           3
Farm Site Development                  0.1       -     0.1        20
Engineering Fees                       0.5       -     0.5         4           1
Subtotal Civil Works                    6.7     1.5     8.2        19          15
Goods
Laboratory                             0.5     1.8     2.3        78           4
Goods other than laboratory equipment  0.7     5.3     6.0        88          11
Subtotal Goods                          1.2     7.1     8.3        86          15
Training                                3.5     9.4    12.9        73          24
Technical Assistance
Contract Research                      7.1             7.1         -          13
Foreign Consultants                            5.0     5.0       100           9
Local Consultants                       0.4             0.4         -          1
Subtotal Technical Assistance           7.5     5.0    12.5        40          24
Total Investment Costs                 19.0   22.9    41.9         55          79
II. RECURRENT COSTS                     6.7    4.3    10.9         39          21
Total BASELINE COSTS                   25.7   27.2    52.9         5 1        100
Physical Contingencies                  1.2     1.0     2.2        47           4
Price Contingencies                     2.0     2.0     4.0        51           8
Total PROJECT COSTS                    28.8    30.3    59.1        51         112
Estimated Disbursements (US$ million):
IDAFY               97        98      99      00      01
Annualla               9.5        16.5    11.0    7.2     5.7
Cumulative              9.5       26.0    37.1    44.2    50.0
t'Includes special account deposit of US$4.0 million and retroactive financing of up to US$0.5 million
for eligible expenditures incurred after May 1, 1995.






BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Introduction
1.1    Bangladesh is one of the poorest countries in the world, with an average income of US$220 in
1993 and with about half its population living in poverty. Agriculture (crops, livestock, fisheries and
forestry) is vital in the economy, accounting for about 30 percent of GDP, 65 percent of employment and
17 percent of commodity export earnings. Economic growth sufficient to relieve poverty requires, therefore,
significant growth in agricultural output and productivity or a massive shift of people out of agriculture
into other sectors.
1.2    Raising agricultural output confronts several challenges. The first is to grow from a resource base
that is already very intensively used. The projected 1996 population of about 123 million people lives on
14.8 million hectares (ha), making Bangladesh the most densely populated country in the world. Arable
land covers 8.1 million ha--or roughly 55 percent of the national area--with another 1.9 million ha in forest
or woodland, so there is no possibility to grow by cultivating more land. Of the national total of roughly 19
million households, about 14 million are farm households and 7.7 million are rural landless; the landless,
and those operating holdings of less than 0.5 hectares (ha), have little or no asset base in which to invest.
Lastly, while expansion of irrigation and fertilizer use have contributed to recent growth, additional
irrigable land is becoming scarcer, the costs of new irrigation are expected to rise, and the marginal returns
to fertilizer have fallen from the levels of the mid-1980s. Though significant potential for exploitation of
inexpensive groundwater exists, the cheapest irrigation opportunities have already been used.
1.3   The second challenge is water control. While rainfall and surface waters are usually abundant,
recurrent droughts and floods make it difficult to sustain growth. Because production will always be
subject to the onset and intensity of the monsoons and to the severity of the dry season, costly investments
in irrigation, drainage, and flood control are needed to manage water, maintain coastlines and river banks
against erosion, to prevent salt water incursion and to protect inland fisheries from disruption by flood
control and drainage activities.
1.4   The third challenge is the heterogeneity of agriculture. Arable land has been classified into 30
agro-ecological zones (AEZs) and 80 subzones according to soil type, land shape, probability of flooding,
length of growing season, and temperature.  Although temperatures are generally suitable for crop
production throughout the year, distinct hot, warm and cool seasons make farm management complex in
terms of the appropriate mix of crops, livestock, forestry, aquatic species, and other activities. The various
zones require site-specific management practices which must be generated by research and promulgated by
extension.
1.5    Agricultural growth. Agriculture grew at 3.2 percent annually in the 1960s and at 2.5 percent
from 1973-1987. Total factor productivity growth--the contribution to output of research, technology
transfer, education, and markets--expanded by 0.78 percent annually from 1957-1985 and by 0.84 percent
from 1975-1985. Growth was slightly faster in the later 1980s, helped by the elimination of non-tariff
barriers on pumps and power tillers, by lower input tariffs which further promoted irrigation, and by the
continued shift from local to modem rice varieties. Per capita food grain supply rose by about 6 percent
from 1983 through 1993 and real rice prices fell steadily from 1983 to the end of 1992. Though rice
remains the dominant crop by far, agriculture has become more diverse, as raw jute fell from 43 percent to



2
31 pernt of agricultural exports from 1984-86 to 1990-92, and as the share of crops in total agricultural
output dropped from about 82 percent to 62 percent.
1.6    Growth's effect on poverty. The limited recent gains in output and productivity have not
significantly boosted wages or reduced poverty and malnutrition in rural areas. The index of agricultural
wages (1973/74 = 100) was 94 in 1983/84, rose to an average of 105 in 1986/1988 and fell again to 94 in
1993/94. About half of the population remains poor and poverty is most severe in farming areas.
Malnutrition afflicts two-thirds of children under the age of five.
B. Crops, Livestock, Fisheries, and Forestry
1.7    Crops. Crops constitute roughly two thirds of agricultural income and foodgrains provide nearly
80 percent of the value of crop production. Rice is the major crop, accounting for nearly 80 percent of
cropped area and 75 percent of the gross value of crop output.
(a)    Cereals. Farming is organized by three seasonal rice crops: the aman or monsoon crop
(June through November), the boro (December through April) or dry season crop and the
aus (March/April through June/July) or spring interseasonal crop. The introduction of high
yielding varieties, particularly for rice and wheat, the shift to small-scale irrigation and to
dry season irrigation, plus the expansion of rural infratructure and population pressure
have changed cropping system in recent years. Boro rice has greatly expanded with
irrigation, transplanted aman has replaced broadcast aman in better-drained areas, and
wheat and boro rice have replaced dry season pulses and oilseeds. Wheat area expanded
from about 40,000 ha in the mid-1960s to over half a million ha in the early 1980s;
production has increased seven-fold after 1975.
(b)   Industrial crops. Industrial crops, including spices, contribute nearly 10 percent of the
gross value of crop production. Jute is the leader, occupying about six percent of arable
land, though its sown area fell from 840,000 ha in 1984/85-1986/87 to 520,000 ha in
1991/92-1993/94 because it became less profitable. Production fluctuates widely in
response to world prices. Average yields are low and depend upon the onset of the rains
and the ability of the farmer to carry out timely land preparation and sowing. Jute
cultivation may also be moving to marginal lands, particularly those subject to rapid
flooding. Sugarcane is the second industrial crop with about 185,000 ha. Yields have
declined for lack of improved varieties, low sugar recovery, and slow adoption of
technology by farmers.
(c)    Other crops. The share of gross value of production of these crops (pulses, oilseeds,
spices, tea, sugarcane, fruits, and vegetables) is less than 5 percent. The area occupied
was nearly constant at some 2.0 million ha from 1984/85 to 1993/94. Growth in pulses
and oilseeds has been nil and some crops have regressed under competition from higher-
yielding foodgrains. The area and output of vegetables and fruits (eggplant, tomato,
mangos, papaya, jackfruit, pineapples and bananas) also remained constant in that period.
For these crops to regain their domestic comparative advantage, more productive
technologies are needed.



3
(d)   Constraints to Diversification out of Rice. The high dependence on rice for income and
employment has engendered concems that it disregards growth opportnities in other farm
goods and that it is too risky. Bank sector work (World Bank, Report 14315-BD) has
identified barriers to diversification out of rice, including policy distortions, incomplete
market infrastructure, and lack of research and extension for novel crops. Specific issues
within the latter area were inappropriate research for intensified agriculture, inadequate
research on integrated pest management (IPM), and a public research portfolio that
focused too narrowly on rice and wheat. The report specifically recommended developing
intensive irrigated production technologies for maize, sunflower, fruits, and vegetables,
through participatory research and extension designed to better incorporate farmers' needs
into the research process; the proposed operation would seek to assist with the generation
of such technologies and to develop a mechanism to develop new research projects that
respond to farmers in an economically efficient manner (para. 3.16 and Annex 3).
1.8    Livestock. Animal production provides roughly 11 percent of agricultural GDP. There are about
23 million cattle, or about 2.8 head per ha of cultivated land, another 30 million sheep and goats, and
uncounted millions of poultry. Cattle are crucial to the farm economy because they are the major source of
draft power for cultivation and transport and an important source of cash income; the same is true, to a
lesser extent of buffalo. About 90 percent of rural families are involved in backyard livestock production,
where goats, sheep and poultry scavenge on crop residues and household waste. Smallholders and the
landless hold 40 percent of the national cattle herd, especially goats and poultry, maling livestock an
important subsector for the rural poor.
1.9    Livestock performance is poor because of scarce feed, diseases, and inadequate support services
including research. There is little specialized commercial livestock production, except in peri-urban areas,
and management is generally unskilled. Scarce feed is a costly constraint to ruminant production; most
cattle subsist on common rice straw, supplemented only by meager roadside grazing and small quantities of
bran and oil cake, and there is almost no specialized forage production. Because of poor nutrition at the end
of the dry season, draft animals are ill-prepared for heavy land preparation, resulting in late cultivation
which adversely affects crop yields.
1.10   Fisheries. Fisheries of all types contribute some 13 percent of agricultural GDP. Bangladesh is
suited for fisheries because it is a deltaic country of rivers, estuaries, ponds and lakes, and has a coastline
of nearly 500 km. Permanent inland waters cover an estimated 1.4 million ha. Another 3 million ha are
inundated for almost six months each year. Fisheries are accordingly important for nutrition, income and
exports. Fish provide over 80 percent of the animal protein in the human diet, although this has declined
from 33 grams/head/day in 1962 to about 20 grams/head/day in 1990. There are some 1.25 million
commercial fishermen and over 11 million families derive some income from fishing.
1.11   About 80 percent of-total fish production comes from capture fisheries (51 percent inland and 28
percent marine) and the balance mainly from inland culture. There has been rapid growth in culture
fisheries. During the 1986-90 period, marine culture yields were reported to have increased by one-fourth.
Shrimp cultivation in brackish water is expanding rapidly and shrimp exports now account for over 80
percent of fisheries exports. Shrimp yields are low, about 200 kg/ha/year, and very variable (100 -
2,000 kg/ha) but seemingly could be improved by simple improvements in methods.



4
1.12   The fisheries sub-sector faces several constraints. Though increases in production can be expected
from improvements in capture technology, population growth, associated overfishing and low investnent m
open-access fisheries have resulted in declining freshwater capture fishing from the levels of the late 1980s;
a Bank-supported Tbird Fisheries Project is assisting with institutional and technical changes to improve
freshwater capture fisheries and the proposed operation supports research on riverine and other freshwater
capture fisheries, to be undertaken by the Bangladesh Fisheries Research Institute (FRI) to resolve the
technical problems. Despite the very rapid growth in culture fisheries, there are problems of soil and water
quality due to salinization, overexploitation of spawning grounds, and shortage of shnmp seed; the
proposed operation supports research on brackish and marine culture fisheries on priority themes (para.
3.35).
1.13   Forestry. Forestry contributes about 10 percent of agricultural GDP. The three principal forestry
systems cover about 3.0 million ha: the hill tracts of Chittagong, the tidal forests of the Sundarban in the
southwest, and homestead forestry throughout the country. Nearly 2.0 million ha of natural forests survive
in the hill tracts of Chittagong and the Sundarbans. Though the government owns about 2.0 million ha of
natural forests and planta ions, more than 75 percent of fuelwood and industrial wood comes from
privately-owned woodlots and homesteads.
1.14   Some public forest resources, particularly in the hill tracts, have been declining because of crop
encroachment, illegal felling and uncontrolled utilization. Private resources have come under increasing
pressure from population growth and rising incomes and the real price of fuelwood has nsen. Some
changes have been brought about under the IDA-supported Forest Resources Management Project (Cr.
2397-BD). New forest management plans have been prepared and community forestry is being introduced
with assistance from NGOs. With help from the Asian Development Bank (ADB), the Forest Department is
now implementing a community/private sector forestry program focusing on the homestead. The proposed
operation would assist in rehabilitating the research capacity of the Bangladesh Forestry Research Institute
(BFRI), particularly for the hill and homestead areas, where important research questions remain and
where growth potential is good.
C. Agricultural Policies
1.15   Policy Objectives. The main policy objectives are to stimulate growth enough to pull up rural
incomes and to cut poverty, and to improve food security. Tbree broad instruments are employed to achieve
those objectives. The first is the continued liberalization and deregulation of the economy, which is intended
to better the business climate for the private sector and thereby to improve economic growth. The second is
targeted intervention for poverty alleviation, such as food for work, vulnerable group development, and
directed credit. The third is public investment in human capital, physical infrastructure (including roads,
markets, irrigation, drainage, flood control) and technical change through research and extension.
1.16   The recent policy regime has been comparatively neutral. There are now few quantitative
restrictions on international trade in farm goods. Many government regulations on domestic food trade have
been eliminated. The prices of the major goods are closely aligned to world market prices; for example, the
long-term nominal protection coefficient of urea, the main fertilizer input, is 0.9, while the domestic price
of rice has recently fallen between the fob and CIF prices, according to the size of the domestic harvest.
Bank sector work on diversification (World Bank, Report 14315-BD) has recommended changes in
policies to eliminate remaining distortions.



5
1.17   Water resources strategy. Extensive studies for a national Flood Action Plan have been
completed. The Government is now preparing a water resources strategy based on those studies. TM
strategy will emphasize economically and environmentally sound and sustainable investnents, both non-
structural and structural. The measures taken under the proposed operation are fully consistent with the
water resources strategy in that they would assist in generating technology to raise productivity in irrigated
and drained areas.
2. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
2.1    The independent Government began to develop research in 1973 by creating institutions to support
studies on commodities or agricultural disciplines. The national agricultural research system (NARS),
comprising ten Agricultural Research Institutes (ARls) and the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
(BARC), now employs about 1370 scientists.
2.2    The chief organizaeons in the NARS are':
(a)    BARC, the apex organization responsible for research policy and national coordination;
(b)    Bangladesh Agricultural Research Insitute (BARI);
(c)    Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI);
(d)    Fisheries Research Institute (FRI);
(e)    Bangladesh Livestock Research Institute (BLRI);
(f)    Bangladesh Forestry Research Institute (BFRI);
(g)    Bangladesh Institute of Nuclear Agriculture (BINA);
(h)    Bangladesh Soils Research and Development Institute (SRDI);
(i)    Cotton Development Board (CDB);
()    Bangladesh Tea Research Institute (BTRI);
(k)    Bangladesh Jute Research Institute (BJRI); and
()    Sugarcane Research Institute (SRI).
BINA, CDB, and SRDI are not participating directly in the proposed operton, but cam compete for cntact research
grants.



6
A. Agricultural Research Strategy
2.3    BARC in collaboration with the ARIs and other national institutions has prepared an agricultural
research strategy 2, The strategy sets goals for the NARS and operational plans in the ARIs to achieve
them. The basic goal of the Bangladesh NARS is to 'improve the well-being of present and future
generations of farmers and consumers in Bangladesh, particularly those with low incomes." Specific
objectives are to generate technologies and information for crops, livestock, fisheries, and forestry that are
of economic benefit and that enhance productivity. The essential steps of the research strategy are:
(a) reorientation of research into profitable, relevant and sustainable programs; (b) establishment of the
farm unit as the research nexus; (c) improvement of research management to emphasize sound planning and
human resource development; and (d) improvement of client (farmner, extension worker, and consumer)
focus in defining priorities and evaluating research products. The strategy was discussed with IDA at
appraisal and found satisfactory.
2.4         The strategy s an important step, but it does not sufficiently address governance, scientific
incentives, performance evaluation and accountability, and stakeholder participation in the research system.
To implernent the strategy more effectively, the Government agreed at negotiations to carry out a Policy
Reform Program, consisting of: (a) a policy statement (Annex 8), derived from the agreed strategy and
acceptable to IDA, declaring its intention to confer greater autonomy upon the ARIs in the areas of budget,
personnel, and management (para. 4.2(a)); and (b) a plan of actions to confer greater autonomy to the
ARIs, thereby allowing them to manage resources more flexibly and efficiently (para. 4.1 (a)).
2.5    ARIs prepare their five-year master plans and annual programs within the strategic framework
built by BARC. These master plans provide a summary of current and proposed institute research and
training programs, together with an assessment of additional facilities and resources needed. However,
they are very general, only partially prioritize future research programs, and do not relate priority research
programs to quantified constraints or problems. There is also no correlation of proposed programs with
existing or required resources and facilities, other than an estimate of total anticipated operational
expenses. Under the proposed operation, the Government agreed to a series of steps for research priority
definition and program evaluation (para. 3.16) that would sharpen their quantitative focus, improve client
orientation, and justify resource requirements in terms of the agreed priorities. The Government agreed to
complete ARI Master Plans by December 31, 1996 and to have them reviewed and accepted by the
Association (para. 4.1 (b)).
B. The Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
2.6    The GOB established BARC in 1973 to set priorities, coordinate the ARIs, evaluate programs and
investments, and prepare staff development programs and national research plans. BARC consists of a
Governing Council and the Secretariat. The Governing Council is headed alternatively by the Ministers
for Agriculture and Fisheries and Livestock. The Council has 28 members selected from the civil service,
Directors of Research Institutes, University Vice Chancellors and senior scientists.
2      Strategic Plan for National Agricultural Research System to the Year 2010 and Bevond Bangladesh Agricultural
Research Council in Association with NARS Institutions, Dhaka, Bangladesh, March, 1995.



7
2.7    The BARC Secretariat is headed by an Executive Vice-Chairman. It comprises nine divisions
headed by Member-Directors and departments headed by Directors. The Member Directors and Directors
evaluate research proposals and coordinate contract research. The Secretariat has specialized technical
committees that advise on research proposals in field, industrial, and horticultural crops, soils and
irrigation, agronomy, forestry, livestock, fisheries, agricultural engineering, nutrition and home sciences,
and agricultural economics and social sciences. A Finance Committee prepares the annual budget and
examines financial proposals for research.
2.8    BARC has been partally successful in carrying out its mandate.  BARC wrote a National
Agricultural Research Plan  in the early 1980s and again in 1990/913. Those documents were the
foundation of the 1992/93 five-year master plans of each ARI, used as the basis of their annual programs.
The Secretariat has played a major role in developing contract research, allocating funds for ad hoc
research activities, and in arranging overseas postgraduate fellowships for scientists.
2.9    BARC's basic problem has been that it is an agency of the MOA but is responsible for the ARIs of
three other ministries. In 4he case of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) Istitutes and BFRI, BARC
nominally evaluates and approves research proposals before they are submitted to the MOA for funding.
Because the Boards of Govemors of ARTs have composition and status similar to BARC, some ARTs,
notably FRI and BLRI, ignore BARC's recommendations. Most Institutes do not maintain close contact
with the BARC Secretariat, and BARC consequently has been unable to monitor, evaluate and coordinate
their research projects and programs nationally, even though it has prepared a series of strategic/national
plans for agricultural research.
2.10 For BARC to be effective, its role must be acknowledged in its ordinance as well as in those of the
ARIs and its powers must be strengthened. The Govermnent has recently promulgated a revised BARC
Ordinance, expanding its authority in research management. As a condition of effectiveness, BARC would
issue executive orders, acceptable to IDA, mandating research proposal preparation and evaluation rules
and procedures beginning July 1, 1996 (para. 4.2(c)).
C. The Agricultural Research Institutes
2.11   The ARIs belong to separate ministries, who approve their plans and budgets: FRI and BLRI to the
Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock (MOFL), BFRI to the Ministry of Environment and Forest (MOEF),
and the others to the MOA. All operate under ordinances that give them limited autonomy, except for SRI
and BFRI, which are government departments. Each institute has separate facilities, staff, program and
budget.
3     National Agricultural Research Plan 1979-83; National Agriculbual Research Plan 1984-89; and Strategic Plan for
National Agricultural Research to the Year 2010 and Beyond, BARC, March 1995.



8
1. Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute
2.12   BARI became semiautonomous in 1976. It is responsible for research on all crops other than those
covered by specialized institutes (rice, tea, sugarcane, cotton, and jute). A Director is assisted by three
Associate Directors, who administer some 800 scientific staff in nine divisions. In addition to the Central
Station at Gazipur, near Dhaka, BARI has 22 regional stations and substations covering 8 to 200 ha.
These stations are staffed by over 300 scientists in different agro-ecological zones. When fully operational
this station network will enable experiments with regard to regional climate differences; under the proposed
operation, funds would be provided to make the network of stations fully operational (para. 3.31).
2.13   BARI's mandate is to increase and stabilize crop production through scientific study of land,
water, fertilizers, pests, and diseases; crop varieties; improved cropping systems; tools and machines;
taining of research and extension staff, relevant publications; and collaboration with other research
centers, both domestic and foreign. Crop variety research includes the cereals (wheat, maize, barley, and
the millets); oilseeds, pulses, tuber crops, fruits, vegetables, spices, and palms and nuts. There is also
significant work on crop husbandry (including irrigation practices), soil-plant nutrient management, pest
and disease management, economics and farming systems, conservation of genetic resources, and post-
harvest technology. BARI scientists have developed improved cultivars of wheat. Since the mid-1980s,
they have propagated others in pulses, spices, vegetables, jute and sugarcane. They have advanced in crop
agronomy, leading to better water and fertilizer use and better planting techniques for wheat, maize,
oilcrops, pulses, vegetables, spices and fruit.
2.14 BARC recently evaluated BARI. It observed that BARI tends to study too many crops each with
m any objectives and constaints. The 1990-95 program, with over 200 projects, might need to concentrate
on fewer commodities with high potential. More interactions between the disciplinary scientists and the
commodity scientists are needed in order to avoid duplications of efforts and ensure complementarity. The
review concluded that BARI's program sometimes lacks focus, little interaction exists between its
disciplinary divisions and its commodity scientists, and found duplication within BARI and between other
crop research institutes. The evaluation report recommended that BARI operations be rationalized; this
and other recommendations would be implemented under the proposed project (para. 3.30).
2. Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
2.15   BRRI was established in 1970 as the first crop research institute in Bangladesh. BRRI, with a
Board of Governors headed by the Minister of Agriculture, now has about 200 scientists and 8 regional
stations. Aided by continuing technical support from the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), and
funding from external agencies, especially for training personnel and developing the Joydevpur site, BRRI
is a fully viable institution that has made a significant contribution to Bangladeshi agriculture. BRRI
varieties are used in 60-70 percent of the rice area, including the entire boro crop.
2.16   The impact of technical change generated by BRRI varieties has lately stagnated. Total factor
productivity has grown only slightly in recent years and some of this is obviously due to lagging
productivity growth in rice. The yields of HYV rices have not increased in the past 15 years; the only
growth in rice yields has come from the shift of local rice varieties to HYVs, not from rising yields in the



9
latter, and from more fertilizer and irrigation. Despite BRRI's achievements, its recognized potential to do
more, and the apparent underfunding of rice research in Bangladesh, the institution suffers from several
systemic problems, which are reflected in the recent departure of many senior scientific staff. Significant
reforms in BRRI are needed to strengthen the impact of research on the country's most important crop.
Future research not only must continue breeding improved varieties but must place more emphasis on
production technologies, including integrated pest management, the stagnation of HYV yields in rice
monoculture and the sustainability of rice-wheat rotations. Under the proposed operation, BRRI's research,
like that of the other ARIs, would be redirected with a stronger client focus, priorities would be set with a
more efficient economic orientation, and eventual full autonomy would allow better management of
personnel and physical assets (para. 3.27).
3. Bangladesh Jute Research Institute
2.17   BJRI was established in 1951, building on a long history of jute research in the sub-continent, and
now has semiautonomous status in the Ministry of Agriculture. It is organized in two Directorates, dealing
with agriculture and processing technology. BJRI has four regional stations and three substations, with
about 100 scientists of whom 16 have the PhD.
2.18   Achievements have  been to develop improved varieties of jute, which are in wide use in
Bangladesh; to develop better tossa jute varieties with shorter field duration and photosensitivity, and
greater disease resistance; to insert jute into multiple cropping systems with rice through improved
cropping practices; to recommend improved fertilizer management and better retting practices.
2.19   The general direction of BJRI research is appropriate. Its Agriculture Wing concentrates on
breeding better varieties with higher yields, better fiber quality, shorter duration, pest resistance, and
adaptability to different agro-ecological conditions including saline and marginal lands. Its Technology
Wing focuses on processing; improvements of textiles, dyeing and printing of jute yarn and fabrics; and
development of new uses for jute fiber. Under the proposed operation, more emphasis would be given to
developing improved production practices for marginal lands, reducing the cost of production; and, in
collaboration with BFRI, developing jute for paper pulp (para. 3.32).
4. Sugarcane Research Institute
2.20   The Bangladesh Sugar Mills Corporation and Bangladesh Sugar Foods Industrial Corporation
established a Sugarcane Research Institute in 1973 which was essentially run by and for the sugar industry
(public sugar mills), with close collaboration with BARI. Responsibility was added for in-service training
for field technicians of the sugar mills and four field stations were established in addition to the earlier
established regional research station. Research was only conducted in sugar mill areas. Finally, in 1989
the SRI became a government department of the MOA, and now has about 90 scientists.
2.21   For the future, the SRI must clearly accept responsibility for research in both mill and nonmill
areas, the latter of which occupies the majority of sugarcane land. Under the proposed project, with limited
additional support, SRI would develop a more focused program of varietal diversification and improvement
for sugar and gur (molasses) production and chewing cane, development of cultural practices which



10
optimize planting techniques, fertilizer use and water management, and identify optimum intercropping
strategies (para. 3.34).
5. Fisheries Research Institute
2.22    FRI, established in 1984 as an semiautonomous institution under the MOFL, has the chief
responsibility of fisheries research. FRI has about 80 scientists, in addition to others conducting fish
research at BAU, and the Universities at Dhaka, Chittagong and Rajshahi. FRI research has four chief
areas: (a) freshwater research at Mymensingh (also the headquarters of FRI); (b) riverine research at
Chandpur and Rangamnati; (c) marine fisheries at Cox's Bazaar; and (d) brackish water research at
Paikgacha. Its activities focused initially on establishing its physical facilities and developing scientific
staff. Research has achieved results on genetic improvement of carp, surveys of fish diseases, culture
techniques for fry and fingerlings, seasonal pond management practices, fish polyculture in inland culture
fisheries, and improved methods of fish nutrition.
2.23   During project preparation, IDA accepted a proposal to restructure FRI away from a project to a
program approach in line with set priorities, to separate management from daily administration of facilities,
and to create multidisciplinary groups. The key features of the agreed new structure are: (a) at headquarters
in Mymensingh, the creation of a new post of Additional Director, Administration and Finance, who will
lead all administrative functions under one department (the current Additional Director post will continue to
lead the Research Department); (b) at the freshwater station in Mymensingh, the new structure will reflect
emphasis on socioeconomic, famiing system, and environmental aspects, and on developing culture
fisheries; (c) at the riverine station at Chandpur, the restructuring will reflect the focus on providing
technology on problems surrounding open access, open water capture fisheries in a highly changing aquatic
environment; and (d) at the brackish water station in Paikgacha, merging shellfish and fish under one
division and creating three new divisions (estuarine ecology and environment, soil, water and productivity
management, and aquaculture engineering). Under the proposed operation, additional support would be
provided to complete FRm's facilities and to upgrade scientific skills at the four chief research sites (para.
3.35).
6. Bangladesh Forest Research Institute
2.24        Forestry research has been the exclusive responsibility of BFRI since its foundation in 1955
under the Forest Department. In 1985 BFRI became attached to the Ministry of Agriculture and in 1989 to
the then established Ministry of Environment and Forestry. BFRI, unlike most ARIs does not have partial
autonomy and remains a government department. It now operates from a headquarters in Chittagong with
22 field stations around the country.
2.25       BFRI has some notable achievements. Its scientists have devised means of vegetatively
propagating bamboo, a vital species for homestead forestry, and of protecting it against pests. They have
also screened many tree species for suitability, developed a solar kiln for seasoning timber, improved the
technique for jute pulping, and prepared a guide for siting appropriate tree species.
2.26       BFRI confronts some severe difficulties. The current scientific staff number is 64 with only
10 having the PhD. The physical plant needs urgent refurbishing as BFRI is one of the oldest research



11
institutes. It has few new laboratory, office or domestic facilities, virtually no transport or computing
equipment, and much of its equipment is quite old. Its activities are based on a project approach
comprising a series of disconnected activities not fully focusing on key constraints. Under the proposed
operation, BFRI's facilities would be rehabilitated, additional training would be given to staff and
management improvements would be introduced, including a greater focus on ex-ante review of research
projects (para. 3.38).
7. Bangladesh Livestock Research Institute
2.27   BLRI was established in 1984 with the main objective of raising the productivity of indigenous
ruminants and non-ruminants. After initial establishment of facilities and staff, BLRI now has five research
divisions: Poultry Production; Animal Production; Animal Health; Systems Research and Socioeconomic
Research, supported by an Administrative Division and a Research Planning Cell. There are some 43
scientists and about 75 support staff. BLRI has suffered from repeated tumover in management and lack of
focus in the scientific pro-ram. During project preparation, it was observed that BLRI needed to be
restructured along five key program areas and a restructuring proposal acceptable to IDA was agreed at
appraisal.
2.28   Livestock research has been fragmented, based on little knowledge of fanming systems, poorly
related to local problems, and has lacked an economic perspective. About half of the 320 studies carried
out in the last 20 years have been in veterinary medicine; the others covered mostly academic aspects of
animal production and were sometimes not fully relevant in farmers' conditions. Institutional performance
has accordingly been poor and of little benefit to farmers. The project would provide for improving the
focus of livestock research from the existing project approach, where it has been mainly based on a series
of several disconnected projects, to a more focused and coherent program approach releasing key sectoral
constraints. Under the proposed operation, BLRI's research would focus on issues of greater importance
for producers, especially the economics of livestock production, animal nutrition and forage production;
management improvements would be introduced, and facilities would be upgraded or completed in priority
areas (para. 3.40).
D. Barriers to Better Research
2.29   Scientists have not always produced new and profitable technologies that respond to the high
variability in national farming systems--soils, water, land forms, biotic and abiotic stresses, farmers'
circumstances, and changing prices. The main barriers to better research are inadequate and unstable
funding, weak research planning, insufficient client orientation, inadequate scientific incentives,
institutional isolation, the ineffectiveness of BARC, incomplete financial management capacity, and
duplication of research activities across ARIs.
2.30   Inadequate and Unstable Funding. Total capital and operating research expenditures were
Tk 872 million in 1988/89, Tk 1,426 million in 1990/91 and Tk 1,102 million in 1992/93. The year
1990/91 corresponded with high capital spending at BARC and BARI, who each received on average about
30 to 35 percent of the total. BARC's share is now about 20 percent, while BARI's has risen to 40 percent.
The system average for 1988/89 through 1992/93 was 0.4 percent of agricultural GDP, a share which is
low by international standards and by the standards of Bangladesh's regional competitors in agricultural



12
markets. Spending may even decline in the near future, because USAID, previously a major donor, stopped
funding the Bangladesh NARS in 1994.
2.31   Funding has also been unstable and of inappropriate composition, partly because of its sources.
For 1991/92, GOB revenue funds accounted for 30-35 percent and development funds for 65-70 percent of
recurrent expenditures. The development budget is typically 60 percent external funds and 40 percent GOB
funds. Donors provide virtually all capital expenditures and most non-salary operational costs. The
dependence on external funds causes uncertainty for BARC, BRRI, BLRI and BFRI, whose personnel
costs are entirely paid through the development budget. When donor funding ceases, very little is left for
operation and maintenance (O&M). There are three direct consequences of this low level of GOB funding
of operational costs: first is the interruption of work when external funding ceases; second is the
underutilization of fixed assets resources (principal staff, land, ponds, nurseries); and third is the chronic
dilapidation of facilities.
2.32   The proposed operation would provide both immediate and longer-term solutions to the funding
problems. First, it gives funds for capital: construction of new facilities and rehabilitation of old ones; for
laboratory and other scientific equipment; for computing equipment and software, which are now very
scarce; and for vehicles. Second, the project provides adequate operating costs (including funds for a small
number of new scientists in the newer ARIs) so that the existing and additional capital stock can be fully
used. Third, during preparation, the GOB transferred scientific personnel costs from the development
budget to the revenue budget, thus making funding more stable and assured. Fourth, during implementation
the GOB has agreed to define the necessary legal and administrative steps to make the ARIs more
autonomous, so that they can manage resources and respond to client needs more flexibly (para. 4.1 (a)).
Fifth, the GOB has carry out a study of private financing of research, including that from producers'
organizations, so as to broaden the financing base of research (para. 2.42). Lastly, supervision of the
operation will specifically monitor total project funding, and funding for each of its executing agencies, and
discuss needed corrective measures with the Government during implementation (Annex 5, Table A.5.2).
2.33   Weak Research Planning. Planning at BARC or in the ARIs does not rank researchable problems
in terms of economic benefits or other relevant criteria. A study by the International Service for National
Agricultural Research (ISNAR) and the NARS derived measures of priorities, in terms of economic
benefits to research, income, and nutrition, but the NARS has not acted upon the results4. Other defects in
planning include: (a) lack of sustained institutional analytical capacity to undertake continuous priority-
setting; (b) inadequate participation of biological scientists, who have too often viewed priority setting as
an "economist's exercise'" (c) excessive focus on resource allocation across commodities, with little effort
to estimate expected costs and benefits of individual projects; (d) inadequate tools to track resource use, so
that there has been no monitoring of the implementation of the work; and (e) not enough formal ex-post
evaluation leading, for example, to closure of unsuccessful ventures or to expansion of successful ones.
Scientists therefore work without clear direction about the benefits of their work and how it is evaluated.
Under the proposed operation, the Government would analyze proposed research projects in terms of net
economic benefits and take other measures to strengthen research planning (para. 3.16 ).
2.34   Insufficient Client Orientation. Client orientation has two broad aspects: relations between
scientists and the agents of technology transfer (mainly extension workers, whether public, private, or
social); and relations among scientists, extension workers, and farmers, where the latter include commercial
4Norton, George, R. E. Witters and Mohdan Dey. Bangladesh Research Priorities Study. ISNAR/BARC. 1993.



13
and subsistence producers. Inadequate information exchange among scientists, extensionists and policy-
makers mean that research recommendations do not always reach farmers, or that they are not adopted for
lack of inputs. With the exception of irregular attendance of research scientists at monthly district technical
committee meetings, there is incomplete liaison between research and extension. The situation is to some
extent exacerbated by the tendency of farming systems research (FSR) units of the various research
institutes and the National Coordinated FSR Program to develop their own technology transfer activities in
preference to working through the extension service and non-goverrnental organizations (NGOs).
2.35   ARI work is mainly on research stations. Developed technologies, as a result, have sometimes not
been adaptable to farming systems in the different AEZs. A FSR program designed to carry out adaptive
research in farmers' fields, mainly for testing and verifying the adaptability of on-station research to
farmers' conditions, was initiated at BARI in 1979, and in 1985 it was expanded to cover other ARIs with
BARC providing the overall design and coordination. In addition to verifying key technologies, such as the
adaptability of rice and wheat varieties, FSR has created awareness among commodity researchers and
extension staff for the need to have technologies fit well within farming systems. The program has been
constrained with insufficient prioritization, poor management and inadequate skill mix of the
interdisciplinary working groups, lack of continuity of financial support, and insufficient links with
extension and NGOs. The proposed operation has a participatory FSR component to assist in resolving
those problems (para. 3.41).
2.36   Inadequate Scientific Incentives. Motivation and retention of scientific staff is the crucial
incentive question. The civil service does not reward outstanding scientific work or sanction bad
performance. The ARIs cannot sufficiently control appointments, transfers, promotions, and compensation.
Personnel changes depend on seniority, not on merit . Evaluation is not sufficiently linked to performance
targets and job descriptions. The proposed operation would facilitate a shift to autonomy for the research
institutes that would allow them to recruit, retain, compensate, and manage highly-skilled scientists more
efficiently than is possible under current civil service rules (para. 2.4). Existing staff rules would be
revised to ensure uniformity across NARS in control of appointments and promotions by NARS;
promotion on merit against seniority; and transparent performance evaluation, based on lucid job
descriptions.
2.37   Isolated Institutions. An impediment to productivity is the bureaucratic isolation of the ARIs.
This is most striking where livestock and fisheries have been divorced from crops research, even in such
naturally integrated areas as shrimp-rice farming or using animals for cultivation; moreover, individual
crops such as rice, jute, sugarcane, and cotton are often studied in isolation because that is the way the
ARIs are organized. The result has been a lagging supply of technologies to fit into the varied farming
systems across the AEZs. The proposed operation would specifically allocate money for joint initiatives
among ARIs, and other institutions, to produce integrated studies on issues of collective interest (para.
3.24). The agreed guidelines for research project generation and approval (Annex 3) would harmonize the
approach to priority setting across the ARIs, and encourage them to work together on common issues.
2.38   Ineffectiveness of BARC. The BARC Ordinance and the ARIs' Ordinances have sometimes made
BARC ineffective in exercising its mandate to coordinate research. A core issue is that BARC's mandate
conflicts with those of the ARIs. BARC's 1988 Ordinance called for it to plan and approve ARIs' research
programs and to manage and implement research. The mandates of ARIs-including SRI and BFRI, which
are managed by their respective ministries as government departments--permitted them to manage their
research programs without BARC's approval. Second, there are multiple governing bodies. The ARls,



14
except SRI and BFRI, are managed by governing bodies of the same status as that of BARC's, making it
more difficult for BARC to exercise its authority. Third, some BARC Member-Directors had too much
power over ARls. Changes in the Ordinances of BARC, discussed and agreed with IDA during project
preparation, have already begun to be implemented and would eliminate these conflicts (para. 3.15(a)).
2.39   There have also been internal reasons for the ineffectiveness of BARC. The BARC Secretariat has
too many units reporting to the Executive Vice-Chairman (EVC), making management cumbersome. More
delegation of power is required with fewer units reporting directly to the chief executive. Proposals for
restructuring the BARC Secretariat were discussed and agreed with IDA during project preparation and
have begun to be implemented (para. 3.15(b)).
2.40   Incomplete Financial Management Capacity. The financial systems of BARC and the NARS are
inadequate. Financial controls achieve their primary purpose of minimizing fraud, but cause unproductive
delays. Expenditures are not clearly defined by activities or programs. Funding shortfalls, which should
prune low priority programs and leave high priority ones, affect all equally. ISNAR's assistance to BARC
in research planning introdr'ed a management information system (MIS) at the BARC Secretariat and the
ARTs, but the MIS does not have a budgeting and accounting system and ART accounting staff have not
received training in the MIS. The proposed operation would assist in upgrading the financial capacity of
the ARIs through technical assistance and by completing the financial module of the MIS throughout the
NARS (para. 3.20).
2.41   Research Duplication. There is a lack of coordination among ARIs leading to duplication and
repetition. Management at some ARTs appears unwilling to stop research projects that repeat work done
elsewhere or at some earlier time in Bangladesh. Some facilities are duplicated across ARIs, indicating
some possible gains from consolidation. Resources provided for improved management under the proposed
operation would strengthen research coordination. The adoption of a system of ex-ante research program
analysis in the ARIs would also force scientists and managers to allocate resources more strictly with less
repetition of previous experiments. At negotiations, the Government agreed to: (a) prepare an action plan to
reduce duplication of research facilities and activities in the ARIs by December 31, 1996; and (b) carry out the
action plan after receiving IDA's comments on it (para.4. I (c)).
2.42   No private sector financing of research. There is no private sector research financing though
good possibilities exist in industrial crops (tea, jute, sugarcane, cotton, maize), fisheries (notably pond
culture) and forestry. At negotiations, the Government agreed to: (a) terms of reference for a study of
means of expanding private-sector financing of agricultural research; and (b) furnish the findings and
recommendations of the study to IDA by December 31, 1996 (para.4.1 (d)). The study will also identify
options for more vigorous development of producers' organizations.
2.43   Donor coordination. Many donors support agricultural research in Bangladesh. Coordination
among them has sometimes been absent, causing duplication of efforts. To improve coordination, it was
agreed at appraisal that: (a) BARC and ARI research plans would be defined so as not to receive
overlapping support from multiple donors; and (b) that BARC and the ARIs would review all proposed
research programs with the same priority-setting procedures that apply throughout the NARS (para.
3.17).



15
3. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.1    Sustained investment in agricultural research is necessary to raise total factor productivity in
farming; output growth sufficient to raise incomes of poor producers and the landless cannot be realized by
additional inputs alone. The justification for sustained public agricultural research is that some of its fruits
are public goods. Private agents do not have full incentives to invest in such goods because they cannot
receive the full return to their investment. This incentive failure explains underinvestment in agricultural
research, as shown by ex-post returns that are often much greater than the opportunity cost of public
capital. The general justification for public research funding is stronger in Bangladesh where farming
cannot always be improved with imported techniques, which either do not exist for national conditions or
need local adaptation before being superior to available techniques. Public subsidies, not full cost recovery
from producers profiting from research, are also justified because benefits from research and extension
flow to consumers via long-term commodity price decreases resulting from technical change and because
the great majority of Bangladeshi producers are too poor to pay for their own research. Either such
benefits are quickly reflected in the prices of nontradable commodities, or they are seen more gradually in
declining imports of traded goods, and, eventually, in falling world prices of traded goods as technical
changes diffuse internationally.
3.2    The specific rationale for IDA involvement is to assist in the production of public research goods,
to promote administrative and procedural reforms in the NARS, to assist in making public investment
more sustainable, and in reorienting investment to more efficient ends. The Government of Bangladesh has
requested IDA assistance to strengthen national agricultural research and to achieve those goals.
3.3    The proposed operation is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of November 9,
1995 (Report No. 14998). The goal of the CAS is poverty alleviation through a dual strategy of: (a) labor-
intensive growth; and (b) investment in human capital to allow the poor to participate in economic growth.
In seeking labor-intensive growth to reduce poverty, the CAS emphasizes an employment-based
agricultural strategy of intensification and reducing the environmental costs of agriculture. The proposed
project contributes to that strategy by promoting the generation and ultimate adoption of new agricultural
technologies that intensify land use (i.e., raise yields per unit area), create employment for the landless and
small fanners, diversify farming into new, more productive enterprises, and protect the environment.
3.4    The proposed operation contributes to the national objectives of agricultural growth and poverty
alleviation. It does so by assisting public investment in the human capital, physical infrastructure, and
institutional reforms needed to better the national agricultural research system and thereby to promote
technical change in the sector. It further contributes to the environmental sustainability of agriculture by
targeting research to work in those sub-sectors and production regions, where the environmental costs of
intensified agriculture might be high in the absence of adequate research to relieve them. The project is not
part of the program of targeted interventions and has no applicable poverty category.
B. Lessons of IDA Experience
3.5    Previous IDA experience in Bangladesh, as well recent agricultural research projects in Asia
(Indonesia, Paidstan, and India), Africa (Mali and Kenya), and Mexico have been considered in the design



16
of the operation, with respect to government commitment, priority definition, and the role of farming
systems research in developing linkages among scientists, extension workers and farmers.
3.6   IDA has supported agricultural development in Bangladesh with more than 25 credits. Increased
food production has been the main goal of IDA's lending with emphasis on minor irrigation, research and
extension, flood control and drainage, fisheries, forestry and, recently, support services. IDA-supported
projects include: Agricultural Support Services (Cr. 2233-BD); National Minor Irrigation Development
(Cr. 2246-BD); Shallow Tubewell and Low-Lift Pump Irrigation (Cr. 2253-BD); Forest Resources
Management (Cr. 2397-BD); Third Fisheries Cr. 2146-BD); Shrimp Culture (Cr. 165 1-BD); Bangladesh
Water Development Board Small Schemes (Cr. 1467-BD); Flood Control and Drainage m and IV (Crs.
1591-BD and 1784-BD); Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation II (Cr. 1870-BD); and
Bangladesh Water Development Board System Rehabilitation (Cr. 2099-BD).
3.7   Previous agricultural research operations were Agricultural Research I (ARP-I) and II (ARP-II)
(Cr. 828-BD of US$6 million in 1978 and Cr. 1455-BD of US$24.5 million in 1985), completed in
December 31, 1984 and June 30, 1992, respectively. ARP-I strengthened BARC headquarters and three
BARI regional stations. Funds were provided for contract research on cropping systems, soil and water
management, agricultural engineering and crop protection, and for training and technical assistance to
fonnulate and implement inonitonng and evaluation procedures of the Contract Research Scheme. Salient
research results were the identification of suitable technologies for different cropping patterns, the
determination of zinc and sulfur deficiencies in rice production, the estimation of crop water responses, and
staff training. The project built BARC offices in Dhaka, established the BARI stations, implemented
contract research, began overseas training and developed a national agricultural research plan.
3.8   The main objectives of ARP-II (Cr. 1455-BD) were to further improve research infrastructure and
management. Components were strengthening BARC through provision of additional senior staff; offices
and laboratories, and equipment, machinery and vehicles for field stations for BARI and for BFRI. ARP-II
achieved much. Two research institutes (FRI and BLRI) were established and BFRI substantially
developed. Professional and technical training were expanded. BARC's role was strengthened by a new
ordinance promulgated in 1988. Improved research management procedures were introduced. Much of the
physical infrastructure envisaged under the project was completed. Many scientists finished postgraduate
or non-degree training. A land classification, completed in 1988 with assistance from UNDP and FAO,
provided a better understanding of the potential and constraints of agriculture, and is now used for planning
research and extension.
3.9   There were important problems with ARP II, however, that resulted in an OED rating of
unsatisfactory. Contract research was not fully implemented because approval procedures were costly and
often supported irrelevant projects. The initial program was funded by GOB and involved 35 subprojects
and 15 different institutes. Further funds were provided by USAID and from IDA's Agricultural Research
and Extension and Research Projects. With the exception of some contract funding of research at
Universities, and the approval of PL 480 releases, the Program operated by BARC - especially
disbursements under the Second Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 1455-BD) - was not very successful.
Only about 60 percent of the available contract funds were spent, of which half was to complement current
research, not to support additional work. Much of the work funded repeated earlier work, little was
interdisciplinary, and there were long delays in processing requests; the proposed operation has more
efficient procedures for contract research administration (para. 3.22).



17
3.10 Previous research projects were not fully successful in ensuring that research efforts were planned,
carried out, monitored, and evaluated according to established priorities. The principal lesson of those
operations is that public agricultural research cannot yield productive and sustainable results without deep
institutional reforms. Relevant lessons of previous operations, including ARP-I and ARP-II, are as
follows:
(a)    BARC requires more autonomy in relation to the ministries, so as to exercise its
intellectual leadership of the ARIs.
(b)    BARC must improve its managerial capability, including more efficient procedures for
contract research and for evaluating research.
(c)    Research institutes need autonomy to ensure that their programs respond to client needs,
are scientifically sound, and give staff full incentives for good work.
(d)    Operating costs should be funded from the revenue budget, thus helping research programs
to be sustainable after project completion.
(e)    Financial procedures should be computerized to provide rapid retrieval for management
decisions.
(f)    Greater effort is needed to use modem methods of research priority setting, including
building a consensus among scientists about the validity and utility of those methods.
3.11   Government Commitment. The proposed project has been jointly designed with the Government
and takes full account of current constraints and lessons leamt from earlier operations and from economic
and sector work. The Govemment is aware of the current constraints to a more effective research system
and is committed to address them; indeed, it has begun key reforms before implementation.
3.12   Role of FSR in Developing Links Among Research, Extension and Farmers. A key lesson
from previous operations is that strong links among scientists, extensionists and farmers are crucial for
productive research and extension. Previous IDA-supported operations have helped to forge such links in
Bangladesh. The Agricultural Extension and Research projects I and II (Crs. 729-BD and 1215-BD) helped
the Training and Visit (T&V) extension system through monthly workshops. In such workshops
researchers train subject matter specialists (SMSs) of the extension staff on new technologies; the SMSs
then pass them to village extension workers, who communicate them to farmers. Direct contact between
research scientists and farmers occurs during field visits. With the support of the ongoing Agricultural
Support Services Project (ASSP - Cr. 2233-BD), the extension service is introducing more democratic
planning by focusing on farmer groups instead of contact farmers, and expanding the use of mass media,
field demonstrations and field days. Included is a program to train extension staff, including in-service
training for higher level professional staff at research institutes. The proposed operation further strengthens
research-extension-farmer linkages by providing resources to the national FSR program of BARC and to
the ARI FSR programs (paras. 3.41 through 3.44)



18
C. Project Objective and Summary Description
3.13   The project objective is to increase the efficiency of the national agricultural research system and
thereby to generate profitable, relevant, and sustainable agricultural technologies for Bangladeshi
agricultural producers. The project would achieve its objective through: (a) strengthening BARC's
capacities in research organization and management, including better research resource allocation; (b)
supporting priority research; and (c) strengthening research linkages to extension through participatory
fanming systems research.
3.14   The project has three components, with annual costs shown in Table 1.
(a)    Research Management and Organization would strengthen research planning and
managerial capabilities of BARC through carrying out of institutional reforms, improved
economic analysis of research programs, technical assistance, construction and
rehabilitation of civil works, training, contract research, and supervision of new master
plans for participating ARls;
(b)    Priority Research would be carried out in the ARIs on crops, fisheries, livestock and
forestry; and
(c)    Participatory Farming Systems Research would strengthen farming systems research
programs through support to research-extension linkages and testing and dissemination of
appropriate technology.
Table 1
Project Cost Summary by Year and Component
(USS million)
Totals Including Contingencies
1997   1998  1999  2000  2001   Total
A. Research Organization and Management   2.75   3.27  3.66  2.41   1.90   13.99
B. Priority Research
BARI                                     1.10   2.21  1.46  0.99  1.02    6.78
BFRI                                     0.50   1.88  2.40  1.47  0.97    7.22
BJRI                                     0.29   0.47  0.35  0.21  0.14    1.46
BLRI                                     1.06   2.96  1.12  0.71  0.48    6.32
BRRI                                     1.86   1.75  1.60  1.29  1.33    7.83
FRI                                      1.90   4.39  1.41  1.01  0.74    9.45
SRI                                      0.31   0.39  0.38  0.25  0.17    1.50
Total                                  7.02  14.05  8.72  5.93  4.85   40.57
C. Participatory Farming Systems Research
BARC                                    0.26   0.28  0.25  0.26  0.26    1.31
ARIs                                    0.43   1.18  0.67  0.48  0.49    3.25
Total                                   0.69   1.46  0.92  0.74  0.75    4.56
TOTAL                                    10.46  18.78 13.30  9.08  7.50    59.1
Note: Table may contain rounding enrors.



19
D. Project Components
1. Research Organization and Management (USS13.99 million)
3.15   This component would upgrade research organization and research management at BARC and the
ARls. It is designed to develop a unified NARS with more efficient resource allocation and more
transparent relationship among members. It builds upon several institutional reforms that have already
been completed.
(a)    Giving stronger authority for BARC in setting research priorities. BARC is now
responsible for national research planning, coordination, monitoring and evaluation and
has developed a national agricultural research strategic plan.
(b)    Simplifying BARC's Secretariat. BARC's Secretariat has been simplified by bringing all
functional units under the nine divisions, each headed by a Member-Director reporting to
the Chairman (the several departments that reported directly to the Chief Executive have
been grouped under the nine divisions). The terms of reference of Member-Directors have
deleted the requirement to manage research, thus eliminating a conflict between them and
the ARI managers.
3.16   Research priority setting. Definition of research priorities, including effective mechanisms to link
them to farmers' needs, is the essential feature of the operation. BARC and ISNAR have completed an ex-
ante economic analysis of research priorities for the major commodities. The study asked how much should
be invested in research on those commodities. To answer that question, it estimates the expected net
economic benefits of research on each commodity. The results are shown in Annex 4. Because the method
has been used already in Bangladesh with national data and technical parameters, it is simple to apply it in
the proposed operation. At negotiations, the Government agreed to a method of ex-ante economic analysis,
acceptable to IDA, and would apply it as part of BARC and ARI evaluation of research projects in the
ARI Master Plans (para. 4.1(e)).
3.17   Research preparation and evaluation guidelines. Linked to the ex-ante economic analysis of
research projects are new research preparation and evaluation guidelines. At negotiations, the Government
agreed to: (a) guidelines acceptable to IDA (Annex 3); and (b) apply the guidelines to all research projects,
including those for projects funded under the Contract Research Scheme, beginning July 1, 1996 (para.
4.1(f)).
3.18   BARC Secretariat (USS4.76 million).  To enable BARC's Secretariat to better serve the
Governing Body and the ARIs in research planning, monitoring and evaluation, the project would
strengthen the Planning, Monitoring, Evaluation and Coordination (PMEC) Division, and Agricultural
Economics and Rural Sociology (AERS) Division. The project would provide for training and technical
assistance, focusing on research management, planning and evaluation, budgeting and accounting, and
computerized information and financial systems. The project would also strengthen the information and
computer centers through provision of civil works and equipment including computers and library



20
materials. Training constitutes advanced degree and short-term training mainly in research management,
statistics, economics, and information management.
3.19   The PMEC Division, which embodies the main function of BARC's Secretariat, would remain
responsible for long-and medium-term research planning. It would be entrusted with: establishing
procedures for research planning, priority-setting, and evaluation; extending such procedures and skills to
ARls; updating the agricultural research strategic plan; and coordinating research activities across NARS,
ensuring adequate linkages among ARIs and between ARIs and the extension services. It would review
research proposals prepared by the ARTs. In fulfilling these functions, it would have full access to the MIS
and the budgeting and accounting system (BAS), and would seek help from the specialized divisions within
the Secretariat and from the statisticians in the Computer Center. Technical assistance in research
management would be provided under the proposed operation to assist with research planning, priority-
setting and evaluation.
3.20   Technical Assistance (USS1.19 million). BARC's Secretariat requires technical assistance to
assist with project implementation. The priority areas were agreed at appraisal as being: (a) research
management; (b) financial management; (c) supervision of civil works construction and rehabilitation; and
(d) local supervision of technical and managerial aspects of research.
(a)    Research management. BARC would first contract a research management expert,
whose main job would be to assist in completing the ARI Master Plans, where needed5.
This consultant is expected to be contracted from ISNAR in the approximate amount of
US$0.56 million, which has specialized expertise in the field and has substantial
experience in Bangladesh. The consultant, assisted by occasional short-term technical
assistance, would conduct in-service training in research management, and in use of the
computerized MIS to BARC's staff of the PMEC, the Information and Computer centers,
and ARIs' staff responsible for research planning and evaluation.
(b)    Financial management. BARC would contract a long-term financial management expert
from a qualified and reputed local accounting firm to establish and implement an
integrated project budget and cost accounting system. The financial management expert
would be responsible, inter alia, for monitoring financial performance under the operation,
including the timely flow of funds to executing agencies and for training local staff.
(c)    Supervising architect. BARC would contract a qualified local architect-planner to assist
supervise the executing architects at the planning stage for all civil works to be constructed
or rehabilitated under the operation.
(d)    Local technical supervision. BARC would contract qualified local technical experts, in
both managerial and scientific fields, to assist with supervision of the operation. These
consultants would be paid from the credit and would report jointly to IDA and to BARC.
Roughly five staff-months annually have been budgeted for this sub-component.
3.21   AERS (USS0.35 million). Economic analysis in BARC would be fortified . BARC's Secretariat
would establish a Technical Committee for Socioeconomic Research in Agriculture (TCSERA), consisting
5 For example, FRI has already completed its Master Plan.



21
of senior staff of the AERS Division and their counterparts in ARIs. It would report to the Executive
Committee of BARC on the socioeconomic aspects of ARIs' research programs. The work of the social
scientists and the TCSERA would be enhanced by the data bank of agricultural research. The project
would provide for (a) staff training in financial and economic analysis of agricultural production systems,
socioeconomic research, data base management; and (b) computers and incremental operational
expenditures.
3.22   Contract Research (US$7.69 million). BARC operates a Contract Research Grant Scheme to
focus research efforts on priority problems, and to foster interinstitutional and interdisciplinary work. The
objective is to use the scientific expertise of universities, NGOs, the private sector, and other research and
training organizations for national agricultural research priorities. The scheme gives BARC potentially
greater powers to review, monitor and evaluate research.
3.23       Under the proposed operation, the Contract Research procedures would be strengthened. The
procedures will cover advertising the availability of grants, formats for submission of research proposals,
technical criteria and procedures for making awards, financial and technical reporting, disbursement and
accounting, and evaluation and publication of results. BARC will continue to evaluate suitable subprojects
on a competitive basis through its Technical Committees to assure that selected proposals are
complementary to the core research efforts of the ARls. Following the approval of the Technical
Committee, BARC's financial committee will review the subproject before final approval by BARC's
Chairman. BARC consultants, provided by the project, will aid subproject selection. BARC has revised its
manual of rules for subproject selection to ensure the eligibility of good proposals and to eliminate delays in
approving projects. The rules would specify, inter alia, that institutions other than BARC and the ARJs,
including, but not limited to, universities, NGOs, the Cotton Development Board, BINA, SRDI, and BTRI
would be eligible to compete for funds allocated to contract research. The Bangladesh Agricultural
University (BAU) and the Institute for Postgraduate Studies in Agriculture could, for example, compete for
contract research funds. At negotiations (part. 4.1 (g)), the Government agreed to: (a) that BARC will be
responsible for the evaluation of research proposals made under the Contract Research Scheme and to
approve grants; (b) apply rules and procedures for evaluation and funding approval of contract research
proposals made to the BARC Secretariat based on the guidelines for the preparation and approval of new
research projects (Annex 3); (c) a public announcement of the contract research fund; and (d) draft
standard contracts.
3.24   Joint contract research initiatives. Because there has been poor interaction across ARls on
common problems in the past (e.g., rice/wheat systems or agroforestry), a significant feature of contract
research will be to encourage joint initiatives across ARIs. Part of the contract research funds would be
initially allocated for such initiatives. The allocation of money to these joint initiatives would be decided
collaboratively by BARC and the ARIs using the normal contract research procedures with the exception
that the broad areas of collaboration would be defined in advance. Possible initiatives are rice/wheat
systems, hill farming, fish and shrimp-rice systems, agroforestry, and rice/fiber crops/vegetable crops
production. For these joint research initiatives, the contract facility may allocate grants for research
proposal preparation so that lack of seed money does not inhibit good proposals. At negotiations, the
Government agreed on joint initiatives across ARIs acceptable to IDA; each initiative would include terms
of reference for studies of environmental issues in the area of the initiative (para.4. 1 (h)).



22
2. Priority Research (USS40.57 million)
3.25   The project would support priority research programs in participating ARIs for crops, fisheries,
livestock, and forestry. Table I provides a cost breakdown by  project component; Annex 1 provides
additional cost details.
Crop ARIs
3.26   The project would support priority research on crops and related (e.g., soils and climatology)
disciplines at BARI, BRRI, BJRI, and SRI. Expenditure categories are civil works, equipment, training,
technical assistance, and incremental operating costs.
3.27   BRRI (US$7.83 million). Ex-ante economic analysis of research on boro, aus, transplanted aman
and broadcast aman rice show economic rates of return well above the target return of 12 percent. Risk
analysis indicates that the rates of return are not significantly affected by adverse changes in rice prices or
in the probability of research success. Because BRRI has a good network of experiment stations and staff,
provisions under the proposed operation would complement existing facilities and not support a major
expansion. Civil works include new laboratories at headquarters, residences at Barisal, Habiganj and
Rajshai regional stations, renovation of buildings at the Comilla regional station and site development at
Habiganj and Rajshai regional stations. Goods to be provided are vehicles and laboratory and office
equipment. Training includes advance degree and short-term training, the latter provides for, inter alia,
participation of rice scientists in regional rice/wheat development programs. Limited incremental operating
costs would be necessitated by the investment costs.
3.28       Because of the crucial role of IRRI in generating and transferring rice genetic material
internationally, and because of the particular technical problems caused by rice-wheat rotations, the project
would support two additional efforts within BRRI. Rice/wheat initiative. The sequence of rice cropping
followed by wheat is quite important in Bangladesh; in fact most of the wheat in the country immediately
succeeds rice. The so-called rice-wheat system requires special land management practices because of its
rigid rotation and high cropping intensity. An international initiative to study and improve rice-wheat
systems in the Indo-Gangetic plain, supported by the Bank, is now underway and BRRI will participate in
it. Collaboration with IRRI. Under the proposed operation, support to the rice-wheat initiative would be
provided by developing closer collaboration with the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI).
3.29   Spending for rice research under the operation would be as follows.
(a)    Civil works (US$0.70 million) at headquarters and four other principal sites improved
facilities are required. Investments at headquarters include pathology and entomology
laboratories and an irrigation network. At other sites, new or renovated works would
comprise residences, stores, laboratory rehabilitation, and farm development.
(b)    Training and technical assistance (US$3.58 million) would comprise about 55 staff-
years of graduate training, both foreign and national, and about 65 staff-months of short-
term work. Areas of graduate study are economics, biotechnology, agronomy, soils, plant
breeding, and others. Funding would be available for approximately US$1.0 million in



23
foreign technical assistance related to rice production in general and more specifically for
the rice-wheat initiative (para. 3.28).
(c)    Vehicles (US$0.23 million). Four-wheel drive vehicles are needed for staff transport to
on-farm and other field sites.
(d)    Laboratory, computing and other equipment (US$0.62 million). Computing equipment
and software for data analysis would be upgraded as BRRI is weak in this field. A small
quantity of additional lab equipment would be provided to a few major sites.
(e)    Recurrent operating costs (US$2.70 million). Incremental recurrent costs would be
funded to operate, maintain, and repair civil works, vehicles, lab and farn equipment. No
incremental salaries would be supported at BRRI.
3.30   BARI (US$6.78 million). Ex-ante economic analysis of research investments to be made by BARI
in such major crops as wheat, potato, mustard, banana, lentil, groundnut, and pulses show those
investments to be highly profitable (Annex 4, Table A4.2). The profitability of the investments is,
moreover, robust with respect to possible adverse changes in commodity prices and in the probability of
research success (Annex 4, Table A4.2). In light of the expected returns to BARI research, the proposed
project would support an expansion and reinforcement of BARI programs that: (a) have already produced
results; (b) have basic infrastructure and staff; (c) study priority problems with clear objectives; and (d)
have no other external funding.
3.31   Spending under the project would be as follows.
(a)    Civil works (USS0.68 million) at headquarters and other sites (including the agronomy
and post-harvest technology divisions, the Wheat Research Center, and the Oilseeds
Research Center) where additional facilities are essential. Facilities at headquarters include
an irrigation channel, a boundary wall and fencing, a road and a deep tubewell. Civil
works at other sites include farm site development, farm roads, renovations of buildings,
and new staff residences.
(b)    Training and technical assistance (US$2.72 million) would comprise about 60 staff-
years of graduate training, both foreign and national, and about 90 staff-months of short-
term non-degree work. Areas of graduate study are agricultural economics, seed
technology, genetic resources, biotechnology, agronomy, and soils. Approximately 30
months of short-term foreign technical assistance would be provided in both scientific and
management areas.
(c)    Vehicles and farm equipment (US$1.27 million). Four-wheel drive vehicles are needed
for staff transport to on-farm and other field sites. Additional farm equipment would be
provided at a few priority sites.
(d)    Laboratory and computing equipment (USS0.47 million). Computing equipment and
software are required for modern data processing and analysis and BARI currently has
inadequate computing facilities. A small quantity of additional lab equipment would be
provided to a few sites.



24
(e)    Recurrent operating costs (US$1.64 million). Incremental recurrent costs would be
funded to operate, maintain, and repair civil works, vehicles, lab and farm equipment. No
incremental salaries would be funded at BARI.
3.32   BJRI (USS1.46 million). The ex-ante ERR of jute research is only 11. 1 percent (Annex 4, Table
A.4. 1). If the jute price were to fall by 25 percent, then the ERR would be 5.3 %. The average return to
jute research would tend to have fallen because of the decline in world prices and the associated contraction
in area planted. Nonetheless, jute is an important cash crop, is well adapted to some marginal conditions
where rice cannot be grown, and has some potential for revival if production costs can be lowered.
Because of the economic risks involved, jute research in the operation is limited to a much smaller total cost
than that projected in the ex-ante economic analysis. Initial project supervision, which will be tighter for
BJRI because of the rate of return risks, will focus closely on implementation and technical problems with
jute research to identify problems and propose early solutions. In addition, financing of jute research will
be an important part of the study of options to increase private sector financing of research on all
commodities (para. 2.42).
3.33   Under the operation, BJRI will be strengthened in the agricultural and technology areas (post-
harvest processing). The project will also provide graduate degree and short-term training, field equipment
for the agricultural area, laboratory and processing equipment for the technology area, technical assistance
in both agriculture and technology, and limited operating expenses for BJRI's laboratories.
3.34   SRI (USS1.50 million). The ex-ante economic analysis of sugarcane research has an ERR of
35.5 % (Annex 4, Table A.4.1), much greater than the cutoff retum. The average return was insensitive
to adverse changes in prices and success probabilities. Despite the excellent expected retums to sugarcane
research, the operation proposes only limited support to SRI because of institutional difficulties, in
particular the lack of attention to date to the production of gur (molasses) and chewing cane. The goal of
SRI is to produce improved varieties and production practices for milled sugar. This would be partly
reoriented under the operation. While SRI has generally adequate staff and basic facilities to achieve its
program, to augment those facilities, the project would provide for civil works (renovation of controlled
room);  vehicles; laboratory and office equipment; graduate degree and short-term training;  and
incremental O&M costs.
Fisheries, Forestry, and Livestock ARIs
3.35   FRI (US$9.45 million). The ex-ante economic analysis shows that overall FRI research across the
four main areas-freshwater fisheries, riverine, brackish, and marine-would be economically profitable; the
expected ERR for FRI as a whole would be 53.2% (Annex 4, Table A4.1). However, in the areas of
riverine, brackish, and marine fisheries the ex-ante rates of return are lower (between 11.4 % and 17.3%)
and are subject to adverse risks from low commodity prices and low probabilities of research success. The
plans of technical assistance and of IDA supervision for the FRI component of the proposed operation
consider these rate of return risks and corrective actions will be taken as needed during implementation
(Annex 7). Moreover, FRI research is in an environmentally and socially important area and should
produce benefits both for the environment and for the poorest groups in the country.



25
3.36   FRI's program starts from the principles of greater production from culture fisheries; protecting
systems at risk (notably culture shrimp and inland capture fisheries); continuing in the mandated areas of
the respective stations; and more interdisciplinary aquatic research. Investments have been designed so as
not to duplicate those provided under the IDA-supported Third Fisheries Project; research activities under
that project cover mainly floodplains fisheries that would not receive help from the proposed operation. On
the basis of those principles, the project would support the following essential research areas:
(a)    Headquarters and freshwater fisheries (USS3.42 million). Additional work is necessary
to complete the institute's headquarters at Mymensingh in fisheries policy and economics,
planning and management, physical facilities. At the Mymensingh freshwater station, the
operation would assist with core programs on pond productivity management and on stock
improvement of commercially important fish. Sub-programs include studies of feed and
nutrition, fish pathology, and integrated fish/livestock systems.
(b)    Riverine fisheries at Chandpur (US$1.68 million). There are two core programs, one
on the carrying capacity of riverine systems (including population dynamics of the major
species) and one on the man-made changes in inland waters and their effects on fish. The
sub-programs include studies of conservation and management of Hilsa and other riverine
species, as well as floodplain fisheries. The operation would support new civil works ( a
deep tubewell, water storage and electricity supply), a boat and vehicles for field surveys,
laboratory equipment, computing and other office equipment, long and short-term training,
local and foreign technical assistance, and operating costs, including provisions for
additional staff to bring the staff to its desired complement;
(c)    Brackish water fisheries at Paikgacha (US$2.29 million). The core programs are brood
stock management for culture fishing and estuarine ecology and biology. Sub-programs are
hatchery and nursery development, water quality, predator management, and reducing the
environmental impact of shrimp farming. The operation would assist with civil works (a
tubewell, pond and land development, a service building and jetty, residences, and a
laboratory), a boat and vehicles, short and long-term training, local and foreign technical
assistance, and recurrent operating costs, including salaries of additional staff;
(d)    Marine fisheries research at the Cox's Bazar (US$2.06 million). The core programs
would be on productivity assessment and population dynamics of the marine fishery
resources and on mariculture of finfish, weeds, and mollusks. The proposed operation
would support civil works (a seawater pump, line, and settling tank for mariculture
studies), new divisions in the existing experimental ponds to allow better replication of
experiments, residences, training, technical assistance, computing and office equipment;
and incremental recurrent costs.
3.37 The project would provide laboratory, office and field equipment, technical assistance, training and
incremental O&M costs at each site.
3.38    BFRI (US$7.22 million). The ex-ante economic analysis of BFRI research gave ERRs well
above the cutoff rate for both commercial and homestead forestry systems: 35.8 % for timber and 26.6 %
for bamboo. Neither ERR was sensitive to changes in product prices or in the probability of research
success. To achieve the expected positive economic benefits of BFRI's work the proposed operation would



26
support a move from a project approach to a more focused and coherent program approach addressing
constraints to forestry production. Agreed essential areas are: (a) plantation establishment including farm
forestry; (b) forest management; (c) socioeconomics and community participation in forestry; (d) minor
forest products; (e) wood preservation; (f) seed production and (g) linkages with extension and NGOs. The
project would support BFRI restructuring along these priority areas, including the nomination of a full-time
administrator, and the corresponding restriction of the current post of Research Manager to research
management exclusively.
3.39   Project provisions for BFRI are as follows.
(a)    Civil works (US$3.16 million). Much of BFRI's headquarters at Chittagong needs
rehabilitation or additional construction. Works there include residences, a library
extension, a road and boundary wall, and laboratories; existing labs, water supply,
residences, and utilities would be rehabilitated.
(b)    Training and technical assistance (US$1.25 million) comprise about 24 staff-years of
graduate training, both foreign and national, and about 40 staff-months of short-tern non-
degree work . Areas of graduate study are breeding, wood technology, economics, genetic
resources, biotechnology, agronomy, and soils. Approximately 24 months of short-term
foreign technical assistance would be provided in management, technology transfer, wood
technology, and wildlife biology.
(c)    Vehicles (US$0.42 million). Four-wheel drive vehicles are needed for staff transport to
on-farm and other field sites. Additional heavy trucks are required for wood transport.
(d)    Laboratory and computing equipment (USS0.13 million). Computing equipment and
software and limited new lab equipment would be provided.
(e)    Recurrent operating costs (US$2.26 million). Incremental recurrent costs would be
funded to operate, maintain, and repair civil works, vehicles, lab and farm equipment.
Incremental salaries and operation travel costs would be funded for two scientists
annually.
3.40   BLRI (US$6.32 million). Ex-ante economic analysis of research on eggs, broilers, small
runinants, milk and beef gave ERRs ranging from 33.7 % (cattle) to 51.8 % (eggs). To achieve these
projected benefits, institutional and scientific strengthening of BLRI is necessary. Five priority efforts have
been identified for support under the proposed operation:
(a)    Completion of headquarters (US$1.71 million). As BLRI is a new ARI (created in
1984), work remains to finish its headquarters facilities. Under the proposed operation,
support would be provided to complete a main laboratory, residences, and a road at Savar.
Computing and other office equipment would be provided. Funds would also be available
for short-term training and for operations and maintenance.
(b)    Economics (US$0.54 million). Though livestock production is an important component
of practically all Bangladeshi farming systems, the economics of both new and traditional
systems are poorly understood. The operation would assist in quantifying economic



27
constraints to livestock production through the provision of vehicles (to facilitate field
surveys), computing and office equipment for data analysis, training and technical
assistance, as well as recurrent costs involved in field surveys and data analysis.
(c)    Ruminant Nutrition and Forage (USS1.93 miflion) . Ruminant nutrition is a costly
production constraint under the extreme land scarcity typical of Bangladesh. Research in
this area has not been adequate in the past in BLRI. Under the operation assistance would
be provided to study improvemnent of feeds and nutrition for cattle, goats and sheep. The
operation would support investments in a feedmill, feed stores, secure fencing of animal
facilities, vehicles for on-farm trials, farm equipment for forage production, and office
equipment for data analysis. Other support would be provided for training, short-term
technical assistance, and limited recurrent costs.
(d)    Animal Health (USS1.61 million) . Animl health is another costly constraint to livestock
production. BLRI has some capacity in this area, but it requires strengthening. The
proposed operation would assist consolidation and upgrading of laboratories for research
on key animal diseases (and related interactions with nutritional status). The operation
would provide for a disease isolation shed at Savar, rehabilitation of offices and
laboratory at Mymensingh, staff housing at Mymensingh, lab and computer equipment at
Mymensingh, short and long-term training, technical assistance, and limited recurrent costs
for operations, maintenance, and repair.
(e)    Poultry breeding (US$0.53 million). Expanded poultry production has the potential to
raise incomes of the landless and small farmers with few income-generating alternatives.
The proposed operation would assist in the development of improved scavenger ducks and
poultry birds for village use through breeding. Project provisions include experimental
animals, pens, office and computing equipment, training, technical assistance, and limited
operating costs.
3. Participatory Farming Systems Research (USS4.56 million)
3.41   ARMP would improve research-extension linkages by sharpening the client orientation of FSR
through methods that strengthen the participation of extension staff and farmers. The FSR will test, analyze
and verify the adaptability and sustainability of technologies in farmers' conditions. It will also provide
necessary recommendations and training to extensionists for faster dissemination of appropriate technology.
Where tested technologies are inappropriate, FSR would provide information to commodity researchers
about how to fit new technologies into Bangladeshi farming systems.
3.42   The ARIs will implement the FSR program at 15 field sites with overall coordination of the
National Coordinated Farming System Research and Development Program (NCFSRP) at BARC.
Coordination by BARC is desirable in order to harmonize field and analytic methods and to provide a
common focus across the various commodities studied. In BARC a full time unit, consisting of a national
coordinator and a multidisciplinary team, will coordinate the program. At the ARI field sites, a
multidisciplinary group of a site leader, an economist from the ARI in charge of the site, and one specialist
for each of the participating subsectors will operate the program. For the ARIs in which FSR is not well-



28
developed (e.g. BLRI and FRI) participation in FSR will consist of joint initiatives with BARI, BRRI and
other ARIs where system linkages are important.
3.43 ARMP will fund the NCFSRP Unit within BARC, and at 15 FSR sites managed by the seven
participating ARI. The cost of the NCFSRP Unit in BARC is US$1.31 million; the cost of the 15 FSR
sites managed by the ARIs is US$3.25 million. Provisions include staff training, technical assistance,
vehicles, a few new stag office and field equipment and operational costs of research and diagnostic
surveys in farmers' fields. Little new recruitment is necessary as most staff are already in place, with the
exceptions of FRI and BLRI, who would each recruit about 15 new FSR staff. The additional staff are
justified in view of the important interactions among crops, livestock and fisheries in Bangladesh and in
view of the current weaknesses in how such interactions are studied within the Bangladesh NARS.
3.44 The Govermment agreed at negotiations to complete the following FSR action plan by December
31, 1996: (a) BARC will confirm that BJRI, FRI, BLRI, and BFRI have appointed a core group of
qualified scientists with substantial experience in FSR to leadership positions (senior scientific officer
[SSO] and above); (b) BARI will appoint suitable staff for its On-farm Research Division in all nine
extension regions; (c) BARC will appoint a suitably qualified FSR coordinator, in collaboration with the
ARTs; (d) BARC, in collaboration with the ARTs, DAE, DOF and DLS, will have prepared an action plan
to use participatory FSR methods; and (e) BARC and the ARIs will have created a mechanism satisfactory
to IDA for collaboration in FSR, specifying roles and responsibilities of each of the ARIs and BARC
(para. 4.1(i)).
E. Project Implementation
3.45. The ARIs will manage their respective components in the priority research component. BARC's
Secretariat will be the implementing agency for the Research Management and Organization component; it
will administer contract research, fanming systems research coordinating, staff development and training. A
project subcommittee satisfactory to IDA has been established and would be maintained during the life of
the operation. The chairman of BARC chairs the subcommittee. Other members are designates of the chief
executives of the relevant ARTs, representatives of the extension services at least at the level of director;
representatives of the participating ministries, including finance, at the level of at least deputy secretary;
and BARC's Member Director Planning and Evaluation who would serve as the Secretary of the
subcommittee.
3.46. BARC and each ARI will prepare semiannual reports, acceptable to IDA, showing progress against
targets, with explanation of delays, an outline of remedial actions, and a plan of action for the next six
months. The agencies will report to their ministries, BARC, and IDA within three months after the six-
month period. BARC's reports will describe the physical aspects of its component, implementation of
policy reforms, budget, and the updating of the agricultural research strategy. Evaluation of the project and
of research would be done by the implementing agencies, and lessons learned would be incorporated in the
following year's programs. The PMEC Division of the Secretariat would review all annual reports and
programs. Evaluation reports would be analyzed and discussed by BARC when decisions are being made
on future programs of the agencies. An external review of BARC would be done every five years; its
conclusions would also be discussed by the Governing Body of BARC and other government officials.



29
3.47   Project implementation is planned for five years. During the first year, the main focus would be on
contracting consultants' services and beginning field work as part of the participatory FSR component.
Construction would be initiated for important civil works (staff housing at all sites, Cox's Bazar station of
FRI, the rehabilitation of BFRI, laboratories for BLRI). Procurement of other civil works, vehicles,
equipment, and livestock would be phased throughout the implementation period.
1. Project Costs
3.48 Total project costs are estimated at US$59.1 million (summarized by expenditure category in Table
2). Project baseline costs are estimated at US$52.9 million; physical contingencies are estimated to be
US$2.2 million and price contingencies are estimated to be US$4.0 million. An IDA credit would provide
US$50.0 million and the Government of Bangladesh would provide US$9.10 million. Of the total project
cost, US$46.2 million would be for investment and US$12.9 would be for incremental recurrent costs.
Costs are based on 1995 prices and include appropriate physical contingencies ranging from 5 to 15
percent. Price contingencies are based on projected domestic inflation rates for local costs of 4 percent in
1996 and 1997, 4.5 percent in 1998 and 1999, and 5 percent in 2000; and for projected foreign inflation of
2.6 percent each year.
2. Project Financing
3.49   An IDA Credit of US$50.0 million equivalent would finance about 85 percent of project costs (net
of taxes and duties) and be made available to GOB on standard IDA terms. GOB would finance the
remainder of US$9.1 million equivalent (Table 3). GOB's contribution, including US$1.40 million
equivalent in taxes and duties, would be supplied through annual budget appropriations in accordance with
approved Project Proformas (PP) and the project implementation schedule. The PP would be based on a
Project Concept Paper (PCP) prepared by GOB. Approval by IDA of a satisfactory PP is a condition of
effectiveness (para 4.2(b)). To permit initiation of priority activities before credit effectiveness, retroactive
financing of up to US$0.5 million would be made available for eligible expenditures, chiefly those incurred
with preparation of the ARI Master Plans, the laboratory equipment action plans and technical assistance.
3. Procurement
3.50   Table 4 summarizes procurement arrangements. All procurement will be done with IDA's
Standard Bidding Documents. All bidding packages and bid evaluation reports for the first three contracts
for civil works would be subject to IDA's prior review. Also subject to prior review are contracts for all
civil works estimated to cost more than US$150,000; all imported goods and equipment estimated to cost
more than US$100,000 in the aggregate; and the principal BARC technical assistance contracts (para.
3.55). Procurement subject to prior review would represent about 53 percent of Bank-financed procurement
under the operation, excluding recurrent costs. The remaining contracts, which are subject to post review,
are not suitable for prior review because they consist of graduate and short-term training of many small
groups of students, minor civil works, small lots of local goods and equipment, and numerous short
consultancies.



30
Table 2
Project Cost Summary by Expenditure Category
(TJSS million)
%      0/ %Total
Foreign    Base
Local Foreign  Total Exchange   Costs
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
Civil Works
New Construction                     4.7    1.2    5.9        20         11
Rehabilitation                       1.5    0.3    1.8        17          3
Farm Site Development                0.1      -    0.1        20
Engineering Fees                     0.5      -    0.5         4          1
Subtotal Civil Works                  6.7    1.5    8.2        19         15
Goods
Laboratory                           0.5    1.8    2.3        78          4
Goods other than laboratory          0.7    5.3    6.0        88         11
equipment
SubtotalGoods                         1 2    7 1     8.3       86         15
Traininf                              3.5    9.4   12.9        73         24
Technical Assistance
Contract Research                   7.1             7.1        -         13
Foreign Consultants                         5.0    5.0       100          9
Local Consultants                    0.4            0.4         -          1
Subtotal Technical Assistance         7.5    5.0   12.5        40         24
Total Investment Costs               19.0   22.9   41.9        55         79
I1. RECURRENT COSTS                   6.7    4.3   10.9        39         21
Total BASELINE COSTS                25.7   27.2   52.9         51        100
Physical Contingencies                1.2    1.0    2.2        47          4
Price Contingencies                   2.0    2.0    4.0        51          8
Total PROJECT COSTS                  28.8   30.3   59.1        51        112
Note: Table may contain rounding ewrom.



31
3.51   Civil Works (USS9.5 million). Civil works to be financed under the project include new
construction, rehabilitation of existing buildings and site development. New construction in the amount of
US$7.10 million would be procured in approximately 75 packages across six implementing agencies. Civil
works would be procured using national competitive bidding (NCB) as they would be small, labor intensive
and dispersed over agencies, space and time. The key works are a central training and complex facility for
BARC and the ARls; residences, offices, and laboratories at BARI's Dinajpur station; laboratories at BRRI
headquarters; residences and a guest house at BRRI's Barisal station; feed mill and animal housing for
BLRI at Savar; laboratories, offices and housing at BLRI, Mymensingh; housing and offices at FRI,
Mymensingh; tubewells and other site development at FRI's Paikgacha station; housing, service buildings
and a sea water inlet at FRI's Cox's Bazar station; and library extension, and two laboratories at BFRI in
Chittagong. At negotiations, the Government agreed that a qualified supervising architect, to be contracted
by BARC under the project, would supervise the work of all executing architects contracted by individual
executing agencies (para. 4.1(j)).
Table 3: Financing Plan
(US$ million)
IDA       Government       Total
Amount  %  Amount  %   Amount  %
T. Foreign                29.0 95.9    1.3  4.1   30.3  51.2
H. Local (Excl. Taxes)    20.9 76.3    6.5  23.7   27.5  46.5
Ill. Taxes                 0.0  0.0    1.4 100.0    1.4  2.3
Total Project             50.0 84.5    9.1  15.5   59.1 100.0
Note: Table may contain rounding aeors.
3.52   Goods (US$9.3 million). Goods include vehicles, boats, computers and other office equipment,
and laboratory and field equipment. Vehicles include four-wheel drives, double-cabin pick-ups,
motorcycles, bicycles, buses, trucks, and motorized fishing boats; they would be procured in the amount of
US$3.6 million in eight packages across all implementing agencies. Office equipment, including computers
and related goods, would be procured in eight packages in the amount of US$1.5 million across the
implementing agencies. International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures would be used to procure
vehicles, computers, and laboratory equipment costing more than US$50,000 per contract, with an
estimated total cost of US$8.8 million. For the remaining purchases of equipment and furniture, which
would be spread over time and over eight implementing agencies in three ministries, procurement would be
made following local shopping procedures up to a maximum aggregate of US$0.5 million.
3.53    There are special provisions to procure laboratory equipment.  Because much laboratory
equipment is poorly maintained, inoperative, or only partly operative, it is necessary to improve its
utilization before acquiring new equipment. At negotiations, the Govermment agreed that: (a) BARC will
update the existing inventory of laboratory equipment in the ARIs, indicating the operational state of each
item in the inventory; (b) each ARI will develop a plan for repair, maintenance and operation of its existing



32
and projected laboratory equipment, including necessary operating costs; and (c) IDA will not finance
laboratory equipment in an ARI until its inventory and maintenance plan is updated (para. 4.1(k)).
3.54 Training (US$13.9 million). Both foreign and domestic training would be financed. At appraisal,
procedures satisfactory to IDA were agreed to administer training under the operation. Procedures for
administering training during the first and second projects have been streamlined to avoid delays. BARC's
Secretariat, in consultation with ARls, would coordinate and monitor the staff development and training
program, administer funds and award fellowships and grants. All training opportunities would be
advertised nationally and awards would be based on written recommendations from research organizations.
The Master Plan of each ARI will include a training module specifying training needs and procedures
during the plan period. Graduate training, including roughly 146 years of PhD studies and 51 years of MSc
studies, would be procured across all executing agencies.
3.55   Technical Assistance (US$13.5 million). At appraisal, procedures satisfactory to IDA were
agreed to administer technical assistance (TA) under the project. Most of the TA will consist of assistance
to implementation of the operation. All consultants services would be contracted using IDA Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants. Roughly US$5.3 million would be internationally recruited, including
approximately US$0.56 million for sole-sourced consultants from ISNAR for research management
(para.3.20 (a)). There would be roughly 380 person-months of short-term internationally recruited technical
assistance, with packages of 122 months BARC, 95 months (BARI), 60 months (FRI), and smaller
amounts for the other participating ARls. The remaining US$8.2 million would consist of contract research
(para. 3.22). Prior to initiating procurement, terms of reference will be prepared by the respective ARIs in
consultation with BARC and will be cleared by their respective ministries. At negotiations, the Government
agreed to: (a) standard terms of reference acceptable to IDA for the principal BARC consultants; and
(b) contract the principal BARC consultants no later than June 30, 1996 (para. 4.1 (1)).
4. Disbursements
3.56   Disbursements from the credit would cover:
(a)    80 percent of civil works expenditures;
(b)    100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly imported goods and equipment; 100
percent of ex-factory costs of such items manufactured in Bangladesh; and 70 percent of
total expenditures for goods and equipment procured locally;
(c)    100 percent of contract research grants;
(d)    100 percent of costs of training and technical assistance; and
(e)    an average of 49 percent of incremental recurrent costs including staff salaries and other
operating costs, on a declining basis at 80 percent for FY97 and FY98, 60 percent for
FY99 and FY00 and 40 percent thereafter.



33
Table 4: Procurement Arrangements
(USS million)
Procurement Method
International  National
Competitive  Competitive              Consulting
Bidding     Bidding       Other       Services   N.B.F.    Total
A. Civil works                                     -          9.5                        -       -         9.5
(7.6)                                       (7.6)
B. Imported goods&equipment                      8.8            -            -           -       -         8.8
(8.2)                                                    (8.2)
C. Local goods&equipment                           -            -          0.5           -    0.0          0.5
(0.3)                           (0.3)
D. Training                                        -            -         13.9           -       -        13.9
(13.9)                          (13.9)
E. Technical Assistance (Contract research;        -            -            -         7.7       -         7.7
project preparation and implementation)                                              (7.7)              (7.7)
F. Technical Assistance (Foreign consultants;      -            -            -          5.3      -         5.3
project preparation and implementation)                                              (5.3)              (5.3)
G. Technical Assistance (Local consultants;        -            -            -         0.5       -         0.5
project preparation and implementation)                                              (0.5)              (0.5)
H. Recurrent salary costs                          -            -          1.9           -       -         1.9
(1.0)                           (1.0)
I. Recurrent operating costs                       -            -         10.9           -       -        10.9
(5.3)                           (5.3)
Total                                            8.8          9.5         27.2        13.5    0.0         59.1
(8.2)       (7.6)       (20.7)       (13.5)   (0.0)     (50.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
3.57    Disbursements against expenditures on contracts exceeding US$150,000 for civil works and those
exceeding US$100,000 for vehicles, equipment, goods, consultancy services and training would be fully
documented. IDA would disburse against statements of expenditure (SOE) for all other expenditures.
Supporting documents for SOEs would be available for inspection by auditors and IDA review missions,
and retained by implementing agencies for one year after the Credit closing date. Disbursements are
projected over five years from July 1996 to December 2001 (Annex 2). The completion date is June 30,
2001 and the credit closing date is December 31, 2001.
3.58    Special Account.  A  special account would be established in Bangladesh Bank with a total
authorized allocation of US$4.0 million to facilitate timely payment of project expenditures. The special
account will have eight sub-accounts in the amounts of US$1.0, 0.5, 0.4, 0.2, 0.3, 0.6, 0.6, and 0.4 million
equivalent for BARC's Secretariat, BARI, BRRI, BJRI, SRI, FRI, BLRI, and BFRI respectively, or
equivalent to three to four months estimated disbursements for each agency.



34
5. Accounts and Audit
3.59   Each implementing agency will establish and maintain separate project-related accounts at the sites
responsible for project execution. Separate accounts will be kept for all expenditures for which withdrawals
are made with SOEs and from the Special Accounts. Responsibility for consolidation of the accounts at the
headquarters of BARC and of each ARI will begin at project implementation. The accounts will be
maintained in accordance with sound internationally recognized accounting principles and practices
satisfactory to IDA, in line with guidelines on financial reporting and auditing of World Bank projects.
Auditors acceptable to IDA will audit these accounts, including SOEs and the special accounts. At
negotiations, the Government agreed that audited accounts and the auditors' reports will be sent to IDA
within six months of the close of the fiscal year (para 4.1(m)).
6. Supervision by IDA
3.60 The cost estimates in Annex 1, and the implementation schedule, implementation indicators and
impact indicators in Annex 5 were agreed at negotiations as the basis of project execution.
3.61   Project implementation indicators. Monitorable indicators to follow project implementation were
agreed at negotiations (para. 4.1(q) and Annex 5, Table A.5.2). These indicators will be updated by
BARC and the ARIs as implementation proceeds and discussed with IDA during the two annual
supervisions.
3.62   Annex 7 presents the supervision plan The project would demand heavy IDA supervision because
of the multiple agencies and disciplines involved. About 33 staff weeks of supervision would be required in
the first 24 months when policy reforms are beginning and procurement is heaviest. Supervision would
drop to roughly 12 annual staff weeks in subsequent years. IDA supervision will monitor: (a)
implementation of policy refonns; (b) research management, including planning, research quality, linkages
with extension, procurement, and training; (c) contract research; and (d) performance of consultants.  It
was agreed at appraisal that the credit would provide resources for local supervision over five years from
the research management and organization component (para 3.20(d)).
3.63   Annual Review Cycle. At negotiations, it was agreed that: (a) one of the project supervisions each
year will be an Annual Review of progress in the previous year and a presentation of the work program in
the following year; (b) the Annual Review will be done at the time of budget preparation for the following
year (no later than the end of March); (c) BARC and the ARIs will present their draft Annual Reports to
the Annual Review; and (d) the Annual Review will decide on funding for each project agency in the
following year, basing its decision on performance in the previous year (para 4. l(n)).
3.64   Reports. At negotiations, the Government agreed to produce semiannual reports covering the
activities of BARC and the ARIs under the operation for all project activities in the previous six months no
later than March 31 and September 30. The reports would have a format and coverage acceptable to IDA
(Annex 7), including presentation of project implementation indicators (Annex 5 and para 4.1(o)).
3.65   Midterm review. GOB and IDA would conduct a midterm review (MTR) before September 30,
1998 of implementation, problems, and solutions. Particular attention would be given to the impact of the
policy reforms on BARC and the ARIs, the efficiency of management and the quality of research activities.



35
Thc MTR wold reconmend changes including, if necessary, a reformulation of the project and revision of
the PPs. At negotiations, the Government agreed: (a) on terms of reference for a midterm review of the
project to be held no later than September 30, 1998; (b) indicators of project impact; and (c) to make
necessary changes in project implementation as recommended by the midterm review (para. 4.1(p)).
3.66   Project impact indicators. The indicators of project impact were agreed at negotiations (para.
3.65 and Annex 5, Table A.5.3). These indicators will be prepared by BARC and the ARIs and
complemented by national accounts data and other information as necessary. The indicators and
comnplementary infonnation will be used to estimate ex-post productivity gains to research.
F. Benefits, Environmental Effects and Risks
1. Benefits
3.67 The expected returns to the project are high because it builds on previous investments in research
inastuct  and trained staff Improvements in research organization and management would induce
greater efficiency through the identification of efficient research priorities. Support to priority research
would generate profitable and appropriate technology that responds to farmers' needs. Farming systems
research would fortfy links among farmers, extension services and NGOs, and promote the transfer of new
tchnology to poor farmers, thus increasing production and income. The commodities benefiting from
research supported under the operation (for example, rice, wheat, potatoes, fish, milk, fruits and
vegetables) are both produced and consumed by the landless and small farmers, so much of the expected
research benefits would go to the rural poor.
3.68   The expected benefits of research on 35 major commodities, comprising more than 95% of
agricultural output, were estimated using an ex-ante econonic model (Annex 4). The resulting economic
rates of return (ERRs) were above the 12 percent target return for 32 of the 35 commodities. The average
of the values across ARIs was 53.4%; the values by ARI ranged from 11.1 % (BJRI, jute research) to 90.7
% (BRRI rice research). Figure I summarizes analysis of the effects of four additional variables on the
ERRs for each ARI: (a) 25% lower output prices; (b) a 25% longer time needed for farmers to adopt new
technology; (c) a 50 % decrease in the probability of successful research; and (d) a 75 % increase in the
tol cost of research after accounting for the marginal costs of the public funds used to finance the
scientific institutions. Adverse changes in those variables did not cause the aggregate ERRs of any institute
to fall below 29%, with the noted exception of jute.



36
Figure 1. Risk Analysis of Economic Rates of Return by ARI
120%                                   - _  25% lower output price
CM 50% lower succes probbfllflt
1_25% longer adoption time
100%                                   uu -0-ea Values
75% mg|ulIn codt of public funds
80%
40%
Econo.t Le
0%
BRRI      FRI      BARI    BLRI        SRI      BEFRI    BJRI
3.69        The budget impact of the project is small; public expenditure on agriculture (excluding public
spending on water resources) in the FY96 Annual Development Program (ADP) is planned to be about
US$243 million and average annual project spending is US$11.8 million, or 5 % of the total. Moreover, the
impact of the project on the composition of public expenditure is favorable in that it moves spending away
from market interventions and towards research, which has a greater public goods component.
2. Environmental Effects
3.70   Recent Bank economic work6 has concluded that 'intensive agriculture is degrading the soil base
and poses a threat to its sustainability" It contended that research can provide new technologies to allow
farmers to manage their resources more sustainably and to reduce the environmental costs of
intensification. The proposed operation would contribute to generating such technologies.
3.71   The project has an environmental rating of 'C' because its expected environmental effects are
positive or neutral. The positive effects are that it supports research to improve agricultural sustainability
by leading to better recommendations for natural resource management and protection. Examples are soil
fertility maintenance, replacement of rice monoculture with polyculture, more sustainable rice-wheat
rotations, and integration of forestry, fisheries, and livestock with cropping. Research on disease and
insect tolerant cultivars as part of integrated pest management will lessen use of agricultural chemicals and
reduce health and environmental risks from them. Population and ecological studies and improved
management practices for freshwater and marine fish will determine ways of maintaining the environment
and of reversing earlier degradation. The environmental impacts of civil works would be neutral because
6      Pagiola, Stefano, Enviromnental and Natural Resource Degradation in ntensive Agriculture in Bangladesh , World
Bank, Enviromnent Departnent Papers, No 15, May 1995.



37
the works are generally small and will be done within existing BARC and ARI facilities. The project
would have no cultural property, indigenous peoples, or resettlement effects.
3.72 Because reliable quantitative information about the environmental impact of agriculture in
Bangladesh is scarce, it is urgent to collect additional data during project implementation. At negotations,
the Government agreed to terms of reference for studies of environmental issues in key farming systems;
those studies would be done as part of joint research initiatives across several ARIs and would identify the
need for more detailed analysis of particular problems (para. 3.24).
3. Risks
3.73   There are four major risks. They are the Government's ability and commitment to: (a) complete the
agreed institutional reforms; (b) manage research, including interagency coordination; (c) allocate adequate
funds to research; and (d) implement all project provisions, including technical assistance and training.
These risks are addressed as follows: (a) institutional reforms were agreed in advance and are supported
by a policy statement from the Minister of Agriculture to IDA. The executive orders to implement the new
research management procedures would be issues before effectiveness (para. 4.2(c)); (b) strengthening
research management, staff development, and coordination among agencies and clients, including extension,
NGOs and farmers; (c) a satisfactory arrangement has been made to transfer adequate allocations to the
revenue budgets for the project. The Government agreed at negotiations that adequate funds would be made
available for the project (para. 4.1(r)); and (d) timely establishment of a special account for each
implementing agency, appointment of key managerial positions and recruitment of consultants, streamlining
implementation of training and contract research, and maintaining a project subcomnittee at BARC to
monitor implementation. IDA supervision and a mid-term review will identify problems and suggest
correctives.
3.74   The major risks to the operation might cause delays in harvesting benefits from research
investments. These delays have been incorporated into the ex-ante economic analysis (para. 3.68) as a lag
in adoption of new technologies generated by research (Figure 1, "25% longer adoption time'). An
adoption time 25 % longer poses no risk that the expected ERRs ratios would fall below 12% in any ARI,
except BuRI. Particular attention will be paid to BJRI during supervision of the proposed project. There are
additional specific risks that may affect the Fisheries Research Institute (F!). In the areas of riverine, brackish,
and marine fisheries, the ex-ante rates of return are lower (between 11.4 % and 17.3%) and are subject to
adverse risks from low commodity prices and low probabilities of research success. The plans for technical
assistance and IDA supervision for the FRI component of the proposed operation consider these rate of return
risks and corrective actions will be taken as needed during implementation. Moreover, FRI research is in an
enviromnentally and socially important area and should produce benefits both for the environment and for the
poorest groups in the country.



38
4. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached
4.1    The following agreements were reached at negotiations:
(a)   Policy Reform Program (para. 2.4). The Government agreed on an agricultural research
policy statement (Annex 8) and a plan of institutional reforms (Annex 8, Attachment 1),
linked to the policy statement, to give the ARIs greater autonomy;
(b)    ARI Master Plans (para. 2.5). The Government agreed to complete ARI Master Plans
by December 31, 1996 and to have them reviewed and accepted by the Association;
(c)    Research duplication (para. 2.41). The Government agreed to: (i) prepare an action plan
to reduce duplication of research facilities and activities in the ARIs by December 31,
1996; and (ii) carry out the action plan after receiving IDA's comments on it.
(d)    Private-sector financing of research (para. 2.42). The Government agreed to complete a
study of means of expanding private-sector financing of agricultural research by December
31, 1996;
(e)    Ex-ante economic analysis (para. 3.16). The Government agreed to a method of ex-ante
economic analysis and would apply it as part of BARC and ARI evaluation of research
projects in the ARI Master Plans;
(f)   Research proposal preparation rules and procedures (para. 3.17). The Government
agreed to: (i) rules and procedures acceptable to IDA; and (ii) apply the rules and
procedures to all research projects to be implemented beginning July 1, 1996;
(g)   Contract research scheme (para. 3.22)The Government agreed to: (i) mandate the BARC
Secretariat to evaluate research proposals and to approve grants; (ii) apply rules and
procedures acceptable to IDA for evaluation and funding approval of contract research
proposals; (iii) a public announcement of the contract research fund; and (iv) draft
standard contracts;
(h)    Joint research initiatives (para. 3.24). The Government agreed to a list of joint research
initiatives for funding under the Contract Research Scheme;
(i)    FSR action plan (para. 3.44). The Government agreed that: (i) BARC will confirm that
BJRI, FRI, BLRI, and BFRI have appointed a core group of qualified scientists with
substantial experience in FSR to leadership positions (SSO and above); (ii) BARI will
appoint suitable staff for its On-farm Research Division in all nine extension regions; (iii)
BARC will appoint a suitably qualified FSR coordinator, in collaboration with the ARIs;
(iv) BARC, in collaboration with the ARIs, DAE, DOF and DLS, will have prepared an
action plan to use participatory FSR methods; and (v) BARC and the ARls will have



39
created a mechanism satisfactory to the Bank for collaboration in FSR, specifying roles
and responsibilities of each of the ARIs and BARC;
(j)    Supervision of civil works (para. 3.51). The Government agreed that a qualified
supervising architect, to be contracted by BARC under the project, would supervise the
work of all executing architects contracted by individual executing agencies;
(k)    Laboratory equipment (para. 3.53). The Government agreed that: (i) BARC will update
the existing inventory of laboratory equipment in the ARIs, indicating the operational state
of each item in the inventory; (ii) that each ARI will prepare a plan for repair, maintenance
and operation of its existing and projected laboratory equipment, including the needed
operating costs; and (iii) that IDA will not finance laboratory equipment in an ARI until its
inventory and maintenance plan is updated;
(1)    Principal BARC Consultants (para. 3.55). The Government agreed to: (i) terms of
reference for the principal BARC consultants; and (ii) contract the principal BARC
consultants no later than June 30, 1996;
(m)   Audit (para. 3.59). The Government agreed that audited accounts and the auditors' reports
will be sent to IDA within six months of the close of the fiscal year;
(n)    Project supervision (para. 3.63). The Government agreed that: (i) one of the project
supervisions each year will be an Annual Review of progress in the previous year and a
presentation of the work program in the following year; (ii) the Annual Review will be
done at the time of budget preparation for the following year (no later than the end of
March); (iii) BARC and the ARIs will present their draft Annual Reports to the Annual
Review; and (iv) the Annual Review will decide on funding for each project agency in the
following year, basing its decision on performance in the previous year;
(o)    Reports (para. 3.64). The Government agreed to produce semiannual reports covering
the activities of BARC and the ARIs under the operation for all project activities in the
previous six months no later han March 31 and September 30 of each year, with a format
and coverage acceptable to IDA, including presentation of project implementation
indicators;
(p)    Midterm review (para. 3.65). The Govemment agreed on: (i) terms of reference for a
midterm review of the project to be held no later than September 30, 1998; (ii) monitorable
indicators of project impact (Annex 5, Table A.5.3) to be used by the mid-term review;
and (iii) to make necessary changes in project implementation as recommended by the
midterm review;
(q)   Implementation indicators (para. 3.61). The Govermnent agreed on monitorable
indicators (Annex 5, Table A.5.2) to assess project implementation; and
(r)    Project budget (para. 3.73).The Government agreed that adequate funds would be made
available for the project.



40
4.2    Conditions of credit effectiveness are:
(a)    Agricultural Research Policy Statement (para. 2.4). Receipt by IDA of the agreed
agricultural research policy statement
(b)    Project Proforma. Approval of the Project Proforna; and
(c)    Executive Orders (para. 2.10). All concerned authorities would issue executive orders,
acceptable to IDA, mandating use of the research proposal preparation rules and prooedures
in the ARIs beginning July 1, 1996.
B. Recommendation
4.3    With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for an IDA Credit of US$50.0 million
equivalent (SDR 33.6 million equivalent) to the Govermment of Bangladesh on standard terms.



- 41 -                                                  Amex 1
Page 1 of 9
Bangladesh
Agriculture Research Management Project
Components Project Cost Summary
(Taka Million)                               (USS '000)
%     % Total
Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign  Total Exchange  Costs   Local Foreign   Total
A. Priority Research
2. Unallocated Crops Research                    69.9   164.1   233.9        70       11  1,730.1  4,063.0  5,793.0
3. Wheat                                          8.3      1.8    10.1       18        -   205.3    45.3    250.6
4. Rice                                         105.3   174.8   280.0        62       13 2,607.1  4,328.0  6,935.1
8. Jute                                           5.3    47.4    52.8        90        2   131.9  1,175.0  1,306.8
9. Sugarcane                                     11.4    42.7    54.1        79        3   283.1  1,057.5   1,340.5
10. Fisheries Overhead                           27.5    22.1    49.5       45         2   679.9   547.0  1,226.9
11. Fisheries/Freshwater                         19.6    53.5    73.2       73         3   486.6  1,325.1   1,811.7
12. Fisheries/Riverine                           19.1    41.5    60.5        69        3   471.9  1,027.4  1,499.3
13. Fisheries/Brackish                           30.6    51.9    82.5       63         4   757.6  1,285.4  2,043.0
14. Fisheries/Marine                             32.4    41.8    74.1        56        3   801.6  1,034.3   1,835.9
15. Livestock Overhead                           42.2    19.3    61.5       31         3  1,044.1   478.9  1,523.0
16. Livestock Economics                           8.7    11.0    19.7        56        1   215.7   271.8    487.5
17. Livestock/Ruminant Nutrition&Forage          21.8    47.7    69.5       69         3   540.2  1,180.7  1,720.9
18. Livestock/Poultry                             7.9    10.2    18.2       56         1   196.3   253.2    449.5
19. Livestock/Health                             23.6    31.8    55.4       57         3   583.7   788.7   1,372.4
20. Forestry Overhead                           145.0    95.8   240.8        40       11  3,591.4 2,371.8  5,963.2
22. Wood Technology                                 -      3.7     3.7      100        -        -    90.7     90.7
23. Forestry Tech Trans                             -     7.3      7.3      100        -       -   181.5    181.5
Subtotal Priority Research                      578.5   868.3  1,446.8       60       68 14,326.5 21,505.4  35,831.9
B. BARC Research Management
1. NARS                                         376.1   145.8   521.9       28        24 9,315.2  3,610.7  12,925.9
Subtotal BARC Research Management               376.1   145.8   521.9        28       24  9,315.2  3,610.7  12,925.9
C. Participatory Farming Systems Research
FSR--BARC                                        14.5    34.2    48.7        70        2   359.6   846.0  1,205.6
FSR--BRRI                                         8.0     8.4    16.4       51         1   198.0   209.0    406.9
FSR--BARI                                        22.1    27.9    50.1        56        2   548.6   691.7  1,240.2
FSR--FRI                                         13.9     2.8    16.7        17        1   343.4    69.7    413.1
FSR--BFRI                                         3.3     2.8      6.1       46        -    82.0    69.7    151.6
FSR--BLRI                                        13.6     2.8    16.4        17        1   337.1    69.7    406.8
FSR--BJRI                                         3.3     2.8      6.1       46        -    82.0    69.7    151.6
FSR--SRTI                                         3 3     2.8      6.1       46        -    82.0    69.7    151.6
Subtotal Participatory Farming Systems Research    82.1    84.6   166.7      51        8 2,032.6 2,094.9  4,127.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                           1,036.7  1,098.7  2,135.4    51       100 25,674.3 27,211.0  52,885.3
Physical Contingencies                           47.3    42.2    89.4        47        4  1,170.4  1,044.5  2,214.9
Price Contingencies                             129.4   131.5   260.8        50       12  1,972.0 2,013.6  3,985.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                            1,213.3  1,272.3  2,485.6     51      116 28,816.6 30,269.2  59,085.8
SUMCOM.XLS



- 42. -                                            Anmex I
Page 2 of 9
Bangladesh
Agriculture Research Management Project
Project Components by Year-- Base Costs
(USS '000)
Base Cost
1997     1998      1999     2000     2001      Total
A. Priority Research
2. Unallocated Crops Research                         745.5   2,009.9   1,306.0    865.8    865.8   5,793.0
3. Wheat                                             250.6         -        -         -        -    250.6
4. Rice                                             1,703.9   1,582.1   1,410.0   1,119.6   1,119.6   6,935.1
8. Jute                                              268.4    420.9    312.5    186.5    118.4   1,306.8
9. Sugarcane                                         277.4    365.4    342.8    215.2    139.6   1,340.5
10. Fisheries Overhead                               207.9    882.8      89.5      27.1      19.6   1,226.9
11. Fisheries/Freshwater                             273.2    755.0    280.7    291.8    211.0   1,811.7
12. Fisheries/Riverine                               164.3    735.3    315.7    173.5    110.6   1,499.3
13. Fisheries/Brackish                               411.1   1,009.0    307.9    195.0    119.9   2,043.0
14. Fisheries/Marine                                 656.5    555.5    279.1    191.5    153.3   1,835.9
15. Livestock Overhead                               181.4   1,108.1    100.5      81.6     51.4   1,523.0
16. Livestock Economics                               68.5    146.9      95.7      88.2     88.2    487.5
17. Livestock/RuminantNutrition&Forage               341.2    710.9    346.2    226.8       95.7   1,720.9
18. Livestock/Poultry                                 83.7    167.0      80.9      61.5     56.4    449.5
19. Livestock/Health                                 294.4    479.2    344.4    148.7    105.8   1,372.4
20. Forestry Overhead                                457.9   1,600.8   1,964.5   1,185.6    754.5   5,963.2
22. Wood Technology                                      -      45.4     45.4         -        -      90.7
23. Forestry Tech Trans                                  -      45.4     45.4      45.4     45.4    181.5
Subtotal Priority Research                          6,385.9  12,619.8   7,667.3   5,103.7   4,055.2  35,831.9
B. BARC Research Management
1. NARS                                             2,668.8   3,083.7   3,345.1   2,166.6   1,661.7  12,925.9
Subtotal BARC Research Management                   2,668.8   3,083.7   3,345.1   2,166.6   1,661.7  12,925.9
C. Participatory Farming Systems Research
FSR--BARC                                            252.2    266.7    228.9    228.9    228.9   1,205.6
FSR--BRRI                                             73.1    186.4      49.2      49.2     49.2    406.9
FSR--BARI                                             74.4    480.7    354.4    165.4    165.4   1,240.2
FSR--FRI                                              79.8    117.6      71.9      71.9     71.9    413.1
FSR--BFRI                                             30.1      64.7     18.9      18.9      18.9    151.6
FSR--BLRI                                             78.6    116.4      70.6      70.6     70.6    406.8
FSR--BJRI                                             30.1      64.7     18.9      18.9      18.9    151.6
FSR--SRTI                                             30.1      64.7     18.9      18.9      18.9    151.6
Subtotal Participatory Farming Systems Research      648.5   1,361.8    831.7    642.7    642.7   4,127.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                                9,703.3  17,065.3  11,844.1   7,913.0   6,359.6  52,885.3
Physical Contingencies                               487.9    768.5    465.4    272.5    220.6   2,214.9
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                             211.5    641.6    745.4    739.3    843.9   3,181.6
Foreign                                           129.1    521.0    516.5    437.7    409.3   2,013.6
Subtotal Inflation                                  340.6   1,162.6   1,261.9   1,177.0   1,253.3   5,195.3
Devaluation                                         -73.9   -220.1   -274.4   -290.4   -350.9  -1,209.7
Subtotal Price Contingencies                         266.7    942.5    987.5    886.6    902.3   3,985.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                10,457.9  18,776.4  13,297.0   9,072.0   7,482.5  59,085.8
Taxes                                                217.9    749.1    300.1       72.5      19.9   1,359.5
Foreign Exchange                                    5,061.2  10,380.1   6,954.6   4,478.7   3,394.6  30,269.2
COMYRB.XLS



-  43 -                                                     Annex 1
Page 3 of 9
Bangladesh
Agrlculture Rearh Mangement Project
ProJect Components by Year - Totals including Contingencies
(USS '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1996       1997        199S        1999      2000        Totad
A. Research Organlzatlon and Management
1. NARS                                                   1,740.6    2,068.1     2,458.1    1,502.4    1,348.9     9,118.0
Subtotal Research Organization and Management               1,740.6     2,068.1     2,458.1    1,502.4    1,348.9     9,118.0
B. Priority Research
2. Unallocated Crops Research                              814.4      2,212.3     1,456.3     992.7    1,018.5      6,494.2
3. Wheat                                                   280.3           -           -          -          -       280.3
4. Rice                                                   1,855.3     1,747.4     1,595.6    1,291.4    1,325.0     7,814.8
8. Jute                                                    292.1       469.2       352.6      208.1      136.1      1,458.1
9. Sugarcane                                               313.1       392.2       381.2      245.6      166.0      1,498.2
10. Fisheries Overhead                                     229.3       787.9        92.6       25.9       18.0      1,153.8
11. Fisheries/Freshwater                                   301.3       837.6       311.3      331.9      249.2     2,031.3
12. Fisheries/Riverine                                     182.4       732.4       349.3      202.4      134.5      1,601.0
13. Fisheries/Brackish                                     505.4      1,195.8      339.6      224.8      143.7     2,409.5
14. Fisheries/Marine                                      1,141.0      475.7       407.7      239.0      249.3     2,512.7
15. Livestock Overhead                                     269.4      1,430.0      218.7      192.8      162.5     2,273.4
16. Livestock/Ruminant Nutrition&Forage                    369.6       786.1       396.2      264.9      113.0     1,929.9
17. Livestock/Poultry                                       87.9       184.6        92.5       72.3       67.8       505.1
18. Livestock/Health                                       332.3       555.0       409.3      181.2      132.4     1,610.1
19. Forestry Overhead                                      500.7      1,787.0    2,305.1    1,414.7      922.6     6,930.1
21. Wood Technology                                            -        47.8        49.0          -          -        96.8
22. Forestry Tech Trans                                        -        47.8        49.0       50.3       51.6       198.7
Subtotal Priority Research                                  7,474.6    13,688.6     8,806.1    5,938.2    4,890.4    40,797.9
C. Participatory Farming Systems Research
FSR--BARC                                                  263.1       282.7       249.2      255.7      262.3      1,312.9
FSR--BRRI                                                   80.2       199.1        56.0       57.4       58.9       451.6
FSR--BARI                                                   81.1       526.5       394.6      195.3      200.4      1,398.0
FSR--FRI                                                    83.7       124.8        78.6       80.6       82.7       450.4
FSR--BFRI                                                   32.6        69.0        21.4       22.0       22.5       167.6
FSR--BLRI                                                   82.4       123.4        77.2       79.2       81.3       443.6
FSR--BJRI                                                   32.6        69.0        21.4       22.0       22.5       167.6
FSR--SRTI                                                   32.6        69.0        21.4       22.0       22.5       167.6
Subtotal Participatory Farming Systems Research              688.3      1,463.6      919.9      734.3      753.4      4,559.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                         9,903.5    17,220.3    12,184.1    8,174.8    6,992.7    54,475.3
COMYRT.XLS



- 44 -
Anx= 
PW 4 o19
Bangladesh
Agriculture Research Management Project
Project Components by Year - Investment/Recurrent Costs
(USS '000)
Totab Includio Continends
1997        1991          1999        2000          2001        Tol
A. Priety Rarch
2. Unmloced  Crops R    _ewch
Invesont Cook                                        572.7       1,903.0      1,101.2       62a.4        644.3       4,350.2
Recuawt Cods                                         241.7        309.3        355.0        364.3        373.7       1.644.0
Subtotal Unsbocatad Crops Reserch                      814.4      2,212.3      1,456.3        992.7       1,013.5      6,494.2
3. Weawt
InwAbet Cods                                         230.3            .            -            -            -        220.3
4. Rke
IMMnent Cods                                       1,364.6      1,227.3       1,053.0       734.7        753.8       5,133.3
Recaret Cods                                         490.7        520.1        542.6        556.7        571.2       26aL35
Subtotdal Rke                                        1,355.3      1,747.4      1,595.6      1,291.4      1,325.0      7,314.3
3. Jute
Inieshnet Cos                                        292.1        454.6        337.6        192.7        120.4       1,397.5
Recurent Cosb                                            -         14.6         15.0         15.4         15.3         60.7
Subtotal Jute                                          292.1        469.2        352.6        203.1        136.1       1,453.1
9. Su9rcae
Investmnt codb                                       257.1        319.3        307.0        169.5         87.9       1,141.2
Recufynnt Cods                                        56.0         72.4         74.2         76.2         73.2        356.9
Subtotal Suprcae                                       313.1        392.2        331.2        245.6        166.0       1,491.2
10. FisherIs Overhead
Inwavtaint Cods                                      217.1        970.1         75.5          8.4            -       1,271.1
Recwrumt Cost                                         12.2         21.7         22.5         23.1         23.7        103.2
Subtal Fkberies Ovrad                                  229.3        991.8         9S.0         31.5         23.7       1,374.3
11. FisherIw uste
bnvestmnt Coats                                      199.5        708.1        181.9        197.3        105.5       1,392.9
RecmaTt Cods                                         103.9        140.0        131.2        135.9        145.6        6565
Subtal FhrlajFreahwatw                                 303.4        348.1        313.1        333.7        251.1       2,049.4
12. F     VbaVlaRlvsile
Invsbnent Cosa                                       121.1        695.4        241.7         70.3         17.7       1,146.1
Recunmt Cosa                                          61.3        117.7        107.6        132.1        116.3        535.5
Subtotal FKberlsRjvel                                  132.3        313.1        349.3        202.4        134.5       1,631.6
13. Fisherleafaclds
Invstnelt Cods                                       377.3        997.1        225.5         33.3         11.5       1,695.2
Recunrent Cosb                                        32.6        124.3        114.2        141.0        132.3        594.S
Subtota FIberIeach                                     459.9      1,121.9        339.6        224.8        143.7       2,290.0
14. Fl   4.eresMartae
Invest       CONN                                    633.5        483.5        194.7    U     3.8         56.6       1,452.1
Reccrart Coad                                         95.7        127.1        113.3        137.2        125.1        599.0
Subtotal FlsherleaiMrlAe                               729.1        610.7        303.5        221.0        181.7      2,051.1
15. Llvestock Ovesmad
Invesment Comb                                       191.3      1,257.1         97.7         77.9         44.7       1,663.6
Recunent Coda                                          5.7         14.0         14.4         14.3         15.1         64.0
Subtotal Llvestock Overed                              197.0      1,271.1        112.1         92.6         59.3      1,732.6
16. LIvestock Economis
lnveatent Cob                                         53.2        133.8         30.3         73.7         75.6        422.1
Rcarnat CosB                                          14.2         25.1         25.7         26.4         27.1        113.6
Subtotal Livetock Ecoudes                               72.4        158.9        106.6        100.1        102.7        540.7
17. LlvestodkiRumluaat NuttdomForp
Invesm_nt Cods                                       369.6        746.4        352.5        220.1         67.0       1,755.7
Recumyat Cods                                            -         39.7         43.7         44.3         46.0        174.2
Subtota Llh_ockRNumdt Nu tkaForae                      369.6        736.1        396.2        264.9        113.0       1,929.9
1S. Livetock/Pouy
Invedrnt Codb                                         73.6        147.3         54.2         32.9         27.5        335.6
Recmuit Cods                                          14.2         37.3         33.3         39.3         40.3        10.5
Subtotal LJnvdocklPeud"                                 37.9        134.6         92.5         72.3         67.3        505.1
19. LIvestocHelalth
Investment Cods                                      313.2        514.4        363.9        144.4         94.6       1,435.5
Recarmt Cods                                          19.0         40.5         40.4         36.3         37.3        174.6
Subtkol L     1v1stocklealh                            332.3        555.0        409.3        131.2        132.4       1,610.1
20. Fresr  Overed
bnvedeot Cods                                        427.0      1,349.3      1,65.1         U31.3        334.2       4,646.9



-  45  -                                                         Annex 1
Page 5 of 9
Racumrut CoIA                                         73.7        437.2        651.0        532.9        533.4       282S3.2
Subtol Fortsy Overed                                   500.7      1,737.0      2,305.1      1,414.7        922.6       6,930.1
22. Wood Tednoloy
Invuhnet Cods                                                      47.3         49.0                         -         96.S
23. Foesby Tec* Tran
Invtnimit Cost                                           -         47.3         49.0         50.3         51.6        193.7
SubtotalPrloultRsmrc                                 7,019.2     14,044.3      3,714.1       5,927.6      4,330.4     40,536.1
R. BARC R_ewch Magemet
1. NARS
Invetmet Coea                                      2,731.0      3,193.6      3,536.3       2,332.4      1,313.9     13,662.7
RocmenA Cost                                          19.4         74.3         76.3         77.3         79.3        327.6
Subtotal BARC Rmswc Maagemut                         2,750.3      3,263.0      3,663.0      2,410.2       1,393.7     13,990.3
C. Paalhdpsory Frdn Systm Rsarch
FSR-BARC
Inv.tment Comb                                       235.6        246.3        212.3        217.9        223.5       1,136.0
Recureat Cost                                         27.5         35.9         36.3         37.3         33.3        176.9
Subtotal FSR-BARC                                      263.1        232.7        249.2        255.7        262.3       1,312.9
FSR-BRRI
Inv.om t Cost                                         37.3        146.1          1.6          1.7          1.7        133.9
Rocureat Codst                                        42.3         53.0         54.4         55.3         57.2        262.7
Subtotal FSR-BRRI                                       30.2        199.1         56.0         57.4         53.9        451.6
FSR-BARI
Invesbuent Cods                                          -        370.S        212.4          3.4          S.6        600.1
Recurrent Costs                                       31.1        155.7        132.2        137.0        191.3        797.3
Subtotl FSR-BARI                                        31.1        526.5        394.6        195.3        200.4       1,393.0
FSR-FRI
Bnvestm   Codsa                                       12.6         43.7          0.5          0.6          0.6         63.0
Recurent Cosa                                         71.0         76.1         73.1         30.1         32.2        337.4
Subtotal FSR-FRI                                        33.7        124.3         73.6         30.6         32.7        450.4
FSR-BFRI
Invstment Cos                                         12.6         43.7          0.5          0.6          0.6         63.0
Recurent Cast                                         20.0         20.3         20.9         21.4         22.0        104.7
Subtotal FSR-BFRI                                       32.6         69.0         21.4         22.0         22.5        167.6
FSR-BLRI
Investment Cods                                       12.6         48.7          0.5          0.6          0.6         63.0
Recurmt Coab                                          69.3         74.7         76.7         73.7         30.7        330.6
Subtotal FSR-BLRI                                       32.4        123.4         77.2         79.2         S1.3        443.6
FSR-BRI
Invesbent Cost                                        12.6         43.7          0.5          0.6          0.6         63.0
Roc.raent Coso                                        20.0         20.3         20.9         21.4         22.0        104.7
Subtotal FSR-BJRI                                       32.6         69.0         21.4         22.0         22.5        167.6
FSR-SRTI
nvetment Coss                                         12.6         43.7          0.5          0.6          0.6         63.0
Recumrent Cosa                                        20.0         20.3         20.9         21.4         22.0        104.7
Subtotal FSR-SRTI                                       32.6         69.0         21.4         22.0         22.5        167.6
SubtotalP nrtidpatoryFarmingSyxtunResearcb             633.3      1,463.6        919.9        734.3        753.4       4,559.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                 10,457.9      13,776.4    13,297.0      9,072.0      7,482.5      59,035.3
TotalW Ismet Costa                                   3,315.7     16,204.0     10,440.2      6,163.7      4,593.9      46,222.5
Total Recuret Cosb                                   1,642.2      2,572.3      2,356.3      2,903.3      2,S33.6      12,363.2
COMYIRE.XS



Azmex I
- 46 -                                           Page 6 of 9
Bangladesh
Agriculture Research Management Project
Components by Financiers
(USS '000)
Local
IDA        The Government        Total                    (ExcL    Duties &
Amount   %    Amount   %         Amount    %    For. Exch.  Taxes)    Taxes
A. Priority Research
2. Unallocated CropsResearc  5,451.9   84.0   1,042.3   16.0   6,494.2   11.0   4,520.1    1,803.2    170.8
3. Wheat                   224.3   80.0      56.1   20.0      280.3    0.5       51.1      203.7     25.5
4. Rice                   6,325.9   80.9   1,488.9   19.1   7,814.8   13.2   4,772.3    3,007.5      34.9
8. Jute                   1,424.6   97.7     33.5    2.3    1,458.1    2.5    1,309.9      148.2        -
9. Sugarcane              1,299.1   86.7    199.1   13.3    1,498.2    2.5    1,176.1      301.1     21.0
10. Fisheries Overhead    1,147.3   83.5    227.0   16.5    1,374.3    2.3      600.7     683.6      90.1
11. Fisheries/Freshwater  1,661.2   81.1    388.3   18.9   2,049.4    3.5    1,505.3       507.5     36.7
12. Fisheries/Riverine    1,300.0   77.3    381.6   22.7    1,681.6    2.8    1,148.7     482.4      50.5
13. Fisheries/Brackish    1,838.1   80.3    451.9   19.7   2,290.0    3.9    1,434.3      772.4      83.4
14. Fisheries/Marine      1,591.1   77.6    459.9   22.4   2,051.1    3.5    1,153.3      808.8      89.0
15. Livestock Overhead    1,415.5   81.7    317.1   18.3    1,732.6    2.9      542.6    1,071.2    118.9
16. Livestock Economnics   466.0   86.2      74.7   13.8      540.7    0.9      301.6     232.7       6.4
17. Livestock/Ruminant Nutr  1,781.5   92.3    148.4    7.7    1,929.9    3.3    1,326.6  574.6      28.7
18. Livestock/Poultry      399.1   79.0    106.1   21.0       505.1    0.9      282.7     214.1       8.3
19. Livestock/Health      1,416.0   87.9    194.0   12.1    1,610.1    2.7      923.4     630.4      56.4
20. Forestry Overhead     4,983.3   71.9   1,946.9   28.1   6,930.1   11.7   2,715.8    3,857.3    357.0
22. Wood Technology         96.8  100.0         -       -      96.8    0.2       96.8          -        -
23. Forestry Tech Trans    198.7  100.0         -       -     198.7    0.3      198.7         -         -
Subtotal Priority Research    33,020.4   81.5   7,515.7   18.5  40,536.1   68.6  24,059.9   15,298.7   1,177.5
B. BARC Research Management
1. NARS                  13,719.9   98.1    270.4    1.9  13,990.3   23.7   3,895.6   10,043.5       51.2
C. Participatory Farming Systems Research
FSR--BARC                 1,212.5   92.4    100.4    7.6   1,312.9    2.2       919.3      387.6      6.0
FSR--BRRI                  291.4   64.5    160.3   35.5       451.6    0.8      231.1      198.9     21.7
FSR--BARI                  887.1   63.5    510.9   36.5    1,398.0    2.4       778.1      552.9     67.0
FSR--FRI                   251.5   55.8    198.9   44.2       450.4    0.8       77.0      366.1      7.2
FSR--BFRI                  106.9   63.8      60.8   36.2      167.6    0.3       77.0       83.4      7.2
FSR--BLRI                  248.0   55.9    195.6   44.1       443.6    0.8       77.0      359.3      7.2
FSR--BJRI                  106.9   63.8      60.8   36.2      167.6    0.3       77.0       83.4      7.2
FSR--SRI                   106.9   63.8      60.8   36.2      167.6    0.3       77.0       83.4      7.2
Subtotal Participatory Farmi  3,211.1   70.4   1,348.3   29.6   4,559.4    7.7   2,313.7   2,115.0    130.8
Total Disbursement         49,951.5   84.5   9,134.3   15.5  59,085.8  100.0  30,269.2  27,457.1   1,359.5
COMFIN.XLS



- 47 -                                               Annex I
Page 7 of 9
Bangladesh
Agriculture Research Management Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Base Costs
(USS '000)
Base Cost                        Foreign Exchange
1997    1998    1999    2000   2001    Total    %      Amount
L Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. New Construction                  1,768.2  2,887.1   888.4   189.7   148.8  5,882.2   20.4    1,200.1
2. Rehabilitation                      178.5  421.2   877.5   273.0       - 1,750.2   17.2       300.3
3. Farm Site Development               63.0       -       -       -       -    63.0   20.0        12.6
5. Engineering Fees                   185.9  261.0   47.5       3.6     3.6   501.7    3.8        19.2
Subtotal Civil Works                   2,195.6  3,569.4  1,813.3  466.3   152.5  8,197.1   18.7    1,532.2
B. Vehicles                             165.1  2,407.4   631.4    81.3    7.6  3,292.8   85.0   2,798.9
C. Livestock                              6.3     6.3     6.3       -       -    18.9   95.0        18.0
D. Equipment
1. Office                             724.8  420.1    69.3    32.8    25.2  1,272.2   93.9    1,194.3
2. Field                              149.3   830.0   197.0    37.8    10.1  1,224.2   92.0    1,126.8
3. Laboratory                         710.0  1,066.9   417.3    97.3    20.2 2,311.7   78.2    1,807.8
4. Miscellaneous                       31.8    39.3    31.3    31.3    31.3   164.8   85.0       140.1
Subtotal Equipment                     1,615.9  2,356.3   714.9   199.1    86.7 4,973.0   85.8   4,269.0
E. Training
1. Long-term Local Training           106.8  224.6   239.7   149.1   126.4   846.6        -         -
2. Short-term Local Training           84.6   285.5   237.2   188.9    61.9   858.1       -         -
3. Long-Term Foreign Training         274.8   885.8  1,112.6   978.0   607.5  3,858.7  100.0    3,858.7
4. Short-Term Foreign Training       1,348.2  1,882.5  1,834.6  1,343.2   934.9  7,343.4   75.0    5,509.0
Subtotal Training                      1,814.3  3,278.4  3,424.1  2,659.1  1,730.8 12,906.7   72.6   9,367.7
F. Technical Assistance
1. Contract Research                 1,422.7  1,422.7  1,422.7  1,422.7  1,422.7  7,113.4  -        -
2. Foreign Consultants                897.4  1,593.1  1,260.3   615.1   569.7 4,935.5  100.0   4,935.5
3. Local Consultants                   94.2   162.2   116.8   32.7   32.7  438.6          -         -
Subtotal Technical Assistance          2,414.2  3,177.9  2,799.9  2,070.5  2,025.1 12,487.5   39.5   4,935.5
G. Services and Contracts                 5.0    13.6    13.6    13.6    13.6    59.4       -         -
Total Investment Costs                 8,216.5 14,809.3  9,403.5  5,489.9  4,016.2 41,935.4   54.7  22,921.2
XL Recurrent Costs
A. Staff Salaries (Incremental)         320.2   342.1   358.4   370.9   376.5  1,768.2      -         -
B. Operational Travel                    31.6   42.1    42.1    41.7    41.7   199.0        -
C. Operation, Maintenance & Repair
1. Buildings/Other Structures         240.6   325.8   367.8   387.1   402.3  1,723.6   19.5     337.0
2. Vehicles/Vessels                    38.1   265.1   323.5   327.9   328.7  1,283.1   74.3     953.0
3. Motorcycles                         14.1    22.2    22.8    23.4    23.9   106.5   85.0       90.5
4. Equipment                          257.1   332.9  400.3   346.4   244.4  1,581.2   81.6    1,290.7
5. Miscellaneous                      542.3   883.0   883.0   883.0   883.0  4,074.1   39.7    1,618.6
6. Rent                                42.8    42.8   42.8    42.8    42.8   214.0        -         -
Subtotal Operation, Maintenance & Repai  1,135.0  1,871.8  2,040.2 2,010.5  1,925.2  8,982.6   47.8   4,289.8
Total Recurrent Costs                  1,486.8 2,256.0 2,440.6 2,423.1  2,343.4 10,949.9   39.2   4,289.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                   9,703.3 17,065.3 11,844.1  7,913.0  6,359.6 52,885.3   51.5  27,211.0
Physical Contingencies                  487.9   768.5   465.4   272.5   220.6  2,214.9   47.2    1,044.5
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                               211.5   641.6   745.4   739.3   843.9  3,181.6      -          -
Foreign                              129.1   521.0   516.5   437.7   409.3  2,013.6  100.0   2,013.6
Subtotal Inflation                    340.6  1,162.6  1,261.9  1,177.0  1,253.3  5,195.3   38.8   2,013.6
Devaluation                           -73.9  -220.1  -274.4  -290.4  -350.9 -1,209.7      -         -
Subtotal Price Contingencies            266.7   942.5   987.5   886.6   902.3  3,985.6   50.5    2,013.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                   10,457.9 18,776.4 13,297.0  9,072.0  7,482.5 59,085.8   51.2  30,269.2
EAYRB.XLS



- 48-                                                   Annex 1
Page 8 of 9
Bangladesh
Agriculture Research Management Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1997       1998       1999       2000       2001       Total
L Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. New Construction                1,995.9    3,343.7    1,055.6      231.2       186.2    6,812.7
2. Rehabilitation                    201.5      487.8    1,042.6       332.8          -    2,064.8
3. Farm Site Development              71.1          -          -          -           -       71.1
5. Engineering Fees                  193.0      279.9       51.7        4.0         4.1      532.8
Subtotal Civil Works                 2,461.6    4,111.4    2,150.0       568.1      190.3    9,481.4
B. Vehicles                            173.8    2,539.7      686.2        90.1        8.6    3,498.3
C. Livestock                             6.5        6.6        6.8          -           -       19.9
D. Equipment
1. Office                            818.2      486.5       82.4       39.9        31.5    1,458.5
2. Field                             168.5      961.3      234.0        46.1       12.6    1,422.6
3. Laboratory                        801.5    1,235.6      495.9       118.6       25.2    2,676.8
4. Miscellaneous                      35.8       45.5       37.1        38.1       39.1      195.7
Subtotal Equipment                   1,824.0    2,728.9      849.4      242.7       108.4    5,753.6
E. Training
1. Long-termLocal Training           110.3      237.3      259.8      166.0       143.7      917.2
2. Short-term Local Training          86.8      300.6      256.2      209.3        70.4      923.4
3. Long-Term Foreign Training        281.9      932.6    1,206.0    1,084.0       690.8    4,195.3
4. Short-Term Foreign Training      1,385.0    1,983.5    1,983.4    1,490.3    1,064.9    7,907.2
Subtotal Training                     1,864.1    3,454.0    3,705.4    2,949.6    1,969.8   13,943.0
F. Technical Assistance
1. Contract Research               1,459.9    1,497.9    1,536.8    1,576.8    1,617.8    7,689.1
2. Foreign Consultants               924.0    1,680.5    1,364.7       685.0      651.2    5,305.4
3. Local Consultants                  96.6      170.7      126.2       36.3        37.2      467.1
Subtotal Technical Assistance        2,480.5    3,349.1    3,027.7    2,298.1    2,306.2   13,461.6
G. Services and Contracts                5.2       14.3       14.7        15.1       15.5       64.7
Total Investment Costs                 8,815.7   16,204.0   10,440.2    6,163.7    4,598.9   46,222.5
IL Recurrent Costs
A. StaffSalaries(Incremental)          328.6      360.2      387.2      411.1       428.2    1,915.3
B. Operational Travel                   32.4       44.3       45.4       46.2        47.4      215.7
C. Operation, Maintenance & Repair
1. Buildings/Other Structures        271.6      377.3      437.0      471.9       503.3    2,061.1
2. Vehicles/Vessels                   43.0      307.0      384.4       399.7      411.1     1,545.1
3. Motorcycles                        15.9       25.8       27.1       28.5        29.9      127.2
4. Equipment                         290.2      385.6      475.7      422.3       305.7    1,879.6
5. Miscellaneous                     612.1    1,022.6    1,049.2    1,076.5    1,104.4    4,864.8
6. Rent                               48.3       49.6       50.9       52.2        53.5      254.5
Subtotal Operation, Maintenance &    1,281.1    2,167.8    2,424.2    2,451.1    2,408.1   10,732.3
Total Recurrent Costs                  1,642.2    2,572.3    2,856.8    2,908.3    2,883.6   12,863.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                   10,457.9   18,776.4   13,297.0    9,072.0    7,482.5   59,085.8
EAYRT.XLS



-  49  -                                                                                                           Ameflxl
Page 9 of 9
Bangladesh
Agriculture Research Management Project
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
crTska5O 3                                                                                    fEUSC '8u
7d       B..                                                                       V-wdP 
,-so             Parole              TOn               ssa                C.d.               Laos              v.aI               Told             UdIoIIia.
I. IcueetCo.-
A. CMI SOtes
I New Con.- -to                                     1891                48.5             237.5                 20                 II           4,4312             1,200.1            3*82.2                 20                 18k
2 Rehabil.itaio                                       50.5              121                70.7                17                  3            1,449.9             328.3            1.750.2                17                  2
3 Fret Site Osnelptoe-                                 2.0                03                2.5                20                  .                0.4              12.8               41.0                34
5E E.t.ineenn  Fee                                    19 5               0.8               20.2                 4                  1             48t.3               19.2              501.7                 4                  8
Subtta CMI Weeks                                    269.1               689               38.598                                                4,444.9           1.532.2            8,197.1                i9                 13
*WVeltle                                              2.               113                I330                 35                  0             493.9            2,7909             3.2918                 Is                  8
C*Licstc                                               0.0               0.7                0.3                97                  .                0.9              13.0              8IL9                 93
D.Eqalposa
I Office                                              3.1               42                38.4                 94                  2              77.9             ,8.31,277,2                              94                  2
2-Fiel                                                 3.9              43.                494                 92                  2              97.4I 2,88S                        [.24.2                 92                  2
23Lobcein202                                                            73.                93.                 73                  4             303.9            1,807.3            2.31187                72                  4
0MsclooUt-                                           I10                3.1.7                                 85                                 247               140.8              844,                 83
SubtotalI Eqotpseeoi                                  20 4             172 4              2003                 84                                702.9            4,249.0            4,97.0                                     9
ILo  .e -nLnsTtsoning                                36.2                  -34.2                                                                  4.                    -             040.                                      2
2 Shtoe1-teeiLocalTru-i                               34.6                 -                4..2                                                  381                   -               30.1I
Ln-enForpg Tritioto                          -              133.8             153.                 100                 7-                              3,353t7           3,35.7                 10                   7
4 SliotiTe-  Fcr-tg Toteteg                    -      74 I.            222 4             -296.3                73                 14            8,334.4           3,09.0             7,33.4                 73                 84
Sobseea Teolelsg                                     142 9             378.2              322.2                72                 24            3,39. T           P)47.7            12,9041.7               72                 24
F. ToeeeAu Asstotsoc
IC-earn Resarh                                     287.2                  -             287.2                  .13                             78113.4                 .            78112.4                                   1
2F Fo..gt Co-eu1sc-                                      -             199 3              199.3               I0D                 9I                              4,923.3            4,933.3               148 
3Local C-n1ttsot                                     177                  -171                                 -                  1             438.4                  .             43IS- 
S.bstl oliela Asekt-tc                              334 9              190 3              304.1                40                 24            7,332.0           4,9235.3          12,437.3                40                 24
GSec   esd C---ct                                      24                   -                .4                  .                                  9.4                 .39.4-
Totl. octme Cast                                     767 7             925.5            1,603.0                55                 79           19,014.2          22,928.2           4L1,93.4                is                 79
n.RecoenIeCos-
A*StafTSalcttlncec- tl                                71 4                  -78.4                                .3                             1,761.2                 .             .70. 2                  -3
*Ope--tcoaTnenot                                       00                  -                tO                                     -             19WO                                  LW340 
C.Op.-seto.. M.tatesee  & Rsp.te
IBn,ldingolcthte SWin3e 5.5                                            13.0              4R86                 20                 3             8,3816.7            337.0            [.723.4                34                  3
2 VetnceeVe.....s                                     13.3              38.3               38.8                74                  2             330.2              933.0            1,203.1L               74                  2
3KMotocycle                                            06                37                 43                 85                  -18.0                             00.3              1,.                  83
4Eqoip.ote                                           I I 7             32.1                3332                                   3             29.3I            1, 290.7           [.381.                 32                  3
2 Misnellsceons                         ~~~~       ~       ~~~~~99.1  65.4   104.3                40                  8            0,43535            1,8808.4          4,374.1                40                  3
6R-c                                                   80                   .                .1                  -                 -             214.0                                 214.9
Sob-ota Op-cdot-      aosac & Rlap                   100.3             173.2              362.7                48                 37            4,402.3           4.209              8,92.                  40                 17
TIscal IlR--ee Cost                                 260.0              173.2              442.1                39                 21            44.                 23.8            1994.9"                 39                 2
TaM  BASELINE COSTS                                1,036 7            I,09t.7           2,133.4                31                800          23,674.3           27,211.0           32,803.3                31                180
Phtyolca Cnn-tg--ie                                   47 3              4220447                                                    4            1,170414453,1.                                              47                  4
Pe-eCotgece                                         129 4              1.5                260.3                302                              1I7.              1036393431                                                    8
lTs] PROJECT COISTS                                1.213 3           1,271,3            2,433.6                31                814          298314.8           30,249.2           39,8133.8      31                1         82
CT*ka PM-s)                                                                                                      6533031141
98              % Tod
Loed             Fseolw              Totd                                                   LAoS              l.a                 T"l                                    a
I NeeCo sto,0 19                                                        0.03               0.24                                                   4468               8.20              3.33                 20                 81
2. Oea0ato00                                                   00         00.~07                                                                  830.30                                1.73                87                  2
3.Fase SOs Denlpset00                                                  000                0.00                                                     .300                                .4
S.i . Ettesg Fees                                    002               0.00               0.02                                                   0.48               9.02              0.30                  4I
Sobeeat CoIA W-ekt                                     0.3               0 I                0.                                                       .7               1.3               8.2                 19                 13
0B VelIos-                                            0.0               02                 0.13                                                   0.49               2.03.29                                356
C. 0.I1--kl                                           0.0      000                         0.00                                                   0.00               0.02               0.02                3
I OMfic                                              000                0.0                003                                                    0.03               8.80               8.7                 9
2.FIeld                                             0.0                003               0.05                                                    0.80               8.83               8.'2292
S. Lsbc,i,iorn                         ~~~~~              ~~~~              ~~~~~~                                                           ~~~~~~~~~0.02  0.107  0.903  .82.32              70                  4
....olaeos00                                                      0.01              0.8002010.16                                                                                                      833
Soheoial Eqoipee-e                                     00                02                 0.2                                                     0.7               4.3                3.0                814                 I
Sh. oe-ce   Loca Teatobg                            0.03                                 0.03"                                                   0.336                                0.33
2.Lb-,Te-e 1,o-al Teasese                           7.300                                                                                         .483 
Sh. SoiTee.. Fare.iget Tsosesg                      001                0.22I.3                                                                   1.33               53                7.24                 73                 14
Sobio-l Traldlse                                       0 I               0.4                0.5                                                     3.5               9.4              3219                 73                 24
F. T-cbdts Ao4.i-t
I. Cost,sc Resarh                                    0 29                                 0.29                                                    7.11                                 7.11                  .13
2Y. Fcogs C-esohsoi                                                     0.20               0.20                                                                      4.94              4.94                80D                  9
S3..L-alCaesllst-                                    0021                                  0. 0 2                                                 0.40.44                                                                       I
SoeTa Telo-ol Asl   ce2                                              0 2               0.                                                      7.8                4.9              12.3                 40                2
OS-rteA-ed Coei  ae 000                                                                  0.100                                                   0.94                                 0.0
To5a Ie- -..ee  Cost,                                0.8                0.9               1.7                                                    89.0              22.9               41.9                33                 79
I.R-caeet C.-i
A. Staff Saldei,.(oeoet                              0 07                                  0.07                                                   8.71.77                                                                       2
0.poede   e t0 01                                                                        001                                                    0.0I.2
C. Opera.to.e. Malstetacc  & Ropok
I.  istdag;Otlie SIraLoteo                          0 01               0.01               0.07                                                   1.3                0.36               1.72                20                  2
S.dd. VltlsV ....l,                                 0.01               0.D4              0.035                                                   0.'33              0.93               1.20                74                  2
.6. S3.Isctyctos                       ~~~~               ~~~~             ~~0 00  0 00  0.06                                        0.02              0.00               0.8                  33 1
4. Eqidpeecot                      0.01              ~~~~~              ~~~~~~~~~                                                       ~~0.03  0.0  0.29  .2  1.      33 9 
S.-MocOoeoo                                        0.1               .00                0.10                                                    246                8.62              4.07                408
6. Rete                                ~~~~001.0021                                                                                                                       0.2         
Sabtotal Operatoe MotetLnste  & tsP                   0.19              0.17               0.36                                                   4.89               4.29               3.08                48                 17,
T-callR,-ese  Cost,                                    03                0.2                0.4                                                    0.7                41                80.9:3                                 28
TIsl BASELINE COSTS                                    I 0               1.1                2.1                                                   23.7               27.2              32.9                 38                10
PhYsleal Ctettgs..tte.                                 0 0               0.0                0.1                                                    1.2                8.0                2.2                47                  4
P4cc CLtsgslo0                                                           0.1                0.3                                                    to0                to                 4o                 38                  3
oTs] PROJECT COSTS                                     8,                1.323                                                                    28,                U83               33,1                 38                182
SUMEAMXS



- 50                                          Annex 2
Page I of I
Bangladesh
Agriculture Research Management Project
Disbursements by Semesters
Bank Fiscal
year and            Disbursements in           Cumulative
Semester                Semester             Disbursements
(US$ million)                       Cumulative %
1997"
December 31, 1997
June 30, 1996                    4.8                      4.8                     9.6
1998
December 31, 1997                4.8                      9.5                     19.1
June 30, 1998                     8.2                     17.8                    35.6
1999
December 31, 1998                 8.2                     26.0                    52.1
June 30, 1999                     5.5                     31.5                    63.2
2000
December 31, 1999                 5.5                    37.1                     74.2
June 30, 2000                     3.6                     40.7                    81.4
2001
December 31, 2000                 3.6                    44.2                     88.6
June 30, 2001                     2.9                     47.1                    94.3
2002
December 31, 2001                  2.9                    50.0                     100.0
Total                   50.0                     50.0                    100.0
"Including up to US$0.5 million in retroactive financing for
eligible expenditures.



- 51 -                                Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
3. Rules and Procedures for The Preparation and
Approval of New Research Projects
1.    The Bangladesh NARS has developed a new system of preparing and approving research
projects, including those to be funded by the contract research scheme, that will be applied under
the project. This attachment reports agreements reached at negotiations on the key steps in the
system; Table 1 of this Annex summarizes the system.
Genesis of New Research Projects
2.     Scientists will define new research projects as regional or national. The former concem a
problem of a given production region (e.g., intensive marine shrimp culture), as opposed to those
(e.g., hatchery management) which are important throughout the country. In both types of
projects, scientists, extension workers, fanners, and others (e.g., NGOs) develop new project ideas,
which are initially vetted for relevance--i.e., is the proposed research problem one that is likely to
produce significant benefits to producers and be within their financial and technical means? New
regional project concepts, including ex-ante evaluation, are vetted by ATC for research relevance.
New national project concepts, including ex-ante evaluation, are vetted by the National Technical
Coordination Committee (NTCC) for research relevance.
Approval of New Research Projects
3.    ARI Research Committee. An ARI Research Committee, consisting of Research
Directors and Research Division Heads and other expertise as may be needed, annually reviews
ongoing and new research projects in light of ATC/NTCC and APRW comments. Proposed new
projects are also reviewed in light of their consistency with the Master Plan(s) of the ARI(s) and
are subject to ex-ante economic analysis as needed. The ARI Research Committee subsequently
consolidates the institution's work program and budget and presents it to the ARI Board of
Govemors and to the BARC Technical Advisory Committees. The BARC Technical Advisory
Committees can delegate their review authority at this stage to the ARI Research Committee if it
chooses.
4.    APRW. An Annual Program Review Workshop (APRW) is held for each ARI when the
research budget for the following year is being prepared. The APRW completes peer reviews of
new research proposals and ongoing research projects. The progress for new regional and national
projects, and of ongoing projects, is recorded in the report of the APRW.  The report of the
APRW will be an annex of the Annual Report of each ARI and of BARC.
5.    BARC Technical Advisory Committees (TACs) which include independent national and
intemational scientists engaged in the NARS (as appropriate), will review quality of new research
proposals and advise on orientation or re-orientation of ongoing research projects (on the basis of



- 52 -                                Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
draft ARI APRWs). The TACs will review both directly funded research projects and contract
research. BARC then approves new projects and revises ongoing projects on the basis of TAC
recommendations.
Role of the ARI Governors
6.     The Board of Governors of each ARI oversees ARI management performance and decides
on annual budgets on the basis of projects reviewed and found acceptable by BARC. The ARI
Governors grant budget authority to research project leaders when the project has been approved.
The Contract Research Scheme
7.     The Contract Research  Scheme provides complementary funds to the ARTs on a
competitive basis. It funds investment and operating costs, excluding scientists' salaries, outside
the core programs of the ARIs.   The scheme gives BARC greater powers of research review,
monitoring and evaluation, and, at a time when other funding is scarce, a degree of authority over
national research. All institutions involved in agricultural research--including, but not limited to
the ARIs--are eligible for grants made under the scheme.
8.     Specific procedures of the Contract Research Scheme--advertising the availability of
grants, written formats for submission of research proposals, technical criteria and procedures for
making awards, financial and technical reporting, disbursement and accounting, and evaluation and
publication of results--would be maintained. All other procedures--genesis of new projects and
evaluation of projects within the ARIs--would be exactly the same as those for other ARI research.
Annual Review Cycle
9.     The Annual Review Cycle will be: (i) presentation of all new research projects to the
APRW by January 31 (para. 4); (ii) transmittal of the results of the APRWs to the TACs by end
February (para. 5); and (iii) approval of new projects and budget authorization by end March
(para. 6).
Attachment D Table 1
Key Steps in Research Proposal Review System
Key Steps                  Estimated Maximnum Time Requirement
1. Genesis of new projects
a. Preparation of proposal                 2 months
b. ATC/NTCC review and concurrence         2 months
2. Review and approval
a. ARI research committee to review proposals   3 months
b. APRW
c. BARC                                    2 months
Total                               9 months



- 53 -                                 Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
Ex-ante economic analysis
10.    Each ARI will carry out an ex-ante economic analysis of its core research programs at the
time of preparation of its Master Plan. The essentials of the method of analysis are:
(a)    analysis at the level of the commodity group (as shown in Table 2 for each ARI)
for all research projects affecting output of those commodities where a separate
economic analysis can reasonably be applied.  For example, research on
transplanted aman rice is expected to be conducted at several sites in Bangladesh.
Each site should have a separate analysis, if the production conditions and
expected effect of research at each site warrant it;
(b)    use of economic prices for internationally traded goods. Economic prices will be
calculated as the sum of world prices plus all transport and handling costs to the
point of production for imported goods, and as the remainder of world prices
minus all transport and handling costs to the point of production for exported
goods. World prices will be the average prices, as shown in the World Bank's
Commodity Price Projections (for those goods for which such projections are
made), expressed in US dollars and converted to Bangladeshi Taka at the
prevailing market exchange rate.
(c)    use of domestic market producer prices for goods that are not normally traded
internationally;
(d)    use of economic prices for internationally traded additional inputs, adjusted for
transport and handling costs as in para. IO(b) for output prices.
(e)    use of domestic market prices for primary factors of production, such as labor,
land, capital, where capital includes irrigation.
(f)    use of incremental costs of research programs on the commodity groups;
(g)    use of the methods and equations shown in Annex 4 of the Staff Appraisal Report
of the Bangladesh - Agricultural Research Management Project (Report 14467-
BD of the World Bank), adjusted for new information on research costs, expected
productivity increments, elasticities of supply and demand, and expected profile of
producer adoption over time as it becomes available; and
(h)    reporting of the results of the ex-ante economic analysis in a compatible format
with that for the results in Annex 4 of the Staff Appraisal Report of the
Bangladesh - Agricultural Research Management Project (Report 14467-BD of
the World Bank).
11.    Ex-ante economic analysis will also be carried out for new research projects that begin
outside the framework of the agreed Master Plan of each ART.



-5                                  Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
Attachment D Table 2
Commodity Groups for Ex-Ante Economic Analysis
ARI                Commodity Group
BRRI                Transplanted Aman
BRRI               Boro & Transplanted Aus
BRRI               Broadcast Aus
BRRI               Broadcast Aman
FRI                Fresh Water Fish
FRI                Brackish Fish
FRI                Riverine Fish
FRI                Marine Fish
BLRI               Eggs
BLRI               Poultry
BLRI               Sheep & Goat
BLRI               Milk
BLRI               Cattle
BFRI               Timber
BFRI               Bamboo
BJRI               Jute
SRI                Sugarcane
BARI               Potato
BARI               Sweet Potato
BARI               Wheat
BARI               Banana
BARI               Mustard
BARI               Lentil
BARI               Aroids
BARI               Brinjal
BARI               Tomato
BARI               Onion
BARI               Chili
BARI               Turmneric
BARI               Radish
BARI               Groundnut
BARI               Gram
BARI               Cucurbits
BARI               Maize
BARI               Garlic



- 55 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 7
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
4. EX-ANTE ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECTS
1.    This Annex presents an ex-ante economic analysis of agricultural research projects in Bangladesh and
does sensitivity analysis with respect to output prices, adoption lags, and probability of success of the research
projects under consideration.  The analysis uses the economic surplus approach, which is now a standard
technique for estimating the costs and benefits of agncultural research.!   A detailed analysis regarding
profitability of agricultural research projects for 57 commodities is described in Norton (1992).2
A. Returns to Agricultural Research
2.     The economic surplus model is based on the calculation of the net present value of net benefits (NPVB) to
research spending. Let C, denote the cost of a research project regarding a commodity in year t and R, denote the
change in total economic surplus as a result of the research project. NPVB is then given by:
NPVB =    =(Rt - C,)( + r )-t.   (1)
r is the discount rate and n is the period up to which the returns to the project are realized. The NPVB permits a
ranking of projects of different size.
3.     The economic rate of return (ERR) is the discount rate that results in a zero NPVB. It is calculated as:
0 =   t=Y(R,1-CC)(1+ERR)-t.        (2)
ERR is useful to compare alternative investments but does not take into account the project size, as NPVB does.
Data
4.     The data were obtained from a survey of knowledgeable scientists and administrators in Bangladesh. The
costs were defined in the survey as those needed to execute research necessary to achieve a given feasible
increment in commodity yield. They refer to total expenditures, investment and recurrent, for the research project.
Revenues (or change in economic surplus) depends on the specific market structure. For jute, where Bangladesh's
export share to total world trade is 35 percent, excess supply shifts affect world price and hence world demand.
For non-traded commodities (e.g., livestock products and some vegetables), supply shifts will also affect domestic
I     Alston, J.A., G.W. Norton, and P.G. Pardey. Science under Scarcity: Principles and Practicefor Agricultural
Research Evaluation andResearch Setting. New York: Cornell University Press, 1995.
2 Norton, G. Analysis of Agricultural Research Priorities in Bangladesh." BangladeshAgriculturalResearch
Council and International Servicefor NationalAgricultural Research, June 1992.



- 56 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 7
price and hence domestic demand. For a traded commodity with a small share in the world market (e.g., rice), a
horizontal demand schedule is a convenient assumption ("small open economy" setting). A detailed analysis of
the "small open economy" setting (which is the case with most of the commodities under consideration) is offered
in the next section.
Calculation of Research Benefits
5.    Let P be the relevant domestic producer price of the commodity. For traded goods, it is the world price
plus (CIF) or minus (FOB) marketing and transportation costs; it is an FOB or CIF equivalent depending on
whether Bangladesh is usually an importer or an exporter. For non-traded goods, P is the average domestic
market price. With supply schedule SO, the initial equilibrium quantity is Qo, giving a total value of production
PQO (Figure 1). After research findings are adopted by producers, supply shifts from So to Si, thus producing Q,
(or adding H, to the existing output Qo).  In a small open economy, price remains constant at P. Hence, the
change in revenue due to research in the first period is the sum of the rectangular area K,QO plus the triangular
area 0.5K,H,, where K, denotes the absolute vertical shift in the supply schedule. Thus, R, can be written as:
R, = KIQO + O.SK,TH.  (3)
The calculation of R, requires quantification of K, and H, in terms of known parameters.
6.    Invoking the definition of supply elasticity, s = (AQ/AP)(P/Q), evaluating E at Qo and P, and rearranging
terms, results in (for period t):
Kt = (P/Qo)(Ht/E)-    (4)
Defining the expected proportionate output change due to research as ht = H/Qo, and solving for H, gives:
Ht = ht QO. (5)
Substituting (5) into (4) and (3), and subsequently (4) into (3) results in:
Rt = PQ0(ht/e)(J+0.Sh,),         (6)
which is the change in economic surplus due to research in period t.



- 57 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 7
FIGURE 1: RETURNS TO RESEARCH
(SMALL OPEN ECONOMY)
Price A                                     So
_ ~~~~~-                              i,
K1
l                Quantity
7.    For many commodities there is an expected change in output that is not due to research.  It is calculated
as Qt = Qo(1 +sf, where s denotes the trend growth parameter.  The exogenous output growth is the sum of the
growth rates of yield and area.  It either takes the value of zero (no growth) or different from zero (growth
expressed as an annual percentage change, which may be negative if the crop area is expected to decline). Then,
the change in total economic surplus is given by:
R, = PQn(1+s)'(h,/ f )(J+0.5h,.           (7)
8.    It is evident from (7) that supply elasticity plays an important role in the calculation of net returns. For
example, the use of a very small elasticity may erroneously inflate the benefits and give misleading results
regarding research priorities.  To avoid that error, we use  = 1 for the "small open economy" commodities.
9.     The proportionate output change, h,, is a function of the following three factors:
(a)   Probability of research success, p.  This reflects the scientists' degree of certainty of obtaining the
projected yield. It varied between 60 and 85 percent in the base data.
(b)   Adoption rate, d,. This refers to the percentage of crop growers that will adopt the research
results.   With a few exceptions the adoption rate varies between 20 and 50 percent; the time
needed to attain the peak rate varies between three and five years.
(c)   Proportional change in yield, 4v.  This refers to a defined and maintained yield increase, given
that research is successfui.  It usually ranges between 10 and 40 percent above the average yield
estimated at the time the data were collected.



- 58 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 7
10.   Assuming independence amongp, dt, and Ay, the proportionate output change due to research is given by:
hi = Pdt Ay, (8)
Inserting (8) into (7) and the resulting expression into (1) and (2) gives the NPVB and ERR, which are functions
of measurable parameters.
A Numerical Exposition
11.    Data regarding prices and quantities refer to the average values of 1985/86 to 1989 /1990 period. Data
for probability of research success, adoption rate, expected proportional change in yield, and intensification (i.e.,
the parameters determining the expected increase in output) were collected from a survey over a period of three
months interviewing scientists, economists, and extension workers of the related research institutions.
Information on elasticities were collected from the economists of the respective institutions.
12.   To illustrate the calculation of the NPVB of a research project, consider the example of Boro rice. Costs
and revenues are calculated as follows:
(a)   Costs, C,: It is assumed that an additional Tk 132 million is spent on research in the first year
Tk 44 million in the second and third years, and Tk 11 million each year thereafter3.  Using a
discount rate of 12 percent (i.e., r = 0.12) gives a discounted present value of research costs of Tk
240 million. Multiplying that value by a marginal cost of public funds (MCPF) of 1.75 gives a
value of Tk420 million (column 3, Table A.4.1).
(b)   Revenues, R,: The probability of success was estimated to be 85 percent (i.e., p = 0.85). The
adoption rate is zero in the first year, increases by 5 percent in the two subsequent years and
remains constant at 20 percent in the years thereafter (i.e., d] = 0, d2 = 0.05, d3 = 0.10, and d4 =
0.20 for t > 4). The research will result in a 7.5 percent pernanent change in yield (i.e., Ay =
0.075). Combining these parameters as in (8) gives the following profile for h,: h, = 0 (reflecting
the zero rate of adoption in the first year), h2 = 0.0032, h3 = 0.0064, h4 = 0.0128, and remaining
constant thereafter. Notice, however, that output still increases at the rate of one percent annually
thereafter (s = 0.01), resulting from gains in output not due to research. The elasticity of supply is
one (i.e., c = 1). Initial quantity and output price are: Qo = 7,084 thousand mt and P = 7,820
Tk/mt; the value of P is the projected real intemational price of rice in US dollars, converted to rice
at a milling rate of 0.65 and converted to Taka at the prevailing exchange rate. With a rate of
discount of 12 percent and a life-span of the research of 20 years (i.e., n = 20), the NPVB is
Tk3,901 million (column 4, Table A.4.1) and the ERR is 119.2% % (column 5, Table A.4.1).
Results and Sensitivity Analysis
13.   Tables A.4.1 and A.4.2 report results for 35 commodities that contribute roughly 95 percent of
agricultural GDP. The commodities in Table A.4.1 are the responsibility of BRRI, FRI, BLRI, BFRI, BJRI, and
SRI, while the commodities in Table A.4.2 are the responsibility of BARI. The base case NPVs are mainly
positive at the discount rate of 12%. The ERRs range from 6% (maize, a very minor crop) to 11-12% (riverine
3This cost figure does not include the economic costs caused by taxation to raise the funds needed to finance the research.



- 59 -
Annex 4
Page 5 of 7
and marine fisheries and jute) to 119% (boro rice) to even higher values for some minor spice crops. With the
exception of maize, the ERR to research on BARI crops is always greater than 20%. The NPVB of research
across all ARIs is US$1,090.5 million and the ERR of total research spending is 53.4 % (Table A.4.3).
14.   Ex-ante estimates of retums to research are notoriously sensitive to the initial assumptions on which the
calculations are based. Three key parameters in the estimates are the average price of the good, the probability
of research success and the time needed for farner adoption of the new technology. To examine the sensitivity of
the results to mean price, the probability of success, and adoption time we ran three additional simulations.
(a)    The NPVB of benefits at lower average prices.  The 1985/86 to 1989/90 average price was
used in the base scenario. In a first sensitivity analysis, the NPVs were recalculated at 75% of
that average price (Table A.4.1, "25 % lower base price"). At the base price minus 25%, all
NPVs remain positive except that of maize in BARI, and jute, riverine fisheries, and marine
fisheries in the other ARls.
(b)    Probability of Research Success Causing Zero NPVB.  The second simulation involved
calculation of the probability of success under the assumption that the NPVB of the research
project is zero.  Because of the independence assumption regarding the factors determining the
proportional cost reduction term h,, this exercise applies similarly to yield change and the rate of
adoption.   Results are reported in Table A.4.1 and Table A.4.2.  For Boro rice a probability
of failure of 0.92 is required to drive the base NPVB to zero. That is, any probability of success
lower than 0.08 (i.e., 1-0.92) makes the research project unprofitable. In 18 of 35 commodities,
the probabilities of success would have to be less than or equal to 0.1 to make research on the
commodity unprofitable. Only in maize (probability of success of 1.17) and jute (0.94) are the
success probabilities much higher4.
(c)    NPVB if adoption and generation of research results is slow. A significant factor affecting the
returns to agricultural research is the time elapsed from the beginning of the research to the
moment when farmers have adopted the new technology.  Delays in project implementation--
caused, for example, by the unavailability of recurrent cost funding after the initial fixed
investments have been made--can cause this time to grow and hence delay the availability of
benefits from research.  The base model includes an adoption delay and, in the sensitivity
analysis, we have extended that delay further.  This was done by reducing the numbers of
farmers adopting new technologies in each commodity annually by 25%. This is shown as the
"25% longer adoption time in Tables A.4.1 and A.4.2. While the estimated NPVBs with
extended delays in project implementation are lower than without, they remain highly positive.
15.   For the commodities under the responsibility of BARI (Table A.4.2), the measures give different priority
rankings. Potato, sweet potato, and wheat receive the highest priority according to the Base NPVB. According
to the ERR criterion, while sweet potato is ranked first, onion, chili, and turmeric are the ones that follow.
16.   Table A.4.3 reports aggregate costs and benefits for all seven research institutes involved in the lending
operation. The most profitable research investments are at BRRI, BARI and BLRI.
4Note that it follows from equation (7) that the switching values of prices and adoption time would be exactly the same as those for the
probability of research success.



- 60 -
Annex 4
Page 6 of 7
Table A.4.1: Ex-Ante Economic Analysis of Agricultural Research
(BRRI, FRI, BLRI, BFRI, BJRI, and SRI)
Institute Commodity                    NPV of      Base Case    ERR    Success               25 %    25% longer
Base Cost   NPVB (Tk                 Prob.   @         lower    adoption
(Tk         million)              which              Base        time
million)                            NPVB=o            Price-     (NPVB)
(NPVB)
[1J          [2]                             [3]           141       151           16]          [7]              [81
BRRI         T. Amnan                          501        14,193   118.0%          0.03         10,519          11,964
BRRI         Boro & T. Aus                    420         3,901   119.2%          0.08          2,821            3,483
BRRI         B. Aus                           296           940   38.1%           0.20            631             774
BRRI         B. Ankarn                        296           444   30.6%           0.34            259             343
FRI          Frcsh W. Fish                    504         8,910   97.3%           0.03          6,556           7,489
FRI          BrackishFish                     336           211   17.39/o         0.3R             74              68
FRI          Riverine Fish                    504           (17)  11.4%           0.62          (139)            (7S)
FRI          Marine Fish                      336             3   12.1%           0.59           (82)            (41)
BLRI         Eggs #                            105        1,377   51.8%           0.04          1,006           1,240
BLRI         Poultry#                         105         1,395   51.2%           0.05          1,020           1,220
BLRI         Sheep & Goat#                    168         1,420   41.3%           0.07          1,023           1,043
BLRI         Milk                             140           826   37.6%           0.08           585              582
BLRI         Cattle                           112           483   33-7%           0.10           334              333
BFRI         Timber                           210           431   35.8%           0.20           431              345
BFRI         Banboo                           140           162   26.6%           0.33             86             105
BJRI         Julte                           1,670          (73)  11.1%           0.94          (472)           (480)
SRI          Sugarcane                        501         1,487   35.5%           0.21           990            1,194
NOTES The symbol (5) refers to closed economy while C) refers to large exporter (jute. only).   NPV of costs and NPVB are in
nillion Tk.



- 61 -
Annex 4
Page 7 of 7
Table A.4.2: Ex-Ante Economic Analysis of Agricultural Research (BARI)
Commodity          Base Cost  Base          ERR    Probability        25  %   lower  25 %  longer
(NPV)    NPVB                   of (NPVB=O)   Base Price         Adoption
(NPVBJ          time
(NPVB)
[1]                [21             131      [41            C31             1f,!             171
Potato #              151            3,122 83%              4.04            2,3i,4                2,762
Sweet Potato #        62               584 116%             0.09             422                  509
Wheat                325               913 32%              C.21             913                  599
Banana                51               477 49%              0 07             477                  405
Mustard              134              368 42%               0.22             304                  296
Lentil                76               265 42%              U. 20            265                  2i1
Amoids#               48               255 45%              0.11             7''                  237
Brinjal #             33               257 65%              0.09             185                  242
I'omato#              33              309 51%              0.07             224                  294
Onion                 10               195 122%            UtL3              i';                   165
Chili                 DI               2i8 144%             0.03             AlI2                  187
Tunnenc               10               205 129%             6.03             20S                  151
Radish #              33               214 50% 9010                          152                  205
Groundnut#            76               110 27%              O.J2              63                   90
Gram                  76                47 20%              (1.56             47                   27
Cucurbits #           33               102 32%              0.20             6si                    92
Maize                134               (53) 6%              1 17              S33                 (57)
Garlic                10                51 51%              0.09              51                   36
NOTES: See Table A4. 1
Table A.4.3: Research Costs and Beszfits
ART                  NPV of Projected Costs                           NPVB                        ERR
(million Tk)             (million S)        Imilliorn Tk)         (million S)   (%)
BRRI                   1,513              $ 37.73               19,478            $485.74          90.7%
FRI                   1,680              $ 41.89                9,107            S227.11          53.2%
BLRI                    630              S 15.70                5,501            5137.18          43.5%
BFRI                    350              $  8.72                  593            S 14.78          32.3%
BJRI                  1,670              5 41.66                  S,73)          S (1.82)         11.1%
SRI                     501              S 12.50                1,487            S 37.09          35.5%
BARI                  1,305              $ 32.53                7,637            S 1I0.45         50.6%
Total                7,468                S 190.7              43,730            S 1,1i90.5        53.4%
NOTES: llhe projected costs and NPVBs are the sums of the individual cumrnrnoditi.s of 7a17h institute; e.g., BRRI costs are:
1,513 = (501 + 420 + 296 + 296); the BRRJ. NPVBs are: 19,478 = 14,193 + 3,901 + 940 + 4144  For BJRI and SRI, costs and
M'VBs are the same as in Table A.4.1 (these institutes have only one colulOdit.v'i.  1'he exchar.ge:sate !S 40.1 Tk/S.



Ainex 5
- 62 -                                  Page 1. of 6
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
5. Implementation Schedule and Impact Indicators
1.     This Annex first outlines the responsibilities of the project executing agencies. It then states the
implementation schedule, implementation indicators, and impact indicators. Tabic AS.1 describes the
objectives, institutions, and responsibilities of each component. Table A.5.2 states the project's
implementation indicators. Table A.5.3 describes the project's impact indicators.
Table A.5.1
Objectives, Institutions and Responsibilities
By Component
OBJECTIVES                 INSTITUTIONS   |            RESPONSIBILITIES
Research Organization and Management Component                                 ._
Improve research organization and    BARC               1. Guide development of national
management                                              agricultural research system by
coordinating work in varioous ARIs
2. Implement contract research by
accepting proposals, coordinating review
of proposals, allocating grants, and
evaluating results   __        _
3. Contract and manage consultants in
research management, supervising
architect, financial mantagement, and
scientific areas
4. Implement system of ex-ante research
project evaluation
5. Implement system of research
preparation guidelines
6. Manage APRWs across ARs
7. Complete action plani to eliminate
duplication across ARTs
8. Contract study of options to improvc
private financiof researc     _
9. Update ex-ante economic analysis of
_research projects
10. Contract sholt-term Lechnjcal
assistance     _____           _____
Train scientific and technical staff                    1. 1. Identify qualified candidates for
graduate and short4-er m trminng and
manage their courses in collaboration with
ARIs
Priority Research Component
Complete research on priority topics   ARIs           [1. Complete M.aster Plans, including
identification of p1ority xesearch,rects
2. Begin work on core    hZo qsts
3. Contract short-termi leclical assistance



Annex 5
- 63 -                                 Page 2 of 6
OBJECTIVES                 INSTITUTIONS                RESPONSIBILITIES
Complete joint research initiatives                     1. Develop proposals across ARIs, other
national institutions (e.g. Universities) and
with BARC
2. Execute research based on agreed
________________       _ ________                       proposals
Train scientific and technical staff                    1. Identify qualified candidates for
graduate and short-term training and
manage their courses in collaboration with
_____        _______     _ ____________  BARC
Build and rehabilitate infrastnicture   ARIs            1. Improve infrastructure by completing
______________  ____         _._______________  .new and rehabilitated civil works
2. Complete laboratory equipment action
_____ ___      _____          __ ________________  plans
Participato  Farming Systems Research Component
Complete participatory FSR so as to   BARC              1. Appoint leader of NCFSRD unit
better identify farmer rescarch needs
and constraints to successful research
and extension
BARC and ARIs        2. Appoint qualified leaders for FSR in
=   _. ._  _ _  _,                      BJRI, FRI, BLRI, and BFRI
BARC, ARIs. DAB,   3. Complete action plan to use
DOF                  participatory FSR methods
4. Define 15 key sites for FSR
.________   _collaboration among BARC and the ARIs
I________ ______             _                             ._._  5. Contract short-term technical assistance
I ___________       ... ___                            6. Complete FSR studies at 15 key sites
7. Analyze results from 15 sites and use
them to generate technology
recommendations for extension workers
farmers and research priority
! _ ________                                         recommendations for scientists
_te vsion____ 
Monitor project implementation and   IDA and executing    1. Carry out project launch workshop
perfomance and decide on needed    agencies
corrcctive measures        _
_______  _____ ______       _____________2. Complete timely supervisions
3. Complete annual review of progress
with project and make funding decisions
l_______________   _______                               for following year based on that review
4. Recruit and manage local consultants
___________   _______                       for supervision
5. Complete midterm review by September
_______________ _______ ______  30,   1998



Annex 5
-  64' -                                       Page 3of 6
Table .5.2
Schedule of Implementation Indicators
AGENCY/VARIABLE             ~~~~~UNITS    1996  1i997J  1998  11999    2000fTOA
NARS.
AgrS4_pjqj  d               il million        428.1   [791J 560.7    I389.                        32.A          2485.6
Investment cost                   I.o budg~et          84           86     1    79I    61                                  78
-------    ~- F                 of-budgjt    . ..   6 --- -  14--    ------       i  3 2--- 3-9- --- --              2- -
DARC- Re-s-e a-r-ch O6rga-niz-ation and Managemnent          -
Agreed cornyonent bud&et -  'fk million __ __ 112.6   [135.6           1544    J  103.6        J    83.3    f    589.4~~~~~~'k miliml     1) 26   13
Investm-ent cost                    %o  ugt            0             994                      8        1     89
Recurrent cost                                           01                     -             2              2
Mainconsultancies\&    Months             ~36          36          36                                        108
Short-tenm trainin                   Months              80          09     TN i              57              -3471
Contract Research Proposais   - Number              1Cannot be estimated ex-ante because average contract amount is unknown
ewd component budg                  I   iilin-48 1                    18        6.4          4.              4            285.
Investment cost                     %  of'bu86ge.63                                                         63             76
Recurrent -cost ----------% o-fbudget_    . 22 [---- 14 ------24 -----3-7----                               37-       -- 24 --
Civil works                          % of total    I     65     110                        1                               100
Technical Assistance                MKo-n this            661                      666                                      30
GaduaenTailg  ....... Person-vears ji                                      i    15           15                      --5-- 60---
SWo_ie-Tn`ni r-aining                Months       J      18           1 ] -  [98,918                                  ~     9
-B R R I-- - - - - - - - --  - - - - -- -- -  -  - -
1Ik- million       76.0         725         67.3         55.5           5.
Investment cost                     %of budge          74           7i          66           57             57             66
--- - - - -- - -- --- -- --- --- - - --- - j                                               5 81--- - - - - - - -- - - -32-- - - - - - - -  -9-- -- - - - 4- - -
Rcurrent cost                     -%of budgetj    26              30           34          4343                          3
Ci v-il  -w  o r-k-s -- - - - - - - - - - -     % o f t o t-aI- -- - -  5 9-- - -- - -78  100 --i--o- - -  - ---- - - - --- - - - - -[ - - - - -
Tecnial  ssstance                Mionths]                         155iSF                                                6
teTranung        Years              ~~ ~        ~~13 1 3      1313                       13             655
Short-Term Trai nin                  Months              13L1                                                 3      [      6
BJRI-
4g Rec  pcnnent budget          Tkimillion    I     12.0]       19.5         14.9         896.0                       613
-investment cost ----------   -fbugt--- 100    ]    97                       --- 96-          92         --- 88      F      96
Recurrent cost                  ---A%ofhbu4et                 3        _         -8                         12..  [..4
Civil works                         % of total    [No civil works in BJRJ
-Technical-Assistan-ce --------Months ------f ...                                  3        ---15---
Graduate Trainn                      Ye-ars3                                ,      33                          -
Short-Terminraining                  Months               S       -- 8                    [    88                     [     40
SRII
AjedCOMPOnent budget        -I6 nullion       j                  163--- 1I.             i fI  ---  --- 7.3 ------63-.0--
Investment cost                     %o   uet             2     I    821         80           70        j     3      F      76
Recurrent- co-st ----------- %o, buge ....18...-- s                              20      [30           1 47         L      24
Technical Assistance               3Months           No Techntical assistance in SRI
Grd ateTaning                [Years               6-     1-2                                                  J      20
Short-Term   T aining       -        Mon.....    ! q ths  ---------  -- ---- ------- --J -------     I------- 1-6---
FRI
A-4 e  compponent budget-.....           minllion        81.3- ]-- 187.2- [    62.6 --        47.1           3.            1.
Investment cost                   I%fudc               85    I       7     I    67       143         F    29              74
-c -   ----- ------ -----15                  ---1-3  - --   33          5  i     J     12
Civil works                       _ _  of total          57   ....   . .1 0 _i  --- -: - -  - -- - --    - - --- --   ---  10-0- - -
Techn-ic-a-l A-ss-i-sta-n-ce ------ -    Mns-    -    ---o 35J4 3087
Graduat           rears~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-------  ------ --------                           -----
Short-Term Tra          -V9                                                                    5       - 
BFRI-
~e    ompnet bdgt ......    nll ion  A..       -51       78.         01.4j  63.OJ               42.8         3059-------  ------
Investment cost                   i%o nbudget 1 100            'I   996                 1---97-------95-------96---
Recurrent cost                    I %,nrbudgct           -    ;      3    I      4            3-                           4
Ciil  -wo-r-ks ----------  J0/-, or', Ida              S          32           72          94O                   K.



- 65 -                                                 Annex 5
Page 4 of 6
AGENCY/VARIABLE                           UNITS    1996  - 1997  [ 1998                             1999  | 2000  [TOTAL
Technical Assistance---   Months2                                    9            7             3              3--  [---    24
Graduate T,rain,,,,n,,,       ,         ,Y,ear,s, ,          ,,,, ,, 6     8            6            4   F ,               [   24
-ortT,elm,T,          n      ,        Months                8             8            8            8       L      8             40
A       ,ee ,-,n on ntmbiget    -      Tkrillion            43.3        122.6          47.1         30.6           20.9          264.5
Investment cost                       % ofbudget           95           95           86           92              64             89
, ,Recurrentcost                     , % of budget          5            5           14             8             36             1 1
Civil-wor         --s                   %-of total           5           91           98           100            100            100
.-Technical Assistance                 Months               12           18 ---         7            7              4             48
Graduate Traiinn                       Years                 -              -           1            -               -              1
Short-Term Training                    Months               29           57           57            45             42            230
,F,SR Sites darted                     Number                7            5             3               -            -            15
Master Plans completed                 Number
A.T                                                         1 . .                      .       .             - -          - ------------ i]- - - -    -  --  1
,                                                              1BR, ,R,I  ,  i  -                       ----- -    - -1--------------- - --
SRTI           1-------------------------- I-----------------                                        -------i--                  1
-       ~~~~    ----    ---i------    ' -                  -       -                   i 
T mI                                                          I              -                                           --  -       1  --
BARI                                                          I              -            -             -                           I 1
Iy d  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -   -- -- -- -- -- - 1-   - - - ---------1
Laboratory equipment                   Number
AR.............                       1------------- ------i---- -------             - -              -             --            1
B E i   -- - - - - - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  -         - - - -  - - --   -- - - -  --   -- - - - -  - - - - - - - -  ---   ---  -
......... - ------ --- ----- - --- -i- --- ----- -- -- -- - --- -- ---- -- - ---  - -- - --- - -- - - --- -- -- - -- -i----- -
BJRI                             1--------------           ---   -----   -                   --------              ------- -i
1         ~~~-   -      - - - : --    - - - -       - -- -- --  -
\a Main ocasultancies are in research munagenient financial management anda supervision of civil worka.



Annex S
-  66 -                                   Page S of 6
Table AS.3
------Im----------------------------------------- pact Indicators
UNITS           LEVEL OF    PROGRESS TO MID-  PROGRESS TO
MEASUREMENT   TERM REVIEW    DECEMBER 2001
-~~~~~~~~(SEPTEMBER 1998)
_~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   -                                  -   -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -   - -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - __ - _ - __      _      __      _      __      _      __-__--__-__--_ _-__--__-__--_--__ --_ --__ --_ --__ -
Wheat and other cultivars              Number             Division
released
% of wheat and other cultivars                            Division
area with BARI materials
% yield change for released               %               Division
cultivars
Extension recommendations              Number              Division
P!a _rs Rublished                      Number              Institute
URT
Rice varieties released for aus,       Number              Division
aman, bowo
% of rice area with BRR  varieties        %                Division
for aus, aman, bow
% yield change for materials              %               Division
released in aus, aman, boro
Extension recommendations              Number              Division
Papers published                       Number              Institute
...    .  .    ..  b  ~ ~~. ........     ..... .... .. .
Cane varieties released                Number             Division
Division
Extension recommendations              Number              Division
?Paperss!ubfished                      Number              Institute
~. . 7 .   7. .   .   . .  . .  . . . . . . . .  . . . ...._____________________________________________                                             
Cane varieties released                Number             Division
fcanr  e wara ter h%SYieldivision
varieties
-hnyield_ change. %                                       Division
Extension recommendations              Number             Division
Papers published                       Number              Institute
Productivity measures in p4rincipal        systems
Freshwater                            %   ilytm/nai
syvetene               r    Yield          System /main
Baksh                              % Yield         System /main
cha~nge------- species
-M      ------------------- % Yield                   System /man
Extension recommendations              Number              System
taPsr! pe Atshed                       Number              Institute
PB- qAt                                                                                         - -- -- - -- -------------
Produtivit measres iyprinipal E eiswithin ---s      ---------------------------------------
Hmestead systems                                     Sytmsecies L
Timber_systems .....................System! ispecie
Extension recommendations              Number              Sse
LPaperspUMNiShed ------------Number                        Institute 



Annex 5
- 67 -                                    Page 6 of 6
UNITS         LEVEL OF    PROGRESS TO MID-  PROGRESS TO
MEASUREMENT   TERM REVIEW    DECEMBER 2001
BUtt          I             I                     ~~~~~~~~~(SEPflMBER 1998)
.~~~~~~~- - -- - --- - -- - -           -- - -- --- -- - -- -. ~ P  E  B  R  1 ?S    ....... .... ... .. . ...
Productivity mesures injprincipal species and systems                                     .
Smalholder Dairy 
Meat                                        .      System
Smallholder poultry                                 System                                .
Paierspublished                j  Number            System
Number           Institute



- 68 -                                Annex 6
Page I of 7
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
6. The Policy Environment and Institutional Issues
I. The Policy Environment
I.    The policy environment has changed greatly in most Asian nations in recent years, and in
most cases for the better in so far as opportunities for technological advance are concerned. Some
of the reforms relating to market liberalization have yet to be fully played out, but there has been
laudable progress in many cases, including Bangladesh. Distortions relative to world prices are
now relatively minor for most inputs important to Bangladesh agriculture and for most farm
products.
2.     Further reforms can be expected through growing government commitment, through
assistance past and present provided by some bilateral donors such as USAID, and the on-going
activities under the Agricultural Services Support Project of IDA and GOB. These will include
development of stronger protection of intellectual property, further privatization of the seed
industry and gradual diminution of government (largely through BADC) involvement in marketing
of agricultural inputs and products. Enhanced IPRs will facilitate local design and manufacture of
agricultural equipment and machines, local R&D on veterinary pharmaceuticals and vaccines,
and crop improvement for specialty crops such as vegetables, fruits, cotton and spices and
medicinal plants, where there is already considerable private activity in some cases, especially for
hybrids. Such work will hopefully include private-sector development of hybrid rice. Several
mechanisms to foster the development of private-sector support to research are proposed in this
Project.
3.     The key aspects of the policy environment concerning agricultural research rest in what
might be depicted as the attitudes of GOB towards agricultural technology development. These
attitudes have two broad components, namely private and public.
4.     Private-sector research. There has been some progress in this field in Bangladesh, but
many opportunities lie neglected. In some cases the major impediment seems to be the dominance
of public involvement, such as in jute processing, and the consequent inertia for innovation and
new-product development. Regulatory intrusions in sugar processing, with their consequent
distortions of incentives, provide similar obstacles in that industry. Notwithstanding the population
of greater than 115 million, Bangladesh is a small market for agricultural inputs, which doubtless
discourages local R&D activities by transnational corporations, and leads to direct importation of
technologies that seem more or less appropriate locally. The effective market size is set by the
dominance of the small-scale farmers in the sector, and their limited involvement in other than
subsistence agriculture. Private-sector initiatives , to the extent that they are successful will thus
be of most value to the commercial farm and processing sectors.



- 69 -                                  Annex 6
Page 2 of 7
5.     Public-sector research. The structure of agriculture in Bangladesh, together with the
public-good nature of much research of relevance to improving its productivity, means that the
public sector will be obliged to play the major role in overall R&D. This has long been recognized
by GOB, as reflected in the creation of the NARS as it is today. The key question is: Does the
recognition go far enough? The short answer seems to be: No. The organizational and incentive
issues discussed below and throughout this SAR are ample testimony to the fact that the
government has not seen fit to address seriously the productivity of the system, its morale, its
continuing attrition of expensively trained senior scientific staff, and thus its tragically reduced
contribution to national development. If one of BARC's primary purposes was to have convinced
policy-makers in Bangladesh of the real value of a productive NARS, it seems to have failed.
Maybe the task is impossible, but the intention in this Project is to tackle the central managerial
impediments to efficiency.
11. Organizational Problems
6.     Several organizational themes are taken up: centralization, financial administration,
priority-setting implementation, and doing a better job with key clients.
7.     Centralization.  The trend in Asia over the past three decades has been for greater
centralization of research through various institutional arrangements, especially the formation of an
"apex" agricultural research council to oversee a system of semi-autonomous national research
organizations, and featuring the establishment of national coordinated programs.
8.     The major purposes of the apex research organizations have been several-fold:
(a)    To develop national research strategies and plans for the research system or
particular components of it.
(b)    To provide visibility and intended political protection to research, and to help link
research to broader agricultural policy discussions.
(c)    To coordinate external linkages, especially with donors, and also with the private
sector.
(d)    To focus and coordinate research across research institutions.
(e)    To develop quality standards for human-resource development and support,
external research reviews, etc.
9.     In some cases, apex organizations have been charged with research planning and
coordination, without controls over funds that are sufficient to enable effective coordination.
Bangladesh, through its creation of BARC, has done well on (a), (b) and (c) at various times since
its creation. Achievements under (d) have been less impressive, in part because of limitations on
the scope of the institutions directly under its wing, and the related lack of direct control over
funding that derives from ministries other than BARC's own. For a different set of reasons,
progress on (e) has also been modest to date.



- 70 -                                  Annex 6
Page 3 of 7
10.   It is not unknown for an apex organization for whatever reason-bureaucratic power
plays, changing leadership personalities, undermining by donors-not to sustain comprehensive
and effective apex powers and responsibilities. Bangladesh is a case in point. Such powers must,
in an important sense, be earned through generated respect and then protected under cogent
legislation by the relevant ministries. When such conditions do not pertain, conceptual re-design is
indicated, as is the case in mid-1995.  Since BARC is being accorded central oversight
responsibilities in the Project, it is vital to the success of the Project that it retain/regain/acquire, as
may be the case, the ability to deliver the several central services of: overall strategic planning;
intellectual underpinning of and facilitation of the implementation of priority setting generally in
Bangladesh agricultural research and specifically in the ARIs under its mandated responsibility.
11.    One rationale for centralization of research in national coordinated programs is the
potential for economies of size in research. Several factors may lead to such economies of size.
These include: (a) Increasing marginal returns- especially at early stages of an investment
program; (b) Fixed costs of research- most research programs require certain minimum
establishment costs in the form of research stations, laboratories and equipment, library resources
and administrative overheads; (c) Specialization of scientific expertise and equipment; (d) Team
interaction-for some types of research problems, researchers working in a team are more
productive than the sum of individual researchers working alone. Other factors tend to work in the
opposite direction, leading to a tendency for diseconomies of size (especially) and sometimes also
scope. The end result is then an empirical matter of which forces predominate. Just where the
Bangladesh ARIs fall in this regard at the present is an excellent empirical question, but anecdotal
evidence on the degree of central control and influence being imposed on even the adaptive research
efforts would suggest that centralization per se within the institutes may have gone rather too far
already. The Project will thus have to tread a fine line in supporting and strengthening the
centralized planning, review and monitoring functions in BARC while at the same time facilitating
the development of devolved responsibilities in regional research units (such as BARI's regional
research stations) whereby research workers are able to be more responsive to locally identified
needs and opportunities. At another level, the management of research funds for expenditures in
stations distant from HQ needs enhanced local capability and responsibility, as is taken up in the
following section.
12.    Priority-setting implementation. The lack of transparent mechanisms for allocating
research resources within a NARS has been frequently noted. As a result, many NARSs tend to
lack focus, and resource allocation across problems, commodities and regions is often inconsistent
with either efficiency or equity goals. At the same time, methods for research priority setting have
evolved rapidly and are now generally regarded as providing necessary information to decision
makers for allocation of research resources. As such, it must be reiterated that such methods are
tools that inform decisions-not that replace them or those who make them.
13.   In the past decade, many NARSs have undertaken priority-setting exercises and introduced
more formal methods into evaluation of research projects prior to funding, and Bangladesh has
been to the fore in such developments, with assistance from ISNAR and financial support of
USAID. The follow-up work planned for 1993 involving FAO CP has been long delayed, and may
ultimately prove useful in the context of further development of institutional capacity in the area of
scarce research resource allocation.



- 71 -                               Annex 6
Page 4 of 7
14.    Despite the proliferation of priority-setting exercises, such as that of June 1992 for
Bangladesh (and its various subsequent revisions), the impact on research efficiency and funding
has been less than anticipated. Several reasons account for this:
These various issues are being addressed in the ARMP as central to the success of the Project.
15.    Client orientation.  Improved priority setting provides a macro-level framework for
allocating research resources among regions and commodities, but does not improve the content of
research to address high-priority farmers' problems. Thus priority setting from the macro-level
must be complemented by "bottom-up" approaches to research planning.
16.    Beginning in the 1970s, there was a growing awareness of the lack of relevance of much
agricultural research to the needs of the major immediate clients of the research system -resource-
poor farmers. Failure to involve the main users in the research process led to two types of
inefficiencies: (a) an imbalance between the supply of and the demand for technology, and
(b) exclusion of an important source of innovations - the farmers themselves.
17.    This led to a strong emphasis on farming systems and on-farm research during the decade
of the 1980s. The major contribution of this movement was to provide methods for diagnosing
farmers' problems, setting research priorities to address those problems and screening potential
technologies for their relevance to small-scale farmers' circumstances. In recent years, more
participatory methods have been developed that seek to really involve farmers in defining the actual
content and design of experiments. All of this has, of course, implied considerable investment of
researchers' time in working directly with farmers, including experimentation in farmers' fields, all
to the good in the quest for relevance.
18.   In Bangladesh, as in many other countries, the World Bank (along with bilateral donors)
supported this movement strongly through the inclusion in most NARS investment projects of some
type of component for FSR or adaptive research, using methods of on-farm diagnosis and
experimentation.
19.    These methods have, however, had only partial success, as measured by a faster rate of
adoption of technologies by farmers. Difficulties have been experienced in many cases -and such
is the situation in contemporary Bangladesh -through focusing on distinct research units to
conduct FSR rather than trying to introduce a farming systems perspective at all levels of the
research system. Such an organizational approach amounts to bureaucratic marginalization of the
adaptive farmer-problem-oriented research work, while the "mainstream" research service can
continue in traditional mode. Other problems have included:
(a)    Lack of sufficiently productive technologies "on the shelf' to adapt.
(b)    Inadequate links between research, extension and policy, so that research
recommendations often have not reached farmers, or were not adopted because of
lack of effective access to inputs.
(c)    Difficulties of feeding back information from farmers to define priorities for
applied and strategic research. The considerable challenge inherent in such work
should not be understated. In many cases, however, this has reflected the absence
of linkage mechanisms to the separately-undertaken priority-setting and planning
exercises.



- 72 -                                     Annex 6
Page 5 of 7
(d)    The voluntary nature of the process that depended on altruism and insight of
researchers rather than direct pressure from farmers to influence the research
agenda.
20.    The next major steps toward greater client orientation in research systems will probably
have to involve more direct pressure from clients on research organization through the
strengthening of farmer organizations, which have been the main pressure groups for agricultural
research in more-developed countries. Farmer organizations can, in principle, exert pressure
though three mechanisms:
(a)    Through the political system, in appropriation of government revenues for
agricultural research;
(b)    Through the participation of representatives of farmer organizations on governing
boards and research review committees of research institutions. While farmers
have benefits included on such boards in Bangladesh, they have not been
representative of all research clients;
(c)    Through funding agricultural research. This might involve farmers contributing
from their own resources or by raising funds from other sources. Opportunities for
such operations in Bangladesh are probably confined to shrimp farning and some
special crop sub-sectors such as sugarcane and cotton and, through product
processing, jute and kenaf.
21.    Although there is much potential for the role of farmer organizations, it should also be
recognized that effective organizations typically only exist in less-developed countries for some
commercial and export-oriented crops. Thus the development of farmer organizations with
effective technical, managerial and political skills to represent the mass of small-scale farmers is a
challenging task that will take much time to accomplish, but should be addressed within this
Project along with the proposed study of funding possibilities from the private sector.
22.    In sum, attempts to build a farming systems perspective pervasively into the Bangladesh
agricultural research system can make important contributions to the relevance of many types of
research. The limitations of this approach without some fonn of farmer empowerment must,
however, be recognized. The adoption of a such a client orientation in less-developed-country
agricultural research systems such as that of Bangladesh thus has far to go before reality matches
the rhetoric.  This Project provides the opportunity to learn from  past misadventures, in
Bangladesh and elsewhere, and to move forward on several innovative fronts to activate genuine
farmer participation in FSR, and to invoke genuine institute-wide support for such problem-
oriented applied R&D.



Annex 6
Page 6 of 7
III. Human Resource Issues
23.    Perhaps the most important element in strengthening NARSs such as that of Bangladesh is
to strengthen the management of the human resource base. Some recent evidence that the quality of
the human resource base may be declining is grcat cause for alarm. Problems of human resource
management include:
(a)    Declining operating support (down to about 5 percent of total operating
expenditures in some ARls. e.g., BJRI) and salaries (already understandablv low),
which reduces morale and provides incentives for the best scientists to leave for
the private sector or international/foreign organizations.  Project support for
research operating costs should case this situation in the short run, although
increased revenue budgeting by GOB is required for a sust-Linable solution;
(b)    Rigid zivil service rules that evaluate and reward researchers according to
seniority rather than merit, and in some Bangladeshi cases also impose the
confining strictures of promotion only from "within," and recruitment from
essentially but a single source, leading inevitably to severe "inbreeding."
(c)    Lack of development of a "science culture" that encourages inquiry. In particular,
relatively few scientists are given real opportunities beyond their graduate studies
to seriously practice science. Many find themselves as either research cum
administrative assistants for more senior scientists, or more commonly, are rapidly
promoted into administrative posts. In far too many Bangladeshi cases, many such
''promotions" are implemented on an "acting" basis that has persisted for
years-sometimes many-in the process compromising confidence and authority,
diminishing commitment and achievement, and surely reducing research-system
productivity.
(d)    In part because of such difficulties, it is increasingly common to find a lack of real
accountability on the part of scientists and research managers, whether measured
in terms of research products or the adoption of those products by farmers. Few
NARSs, and regrettably Bangladesh is among them, appear to have good
mechanisms for personnel evaluation.
24.    Management options to increase the effectiveness of utilization of human resources
include:
(a)    Revamping of the reward and promotion system, including regular and serious
staff appraisal, so that it explicitly recognizes and defines merit, and allowing
research scientists the opportunity for salary benefits and prestige equivalent to
that enjoyed by managers and administrators. Such arrangements are sometimes
known as "science service schemes" and, while widely in place in more-developed
countries, seem to have a deserving place also in countries such as Bangladesh.
One of the problems in this particular case is that, even where such administrative
procedures are in place, as in the autonomous ARls, there has been a reluctance to
use them for fear of complaints from those perceived to be disadvantaged relative
to their rights under traditional seniority systems, sometimes translated into court



- 74 -                                   Annex 6
Page 7 of 7
actions that incur their own high costs. Such reluctance must be addressed fully
frontally in this Project.
(b)    Direct training may have a role to play, particularly in those situations where
appointed managers do not have a comprehensive background in the relevant
skills. For some, the major needs will be in key skills in human-resource
management and development. For others, the training priorities may be more in
the areas of project planning, proposal writing and project management. These
will be supported by the Project.
(c)    Facilitation of and approval for outside consultancies to boost earnings and obtain
widcr and hopefully helpful experience. A scnsible balance is clearly required in
such provisions if, indeed, "local" productivity is to be significantly and
sustainably  boosted.   A  further (often under-stated'  advantage of such
consultancies is that they can serve as efficient vehicles for transfers of
technc' 3gies, institutions and even policies.
25.    One type of external activity worthy of special mention is participation in external reviews.
Because of their careful preparation and tight schedules, these provide excellent structured learning
situations for reviewers, even though this is not, of course, a primary intention in their conduct.
Needless to say, the major immnediate beneficiaries of such reviews are the reviewed themselves. It
may often be the case that they gain most of the benefit, because of the discipline of having to
organize for the review, including the articulation of a rationale for what has been done and what is
planned, rather than necessarily from any insight carried in by the external reviewers.
26.    In small agricultural research systems where managers are closely familiar with institute
personnel, their professional development needs, their achievements and their frustrations, there
may not be a strong requirement for formal monitoring and evaluation procedures to assist
decisions in the human-resource domain. Otherwise, however, and Bangladesh's system can
hardly be regarded as small, such procedures and their related information systems will be vital to
the smooth and effective implementation of human-resource options such as those canvassed above
and accordingly are embedded in the Project.



- 75 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 3
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
7. Supervision Plan and Reporting Formats
I. Supervision Plan
1.    The proposed operation is institutionally complex and supervision will be close. A project launch
workshop, to be held immediately after effectiveness, will review planned budget and implementation of the
first year. Subsequently, two formal IDA supervisions will be held each year. The first supervision will
focus on the Annual Review of progress to be submitted to IDA before March 31 of each year. The second
supervision will review the annual budget and work plan and will be held no later than September 30 of
each year. Both supervisions will include visits to research sites, farms, and other activities supported by
the project. Local supervision, done by consultants contracted by BARC, will complement the formal
supervisions.
2.    The supervision calendar is as follows:
(a)    Project launch workshop, fourth quarter FY96: Focus: budget and implementation in
1996, including research plans, development of the management information system, staff
training, and technical assistance; procurement, disbursement, and budget of the executing
agencies.
Task Managers (RMB and HQ)        (3 sw)
Disbursement Specialist           (I sw)
Procurement Specialist            (lsw)
(b)    Second Supervision first quarter, FY97: Focus: scientific issues in first year, notably in
fisheries and jute research where the ex-ante rates of return are closest to the cutoff rates,
and in livestock research where institutional perfonnance in the past has not been strong;
in proposed work plan and budget for second year; planning for mid-term review.
IDA participants
Task Manager                      (2 sw)
Fisheries Specialist              (2 sw).
Livestock Specialist               (2 sw).
Jute Specialist                    (2 sw).
Research Management Specialist    (1 sw)
(c)    Third Supervision, first annual project review, March 1997: Focus: progress and
implementation in achieving scientific results in first year of project as shown in first year's
annual report.
IDA Participants           (2 sw per Specialist):
Task Manager.
Crops Research Specialist



- 76 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
(d)    Fourth Supervision (first quarter, FY98). Focus: scientific issues in proposed work plan
for second year; review of the FSR progress;
IDA Participants
Task Manager                (2 sw).
Agriculturalist              (2 sw)
Procurement Specialist       (lsw)
(e)    Fifth supervision, second annual project review, March 1998:
Focus: progress in implementation and in achieving scientific results in first year of
project as shown in second year's annual report.
IDA Participants (2 sw per Specialist):
Task Manager
FSR Specialist
Fisheries Specialist
Livestock Specialist
Crops Research Specialist
3.    IDA staff requirements for the first five supervisions will be approximately 33 staff weeks.
Supervision requirements by institute are in Table 1. Table 1 excludes local supervision funded out of the
credit, which is budgeted at 5 months per year throughout the operation.
Table 1: Summary of IDA Supervision for
First 24 Months of Project Implementation
.......................................................................................
Task                     Staff Weeks Budget
Research Management                                  5
Procurement and Disbursement                         3
Technical Supervision by Institute                  25
BARC                                             3
BARI                                             4
BRRI                                             3
BJRI                                             3
FRI                                              4
BFRI                                             3
BJRI                                             3
SRTI                                             2
Total                                           33
4.     Contracting local supervision. The credit includes resources to contract qualified local
consultants for supervision. BARC will prepare generic terms of reference for supervision consultancies,
including, inter alia, report format, preparation of the agreed project implementation indicators, and use of
the Form 590. At the annual review, to be held each year in March, supervision needs will be defined and a
short list of consultants will be prepared by BARC in light of those needs. IDA will review and approve
the shortlist. BARC will then hire individual consultants using IDA Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.



- 77 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
II. Reporting Formats
5.    The outline of the semiannual project reports is:
I. Introduction
Summary of project implementation
Table presenting implementation indicators for whole project (all agencies)
Proposed project self-ratings by executing agencies for discussion with IDA during
supervision mission
II. Implementation Review by Executing Agency (BARC and the ARls)
Individual
BARC, individual ARIs
Progress, major problems, solutions proposed, and actions taken;
explanations of variances from implementation indicators
III. Review of Contract Research
index of proposals received
decisions of contract research committee
index of proposals funded
IV. Conclusions
Identification of generic problems with project and recommended solutions
Actions to be taken resulting from APRW (spring supervision)
Actions to be taken resulting from review of following year's work plan (fall
supervision)
Appendices
1. Reports of local supervisions
2. Reports of other consultancies
3. Spring supervision: Summary Report of Annual Program Review Workshop (APRW) and plan
of work for following year.



- 78 -                                 Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
8. Policy for Completing Institutional Reforms of
the National Agricultural Research System
1.    The Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh has developed a comprehensive
national agricultural research strategy. The main objective of the strategy is to enable a sustained
increase in agricultural production and employment, in all sub-sectors, through research and
extension leading to widespread technical change that promotes both efficiency and equity in the
use of resources. In furtherance of this objective, it has prepared an Agricultural Research
Management Project (ARMP), to be funded partially by the Intemational Development Association
(IDA). The Government has discussed the strategy with IDA and believes that it and IDA are in
substantial agreement about the analysis and recommcndations for agricultural research in
Bangladesh.
2.    In its strategy, the Govenmment is committed to strengthening the national agricultural
research system with the following characteristics: (1) relevant research producing clearly
measurable benefits; (2) effective governance and strong accountability for results; (3) flexible and
efficient resource allocation; (4) reward to personal initiative to foster creative scientific enterprise;
(5) adequate, stable and diversified funding; and (6) a significant role for the private sector in the
long run. The strategy recognizes certain institutional problems, however, that prevent full
expression of these characteristics. While the Govemment has pursued some reforms to date, more
institutional changes are required. In this letter, the Govemment states its commitment to further
institutional reforms promoting a more efficient research system.
3.     The Govemment has considered alternative means for reform. It now believes that greater
autonomy for the ARls, allowing more independence in management and a more effective
stakeholder participation in their governance, are necessary to achieve these reforms and thereby
to attain the objective of its agricultural research strategy. The Government's policy recognizes
the necessity of adequate public financial support to agricultural research in the foreseeable future.
4.     During the implementation of the ARMP, the Government intends to complete the
following actions in pursuit of the necessary institutional changes.
(a)    Broader rule-making power would be given to the ARIs in the areas of personnel,
budget, and management.
(b)    The ARIs would receive greater freedom in personnel management.
(c)    The funding of the ARIs would consist of block grants given by the Government,
complemented by additional monies from other sources.
(d)    The governing bodies of the ARIs would be reconstituted to allow greater
participation by producers and other non-government entities.



- 79 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
(e)    The Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) would continue to be the
Government's primary instrument for further development of the agricultural
research strategy, allocation and use of the block grants, monitoring of
expenditures, the quality of research to be undertaken, and of results obtained.
(f)    A full inventory of the staff and property of the ARIs.
5.    The Government recognizes the inherent difficulties in these actions. It accordingly will
name a full-time official coordinator to implement them. With the assistance of the ARMP, it
intends to complete these steps by no later than the mid-term review of the ARMP. The
Government intends to undertake a mid-term review of the ARMP, jointly with the Bank, and to
take corrective measures on the basis of that review.



- 80 -                                  Annex 9
- 80                        ~~~~~~~~Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
9. Related Documents and Data in the Project File
1.     A Review of BRRI Cropping Systems Research: 1974-1988, Report written by N.U. Ahmed for
the Rice Farming Systems Division, Bangladesh Rice Research Institute, Dhaka, Bangladesh,
September 1992.
2.     Bangladesh: Agriculture Research Management Project - Farming Systems Research Working
Paper, R. N. Mallick, World Bank, July 1993.
3.     BanglWIh Agriculture Research ManagementProject - Fisheries Sector Working Paper, J.R.
Pearson, World Bank, August 1993.
4.     Bangladesh: Agriculture Research Management Project - Food and Industrial Crops Working
Paper, D. T. Myren. World Bank, July 15, 1993.
5.     Bangladesh: Agriculture Research Management Project - Livestock Research Working Paper,
Jorgen Hald, World Bank July 1993.
6.     Bangladesh - Agricultural Research Management Project. Project Cost Files (Costab format).
World Bank.
7.     Bangladesh  Agriculture --- Research Manarjt- R rh   Organization  and
Management Working Paper, D. Corbett, July 1993.
8.     Bangladesh - Agricultural Research Management Project.  Report of the World Bank Pre-
Apprai1al Mission. World Bank, Washington, July, 1993.
9.     B       sghadh. Agiculture Research Management Project  - Farming Systems Research and
Participation Technology Development Working Paper, Z. Abedin, April 1993.
10.    Sector Review Paper on Rural Development Institutions (Draft), Programming Division,
Planning Commission, Dhaka, Bangladesh, February, 1995.
11.    Employee Service Rules, Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council, Dhaka, Bangladesh, 1994.
12.    Manual for Contract Research, Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council, Dhaka, Bangladesh,
May 21, 1984 (revised).
13.    Norton, George, R. E. Witters and Mohdan Dey. Bangladesh Research Priorities Study.
ISNAR/BARC. 1993.
14.    Project -CpnqeptPaper, Report written for the Restructuring and Overall Strengthening of the
Bangladesh Forest Research Institute.



Annex 9
- 81 -                               Page2of 2
15.    Rice-Wheat System Research in Bangladesh: A Review, Report written by A.M. Bhuiyan, M.
Badarudding, N. U. Ahmed, and M.A. Razzaque for the Bangladesh Rice Research Institute and
the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute, Dhaka, Bangladesh, December 1993.
16.    Strategic Plan for National Agricultural Research System to the Year 2010 and Bevond,
Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council in Association with NARS Institutions, Dhaka,
Bangladesh, March, 1995.
17.    Third Agricultural Research Project:  Preparation Report, Report of the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Programme Investment Center, FAO, Rome, Italy, May 14, 1993.






..9i   27270
1^'                                                        ~~~~~~~BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENt; PROJECT
KPonchoAc..            t$                                    Principal Project Research Sintions
F, (\~.S             I SV             i   \ReseO!ch Sites by Irlute                                     Sefnstt-u Ce
foloon fr'J                3            ImOn                 \BARI jIFRI         2ID s     1    C ;
/ .fJEll BRRI    M3l BLRI                            *'   DmL'S .  C. P T15;
' Gl)Roogpus    Our')o,o             II2I BFRI    EM  BJRI                      NOr1CI  CcP c,
\   '-  ES   EM)  ~ E; SRTI                              Dist, C BOLCrI :r I
Go,oondfro    a                                                   *       nertci   C_C|'
I                                                 i'~ Don'  ocr-. J             C' *III
I             ~~~~~~JGYPUI, h tII
i,er P.,                                 S                                 '
,  ./         ~~~RAJSHAHI                              m                          A0k.O4: ~
V No-g-0n                                              \                       EDI,r

Rajshchi       NOoW-          Sero                                                          21 org0r' 
.,                                 Tongo i                                      r                       f                            S~~~~oeg
          .     EDHAKA.
i P                                 ~obno  NosinTgd 
K-shr o                      Momkgoe1      DHAKA               '
Roiboi    -'                                              ~~~~~~INDIA
iMenerpur |                                            -           N' oys pet                        .- J
Jh-eodoh                                 0 ,  ,
L                                                I,F- id p       on,                                          i

Nesr   oto,.               Modor,por SoonipoSr  )'g       
ie9                f e  Gopolgongj                 CHITTAGONG-  l
INDIA                 KHULNA
*   Khulna     \_f                          \           Nooki ol
) f)    [ib           J           ~~~~~~~Barisal  --           S        
toStk ro  o Fu&:ho    @              ,31           Bholo\'
o1M      oqoho   Pe-rpor Jhoiot+i         %                                                   Rooogr o-
(               PojolO.ro                                    Chitc,gong
\ ~~~~~BARISAL f 
The b-on-orres coors. denomn rrotons    ;or| oo                                                                                                             01/'
ood 00y o0her "4or 0,0,oroo show on  \                                                                  
tho rop do no- flpiy, no te porO of  I                          1
The World onk G-rop, ony judgment
on rhe legol Soolr  o 0y f-erilfoy or     iI
ony endorsement or -ccept-nce of such
boundodies.., 
NEPAL4,.-BHUTAN  ,         )                                                                                                                 k    i
BANGLADESH <r s
INDIA                                                                                                                                      S
INDIA      <         ~MYANMAR               .                                                                                                   ' 
MILES 0            25            so            75                                    z
KILOMETERS 0         25       50      75      100
l L                             ~~~~~I. 
II1.'02J19496           91g  3,p4cLD 'r_D 5IT @









IV4'Q~ C: TNO t%                                   G SA IAM
sR, e p-J'- 1                 -1d4 -7  nFl
-1r p



