CREDIT NUMBER 2815 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Research Management Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated           <          1996


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2815 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated $/         A/, 1996, between PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC     OF   BANGLADESH       (the   orrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)    the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)    the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expehditures in the
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for
the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
goods, if such payment or iimp1)ort, to the knowledge of the Association,
is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)    "BARC" means the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
established under the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council Order, 1973 (P.O.
Order No. 32 of 1973), as amended;
(b)    "ARIs" means collectively the Agricultural Research   Institutes
participating in the Project, namely: "BARI", the Bangladesh Agricultural Research
Institute; "BRRI", the Bangladesh Rice Research Institute; "BJRI", the Bangladesh Jute
Research Institute; "BFRI", the Bangladesh Forestry Research Institute; "BLRI" the
Bangladesh Livestock Research Institute; "FRI", the Fisheries Research Institute; "SRI"
the Sugarcane Research Institute and other such institutions agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association for participation under the Project;
(c)    "Contract Research Scheme" means a program of contract research
managed by BARC according to a manual of rules agreed between the Borrower and the
Association and executed by qualified research institutions including, but not limited to,
the ARIs;
(d)    "Bangladesh Bank" means the Central Bank of Bangladesh established
under Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (P.O. Order No. 127 of 1972);
(e)    "Special Account" means the account refened to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement; and
(f)    "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing July 1 and ending
June 30 of each year.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to thirty-three million six hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 33,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-3-
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
dollars a special deposit account in Bangladesh Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
June 15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 2006 and ending December 15, 2035.
Each installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2015 shall be


﻿-4-
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)    Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained
under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, and agricultural research practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall


﻿-5-
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and
without limitation hereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a
plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of


﻿-6-
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning
said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records atid accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01
(b) of the General Conditions: (a) that Executive orders have been issued by all
concerned authorities with respect to the actions specified in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4
to this Agreement; (b) that the Project Proforma has been approved by the Borrower;


﻿-7-
and (c) that the Borrower has provided a letter to the Association describing a program
of directives, policies and actions to reform the institutional framework of the national
agricultural research system (hereinafter called the Policy Reform Program), and
declaring the Borrower's commitment to carry out such Policy Reform Program.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy
Secretary, Senior Assistant Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Economic Relations
Division of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's Re,ublic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:                     Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                   642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka                         672796 SETU BJ
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                       197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
B y ISI/ ,/,,I,                  &
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By// <4
,,,V627Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                    SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Works                            4,430,000          80%
(2) Laboratory                        1,550,000         100% of
equipment                                          foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and
70% of local
expenditures
for other items
procured
locally
(3) Goods (other than                3,560,000          100% of
laboratory equipment)                              foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and
70% of local
expenditures
for other items
procured
locally


﻿-10-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Categry                     SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(4) Consultants'                     17,060,000          100%
Services and
Training
(5) Incremental Costs                 3,630,000          80% in FY97
and FY98,
60% in FY99
and FY00
and 40%
thereafter
(6) Unallocated                       3,370,000
TOTAL                       33,600,000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
ar y country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of th- Borrower;
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)    the term "incremental costs" means the costs incurred by ARIs under the
Project for salaries, utilities, agricultural inputs, operational travel, and operations and
maintenance of buildings, vehicles and equipment in excess of those incurred in FY95.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made ina respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of SDR 335,000, may be made in respect of Categories 2, 3 and 4 on account


﻿- 11-
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after May 1, 1995; and (b) under
Category 2, unless and until the Association is satisfied that the inventory of laboratory
equipment and a maintenance plan in respect of all ARIs have been updated in
accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under Category 4 and
expenditures for goods, works and services under contracts not exceeding $100,000,
$150,000, and $100,000 ($50,000 for individual consultants) equivalent, respectively,
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to increase the efficiency of the national
agricultural research system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:       Research Organization and Management
Strengthening the research planning and managerial capabilities of BARC and
the ARIs through the carrying out of institutional reforms, improved economic analysis
of research programs, a Contract Research Scheme and development of master plans for
the ARIs , including the provision of civil works, goods and technical assistance for such
purposes.
Part B:       Priority Research
The carrying out of priority research programs in participating ARIs for crops,
fisheries, livestock and forestry, including the provision of civil works, goods and
technical assistance for such purposes.
PartC:        Farming Systems Research
Strengthening farming systems research programs through the support to
research-extension linkages and testing and dissemination of appropriate technology,
including the provision of civil works, goods, and technical assistance for such purposes.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section 1.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:      General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:      International Competitive Bidding
1.     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix I thereto.
2.     The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph I of this Part B.
(a)    Prequalification
Bidders shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9
and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)    Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:      Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
Civil works may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.


﻿-14-
2.     National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract and $500,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:       Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
I.     Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.     Prior Review
With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$150,000 or more, and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3.     Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
1.     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.


﻿- 15 -
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelifes requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets,
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment
of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However,
said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference
for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿-16-
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.     The Borrower shall, in accordance with a plan of action agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association, confer greater autonomy upon ARIs in the areas of
personnel, budget and management.
o2.      (a)   The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1996, complete master
plans for each ARI, which shall include, inter alia, an application of a method of ex-ante
analysis of research programs and a program of staff training, in accordance with criteria
agreed with the Association.
(b)    The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association, by December
31, 1996, for comments by the Association, a time-bound plan of actions to eliminate
duplication of research activities in ARIs, and thereafter shall carry out such plan after
taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
3.     The Borrower shall carry out under terms of reference, satisfactory to the
Association, a study of private financing alternatives of agricultural research and shall
furnish to the Association not later than December 31, 1996, the findings and
recommendations of such study.
4.     The Borrower shall:
(a)    ensure that BARC shall be responsible for the evaluation of research
proposals, including proposals made under the Contract Research Scheme, in accordance
with the rules and procedures referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph;
(b)    apply rules and procedures acceptable to the Association for evaluation
and funding approval of research proposals, including those made under the Contract
Research Scheme, for all research sub-projects to be implemented after July 1, 1996;
(c)    make public announcements of the availability of research funds under
the Contract Research Scheme; and
(d)    use a standard contract acceptable to the Association for the Contract
Research Scheme.


﻿-17-
5.     The Borrower shall by December 31, 1996, complete a plan of actions
acceptable to the Association for implementation of farming systems research.
6.     The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a)    BARC shall update the existing inventory of laboratory equipment in
ARIs indicating the operational state of each item in the inventory;
(b)    each ARI shall prepare a plan satisfactory to the Association for repair,
maintenance and operation of its existing and projected laboratory equipment; and
(c)    no ARI shall be eligible to receive laboratory equipment under the
Project until its inventory and maintenance plan has been updated.
7.     The Borrower shall, not later than March 31 and September 30 of each year,
beginning in FY 97, prepare and furnish to the Association for review semiannual
progress reports of BARC's and ARIs' Project activities during the period preceding the
date of such report, such reports to have a format and coverage satisfactory to the
Association, including in  alia an assessment of performance indicators for Project
implementation.
8.     The Borrower shall, not later than March 31 of each year, beginning in FY 97:
(a)    undertake an annual review of the progress of the Project in the previous
year, and discuss the findings of such review with the Association;
(b)    ensure that BARC and ARIs present their first draft semiannual progress
reports, referred to in paragraph 7 above, as part of said annual review; and
(c)    review with the Association the work program and funding required for
BARC and the ARIs in the following year based on their performance in the previous
year.
9.     The Borrower shall, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association and
no later than July 1, 1996, cause BARC to employ consultants in accordance with the
provisions set forth in Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement in the areas of: (i)
research management; (ii) financial management; and (iii) supervision of civil works.


﻿-18-
10.    The Borrower shall:
(a)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof;
(b)    prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and
furnish to the Association, by September 30, 1998, a mid-term review integrating the
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a)
above, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof
during the period following such date; and
(c)    review with the Association, by December 31, 1998, or such later date as
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) above, and
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said report and the Association's review on the matter.


﻿-19-
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 5 set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $2,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal
to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 7,000,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)     (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 20 -
(ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of
the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit
reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)    if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into


﻿-21-
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount
of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.     (a)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such paymeht or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit
by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


