'C~~~ Dcuet Of 
9 -        hr~j        The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repwi No, 8940
PROJECT COMEPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
THIRD AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREOIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2268-BR)
JULY 31, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Latii.4pnerica and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a resticted distriutls sand way be used by recipient only in Ahe performanc of
their official duties Its contents may not othewise be'discosed without World Dank suthozlztion.



cURRENCZY EOIVNT
Currency Unit : Cruzairo (Cr$) 1
Cr$1.00 - NCz$1.00
US$1.00 m Cr$4.33 2
Cr$1.00   US$0.23 2
1 The cruzeiro was reintroduced on March 15, 1990, replacing the new
crusado (NCz$) at a one-to-one ratio. The NCz$, which replaced and was
equal to 1,000 units of the old cruzado (Cz$), was Brazil's currency
from January 16, 1989 until March 14, 1990.
2 Mid-October 1989.
WEIGHTS AND MEASMRES
The metric system is used-throughout the report.
FISCAL YES
Government of Brazil - January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONThS
BACEN      -  Banco Central do Brasil (Central Bank of Brazil)
BTN        - Bonus do Tesouro Nacional (National Treasury Bond)
CD         - Certificate of Deposit
DTN        - Departamento do Tesouro Nacional (National Treasury
Department)
FEBRABAN   - FederaSao Brasileira das Associaqoes de Bancos (Brazilian
Federation of Bankers' Associations)
IGP-DI     -  Indice Geral dos Precos-Disponibilidade Interna (General
Price Index - Domestic Supply)
IPC        -  Indice de Pre9os do Consumidor (Consumer Price Index)
ORTN       - Obligac,es Readjustaveis do Tesouro Nacional (Readjustable
Obligations of the National Treasury)
PAGRI      -  Program& Agroindustria (Agro-Industrial Program)
PB         - Participating Bank
PRONAGRI   -  Programa Nacional de Assistencia Agroindustrial (National
Program of Assistance to Agro-Industries)



-~~~ wv oicc:O3
, -, X  US.A   _   :
Ollto i Oi,etb0Guwa
.~~~~~~~~~~Wstn D..21
Opsatm 9vaium
July 31, 1990
MEORMANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs  Project Completlop Report on Brasil
Third Aaro-Industries Credit Pro ect (doan 2268-BR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a xeport entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Brazilt Third Agro-IndustrSem-Credit Project (Loan
2268-BR) prepared hy the Latin America and the Caribbean-Regional Office
with Part II prepared by the Borrower. No audit of thbl  project has beenz
_  aei by the Operations Evaluation Department at tMes tint. -
Attachment
TI   documnt has a mstctd disdbuon and may be ud by rcpnts oY in e petor e
of their official duties Ils cbtents mty not olheri be dbdcsed wiout Woda m autos  |



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THIRD AGRO-INDUSTR S CREDIT PROJECT
(LOANMS 68-BR=
ROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Paae No.
PREFACE    ..   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .
EVALATION SU1O4ARY  . . . . ..
PART   I.  PROJECT REVW FROM  Af*S PERSPECTIVE                         1
Projet IdeAtity . . .. . . . . .  .                         1
Backgroun    . .........                           . 1
Project Objectives, Design &'Organization. . .              2
'mplementation Experience .... . . . . ..3
-           ~~~~~esults ..                                  _>.  ., . . . . . 6
=   _ $1Sutai, .bility . . ..........    =_- _s -    7             ..-. *   tt2
_~~~~~~~~                    .  - - *sit . .                        
LessonsLearned  .........             .....    10
PART  II.  PROJECT REVIEM   FRnM BOROWNR1  PUSPECTIVE--.-   . . * .   11 
Projct Imptementation . . . ... ..  . . . . . .
Project Results  ........... .......                       13
PART 1II. -STATISTICAL INFORMATION . . . . . . . . . . .-. . . .    14
ANNEXES
Annex 1:' Estimated Erosion of Priacipal Through December
31, 1988.
Annex 2:  Monetary Ctarrection of tubloans
MAP IBRD20444R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used'by re cipients only in the performance
of t                       -            w



BRAZIL
TEED AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2A6l8-R)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Agro-
Industries Credit Project in Brazil, for which Loan 2268-BR in the amount of
US$400 million was approved on April 26. 1983. The closing date of the Loan,
originally December 31, 1988, was extended by one year to December 31, 1989.
The loan has an undisbursed balance of,over US$7.7 million, which is in the
process of being cancelled.
This PCR consists of an Evaluation,Summary and Parts I and III prepared
by the Agriculture Operations Division of the Latin America and Caribbean
Country Department I. Part II was prepared jointly by the Central Bank of
Brazil and the National Treasury Department of the Ministry of Economy.
Finance and Planning.
Preparation of this PCI started-during a mission in October 1989 and is
based on the findings of that mission. the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan
and Project Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank
and the Borrower and internal Bank memoranda.



- As -
BRAZIL
THIRD AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2268-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Objectives.  The- Third Agro-Industries Credit Project, by financing
productive investments, was to help Brazilian agro-industry adjust and
innovate on domestic and international markets. A market-based interest rate,
after monetary correction of principal to take account of inflation, was to
cover the cost of funds and spreads, and be compatible with realistic returns
on investments. This, in turn, would help by way of demonstration and
experience to liberalize financial markets characterized by large volumes of
narrowly directed subsidized credit. The project took the form of a
rediscount line, known as PRONAGRI, in the Central Bank (BACEN).
2.    Imolementation Ezperience.  PRONAGRI was inactive for two years after
effectiveness because of Government budgetary restrictlons. When these were
relaxed, loan disbursements rose from US$6.5 million in the second half of
1985 to US$178.6 million in 1987. In February 1986, as part of an economic
stabilization program (the 'Cruzado Plan'), the Government instituted a price
freeze and suspended monetary correction. Correction was reapplied from July
1987 and has continued since albeit with changes in the indices used.
Currently, the on-lending rates to sub-borrowers after monetary correction
range from 10.152 to 12.152.
3.    On January 1, 1988, as part of a more general financial and fiscal
reform, the primary responsibility for PRONAGRI was transr-rred from BACEN to
the then National Treasury Secretariat (recently reorganized as the National
Treasury Department or DTN). At the beginning of 1989, a survey of
participating baiks (PBs) showed that most found the DIN procedures unclear
and wanted the credit line returned to BACEN. By October 1989, there had been
significant improvement and DTN was managing well the start-up of PROWAGRI's
successor project. However, because of differences between the BACEN and DTN
accounting systems, information on subprojects, which used to be routinely
collected by BACEN, is no longer readily available at the level of DTN.
This loss of information meant that data for a,full and detailed assessment of
project impact, e.g., on employment generation, agro-industrial production,
etc., could not be collected within the time alloted for the preparation of
this PCR. However, based on the partial financial and statistical information
on results, some fairly firm if broad indications can be given.
4.    Results.  Participation in PRONAGRI was widespread:  24 PBs accounted
for over 902 of total on-lending, with 10 PBs having individual shares in



- iii -
total on-lending exceeding 51; some 1,700 sub-projects were financed, covering
a wide variety of activities throughout Brazil. Sub-borrowers included
individuals, cooperatives and corporations, both multinational and national,
of all sizes. PBs and sub-borrowers indicated generally satisfaetory results.
5.    The suspension of monetary correction under the Cruzado Plan in 1986/7
eroded the principal of PRONAGRI sub-loans, and resulted in negative real
interest rates being charged during that period. There was further erosion to
the extent that monetary correction was less than the domestic inflation rate.
6.    Sustainability.  PRONAGRI became widely known to PBs and their clients.
The costs of promoting any subsequent operations should therefore be low.
When PRONAGRI was managed by BACEN, sub-loan recoveries were ploughed back for
further relending on PRONAGRI terms. Under DTN, recoveries now go into a
general pool of official credit, for allocation by an inter-agency Credit
Limits Committee to various official credit programs, including PRONAGRI. DTN
regulations for these programs require full monetary correction of DTN loans
to PBs for onlending, as well as an interest rate oau these loans that is
higher than the cost of government borrowing. Self sustainability of future
credit programs will depend on improved management and the effective
protection of principal.
7.    Findings and Lessons.  The restrained Bank reaction to the long initial
delay in project implementation was justified. During the first year of the
project, the Government was experiencing serious budgetary problems and could
not provide counteri)art funds for the project. During the second year, the
Government was attempting to comply with the credit restrictions of an IMF-
supported stabilization program. Both the Bank and BACEN were flexible and
realistic in adapting PRONAGRI to changing conditions. Among the adjustments
made was an increase in Bank financing from 33Z to 502 of investment costs,
and a corresponding reduction in the counterpart funding requirement from 31Z
to 141. The suspension of monetary correction in 1986/87 on all financial
contracts (excluding personal savings accounts) was part of the Cruzado Plan,
which was supported by the Bank; PRONAGRI could not have been exempted from
this suspension. The transfer of PRONAGRI to DTN at a late stage in project
implementation was unnecessarily disruptive, although the objectives of the
fiscal and financial .eform, of which it was a part, were sound. Transitional
arrangements could have been made to minimize the disruption. Although
PRONAGRI was targeted at a well-defined set of economic activities, it did not
add significantly to the segmentation of financial markets in Brazil, given
its commercially-oriented financing terms and the wide range of agricultural
and agro-industrial activities and sub-borrowers throughout Brazil which
received financing from PRONAGRI. PRONAGRI was successful in promoting long-
term productive investment and in introducing commercially-oriented terms and
conditions of financing. Broad acceptance of the latter is evidenced by the
fact that the follow-up project was almost fully committed in a matter of
days. However, PRONAGRI was unable to prevent the erosion of subloan
principal partly because of the suspension of monetary correction under the
Cruzado Plan in 1986187, as well as the tendency for monetary correction to
lag inflation at other times. Also, there was no provision in the project for
passing on the foreign exchange risk on Bank funds.



- iv -
8.    Despite an economic environrent characterized by high and unstable x;ntes
of inflation, PRONAGRI was useful in helping finance long-term productive
investment in the private sector. However, when the Government acts as a
wholesaler of Bank funds in a credit project like PRONAGRI, it should not have
to bear any of the risks or costs involved; these should be passed on to PBs
and their clients. The passing on of the foreign exchange risk, which was not
done ;nder PRONAGRI, should not only help preserve the real value of
recoveries, thus ensuring sustainability of future credit projects, but also
transmit international price signals to the domestic market. In this regard,
two aspects of the foreign exchange risk on Bank loans need to be
distinguished: the cross currency risk (between the US dollar and the other
currencies in the Bank's currency pooling system) and the own currency risk
(between the cruzado and the US dollar).  Unlike under PRONAGRI, the cross
currency risk can now be hedged, given recent changes in the Bank's loan
currency management which now enable a government to anticipate the currency
composition of its debt service on Bank loans. It should, therefore. be
possible to pass on fuLly the cross-currency risk on Bank loans or the cost of
hedging it. The own currency risk (between the cruzado and the US dollar)
should in principle be passed on fully as well. However, given Brazil's
history of letting the local currency appreciate in real terms as inflation
accelerates, and later devaluing in a relatively large step or steps.
consideration should be given to putting a cap on the exposure of PBs and sub-
borrowers to own currency risk during periods of large devaluations, while
also setting a minimum charge per period over the term of the sub-loan to
cover this risk. This would help reduce the uncertainties faced by PBs and
sub-borrowers during periods of high inflation and facilitate the achievement
of the investment promotion objective of-credit projects.
9.    The Government should also not have to provide counterpart funds for
these credit projects, thus helping to insulate them from its budgetary
problems. The balance of subproject financing should be fully provided by
participating banks and their clients in a proportion freely negotiated
between them. The above lessons learned from PRONAGRI have been reflected to
a large extent in the design of the successor project (Loan 2961-BR).



BRAZTL
THIRD AGRD-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2268-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION kEPORT
T. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANX'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Proiect Identity
Name          s    Third Agro-Industries Credit Project
Loan Number   X    2268-BR
Regional Vice
Presidency    s    LAa
Country       *    Federative Republic of Brazil
Sector        s    Financial sector. Activities financed included
agricultural production, fisheries, cold storage and
silos, grain processing, chemicals, textiles, food and
animal feed, brewing, tanning, manufacture of
agricultural equipment and others.
B. Background
1.    The capacity and efficiency of agro-industry have long been important in
the Brazilian economy. In the late 1970s and early 19809, agro-industrial
production accounted for roughly one-third to one-half of the value of dxports
and provided both inputs and a market for agricultural products. Agro-
industrial processing standards also provided a stimulus for improving the
quality of primary agricultural products.
2.    During that period, agro-industrial firms had to contend with erratic
Government price policies which contributed to destabilizing local markets,
and very high market interest rates accompanied by subsidized and
administratively directed official credit. As a result, resources which
should have been invested in long-term capital formation through value adding
projects were instead being used to a large extent for speculative activities
made rewarding by policy induced distortions.
3.    Although there has been a massive reduction in rural credit subsidies
since 1983, many of the above problems persist. Inflation his reached
unprecedented levels, approaching 40Z a month, while the Government is having
to pay 30Z p.a. in real terms on paper to support the overnight market and
prevent a flight from the currency. A substantial parallel economy has
developed and there are signs of increasing capital flight. However, large
private sector firms (in the top 500) showed returns of 14%-15Z on capital'



-2-
employed in 1988. Investment was low at 16.7X of GDP, with firms awaiting the
policies of the Government which will take office in the new year following
the November 1989 elections.
C. Proiect Obiectives, DesiRn and Organization
4.    The Bank's policy dialogue with Br:-Ul has long given special attention
to the elimination of credit subsidies ai4 other distortions in financial
markets. The First and Second Agro-Industries Credit Projects, the
predecessors of the project now under review, introduced on-lending subject to
full monetary correction, but encountered competition from subsidized official
credit; they were, moreover, of limited scope in terms of geographical
coverage and the types of investments eligible for financing, and were
channeled mainly through state development banks.
S.    The Third Agro-Industries Credit Project now under review was designed
to help provide the financial facilities necessary to enable Brazilian agro-
industry to use its proven ability to adjust and innovate on domestic and
international markets.  The introduction of a floating. market determined
interest rate for relendir.g under the project was to be a step towards more
efficient and competitive financial markets. In the financing of productive
invastments, the project sought to: leave lending decisions broadly to the
enterprises and financial intermediaries takiAg risks; re-establish
unsubsidized long and medium term financing with an adequate margin over the
cost of funds; and provide a range of financial facilities, which coold,
either separately or in combinatian. be adapted to the particular needs of the
enterprises financed.
6.    The project took the form of a rediscount line of credit in the Central
Bank of Brazil (BACEN). This line, known in Brazil and hereinafter referred
to as PRONAGRI, was -- cover the V%Mle country and seek the broadest possible
participation of the Brazilian banking system. It was expected to provide
long-term investment credit; loans to leasing companies for the acquisition of
agro-industrial machinery and equipment; financing for financial intermediary
purch&ses of agro-industrial enterprise securities; and short and medium-term
finance for working capital. The interest rate on investment credit, the main
form of financing, was to be based on the primary market yield on S-year 8?
indexed Government bonds (ORTN) plus a spread of up to 4X, and adjustable
semi-annually.
7.    The types of activity which qualified for support under PROVtGRI
included: any transformation, including storage, of an agricultural raw
material from harvest until immediately before retail; the manufacture of farm
inputs; and the incremental production of agricultural commodities for
vertically integrated agro-industrial enterprises. The financing of
investment costs was to be shared in the following proportions: Bank
loan - 33X; Government - 311; PBs - 162; and sub-borrowers - 202.



-3
8.    In order to devolve fuller responsibility for sub-loan appraisal to the
participating banks (PBs), BACEN would only review sub-loans over the free
lEmits set for each PB. These free limits ranged up to US$5 million
equivalent, depending on the size, standing and experience of the PB. In
addition, the operating procedures developed under thd First and Second
Projects were to be revised and simplified with a view to further reducing
BACEN's administrative izvolvement.
D. Imolementation Experience
9.    PRONAGRI started its life inauspiciously,  After the effectiveness
conditions were met in June 1983, a month after loan signing, PRONAGRI was
practically dormant for two years. Apart from the opening bf the Special
Account, no other loan disbursements were made until June 1985. The PRONAGRI
regulations were issued with some delay in October 1983, but counterpart funds
necessary to enable PRONAGRI to start operations were not available because of
the Government's budgetary constraints. In early 1984 (when severe ctedit
restrictions had beer -*gree4 with the INF), the PRONAGRI allocation in the
Monetary Budget was only over 12 of the loi- ,mount.  By the end of the year,
the budgetary allocation had been increased and counterpart funds were
reported by a Bank supervision mission to be adequate. However, during the
first quarter of 1985, because of difficulties in meeting InM targets,
operations on all Bank-financed credit lines were suspended. There was also
resistance from potential sub-borrowers to real rates of interest of over 14Z.
These delays, and the consequent uncertainty about the fututre availability of
funds made PBs hesitant about promoting and wotking with PRONA-RI. Even so,
by May 1985, the Central Bank had approved PB requests for allocations of
PRONAGRI funds amounting to 15.6 million ORTNs, or US$109 million equivalent.
10.   Following considerable pressure from the Bank and the Central Bank, the
budgetary restrictions on PRONAGRI were larlgely removed in mid-1985, with
BACEN providing advanc;s in the early stages to compensate for the lack of
Government counterpart funds. The impart was substantial and quickly felt:
the value of subloans signed and of Bank disbursements developed as followos
Sub-Loans Signed              Loan Disbursements
CzSa     US$ equiv.b                    US$
--------------- millions -----------------------
1985           286           36                        7
1986         2,581           185                      47
1987         9,245          232                      179
1988         1,265            13                      62
1989           --            --                       83
a) CS1.9U a NC K.K1 a Cro.051
b) Sa.edon the overag, exchange rate provail I ng during the period.
SWTcu ME



11. This period of rapidly increasing disbursements, however, was marked by
equally rapid changes in macroeconomic policies and conditions to which
PRONAGRI had to adapt. At end-February 1986, as part of an economic
stabilization program (called the 'Cruzado Plan'), the Government instituted a
price freeze and tried to deindex the economy by suspending monetary
correction for a year on all financial contracts (exc-nt personal savings
accounts). The Cruzado Plan, which the Bank supported, showed signs of
succeeding in its early months. Between February and October 1986, monthly
inflation dropped to less than 0.5Z compared to about 182 in the period
immediately preceding the Cruzado Plan. It was during the early stage of the
Cruzado Plan when the Bank agreed to changes in the terms and conditions for
Bank-supported credit projects in Brazil including PRONAGRI1, In line with
the overall suspension of monetary correction, these changes included the
dropping of monetary correction of subloans and a shift to nominal interest
rates linked to the rate on 180-day ba.k certificates of deposit (CDs).
However, the basic assumption under which the Bank agreed to these changes --
that the Cruzado Plan would succeed in its objectives of stabilizing the
economy and achieving a more permanent reduction in the inflation -- proved to
be wrong. As inflation reignited, the Government found it necessary by the
end of the Cruzado Plan in March 1987 to restore monetary correction.
12.   The specific changes in PRONAGRT contracts during the Cruzado Plan were
as follows. For contracts signed before August 27, 1986, monetary correction
of subloans was suspended from March 1986-February 1987. Monetary correction
on these contracts was subsequently restored in March 1987, and has continued
since then using new, but essentially similar indices (OTN and BTN instead of
ORTN). For contracts signed after August 27, 1986, an  monetary correction was
required, Instead a nominal interest rate linked to the rate on 180-day bank
certificates of deposit (CD) was applied to these contracts. For the period
August 1986-February 1987, an interest rate of 15? (13% in the Northeast) was
applied. This was ;ncreased to 2182 for the period March-June 1987, with 209?
capitalized at the option (universally exercised) of the sub-borrower. In
July 1987, sub-borrowers were given the option to continue with a nominal
interest rate linked to the CD rate, or shift to the terms (which included
monetary correction) being applied t- contracts slswed before August 27, 1986.
Most of the sub-borrowers opted for the latter.
13.   The events described above, together with rising inflaLion and economic
uncertainty, inevitably led to the disappearance of 5-year, 8% ORTN bonds,
whose yield had provided the reference rate for the pricing of PRONAGRI funds
to the PBs. Since July 1987, for want of a domestic alternative, the on-
1 The Bank also agreed with the suspension of monetary correction of
subloans and changes in interest rate arrangements for official rural credit,
including the rural credit program (PROINVEST) supported by Loan 2348-BR
(para. 5.02, PCR on the Agricultural Credit and Export Development Project
dated April 4, 1988). These changes in official rural credit policy were also
supported by the Bank through the Credit and Marketing Reform Loan (Loan 2727-
BR).



lending rate from BACEN to tLe PBs has been the nominal rate on the Bank loan.
After spreads, current rates to sub-borrowers range from 10.152-12.15Z after
correction.
14.   During implementation, other important changes were made to the project
design and procedures in order to adapt PRONAGRI to a volatile economic
environments
a) In 1984, PB participation with own funds, hitherto an obligatory 162
of the cost of an investment project was made voluntary, but with a
reduction in the maximum permitted spread from 42 to 22 if there was
no participation and to 32 if there was 82 participation; this also
enabled final on-lending rates to come down from over 142, a rate
which was hardly marketable at the time (para. 9);
b) In 1986, Bank participation in the cost of investment projects was
increased from 332 to S0X with a corresponding reduction in
Government participation from 312 to 142, in order to ease the
latter's increasing financial difficulties. Consistent with this
change and with the Bank's cost sharing policy of financing up to
502 of project costs in Brazil, Bank participation in working
capital subloans was also increased from 332 to 5OZ, with a
corresponding reduction in the financing by PBs from 672 to 50Z.
c) A flexible interpretation of the items eligible for financing
broadened the scope of PRONAGRI financing from that envisaged at
appraisal to includes on-farm storage and the manufacture or
acquisition of combine harvesters; second-hand machinery and
equipment; and some secondary processing of agricultural raw
materials, for example, textiles and margarine.
15.   Finally, on January 1, 1988, as part of a more general financial and
fiscal reform, the primary responsibility for official credit lines, including
PRONAGP, was transferred from BACEN to DTN. BACEN retained responsibility for
the regulatory matters, including supervisory visits to sub-projects. DTN
took responsibility for disbursements to and recoveries from PBs. The
transfer was premature and a difficult period of transition followed. although
a number of BACEN staff were also transferred to DTN. At the beginning of
1989 the Brazilian Federation of Associations of Banks (FEBRABAR) conducted a
survey among its members operating with PRONAGRI. Of those responding, 100X
found the DTN procedures unclear and less simple and efficient than those of
BACEN; 952 wanted the credit line to be retarned to BACEN.  By October 198¶,
there had been significant improvement in DTN procedures, but because of
differences between the BACEN and DTN accounting s;s8tems, information on
subprojects which used to be routinely collected by BACEN, was no longer
readily available. This loss of information at a central level meant that data
for a full and detailed assessment of project impact, e.g., on employment
generation, agro-induitrial production, etc., could not be collected within
the time allotted for the preparation of this PCR. Nevertheless, based on the
partial financial and statistical information available, some fairly firm if
broad indications of project results can be given. These are summarized below.



E. Results
16.   Participation in the program was widespread: 24 PBs, out of over 60
accredited to PRONAGRI, did significant amounts of on-lending of PRONAGRI
funds, accounting for over 90Z O5 total on-lending. Of these 24 PBs, 10 had
shares in total on-lending between 5Z and 11Z; only one PB accounted for more
than 10 of total on-lending (the Banco do Brasil with a share of at- ut 112).
In 1985, the first year of operations, the private sector PBs accou Ged for
over 702 of the value of subloan contracts signed. This situation was
reversed in the next two years and by the end of 1987, official (state and
federal) PBs accounted for 64Z of the accumulated value of contracts and the
private banks for 362. In 1988, after the transfer to DTN, only one contract
out of a total of 104 was signed by . private bank. This is most likely the
result of Decree No. 94.4V4 Issued in June 1987 which mandated that all
lending operations made under credit programs transferred from BACEN to DTN
must be made through the Banco do Brasil or other official banks.
17.   PRONAGRI financed some 1,700 projects covering a wide variety of
activities in most parts of Brazil. These activities included agriculture,
grain processing, fishing, packaging, cold storage and silos, fertilizers,
manufacture of agricultural implements, breweries, tanneries, textiles,
margarine, tractor assembly, combine harvesters, seed production and
refrigerated transport.
18.   Sub-borrowers included corporations, both national and multinational,
cooperatives and individuals, some of them very small enterprises, others
among the largest in Brazil. Discussions with some of the main PBs and sub-
borrowers and a review of a small sample of subprojects indicate satisfactory
results (Part III, Table 5). Of the large number of sub-borrowers, some
undoubtedly got into financiLal difficulty, but the Central Bank, which
monitors overdue payments on PRONAGRI subloans, report that these never became
a significant issue for PRONAGRI. (As of June 30, 1989, some 13 PBs reported
arrears on their respective PRONAGRI portfolios; overdue principal payments
for these PBs were typically less than 2-3Z of their portfolios). There is no
evidence of diversion of project funds, which were disbursed direct to
suppliers and contractors for project investments (which themselves provided
security for the PBs). Legal action was taken on one case involving
overinvoicing by a contractor. Some cases of fraud may have gone undetected
by the regular Central Bank inspections and the PBs thamselves, but the
safeguards in place and the simple self interest of the PBs make it unlikely
that they were substantial.
19.   Some PRONAGRI financing differed from appraisal expectations.  The most
notable feature was the very strong demand for finance for combine harvesters
and grain storage. This was not envisaged at appraisal because these items
were eligible for subsidized rural credit, which however became in very short
supply in 1985/6. In the event, these items are roughly estimated to have
acccunted for some 602 of the number of subloans and around 35Z of the value.
The demand for leasing finance was much lower than expected. According to
some of the larger PBs, this was due to the fact that only 702 of equipment



cost could be financed under PRONAGRI and the leasing companies had no long-
term funds for this purpose; 10O financing at cheaper rates could be obtained
through FINAME, a BNDES operation. There were no risk capital operations; PBs
say that venture capital operations look at firms as a whole and do not want
to concern themselves with particular investment projects within the firm.
The working capital facility disbursed substantially, but much less than
expected because constantly shortening terms in the financial markets made it
impossible for the PBs to provide the necessary counterpart funds.
20.   The erosion of subloan principal, resulting from the suspension of
monetary correction during the Cruzado Plan and its lagging behind inflation
at some other times cannot be calculated precisely, and any estimate is highly
sensitive to the inflation index that is used. A simple simNlation shown in
Annex 1, suggests an overall erosion in the order of 332 (only principal is
considered; interest is ignored), with subloans signed during the Cruzado Plan
suffering a much greater erosion, estimated at over 50X. These results were
derived using the IGP-DI, or General Price Index; if the IPC or Consumer Price
Index (vhich is a more limited index) were used, the overall erosion would
probably be around 21S. Another point worth nocing here is the suspension of
monetary correction on contracted but undisbursed subloan amounts led to these
financing a rapidly dwindling share of inflated investment costs. Although
supplementary loans were made afterwards, many sub-borrowers went through
financing difficulties.
F. Sustainabilitv
21.   PRONAGRI was the third of a program of agro-industrial credit operations
in Brazil and became widely known to PBs and their clients. The marketing and
staff training costs involved in the promotion of subsequent operations should
therefore be correspondingly low. When PRONAGRI was managed by BACEN, subloan
recoveries were ploughed back into PRONAGRI. Under DTN, they now go into the
general pool of official credit, for allocation by the Credit Limits Committee
to various official credit programs including PRONAGRI. Loans from DTN to
participating banks under these official credit programs are generally subject
to full monetary correction; the interest rate on DTN loans is also required
to be higher than the cost of government borrowing. How to develop future
self sustainability of future credit programs is discussed below.
G. Findings
22.   The initial delays due to the lack of counterpart funds suggest an
internal inconsistency in Government policies, as well as a less than full
appreciation by the Bank of the implications for the project of the
macroeconomic constraints on credit. Given the uncertainties at the time,
however, it is not clear that postponing the project would have avoided
problems - it could well have led to further delays by seriously undermining
the interest and confidence of PBs in PRONAGRI. The Bank was patient in
dealing with the delays in the provision of counterpart funds and reasonable
in the pressure it exerted to end them. As early as March 1984, a Bank
supervision mission recommended that the requirement for Government



counterpart funds be eliminated once PRONAGRI operations, which were then
suspended because of credit restrictions under an IMF program, had been
resumed. However, by late 1984, the funding situation had improved. A
supervisein mission in November 1984 reported that adequate counterpart funds
had been provided to PRONAGRI at that time, and that BACEN was trying to get a
substantial budgetary allocation for the project in 1985. Given this effort.
the earlier recommendation to eliminate the counterpart funding requirement
was not pursued at that stage. The mission noted, however, that the future
availability of counterpart funding was likely to be the main constraint to
the implementation of PRONAGRI. In mid-1985, following another suspension of
credit operations because of restrictions under an IHF program, the proposal
to eliminate the counterpart funding requirement for PRONAGRI was revived.
This was later modified to a proposal to reduce the Government's participation
in investment subproject costs from 312 to 142 (not 0 as originally
envisaged), and to increase correspondingly the Bank participation from 33Z to
50, in line with the Bank's cost sharing ratio of 502 for other projects in
Brazil. This revised proposal was put into effect in 1986 (para. 14).
23.  A number of modifications to the design of the project, such as those
mentioned in para. 14, were necesssry in order to adapt the project to the
rapid changes in the economic environment. None of these changes affected the
fundamental character of the project. Both the Bank and BACEN showed
flexibility and realism in agreeing and implementing the changes.
24.   The temporary suspension of monetary correction under the Cruzado Plan
in 198617 eroded significantly the principal of PRONAGPI sub-loans and
resulted in negative interest rates being charged during that period. This
was an event of suspension of disbursement under Section 5.01 (e) of the Loan
Agreement. The Bank, however, opted not to exercise its remedies under the
Loan Agreement since, as already noted (para. 11), the suspension of monetary
correction was an integral part of an economic stabilization program which the
Bank supported, and which, in the early months, appeared to offer some promise
of success. Instead, the Bank agreed with the Government's proposal to change
the interest rate arrangements under PRONAGRI by dropping the monetary
correction on sub-loans and shifting to nominal interest rates based on the
rates on 180-day CDs. This proved to be a mistake since the Cruzado Plan
failed to contain inflation and these nominal rates quickly turned into highly
negative real interest rates.
25.   BACEN executed the project efficiently through the end of 1987.  It
worked hard to resolve the early delays and made advances to overcome the
restrictions on Government counterpart funds. Throughout implementation,
BACEN was effective in the difficult task of adapting PRONAGRI to changing
conditions and maintained very good relations with the Bank and PBs. On the
other hand, it attributed at first the delays in disbursements to delays in
the approval of PRONAGRI regulations, while in fact the Government budgetary
restrictions were the more limiting constraint. Also, the allocation of the
greater part of loan funds to official banks may perhaps have been influenced
by political considerations. Overall, however, BACEN's management was
effective, with a high degree of technical competence; it was of critical
importance to the success of PRONAGRI.



-9-
26.   The decision to transfer the main responsibility for PRONAGRI to DTN was
premature. The main objectives - the consolidation of the Government budget
and cash m-aagement, and the extinction of the *development' functions of
BACEN - were sound and could have been achieved with little disruption or
difficulty. The first could have been achieved by some simple accounting
arrangements between BACEN and DTN; the 'development functions' of BACEN could
have been quickly phased out - PRCNAGRI was nearing the end of its life and
would have completed disbursements earlier had it been left where it was. The
Bank agreed to the transfer without evaluating the new procedures to be
followed, DTN's capacity to implement them, or the impact of the transfer on
PRONAGRI. As a result, there was quite an unnecessarily diffic-.lt transition.
It must be stressed that this does not reflect on DTN, which had no chance to
prepare itself for handling the task imposed on it. As already noted (para.
15), by the time of the PCR mission in October 1989, DTN's management of
official credit programs transferred from BACEN had improved significantly.
In fact, at that time, DTN was managing well the start-up of the Fourth Agro-
Industries Credit Project (Loan 2960-BR) and the Agricultural Credit Project
(Loan 2971-BR).
27. Although PRONAGRI was intended specifically to provide financial
assistance to the Brazilian agro-industrial sector, it did not add
significantly to the segmentation of financial markets in Brazil. Its
financing terms and conditions were commrcially-oriented, and a wide variety
of agricultural and agro-industrial activities throughout Brazil received
financing under the project. PRONAGRI's sub-bcwrowers also included
individuals, cooperatives and corporations, both national and multinational of
all sizes (paras. 17 and 18).
28.   There seems to be widespread agreement by the Ministry of Finance,
BACEN, leading PBs and sub-borrowers that PRONAGRI was overall a successful
operation. It provided term finance for productive investment during a period
when such finance was otherwise scarce or simply not available. Although for
reasons beyond its control (para. 24), PRONAGRI failed to prevent the erosion
of its principal, it eventually introduced interest rates on sub-loans which
were linked to the nominal rate on the Bank loan. These rates, after monetary
correction, ranged for the most part between 112 and 12? to sub-borrowers.
Under the Fourth Agro-Industries Credit Project, PRONAGRI's successor, and a
parallel agricultural credit project (also developed from PRONAGRI), PBS are
free to fix %'heir own spreads and on-lending rates. The initial variable
interest rates under those projects are concentrated in the 12Z-142 range,
with higher spreads than under PRONAGRI. It is unlikely that returns on real
assets would permit firms to pay much more. The fact that the Bank loans in
support of these ongoing agro-industrial and agricultural credit projects
(US$300 million each) were almost totally cdmiitted in about a week afte-:
effectiveness in August 1989 suggests broad acceptance among sub-borrowers of
coamercially-oriented credit projects with on-lending interest rates anchored
to the nominal interest rate on the Bank loans.



- 10 _
H. Lessons Learned
29.   The above findings indicate some important lessons to be learned from
the experience of PRONAGRI.
30.   Despite an ecGnomic environment characterized by high and unstable rates
of inflation, PRONAGRI was useful in helping finance long-term productive
investment in the private sector. However, in a credit program like PROMAGRI,
where the Government acts as a wholesaler of Bank funds to provide investment
finance through efficient financial intermediaries to a wide range of
profitable private sector activities, the Government should not be asked to
bear any of the risks or costs involved; these should be passed on to the PBs
and their clients. The passing on of the foreign exchange risk, which was not
done under PRONAGRI, should not only help preserve the real value of
recoveries, thus ensuring sustainability of future credit projects, but also
transmit international price signals to the domestic market. Two aspects of
the foreign exchange risk need to be distinguisheds the cross currency risk
(between the US dollar and the other currencies in the Bank's currency pooling
system) and the own currency risk (between the cruzado and the US dollar).
Unlike under PRONAGRI, the crosst currency risk can now be hedged, given recent
changes in the Bank's loan currency management which uow permit a borrowing
government to anticipate the currency composition of its debt service on Bank
loans. It should, therefore, be possible to pass on fully the cross-currency
risk on Bank loans or the cost of hedging it. Likewise, the own currency risk
(between the cruzado and the US dollar) should in principle be passed on fully
as well. However, given Brazil's history of letting the local currency
appreciate in real terms as inflation accelerates, and later devaluing in a
relatively large step or steps, consideration should be given to putting a cap
on the exposure of PBs and sub-borrowers to own currancy risk during periods
of large devaluations, while also setting a minimum charge per period over the
term of the subloan to cover this risk. This would help reduce the
uncertainties faced by PBs and sub-borrowers during periods of high inflation
and facilitate the achievement of the investment promotion obje-tive of credit
projects.
31.   Based on the experience with PRONAGRI, the Government should also not be
asked to contribute counterpart funds to commercially-oriented credit
projects. The balance of subproject financing should be fully provided by PBs
and their subborrowers in a proportion freely negotiated between them.
32. The above lessons learned fram PRONAGRI have been incorporated
substantially in the design of PRONAGRI's successor project.



- 11 -
II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE2
33.   BACEN and DTN agree with the observations and conclusions noted in Part
I of the Project Completion Report prepared by the Bank, and wish to make the
following observations.
Proiect Imulementation
34.   The initial delay in implementing PRONAGRI was mainly due to the
Brazilian Government's difficulties in allocating the necessary counterpart
funds.
35.  Therefore, although PRONAGRI's regulations had already been issued by
the end of 1983, and BACEN had started to accredit PBo thereafter, PRONAGRI
was effectively launched only in the second half of 1985. Starting in 1986,
with an increase in the limit of Bank participation from 33Z to 502 of
subproject cost and a corresponding reduction in the Government's
participation from 312 to 142, as well as the favorable economic expectations
engendered by the.Cruzado Plan, PRONAGRI experienced a more dynamic phase.
This continued in 1987 so that by the end of the year, most PRONAGRI resources
had been committed.
36.   In 1988, with the transfer of BACEN's official credit operations to DTN,
a number of changes were made in PRONAGRT's operations, the most important of
which was the elimination of the allotment ('dota9o'o) system previously used
by BACEN. Under the new system, funding commitments were made to the PBs
based on sub-loans which had been effectively coitracted by them. This
eliminated the problem observed in the previous system in which considerable
volumes of resources were alloted to PBs at their request, but were not
committed to subprojects as quickly as expected because of the PBs' slow
response, and/or lack of experience and/or real interest.
37.   The above change was a step forward.  It is true, however, that the
operating system of official credit programs can be further improved by the
creation of instruments and mechanisms that would allow greater speed in
allocating and releasing funds to PBs and final borrowers.
38.  Thus, with regard to external funding sources such as the Bank, the
possibility of future loans being made directly to PBs, whether singly or
through a consortium of PBs, should be studied in order to eliminate
Government intervention.
2 Part II is the Bank's translation into English of the Portuguese
version prepared jointly by BACEN and DTN.



_ 12 -
39. With this change, the lines of credit would be implemented faster and at
lower cost through the elim4nation of Government intervention, and the choice
of subprojects would be based solely on the market, without any earmarking of
credit, in accordance with the present objective of less Government
intervention in economic activity.
40.   Alternatively, until the above-mentioned system takes effect, it seems
appropriate to study further whether the operational part of official credit
programs could be transferred to other agencies which are free of limitations
including legal ones imposed on DTN and BACEN, and are therefore able to
operate these programs at a faster pace.
41.   The observation made in Part I of the Project Completion Report that the
official banks received the greater volume of resources (para. 16) is true,
but it should be pointed out that this was partly due to the fact that these
banks, which traditionally had acted as financial agents for official lines of
credit, had greater experience in handling operations such as those supported
by PRONAGRI, and thus had an advantage in relation to private banks.
42.   W:.th regard to operations, BACEN and DTN appreciate the Bank's
flexibility and goodwill concerning PRONAGRI's adaptation to the major changes
in the country's economy vhich took p-lace during the implementation period; on
the Government's side, efforts were made by BACEN and later DTN to overcome
the difficulties which arose, first during the project start-up, and later
during the transfer of management from BACEN to DTN. Without these efforts,
the project would not have ended well.
Proiect Results
43.   Despite the lack of data for a detailed evaluation of impact, PRONAGRI
was unquestionably successful, with its significant financial assistance
(long-term resources) to national agro-industry, including a much broader
geographical coverage than that of preceding World Bank-supported programs.
44.   In this respect, it is important to point out that an appreciable
portion of program resources, around 32X (end-1988 data) was allocated to the
Center-West, the country's agricultural frontier where the agro-industrial
sector is undergoing a significant expansion. The South and Southeast, with a
longer agro-industrial tradition, received around 23? and 292, respectively,
of total resources.
45.   Special mention should be made of the grain storage sector, whose static
capacity rose by about 4 million tons and which received about 31S of program
resources, that is, nearly one-third of the total (end-1988 data).
Investments ranged from small farm-level storage with a static capacity, for
example, of 500 tons of grain, to large-scale installations with a static
capacity of 100,000 tons of grain, benefitting rural producers and private
storage companies.
46.   Next in order of importance are the fertilizer, textile fiber and cereal
processing sectors, with a participation in total resources of around 8.7?,
8.3Z and 7.7?, respectively.



13 -
47.   Important support was also given to rural producers to procure
harvesters; this type of financing represented nearly 50Z of operations in
number, and nearly 3.72 in value.
48. For reasons stated in Part I of the Project Completion Report (para.
19), long-term investment financing predominated, with nearly 962 of
operations in number, and 872 in value (end-1988 data). This does not,
however, represent a departure from the program's Initial objectives. Long-
term investment financing has traditionally been given priority by official
credit programs.
49. Negative aspects of PB)NAGRI included slow implementation, both in
start-up and later use of resources, and what is worse, the erosion that took
place in the subloan principal, due mainly, as noted in Part I of the Project
Completion Report (para. 20), to the suspension of monetary correction during
the Cruzado Plan.
50.   The delay in project implementation, which underlines the need to revise
the operational system of official credit programs, as discussed in paras. 38-
39 above, also occurred because of factors beyond PRONAGRI's control. The
domestic economy during the project implementation period was characterized by
high inflation rates and uncertainties which inhibited the development of a
number of ventures, thus reducing the demand for project resources.
51.  With regard to the erosion of the principal of subloans, the problem was
lessened by the return to full monetary correction in March 1987; previous
losses, however, cannot be recovered, and what is now sought is the use of
indexes which fully reflect inflation, the control of which (the present
Governrent's primary objective) would greatly diminish the problem.
52. Nevertheless, compared with agro-industrial credit programs that
preceded it (COREXIPAGPI and PAGRI), PRONAGRI represented a significant
evolution, and in general, had positive results. Experience gained in
implementation points out the need to perfect the operating system of official
credit programs, giving special attention to the selection of indexes used for
monetary correction of subloans in order to maintain the real value of
principal, and, therefore, facilitate the self-sustainability of these credit
programs.



ITT.  SUMKARY OF STATISTICAL DATA
1. RELATED BANK LOANS
tear of
Approval
Loan Title                  Purpose              & Status               Comments
Agro-ITdustries      Support investment            1973          Refinancing through Central
Credit I             program to further the      Completed       Bank restricted to 5 state
928-BR               growth of exports of                        development banks, a
US$54 million        processed agricultural                      limited range of activities
products                                   and the central and
southern regions
Agro-Industries      As above                      1977          As above, but with more
Credit It                                        Completed       state development banks
1317-BR                                                         participating
US$83 million
Agro-Industries      Promote productive            1988          Final on-lending terms to
Credit IV            investments and the         Effective       be freely negotiated by
2960-BR              liberalization of credit    Aug. 1989       sub-borrowers and
US$300 million                                                   participating private and
official banks. Most of
the loan was committed in
less than one week after
effectiveness.
NOTEs In addition to the above, there have been a number of loans with agricultural credit
component or policy conditionality, notably 2348-BR, 2727-BR, the NE Rural
Development Projects and Agricultural Credit-2971-BR. The last named is on similar
lines to 2960-BR and like it, became effective in August 1989 with slmilar results.



- 15 -
2. PROJECT TDMETABLE
'Item                                     Dates
Planned     Revised      Actual
Identification                                       ---         1182
Preparation                              ---         ---         5/82
Appraisal Mission                        10/82        ---       10/82
Loan Negotiations                         3183        ---        3183
Board Approval                            4183        ---        4183
Loan Signature                            5183        ---        5183
Loan Effectiveness                        6183        ---        6/83
Loan Closing                             12188        12189     12/89
Loan Completion                           6/88         6189      6/89
3. CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$14)
Appraisae4    FY8S    F6    FY87    FY88   FY8g    FY90
Appraisal Estimate          60.0   180.0   330.0   400.0   400.0  400.0   400.0
Actual                      26.0a    27.1   49.0   173.0   287.1  377.8   392.3b
Actual as Z of Estimate     43.3    15.1    14.9   43.3    71.8   94.4   98.1
_______________________
al  Special Account
b1  As of February 2. 1990.  The undisbursed balance of US$7.7 million is being
cancelled.



- 16 -
4. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Prolect Costs
Agpmaisal Estimates               Revised Estimates1
Foselan                         Foreian
Local    Exchmate  Total         Local   Exchanae       Total
costs      Costs                 Costs    Costs
Long-Terz
Investments   560         190      750         n.a.      n.a.         619.2
Capital       n.a.       n.a.      450         n.s.      a.a.         218.1
T 0 T A L     a.a.       n.a.    1,200         n.a.      n.a.         837.3
.~ -                                     e                      1 -t  m |_ ebidl
et Damlh date __ dj riSat aate for all Amjt a.t se fr  I al lb Is .
l.am the.of1to5                      e the  bat Sm   "diebeeM dtobUS eed tp Aht set lOSS.
I.  Prolect Financins
Source         Planned (Loan Aareement)   Revised Estimates
(US$'000)         (1)     (US$'000)         ()
Bank                         400          33.3       319a            47
Long_term Investments    (250)         (33.3)      (284)          (46)
Working Capital           (150)        (33.3)      (107)          (49)
BAC.                         230          19.2       (112)           13
Lon.-texm Investments    (230)         (30.7)      (112)          (18)
Working Capital           (--)          (---)      (---)          (---)
Participating Banks          420          35.0        139            17
Long-tesm Investments    (120)         (16.0)       (28)          (4)
Worki.g Capital           (300)        (66.7)      (111)          (51)
Sub-borrowers                1S0          12.5       (195)           23
Long-tern Investments    (150)         (20.0)      (195)          (32)
Working Capital           (---)         C---)      (---)
,T  .T A L                 1200           100.0       837            100
Long-term Investments   (750)          (100.0)     (619)         (100)
Working Capital         (450)          (100.0)     (218)          (100)
bftes TVotle mw n add due tu mdla. Actual dat  roectI fisu f  lt  ereo  *  al t Il.
7U11t of WS.   tta   o   aNe  f froat-d fee.-
I,



Tho folle ita     e                             of econmic Xctvtlee fi ed unr                and their oeating and finanacil reult.  Tbe no apei  of eubrojecta Is
b       ne _  represente Wo of tA  wide vlr.tgy of aicultural *Nd aro-idetra  Invesents eupporte  by P1 .
bhab isrl       i         oa a-d Financtno   P                                                  NM.*-lo -tu                              l
ProductiUe of           u04.8 .1ll0t: 45    r) ,uls.t)ed                    ate68d fertiDileR  -   t)  "athnr trawlator      t8 sew Jobs a US6            - 481
fertitIrtoeaNd          ffAUl       541               rI,K) fir tyilto _ig                        tte u" Sit: This an tr aced an  Increase in We     Payback -   year
bicalclue phoephate       undi                    loweet                          scuot p v    the  ealeting ether    coopny e mork for".
01S0 J000 Hr/p                   i port of Orall;   pert of Oral I w t
cli..          bicalectliu  phoeeiate -     vin   mrle achved
fot animet feed        minis do*le_tc with ao_               eubXtetiit n of
(88.200 NT/pr)    * porte to Latin Amewca   n m            to c tbl fl.
countrtto.                 ae well    through ate were
*tratlegi locatitn for
j      o iiie    lu hiF
euiojc aneoiae   h
Tapen  procee. asplope
acti  d,ing.
en beggU in) le
Leider thebee proee ..
Pho~phate rook           018.8 mill ion:        patite ~pbatte t_osmeetir mait                  lhe project a" dlie  tn    U ae  jcbs.                In 8:
productln (eap_leton  iRMW - W7                           mter a e                              teo phaee  #trek ph    -   rlpreanting a 1            PaybAc  2.5 Sear
project).                 w. lFOnd - 411      for pnenductioe of                                 etal ls.. of a it  lbr  locreea  In the
elptIwrc said Nd                                  Gindr hich Incretaed         oumpenge wo& force.
art isil  (firet                                  rIndr allhtni  tli  NW
_tAe - MAN dlP K4;                                pidSd an   tlet Increaee
_tA       " - 75. 000                             of 10.0 ff pW r ygear
_                            v        i8~~~~~~~~1)                                      aecond pha  _                                                                           I
Isp iementt en of a tertiary
criahing u at to reduce
miealoat ganuloeatrU from 80
Meteo a Mwith the
objective of incroe f oi
oito cncoVt by
N,o 00        gear.y 
-  ion of pisphoric  01t.1  Ittion            Pldtuoap&ic sacd - rew     of producion to sold  Prodction pro_omey   loped  a ne  Jo.                   Mt 7M
acid plant        ~~PROKUI  84          material for           to an amo"ecated campany   Is modern end of a                                    Peibckv I gear 4
Own Fnd.- M           ren  o                  hic   omtoom  tpe                            lting m_nthe
fertili-er., Ispeen and fertilIzer.; 805 for other of three min operatio:
animal food (1 0,000  dmtt   m                    rein, iltratn  n
1W/gear).                                         concentain.
Oapansio" od bicalcume   USU.RIII §           Slolcme Bleae    Mbin   d           t  maret       e     n1 new Jobe                                    n.m.
spl_ t prodlem, en         OWf _ I - ametl feith awe eaporhe to Latin
e t  r   - 87        (100.000 Kr/ye)        Amerim cointriae.
Seep ad glycrine         M11?4 miliIon         o"    000       r)    soap- omeec maket          The awtm fr  aeation of n.n.                          n.e
prSbductin                       - n.n.    (ttyce rlm eID (60  gr)  Opcerima - Prtnoeltsit   IFe  ud SWp games ratl
0ore - n.n.                                 doetie    Mae  aith so"  centrifua  (efl)
.    eapte (2I6 Of         Ieving th    W  m
prodcion)                 Bcopoca  16e eeaa
ehi  aloew  it to to uad
exactaSgmdam
amount ofpt   *1tnt
redeemed._ 



hbami*sl                 gnCt md   ancina   P1PAuda           1       b1a                                                               Generation    FluhmMal &JUlts
Zqileeentmt.ion of an    62.?7 million        Vegetabls /ate  romJet  =4_rt                     This procealoa tontrol       Redectleo of 45 Jo".    a.*.
gutmted  ontrol reot.  Mq    I - n.a.                                                             yt      rea.(eo that sit
for a vegetable oil      Own  u   - n.e.    re   t., al  1                                      ot,I   if .r.oltion ar
rein.ry                                      hb,am. ;o.) e22.OO                                 cl n  r       aly
.tblhdparametera of
_                                                          r*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~epratr  preeu,. an
"as. .t lo. tgw.
-  .clartioae, with bettor
sent  M4o  1* flret   ate    'a
wwtR Oio            In of
veuol,l refinery In
heeleptere.re
OWNcrk-  opl4 oyation wee th
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~poo  fttt  thai of e
.mel4 rof a vecua b~t oa
fuonttie NWit 
r-ItA ~   ~        ~ t.om' 
tinc eat, m  remIt In
EJ'                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~redue teoieci
Soybee proeetl nd-  WU.l9 millio              S 4yea oll, _oba    Oceeeti mi                     b newtechoto                 18  nt&y where  *    n.e.
WUeRA   -261 a,                                   ntil mre             Inoc                         h et  (1wn
as" Fndo  -                                                                                         u o4   ; ui hoar
Cotto  trln              1W01,1" -w 11r                               mi                        Imoae  in ri1  chinor  and                            nh.  Pfl comtutimnI
On 1d  .4713                              le.piipa  w*ee eeetdt
o*tA    -                                                              p roduce cotto  thr et  of the
_cal     iatenaUcal
8torage.                 IMIall.lelon Canetrw"4W.n d tiso Ib_41cal            m et              lb nec tndhnoiomto  J2 -  JeW n*. -
zz  - "        t~~In  *trg  unit
Ow,. Fund.F- 401       a.. t*ooL  _'
Acqloilon oBf            WUO-5.OO
Ibrymetege        NSWIc t  6044
* seagen tad cope   ervetee a UO  two m   conly iane  itue 1_de  _S    (Frm  19 0f  aIn reor).
a..@t_^ -dateno



- 19 -
6.  STATUS  OF LOAN COANTS
Cgmliance vith Logn Covetnts
Sectiou/Covenant                                            Status 'of Co!mliance
Loan Agreement 
3.01 (a)          The Borrower shall cause the         In full compliance
Central Bank to perform all of
- the obligations of the Central
Ba, x under the Project
4roment, and shAll pv"#i4e
resources and services needed
to enabse the Central Bank to
carry out such tbligations.
4.02 (a)          Audit of the Special Account         In full compliance,
by inde     nt auditors and          albeit with delays.
transmittal of audit report to
the Bank not lator than four
months after end of the fiscal
year.
Project Asreement
3.01              The Central Bank,shall carry         In full compliance.
out the project in accordance        However, overall
with sound administrative,           adm4instration of the
financial, banking and agro-         project was transferred
Industrial practices with            to SIN effective January
experienced and qualified            1988, with the Central
anagement and staff.                Bank retaining the
responsibility for
regulating the credit
line, including
supervisory visits to
PBs and subprojects.
4.02              The Central Bank shall have          In full compliance
the project accounts audited         albeit with delays.
by independent auditors and
the audit report sent to the
Bank not later than four
months after the end of the
fiscal year.



0-
Schedule 2, CLendina PRlicies) of the Protect Agreement
I*A.6.             he outstanding principal            Compaii2eC  in substance.
wmount of the Central Bank          Since September 1989,
loans shall be adjusted             th6 index being used for
monthly in accordance olth          adjustment of principal
variations in the IPC, and the      is the BTN fiscal.  The
adjusted principal amoimn of        BTN is fuUly adjusted in
such loans shall bear a             accordance'with
variable Interest rate equal        variations in the IPC.
to the intetest rate on the
Bank Loan plus a O.51 spread.
l.A*.?            Every six months. the Central        In-full compl.ane. .
Bank and the Bank shall
exchange views on thb adequacy
of the ilterest rates referred
to In I.A.6. above. If
*agreenent is not reached
within 15 days fron the start
of consultations, the Bank
could withhold approval of new
Central lank loans and sub-
loans.
-.A8  iThe outstanding principal                       In full compliance.
amount of sub-loans shall bear
a variable interest rate equal
to thbt on Central Bank Loans
plus a spread of up to 42. if
the PB hat finanned from its
own resources not less thae
162 of the investment cost of
the sub-projects 32 if PE
financing is not less than 8S;
and 22 it no PB financing is
made available.
. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



21 -
I.A.8 (ii)        A muaxium interest ofjlU p.a.       In full compliance.
shall apply to sub-loans made
from September-December 1987.
Sub-loans made thereafter
shall also be subject to a
n--imnm interest rate of 142
p.a. or some other maximum
rate established by the
Central Bank after
consultations with the Bank
referred in para. I.A.7 sabove.
I.B.              Ieview procedures and approval       In full complia*ce.
limit; for sub-projects would
be as f&lltwst 
(a) sUlO*an of up to US$0.5
milLion could be approved by
the PBs; 
(b) for subloans betweet
US$0.5 million and US$5
Million, the Central Bank
would fix approval limits for
individual banks on the basis
of their managerial and
technical capacity and
experiencet and
(c) for the first three
subloans for leasing of
equipment, for securities
operations and for working
capital and all subloans of
US$5 million and above, the
approval of the Central Bank
and the Bank would be
required.
I.C.1.            Project accounts and financial       In full compliance,
s.tatements of PRs shall be          although with delays.
audited by independent
auditors and copies of these
audit reports furnished to the
Bank not later than four
months after the end of each
fiscal year.
)~                                                            y



_22-
I.C.2             Project accounts and financial      In full compliance.
statements of sub-borrowers         although with delays.
with subloas above USSO.5
million shall be audited by
independent auditors and
copies of these audit reports
furnished to the respective PB
not later than four months
after the  and of each fiscal
year. For sub-borrowers with
subloans less than US$0.5
million, a representative
sample for auditing purposes
shall be selected by the
Central Bank. The auditing of
the project accouots for thbs
sample shall be done to part
of the required audit of the
project accoQUts for the
respective PD.



- 23 -
7. UN OF SAW tR
A. Staff Inou!t
Stag of Pro)qo                                      In. Saftw*
Th    7h Appeail eal
Apt    oa  though  Boar  Appreol                                 11.52
Boart   r.Ival throub Ef.ths.n.                                    8.48
Supen.lon ..
Total
s 1|B. Illimus
. ' n SwllItI!or       Partormano.          T        of
!fii~bL    - jj         D£ys         f                     Ra1KS til ftt.2       Probl.s,
.~ ~~~~Yu  Pesn   il 
Ideatiftiatio.               1/             1          g/
Prperattos                   6/2            1           is "A
PAPritast                    e/e2           4           W9         FNA,EO1O15C tiOi
Approlal                      18/62         4          16          FMA,ECMi,EC,LaP
Poe   Apprslol              1/68           1            7                Q!
Airalal through
Bord As  ovel
Negotiations                 8/68           4            7        fMA,PrOC,O0,LEO
thrush Effoctiovan
Supwolonio                    6/68          1          1i                 FNA
Sua.rwisboa
Sopelvsion                  98/             1            7                PEA                 N7R/                0, P
12/68a        1          14                 FNA                                    0, P
2/64          2           28          FPA, ACM                   NR/
1/64          2           1i              FA, AS                  V                   P
0/65          1           if               FPA                    of t
)/86          1            9                FNA                  NR1_
6/80          2          26               1, AS                   2                   F
*                                              4/S7!J         1          is                 PNA
.0/9          2            6            ECN,PEO                   1                   U
6/89          1            4                ICE                   1                   1
$       S      JThe req.e for the project    .ed by Vie Sw_mnt during a *ak supe,iale. of the predeceemp project 0an 17-M).
J  Canaute  vith Pot. Aiotant Direjt.NW Program  Wd Leal staff Wm ower als, In the field at the am tine.
!I MD rating give. ince the operating rewlaftilo  for P_Z  had jus bem Issued a lboai, 19hti. 196.   e aiiha' report highigted
the Isprecticabilitw of for_aseins the fatre prog     of poject epaatim. Sive, the ecoaio criest in _ icr-h , and the ladgin  o
t_e  etry _   rest. idI  behid the ret of nflation.                         --                   -
T he mi-sion reted that *tnc  the opratin  reguitio   be be  ieee on_ recentl, th   efom.rating had little
ifimce  The sietn ales reported that official basis        e uhelto aaet th         iat that Pb prori wde 1 of the
finencing.
No mustieawl supervisIio  report prepre  *ince prject am at a caulets st,odti II 1u t government buWdgty problem.
Supervision alesi  focuad an chae, in procedure. ed rtgletim  seede to faclitate prject ieptletItio..
;/ SupervIsIo  mission fomed on a revlon of onlending terms and finacIng participetion of the Bob. the overnment aWd P9.
1, bet_ee Aprt I 19W  and Sattebr 16, indormal uervision of tet projel* aw  caried ou  s pan of the prearttion of th m_ccam
project (Lan 1660-Si).
Me Supervision roepor mm prepaed
REi - Finanial AgIalt;           t L-Lon Offier; POC4Projact Division Chtdi;          i OC-Progrm Division Chief; 0-Otet
Offier; Agsi4riultural   onict t; AS-Agro-indwatrles SpecielletS; .taaer            )
, I * Prbi_  Fre or idir Probl_m; 2 a idrate Problem
J  0 - Oth.r, P - Political; F - Finncial; 14 - Poneger;*1



bm   w-awams wo  ai
- ~ ~      ~           ~            ~           ~           ~           ~            --
7537  3661  OF mD68mL 11R01 4   61 a         , 1.t9
beotoip                        I., 8.11..                                   Webwomt of bb Lsem            o               itteok                    Oiof bb Lo
Petted   cetreo        Yell. ml Ceo. a8 or      Zad4e      Volde 4* Ceo. e of    irosta    -*"                                     Volc. StA Cm. U of    Voek    -
Feat...        Cs6l.40 Aftew       (124)    C%6l.40 s8t6 CwreoUoo   Pet.          6091001      tO. as        IC)      Ca6ZAIth Cearral    Pac.            Orie.eli "l a". -1-_II,
(Ca) i_      tory C.estnct  (an) (lr. as 10)     bve-" on lOP-O                        0Wi  1160.)       bib _11-)       bema do N24*                        (1. (UeIItk)
.h J            43.0O                    -          #.JII                                                                   4046
Oct as          as.: 1"8.9                          49.81                  8.21        0."          1.*O       0.."         6.                    1M.6         0.78         1.80
DOc a           70.61                  69.66        6.97                  1117.42      0.68         4.01       8.10         78.81                 107.42      0.113         4.00        4.00
STb as         U106.40                 67.68        100.00                 ".,4        0.70         6.60       S.17 *I0.0                          70.82      0.67         6.60         7.64
AND U          206.40                  48.46         10.111                67.76      0.67          7.00       4.99       'U649                  46.00        0.77         7.E0         8.?4
Oct             0A6.                   46.80        100.40                 67.69       0.65        18.90       6.97        Swa.t                   W6         0.77         18.00       10.85
DZ             IWAO          x -         .18        1.6                    6.6         0.40        2S.0        6.71       S182"9                   at.11       0.40        U*.60        0.09
lb. 67         161.61                  16.18        16.60                   Wa.y       0.48        608.0      261.18       1106.21                 46.28       *.4   0      05 1.60    61.68  t*
jbo 6          610.66                  26.18 t7".40                        69.91       0." 6o.80              so.6"        846A4                  81.6        .0. o1.00                ga45.1    -
ct 6t          401.70                  18.46       404.00                  20.70       0.75        41.60     U8.t          46.4t                   S6."        0.02       41.0         8.2
0. 67          mO.4                    11.8        86.70                   u0.77       0.71        48.20      61. 18110.82                         18.1       O."0         48.00       6.68
,b,r a    U     w0.40                   9.10        966.40                  1.il       0.1         *4.80      19.8         "SO           O0.S 11               8.#8         6.60        1.7
Jm 6a8            . 1                   5.84       171.80                    .67       0.80         4           .40                                6.4511     0. 0         4.10         8.6
0.1 so        gm8.10                    8.86      SM.0                      S."6       0.91        16.00      IS."7       *6.1.0,                  8.06       0.06         118.60       17.17
Dec so        4 69            U          .OD 0 O 6776.20                    3.10       0.9:        31.60   u .        n 6    2.     i     4.                   O.9         31.60       10.60
no6."     gm."                                                         80.6         27.4
boos  TM ebe. aolaalotlm ai" ba  dIerooeinet Idgure losy for ote floolao. OtA*roswmt ore teree to b, be"no oh lb. Ot beok g of %b. go_rt_se Ir dkic, th  rOlat em blem
oootr,eo go"e OIpod.
C.) COtrotbte  to *no&***" wt tth a*  tl. fr for_tery  wrotlio  smonwrlmd 1 A.... 2.
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                           U~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
THIRD AGRO-NDWSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2268-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MONETARY CORRECTION OF SUB-LOANS
A. Contracts Signed Before Februarv 28. 1986
* .       1. Up to February 28, 1986:
monetary correction in accordance with ORTN.
2.  Feb. 28, 1986-Mar. 30, 1987t
On February 28, 1986 balances were converted 1000X1 from Cruzeiros
(Cr$) to Cruzados (Cz$), and remained without correction through March
30. 1987 (Circular 1016 of March 25, 1986 alinea 1).
S. mar. 31, 1987-Dec. 31, 1988:
On March 31, 1987 the outstanding balance as of February 28, 1986 was
corrected by the ORTN variation of 95.22 between February 1986 and
March 1987: from then through December 31, 1988, the balance was
corrected on the basis of the variation in OTN (Circular Letter 1595 of
March 31, 1987).
4.  Jan. 1989:
Correction fixed at 28.79Z (Circular 1518 of August 3, 1989).
5. Feb. 1, 1989-Jun. 30, 1989:
Balance corrected by the variation in the BTN (Circular 1518).
6. From July 1, 1989:             1
Balance corrected by the variations in the BTN FISCAL.
Notes  The procedure for applying monetary correction varied as follows:
(a) ORTN and OTN - the month over month values were taken. Thus, the
OTN value in Nov. 1987 was 463.28 and in December 1987, 522.99 and
the balance at the end of December would be corrected by
522.991463.28.
If only part of a month was involved, the adjustment was prorated
on a daily basis.
(b) BTN t the balance was corrected on the first day of the month on
the basis of the month to month change in BTN and remained
unchanged throughout the month.
(c) BTN FISCAL - daily variations and adjustments.



_ 26 -
ANM       2
Page 2 of 2
B. C2ntr_ctk Signed Between March 1. 1986 and June 30. 1987:
1. Through February 1987, a nominal rate of interest of 13S vas charged,
with no monetary correction.
2. In the period March 1987 - June 1987, an iuterest rate of 2182 p.a. was
charged, with the option of capitalizing 2092.
3.  From July 87, OTN correction was applied.  Thereafter as in A 4, 5 & 6.        p
C. Contracts Signed after June 30. 1987s
As 33 above.
Interest Rates Chaeried
The following rates are those charged to PB8, which could charge subborrovers
a spread of up to 2S in addition. (Higher spreads of up to 32 or 4S could be
charged if PBs participated with their own funds, but In practice they had no
longterm money available).
On A contracts (see above), 1O2 after monetary correction throughout.
On B contracts
(a) through February 1967, 131 nominal;
(b) March-June 1987, 218S nominal, of which 2092 could be capitalized;
(c) July 1987 and after, 9S after monetary correction.
On C contracts, a variable rate of interest after monetary correction. This
rate, adjustable six-monthly, has so far ranged between 8.09S and 8.26S.
4. 
J~~~~ 



IS6RD I20444fl
-+   (VENEZUELA  3                                -
COLOMBI                            , 7-> RIN\ME\9UIA 2  J---
S¶RORAI A Y   ,J~~~\ AMAPAoA  
P  RU         <        % N  OR  T                                 aA
A (T-A   ' ir
..-   ~               P           A         A F                                  A At
, --                     /     S H IeresrnLCEARA /RI0      OrwIo.NORTEf
~~ A  ,-                                      MI,o ~~~~~NORT           EN       7
RN6NI I                                             )        ~A  OS               -
}P<   + E RA-R GU  H I A  r L:
G ~  ~     tS~    G   .
B L                               4  I V I A  Goiania
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t6g ow.  .
r  -.  ~MATO GROSSO)
Campo C-M          w ~~Belo /EFT0AO
DOSU   HAOPAUL
\PARAG  AY                                                           /
CHIL~                                               % L4I   E ER
(                        ~~~~~PARANA\ 
.rJJA CATARI ~~-
(L  RAZIL               ANRG E NT~  A             SO TN'~
S.oeted Thw
UUGUAY                                 --~7



