Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3512-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMET"
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$400.0 MILLION
TO
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
THIRD AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
April 5, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Cruzeiro (Cr$)
As of March 31, 1983
Cr$1 = US$ 0.0024
US$1 = Cr$ 415.46
Government of Brazil Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Unless otherwise indicated dollar equivalent figures in this report are based
on the dollar-cruzeiro exchange rate as of January 13, 1983 (US$1.00=Cr$260),
the date of the base cost estimates.
Glossary and Acronyms
BB        Banco do Brasil
(Bank of Brazil)
BACEN     Banco Central do Brasil
(Central Bank of Brazil)
BNDES     Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social
(National Economic and Social Development Bank)
DESPE     BACEN'S Department of Industrial Credit and Special Programs
ORTN      Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesouro Nacional
(Obligations of the National Treasury)
SEPLAN    Secretaria de Planejanento
(Secretariat of Planning)
SDBs      State and Regional Development Banks
BNH       Banco Nacional da Habitacao
(National Housing Bank)
PAGRI     Programa Agroindustrial
WCF       Working Capital Fund



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
THIRD AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing
Agency:      The Central Bank of Brazil (BACEN)
Beneficiaries: - The Central Bank of Brazil;
- State and Regional Development Banks and
other Financial Intermediaries;
- Brazilian Agro-Industries.
Amount:         US$400 million equivalent including capitalized front-end fee
of US$1 million.
Terms:         Repayable over 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 3 years of grace at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Relending
Terms:       The Bank loan would be relent in cruzeiros by the Central Bank
(BACEN) through the Brazilian banking system for a broad range
of agro-industrial activities in the form of:
(a) long-term credit for agro-industrial projects;
(b) long-term credit to leasing companies for the acquisition
of machinery and equipment to be leased to
agro-industrial firms for use in approved projects;
(c) long-term credit to financial intermediaries to purchase,
or underwrite, securities issued by agro-industrial firms
for the financing of approved projects;
(d)  short- to medium-term credit for working capital require-
ments of viable agro-industrial firms in connection of
approved projects through a Working Capital Fund (WCF).
Long-term subloans would carry maturities of up to 10 years,
including up to three years of grace. Short-to medium-term
subloans for working capital would be for one to three years.
Interest rates to final beneficiaries for long-term subloans
would be reviewed by BACEN every six months and adjusted to
reflect changes in the cost of funds. Initially, interest
rates for long-term credit will be about 12% reflecting the
real cost of the Bank resources (about 4 to 5%), and spreads
of 3% for BACEN and 4% for the financial intermediaries, but
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
would not exceed a 14% ceiling. Interest rates to final
beneficiaries for working capital would be higher and would
vary according to the enterprise financed and maturity of the
subloan. They would be at market rates less a spread of up to
4% for the financial intermediaries. The principal of all
subloans would be adjusted for inflation according to the ORTN
index. The foreign exchange risk would be assumed by the
Central Bank and passed on to the final beneficiaries through
the relending rate. The credit risk would be assumed by the
financial intermediaries.
Project
Description: The project would provide financing for new construction,
expansion and modernization of plant, and working capital to
industries in the entire country which are processing
agricultural products (an important portion of which will be
for export), and agricultural inputs. It would support the
Government's current program to reduce over time distortions
affecting Brazilian trade and agro-industrial development; it
would assist in the creation of more efficient and competitive
financial markets by supporting innovative financial
facilities adaptable, either separately or in combination, to
the particular needs of the enterprises financed; and it would
strengthen ongoing efforts to improve the institutional
capability of participating banks, including their evaluation
and supervision of projects.
Risks:          There is a risk that demand for resources will not develop as
forecast due to slower-than-expected economic recovery in
Brazil and in world trade and commodity prices. There is
also a risk that monetary correction in financial instruments
might not fully reflect domestic inflation and, therefore,
interest rates on subloans could become negative. In view of
the recent IMF agreement and ongoing policy dialogue between
the Government and the Bank this risk is considered
acceptable. The Bank would closely monitor the movement of
monetary correction to ensure that it does not lag behind
inflation and, that therefore, interest rates to final
beneficiaries remain positive. It has been agreed that, if
the adjustment of the principal of the sub-loans together with
the interest rates applicable to such loans shall, in the
Bank's opinion, fail to be positive in relation to the
prevailing inflation rate in Brazil, commitments and disburse-
ments will be suspended.



- iii -
Estimated Cost                                ---US$ million Equivalent---
and Financing Plan:                         Local      Foreign       Total
Estimated Costs:
Long-term Investment                       560        190          750
Working Capital                            300        150          450
Total Costs  1/                          860        340        1,200
Financing Plan:
Bank Loan:                                                         400
- Long-term Investment                      60        189          249
- Working Capital                            -        150          150
- Front-End Fee                              -          1            1
Central Bank:                                                      230
Long-term Investment                     230          -          230
Working Capital                            -          -            -
Participating Banks:                                               420
Long-term Investment                     120          -          120
Working Capital                          300          -          300
Beneficiaries:
Long-term Investment                     150          -          150
Working Capital                            -          -            -
Total Financing                          860        340        1,200
Estimated Disbursements:                        --US$ million by Bank FY--
1984    1985   1986   1987
Annual                  60     120    150      70
Cumulative              60     180    330    400
Rate of Return:            N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 4363-BR dated April 1, 1983
1/ Includes front-end fee.



I



NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF
US$400 MILLION TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE THIRD AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$400
million, including a capitalized front-end fee of US$1 million to help
finance an agro-industries credit project. The loan would have a term of 15
years including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate. The proceeds of the loan would be made available by the Government
through the Central Bank to various participating financial intermediaries.
The intermediaries would onlend the proceeds to agro-industries in the entire
country. The Bank resources would finance priority investments under various
long-term funding schemes, and working capital on short- to medium-terms
through a working capital facility. The relending terms are described in
pages (i) and (ii) of the Project Summary and in more detail in paras. 57
through 61 of the report. Long term subloans would be for 10 years,
including up to three years of grace. Short- and medium-term subloans for
working capital would be at 1 to 3 years. The principal of all subloans
would be adjusted fully for domestic inflation according to the ORTN index.
The Government would assume the risk on exchange which would be passed on to
the final beneficiaries through the relending rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum on
Brazil" (Report No. 3275a-BR dated May 29, 1981) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on June 26, 1981. Missions to prepare a country economic
up-date were in Brazil in May-June 1982 and in January 1983; their report is
expected to be available shortly. Part I of this report as well as the
country data sheets attached as Annex I reflect the findings and projections
of those missions.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Figueiredo, took office
on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. Much of its attention has had to be
devoted to grappling with inflation and a difficult balance-of-payments
situation. Major economic priorities of the Government include the growth of
agriculture, reduced dependence on imported petroleum, expansion of
manufactured exports, and increasing domestic savings, while at the same time
improving the situation of Brazil's economically most disadvantaged
population. Success on these fronts is crucial to the solution of the
1/   Part I of this report is reproduced without substantial changes from
the corresponding part of the President's Report on the Water and
Sewerage Sector Project (Report No. P-3470, dated March 1,
198 3).



- 2 -
inflation and balance-of-payments problems, as well as to the sustained
improvement of living standards and better income distribution. In
mid-November of 1982, Brazil held its first major elections since the
mid-1960s. Opposition candidates have captured the governorships of several
key states, but no immediate impact is expected on national or state economic
policies.
Economic Performance
4.        Prior to the sharp worsening of its terms of trade in 1973,
occasioned by the quadrupling of the price of imported oil, Brazil had
enjoyed a period of rapid economic growth in the context of declining
domestic inflation and a significant liberalization of both foreign and
domestic trade. After 1973 successive Brazilian governments attempted to
cope with the constraints placed on the economy by the worsened
terms-of-trade, while maintaining a high rate of growth of output and
employment. Although aggregate demand management was somewhat erratic, the
general policy tendency through 1980 was characterized by large credit and
tax incentives to industry and agriculture, particularly for export expansion
and import substitution; growing direct state economic activity; intermittent
controls on prices and interest rates; rising import barriers; heavy foreign
borrowing; and an intensifying effort to reduce the growth in energy
consumption and substitute domestic energy resources for imported petroleum.
5.        Although reduced from the 11% annual growth of the 1967-73 period,
GDP grew at a still remarkable 7% average annual rate from 1974 through
1980. The merchandise trade deficit, which had ballooned to US$4.7 billion
in 1974, was eliminated by 1977 as a consequence of a 52% nominal increase in
exports and an absolute reduction in imports. Over the entire 1974-80
period, nominal exports rose 153% as compared to an 82% increase of imports..
Non-oil imports rose only 32%. However, the rapid accumulation of external
debt, which rose more than 3-1/2 times, the compression of real imports, and
the intensification of inflationary pressures increased the economy's
vulnerability to the further sharp increase in petroleum prices
and the rise in interest rates which occurred in 1979 and 1980. Thus, over
those two years, the current account deficit more than doubled to reach
US$12.4 billion, and international reserves fell by US$5 billion.  Domestic
inflation accelerated to 110%.
6.        In response to the deteriorating balance-of-payments situation and
domestic inflation, the primary immediate objective shifted from growth to
stabilization. Monetary correction and exchange rate adjustment, which had
lagged behind inflation in 1980, were brought back into line with inflation.
Interest rate controls were removed from commercial bank lending, and the
rate of credit expansion was severely limited. The intention was both to
dampen aggregate demand and to encourage capital inflow. Al-though still
highly subsidized, the interest rates charged on official loans were also
increased. The previously eliminated tax incentive to exports was
temporarily restored, and the financial transactions tax applied to foreign
exchange operations for imports was raised from 15% to 25%.
7.        As a consequence of these measures, GDP declined by 2% in 1981,
with the industrial sector in and around Sao Paulo particularly hard hit by
high interest rates and declines in capital goods and consumer durables
purchases. But the trade balance improved from a negative US$2.8 billion in



both 1979 and 1980 to a positive US$1.2 billion, and the current account
deficit was reduced, despite a US$3 billion increase (to US$9.2 billion) in
net interest payments abroad. Contributing to the trade surplus was a 33%
increase in manufactured exports and the further contraction of petroleum
imports. International reserves rose US$600 million, to the equivalent of 4
months of goods imports (compared to 3.6 months coverage at the end of
1980). Domestic inflation fell to 95%. The policy measures introduced and
the ensuing balance-of-payments improvement served to sustain the confidence
of the international bankers, and no problems were experienced in raising the
US$10 billion in required net borrowing during 1981.
1982 and Prospects for the Future
8.        The slowdown of international trade caught up with Brazil in 1982,
with declining commodity prices and severe difficulties in several of the
heretofore fastest growing markets for its manufactures. As a result,
nominal exports declined by 13% in 1982 relative to 1981. Imports were also
down, resulting in a US$775 million trade surplus, which was significantly
below earlier expectations. At the same time, the international financial
community reduced its lending to Brazil following first the war in the South
Atlantic and, later, the Mexican liquidity crisis, and Brazil was forced to
increase its short term borrowing and draw down its reserves in the last
quarter of 1982. The current account deficit for 1982 totaled US$14.5
billion, GDP growth was nil, and inflation accelerated slightly to just below
100%.
9.        The country faces a difficult period of adjustment in 1983.  The
Government's 1983 austerity program, which will receive assistance from the
IMF on the order of US$5.4 billion (including both compensatory financing and
Extended Fund Facility) over 1983-85, is designed to meet its debt servicing
obligations in the face of reduced external financing from commercial banks.
A major objective for 1983 is to generate an increased trade surplus of US$6
billion, thereby reducing its current account balance of payments deficit and
its external borrowing requirements. Measures have been announced to reduce
the consolidated federal public deficit, restrain monetary and credit
expansion, reduce interest and commodity subsidies, and temporarily impose
stricter, emergency-oriented, import restrictions. Indexation of wages has
also been reduced below 100%. In order to increase the competitiveness of
exports, and to help lower domestic interest rates, the cruzeiro was devalued
by 30% in February 1983 in place of the earlier stated intention to
accelerate the crawling peg. Henceforth, the cruzeiro will be devalued in
line with domestic inflation, implying some additional real depreciation.
With these policy changes, the Government expects inflationary pressures to
abate by the end of the year,2/ though accompanied by continued recession
and probably higher unemployment.
10.       In order to achieve the objectives of the IMF-sanctioned austerity
program for 1983, Brazil will require the continued support of the
international financial community. To this end, the Government has, since
end-December 1982, been negotiating a four-point financial assistance plan
with foreign commercial banks. These negotiations were completed at the end
of February. The banks agreed to (a) make new loans in the aggregate of
US$4.5 billion, (b) roll over for an additional 8 years US$4 billion of
2/ Owing to the effects of the February devaluation, however, overall
inflation for the year is not expected to show improvement over 1982.



- 4 -
medium- and long-term loans falling due in 1983, (c) make available up to
US$9.4 billion in short-term commercial credits (substantially exceeding an
earlier target of US$8 billion), and (d) restore to approximately US$7.5
billion the level of deposits held by foreign banks in overseas branches of
Brazilian banks (falling short of the original US$10 billion target). Once
these arrangements had been made, IMF assistance was approved on February 28,
1983.
11.       Brazil's balance of payments would benefit from a continuing fall
in the LIBOR and in world petroleum prices. Because about 70% of the
country's medium- and long-term debt bears variable interest rates, each 1%
drop in LIBOR would mean a savings of about US$500 million. For each dollar
reduction in the price of a barrel of oil, the imported oil bill would fall
by US$300 million at current consumption levels.
12.       Savings on imported oil could be even greater as domestic oil
production increases and energy conservation continues. Since 1973 Brazil
has made major efforts to reduce petroleum imports. Investments in
exploration have been accelerated, and foreign companies have been invited to
drill under risk contracts with PETROBRAS, the state oil company.
Investments have also been undertaken to develop the nation's hydroelectric
potential and to substitute alcohol for gasoline. Efforts are also being
made to induce energy conservation, particularly through pricing policies.
As a result of these, and other, policies, domestic gasoline consumption was
reduced by 20% between 1979 and 1981 and domestic petroleum production
increased by 41% from March 1980 to March 1982. Despite these encouraging
results, dependence on imported energy remains formidable. Petroleum and
petroleum derivative imports totaled US$10 billion (51% of total imports) in
1982.
13.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must continue
to experience a period of careful demand management. Maintenance of
international competitiveness through the exchange rate, and realistic
prices and interest rates should help to promote more efficient resource
allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import
substitution. Public investments will continue to be constrained by reduced
resource availabilities over the next several years. The development of
domestic energy sources, export promotion, agriculture, and the stimulation
of domestic savings will continue to require priority attention.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
14.       With reduced but reasonably satisfactory access to external
capital, Brazil may aim for some growth in 1983-87, with a GDP decrease in
1983 followed by recovery in 1984 and gradually increasing growth to about 5%
by and beyond 1986. Such a scenario should be compatible with a falling
current account deficit through 1986.
15.       The Government expects gross M&LT commercial bank borrowings to be
limited to US$10 billion in 1983, a reduction of 20% relative to 1982. Such
borrowings imply projected net M&LT borrowings of US$5.6 billion,
constituting an 8% increase in Brazil's gross M&LT external debt. In the
event of greater external resource availability, some build-up of reserve
levels and/or relaxation of import restrictions is expected. By 1985,
projected net N&LT borrowings should fall below the 1983 level.
Consequently, the net debt service ratio is expected to decline from 81% in
1982 to approximately 60% in 1986.



16.       The sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to exogenous
factors such as petroleum prices, international interest rates, and world
market conditions makes projections subject to a wide margin of error. Also,
the present scenario depends on Brazil's ability to reduce the consolidated
public sector deficit, expand manufactured exports in a weak world economy,
and attain continued access to internatioal commercial bank lending. These
objectives will not be easily achieved. Moreover, tangible results of the
austerity program are not likely to be seen until the latter part of 1983.
Instances of short-term cash flow problems, therefore, cannot be rulled out.
However, the Brazilian economy remains dynamic, diversified, and relatively
resilient, and policy-makers have repeatedly demonstrated their ability to
adjust to changing circumstances. With the Government's commitment to the
austerity program in 1983 and IMF support, Brazil should be able to make the
adjustments needed to cope with adverse international circumstances and to
reorient the economy toward a more efficient development path for the
remainder of the decade. Thus, Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing
on conventional terms in the amounts indicated above.
Poverty Alleviation Programs
17.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has made substantial efforts to relieve poverty.
The educational system has been rapidly expanded, giving rise to increased
enrollment rates and reduced illiteracy. Social security health programs
have been strengthened and extended to rural areas, and upgrading and
expanding previous health services for the poor have received much Government
attention. Increased Government efforts have also been directed to low-cost
housing programs for the poor and the improved provision of water and sewer-
age services 3/. In part as a reflection of these and other programs, there
are some indications, based upon preliminary estimates from the 1980 demo-
graphic census, of substantial living standard and welfare improvements
during the 1970s. Considerable absolute real income gains were realized by
all income decile groups. Unlike the 1960's, the poor do not seem to have
been left behind by the rapid economic growth experienced during the 1970s.
Non-income gains, as reflected by improved access to public services, declin-
ing infant mortality, and increased durable consumer goods possession by
households, also attest to significant poverty reduction during the decade.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL _/
18.       By September 30, 1982 the Bank had made 116 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$6,998.9 million (net of cancellations), of which 62 were not
yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million
per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, and US$471.5 million in FY82. The
undisbursed amount as of September 30, 1982 was US$3,401.9 million. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
3/ For a more detailed account of these efforts, see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report" (Report No. 2604-BR, dated
July 13, 1979).
4/ Part II of the report is reproduced without substantial changes from the
corresponding part of the President's Report for the Water and Sewerage
Sector Project (Report No. P-3470, dated March 1, 1983).



- 6 -
19.       Over the FY77-81 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from US$425
million to over US$800 million per year.  In FY81, eight loans totaling
US$844 million were approved.  In FY82, eight loarns totaling US$722.1 million
have been approved.  So far in FY83 five loans totaling US$989.7 million have
been approved, US$ 8.9 million for a project to help finance the preparation
of future investment project in the metropolitan region of Fortaleza and
Salvador in Northeast Brazil, US$304.5 million for an iron ore mining project
in the Serra dos Carajas, US$154.0 million for third feeder roads project,
US$220.0 million for a second development banking project, and US$302.3
million for a water and sewerage sector project. Work is advanced on the
third phase project of the Northwest region development program, on a market
towns improvement project in the State of Parana, a second rural development
project in the State of Bahia, on a rural electrification project, and on a
power distribution project.
20.        Brazil's external public and private debt outstanding and disbursed
is estimated to have been US$61 billion at the end of 1981.  The Bank's share
in total outstanding debt is estimated at 4.2% while its share in total debt
service has remained constant at 2%. These percentages are not expected to
rise significantly in the next five years.
21.        As of September 30, 1982, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$851.0 million, of which US$572.5 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled.  Of the balance of US$278.5 million, US$211.5 million represent
loans and US$67.0 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of
September 30, 1982 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
22.        In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the
Government achieve important development objectives which are
inter-dependent. One lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the
efforts of the Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those
groups, and to improve their living conditions. Previous loans for
nutrition, primary education, vocational training, agricultural research,
agricultural extension, polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco river
basin, and integrated rural development were designed to assist low-income
groups in rural areas, especially those in the northeast and the northwest.
Loans for water supply and sewerage projects in the state of Minas Gerais, in
greater Sao Paolo, in the Northeast and in the South, loans for urban
transport in several major cities, a loan for sites and services and low-cost
housing, and a loan for urban development in medium-sized cities are
assisting the improvement of the living conditions of the urban population,
particularly of the urban poor.
23.        Another lending objective in Brazil is to support institutional
development and policy reform, establish adequate coordination and control
within the public sector, and help maximize public savings and ensure that
they are used economically through rational selection cof projects. This
institution-building objective is particularly important in the proposed
project which seeks to build up on BACEN's efforts to strengthen the
institutional capability of state and regional development banks and other
financial intermediaries in project selection, evaluation and supervision



- 7 -
techniques. Loans for urban development, electric power, railways,
industrial finance, highways, agricultural research and extension, rural
development, water supply and sewerage, and for alcohol and biomass energy
development also have important institution-building objectives.
24.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange const-
raint on development by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. In this connection, two loans for agro-industrial credit and
several loans to BNDES designed to strengthen industrial development and
increase its efficiency have been made; it is to these ends that the proposed
project is directed. Lending for the electric power sector also supports
this objective, since it is based on hydroelectric energy, and its
development lessens the need for petroleum imports. The alcohol and biomass
energy development project addresses the need to restrict growth of petroleum
imports. Much of the Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector --
railways, ports and highways -- is designed to facilitate the economical flow
of exports.
25.       A final objective is to provide part of the medium- and long-term
capital inflows needed to sustain growth and achieve employment creation and
regional development objectives. Continued lending by the Bank in Brazil is
regarded by the international financial community as a sign of confidence in
Brazil and encourages others to contribute to the country's development.
In some sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participa-
tion has helped Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts from
bilateral credit agencies and private financial institutions than may other-
wise have been provided. Since 1976 through June 30, 1982, ten co-financing
operations, for about US$560 million, have been arranged and signed with
private financial institutions and several further operations are in prepara-
tion.
26.       Brazil is obviously undergoing a period of major difficulties, in
large part as a result of external events. Major efforts have already been
made by the Government to respond and adjust to these circumstances, and the
Bank will endeavor to frame its lending so as to be as supportive as
possible.
PART III - AGRO-INDUSTRY IN BRAZIL
General
27.       As a mechanism for the integration of the agriculture sector with
the industrial sector, agro-industries represent a powerful instrument for
the transformation and modernization of agriculture, with possibilities for
substantially increased agricultural output, expansion in employment oppor-
tunities, lower food prices, higher per capita incomes, improved internal
capital inflows and linkages fostering economic growth. The Brazilian
economy is particularly dependent on the capacity and efficiency of agro-
industries. Roughly half of all export earnings and about 10% of total GDP
depend on this sector, which, broadly defined, includes: the processing of
agricultural raw materials; the production of agricultural inputs; and
storage, marketing and distribution of agro-industrial products.



-8-
Export Markets
28.        Brazilian agricultural exports have played a major part in the
country's overall economic growth, increasing by about 10% in the 1970s. The
three fastest growing foreign exchange earners of the 1970s (soybeans,
oranges and poultry), alone brought Brazil about $4.2 billion in foreign
exchange in 1981 and accounted for 45% of all agricultural trade. Agro-
industrial output destined for world markets has also grown dramatically.
Since the early 1970s, their share in the total agricultural trade account
rose from less than 20% to about 60% by the early 1980. Increased processing
capacity, for inputs and post-harvest transformations, has been the critical
factor of the successful development of soybeans, orange juice and poultry.
Partly because of its success in increasing market share, Brazil, found
itself particularly vulnerable to the fall in commodity prices which started
in late 1980 and has continued through the end of 1982. Sluggish demand may
continue for some time in the absence of a sustained recovery of world trade.
Domestic Markets
29.        Paralleling rapid growth in export oriented processing of agricul-
tural products, changes in domestic food consumption and retail patterns have
led to greater agro-industrial growth. Today well over half of the urban
food budget pays for agro-industrial services providing a major source of
employment for lower income urban groups.  The development of industries
which supply critical farm inputs has generally kept pace with the moderniza-
tion of agriculture. Fertilizer consumption doubled between 1975 and 1980,
with the share being met by local production rising from about 30% to over
50%. Similar consumption and supply patterns have emerged for pesticides,
machinery and seeds. With improved government pricing policy, further new
investment opportunities such as production level collection centers,
development of urban retail marketing, can be taken up.
The Need for Structural Changes
30.        Weaker demand for Brazilian products has exacerbated structural
inefficiencies in the agro-industries sector which were less obvious in the
previous period of rapid growth and low-cost capital. During the 1970s,
investment decisions were affected by government price support and the
availability of negative interest rate funding for commercial inventories.
These programs often brought unintended results in terms of prices and lower
returns to agro-industrial enterprises. From the standpoint of long-term
capital formation, resources which could have been directed to value adding
projects were instead allocated to speculative activities. Recent changes in
Government policy particularly in the area of interest rates will help to
correct this. In addition, pricing policies are being reviewed to minimize
their current distorting effects.
31.        At the same time, problems of marketing costs exist.  In key crops
such as soya, Brazil's comparative advantages are weakened by distribution
inefficiencies and transportation problems. There are other factors which
increase marketing costs including high risk premiums on marketing margins,
an inadequate crop information system and the absence of adequate on-farm
storage.



-9-
The Financial System
32.        The Brazilian financial sector is well developed and in many ways
sophisticated. Reforms initiated in 1964 shaped the present Brazilian
financial system, creating the National Monetary Council and defining the
functions of institutions. A range of assets, bearing monetary correction
was introduced, the most important being Readjustable Obligations of the
National Treasury (ORTNs).
33.        The four main federal banks are:  the Central Bank (BACEN) and the
Bank of Brazil (BB), which together form the Monetary Authority; the National
Economic and Social Development Bank (BNDES); and the National Housing Bank
(BNH). Three of these -- BACEN, BNDES and BNH -- are second tier
institutions, passing on funds for relending to first-tier intermediaries
such as commercial and investment banks, including BB; except for BACEN, they
also lend direct. The 15 State and Regional Development Banks have acted
principally as agencies of the second-tier banks for medium- and long-term
credit.
34.        BB is the largest commercial bank in Brazil and the main window for
the lending operations of the Monetary Authority, primarily directed to
agriculture, exports and energy; its funds originate from demand deposits,
rediscounts, and, of the greatest quantitative importance, BB's current
account with BACEN, through which most of the official credit to agriculture
has been channeled.
35.        There are 81 private commercial banks, and 21 owned by state
governments. They concentrate on short-term credit as do the 38 investment
banks who also place and underwrite corporate debt and equity. Other
important sources of finance are institutional investors. The fiscal funds
are also substantial, but the tax credits which support them are now being
reduced.
36.        Leasing companies, mostly controlled by bank conglomerates have
recently become important sources of term financing and have been the fastest
growing financial subsector in Brazil over the last five years. A similar
innovation, albeit on a very much smaller scale, has been the emergence of
venture capital firms.
37.        The Brazilian securities markets, while dominated by government
borrowings, are competitive and sophisticated. There is a large market,
based on ORTNs, which is used for overnight deposits of cash. In terms of
private securities, there has been rapid growth in debentures, including
convertible issues. Although a commercial paper market is expressly
prohibited, there is a well developed system of discounting receivables.
38.        Recently, there has been a shift of credit from the private to the
public sector. The private sector's share of domestic credit outstanding
from the monetary authorities (BACEN and BB) fell from 78% in 1979 to 44% in
1981. In the case of BNDES, which supplied nearly all the long-term financ-
ing requirements of industry during the 1970s, the private sector's share of
total approvals declined from 86% in 1978 to 23% in 1981; since the total
also declined, the value of loan approvals to the private sector in 1981 was,
in constant terms, only 20% of what it had been in 1978. Lending by the
State Development Banks shows a similar trend.



- 10 -
Current Problems and Issues
39.       Through reducing domestic credit expansion, Government has sought
to reduce inflationary pressures, induce firms to borrow abroad and
facilitate its own borrowing domestically. During 1981 and 1982, the
commercial banks have had the expansion of most of their credit restricted to
50% annually in nominal terms. Since the restriction is applied equally to
all banks, it has reduced competition. The result has been monopoly profits,
and the banks have tended to favor well-established customers, at the expense
of emerging, innovative firms. Additionally, interest levels have been high.
40.       Administrative allocation of credit further impairs the role of
financial intermediaries: of the sight deposits available for lending, 25%
must be lent for rural credit and 12% for small and medium enterprises; 10%
of the total credit portfolios of the commercial banks must be in rural
credit (at the rate of monetary correction plus 12%), or any shortfall
deposited with BACEN at monetary correction plus 4%.
41.       The tax on financial transactions (IOF), which, on long term loans
amounted to 6.9% on the amounts disbursed, has become one of Brazil's highest
yielding taxes. Given the present position of the banks, the IOF is acting
as a tax on monopoly profits, although, were credit ceilings to be removed,
it would act to keep interest rates higher than they could otherwise be.
Policy Priorities
42.       Recently, the Government has developed plans for the liberalization
of the financial system, both in terms of interest rates and quantitative
restrictions, regulating the amount of domestic liquidity through such
instruments as compulsory reserve requirements, rediscounting and open market
operations. A number of policy changes are contemplated for the financial
sector to operate more efficiently. A relaxation of credit ceilings in the
individual commercial and investment banks is of priority, and is being
considered for late 1983. With this relaxation, and following further
reductions in the IOF, the cost of money to Brazilian borrowers could move
more closely towards international levels, although of course, it would
remain substantially higher.
43.       The Bank is addressing these problems further in the course of its
ongoing dialogue with the Government. The proposed project would assist in
the adjustment process by providing needed short- and long-term financing as
well as risk capital in the agro-industrial sector; ensuring positive spreads
to financial institutions; and, minimizing the calls on public sector
resources. With changes of the type outlined above and with the planned
reductions in the public sector deficits, Government's control over broad
monetary policy would be strengthened. In a more liberal environment, the
Brazilian financial sector has institutions and managers fully capable of
restoring and further developing sophisticated and competitive financial
markets.
Financing Agro-Industrial Enterprises
44.       In recent years, agro-industrial concerns have had to rely increas-
ingly on costly financing. At present, the market cost of funds mainly for
industry and commerce, is at least 20% above monetary correction and
maturities average six months. The strongest firms have responded by



- 11 -
by shedding debt and holding forward price exposure to a minimum; others find
themselves with unsustainable levels of inventories, financing charges and
exposure to changes in short-term interest or exchange rates.
45.        Managerial and capital resources in the agro-industrial sector are
presently focused on immediate needs as many firms have incurred operating
losses in 1982 and are expected to continue to have operating problems in
1983. Some consolidation must soon take place; once completed, remaining
enterprises can be expected to take advantage of new opportunities provided
they have access to appropriate and adequate financial resources.
46.        The future requirements of the agro-industrial sector are directly
related to the need for structural adjustments outlined above and to oppor-
tunities for providing new services or products that meet international and
domestic demand. In such an environment, agro-industrial enterprises will
need access to equity, working capital, reasonable term financing and stable
sources of raw materials, together with the talent to diversify into new
markets, products and uses for existing capacity. The proposed project would
help meet these needs.
Past Bank Lending
47.        There have been two previous Bank loans for agro-industrial credit
in Brazil, both of which helped finance a line of credit, known as PAGRI,
administered by the Department of Industrial Credit and Special Programs
(DESPE) of the Central Bank. PAGRI refinances subloans made by approved
participating banks.
48.        The First Agro-Industrial Project (Loan 924-BR) became effective in
March 1974. The two principal objectives of the project were to introduce
onlending subject to full monetary correction and to increase beef exports by
140,000 tons a year by 1978. Because of government limitations to, or
prefixation of the correction index used (ORTN), interest rates were
increasingly negative in real terms, until they reached negative 25% in 1979
and negative 60% in 1980. At the same time, competing lines of more highly
subsidized official credit made the program virtually inoperative for
substantial periods. The original closing date of the loan was December 31,
1978. After one extension it was allowed to lapse on December 31, 1980, when
an undisbursed balance of US$17.8 million was cancelled. This project is the
subject of a Project Completion Report dated June 25, 1981, and a Project
Performance Audit Report dated December 30, 1982 (Report No. 4232). The
Project Performance Audit Report, confirming the findings of the Completion
Report concluded that project performance had been poor, although the
institutional impact had been good.
49.        Far-reaching changes in Government policy since the end of 1980
have removed the main obstacles which prevented the success of the first
project and delayed the start of the second Agro-Industrial Project (Loan
1317-BR) of US$83 million made on Sept. 22, 1976. Accordingly, the Bank
agreed to continue with the second project subject to the maintenance of
monetary correction in line with inflation. Monetary correction since
January 1981 has been slightly ahead of inflation, so that the subsidization
of interest rates ceased; also, the availability of competing and more highly
subsidized lines ended. In addition, quantitative and price controls on



- 12 -
agricultural products (both unprocessed and processed) have been largely
abolished or relaxed. This resulted in an acceleration of disbursements
which also reflects the acute shortage of long-term funds resulting from the
Government's policy of monetary contraction. Nonetheless, it is a
significant achievement when account is taken of the current recession and
the abrupt increase in the real rates of interest on project funds--from
around negative 60% in 1980 to positive 3% or 5% in 1981. The second loan is
now almost fully committed, although there has been a slackening in the rate
of commitments during 1982, due mainly to the recession. Full commitment of
Loan 1317-BR is expected soon.
50.       It is too early to judge the results of investments made under the
second loan. Given present economic conditions and the fact that mDst firms
are working well below capacity, some results in the near future must be
expected to be disappointing but may well improve before the project closes.
Information provided by the participating banks from a substantial sample
(some 70% of the total of subprojects) indicates that the subprojects
reviewed are expected to create some 4,300 new jobs and to increase sales by
some US$450 million equivalent. Of the 55 firms included in the sample, nine
are newly established, of the remainder, six showed losses in their most
recent accounts, and 40 showed profits. Of the profitable firms, 19 showed
returns of up to 10% on net equity, 11 between 10% and 20%, and 10 over 20%.
51.       The administration of the PAGRI program is now established on a
sound and effective basis. The loan has helped in the development and
improvement of appraisal and supervision procedures by the participating
banks. BACEN continues to give emphasis in these institutional developments,
which would be supported by the project.
Bank Industrial Sector Lending Policy
52.       In May 1982, the Bank's Industrial Sector Report (No. 3766-BR of
July 2, 1982) was discussed with the Government. The Government expressed
its agreement with the report's scope and main recommendations including such
areas as exchange rate management, export subsidies reductions, interest rate
policy and domestic price controls, all of which build on policy measures
adopted during the last two years. The Government and the Bank agreed that a
work program would be developed to continue the analysis initiated earlier,
expanding its coverage and further developing proposals for policy action.
Therefore, the economic dialogue with the Government on industrial and trade
policy is likely to expand during the next years. In addition recent
discussions with the Government on pertinent fiscal, credit and agriculture
policy issues have indicated the appropriateness of future policy action.
The proposed project would provide an appropriate vehicle for continuing this
dialogue and constitutes part of a growing program of lending to support
industrial development and increase industrial efficiency in Brazil.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
53.       The project was identified in April 1982, and was prepared by BACEN
with the help of Bank staff. It was appraised in November 1982 and the
appraisal mission's report (No.4363-BR dated April 1, 1983, entitled "Staff
Appraisal Report - Third Agro-Industries Credit Project"), is being
circulated.



- 13 -
separately. Negotiations of the loan took place from March 23 through March
25, 1983. The Brazilian delegation was headed by Mr. Helio Ribeiro de
Oliveira, Director of the Department of Industrial Credit and Special
Programs of the Central Bank. A supplemental project data sheet, including a
timetable of key events and a summary of special conditions, is attached as
Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
54.       The proposed project would provide financial resources to enable
Brazilian agro-industry to use its proven ability to adjust and innovate in
order to respond to demand of domestic and international markets. In addi-
tion, the project would help lay the groundwork for more efficient and
competitive financial markets. The project would cover the whole country and
seek the broadest possible participation of the Brazilian banking system in
assisting a broad area of agro-industrial activity. It would provide finance
for investments and working capital in the form of conventional long- and
short-term credit; long-term credit to leasing companies for the acquisition
of machinery and equipment to be leased to agro-industrial firms for approved
subprojects; and, long-term credit to financial intermediaries to purchase,
or underwrite, securities issued by agro-industrial firms for the financing
of approved subprojects. The executing agency would be a department of the
Central Bank. Any bank or similar institution legally classified as a finan-
cial agent in Brazil would be eligible to become a participating inter-
mediary, subject to the approval of the Central Bank. Activities eligible
for long-term financing would include: any transformation of an agricultural
raw material; the manufacture of farm inputs; storage; and, the production of
agricultural raw materials by a vertically integrated agro-industrial
enterprise. The credit extended for activities included under the project
would include the financing of training or technical assistance to improve
the management capacities of the firms. The foreign exchange risk of all
financing, both long-term and short-term, would be assumed by the Central
Bank and passed on to the final beneficiaries through the relending rates.
The credit risk would be assumed by the financial intermediaries.
Working Capital Financing
55.       The availability of working capital would be a major determinant of
demand for longer term investment funds. In addition, in the absence of such
funds, many basically viable agro-industrial concerns could be forced to
contract or even cease operations.
56.       To meet this requirement, a Working Capital Facility (WCF) would be
established. The Bank's contribution from the loan to (WCF) would be US$150
million and the participating financial intermediaries would provide US$300
million. In order to qualify for the use of these funds, sub-borrowers would
submit a financial plan demonstrating the need for the funds and detail as to
how they would be used. WFC credit would be available to enterprises which
have borrowed under the proposed and the Second Agro-Industries Credit
Project. The WCF loan amount could be not more than twice the amount of the
total investment costs for the approved subproject. As a condition of loan
effectiveness BACEN would be required to make appropriate revisions, accept-
able to the Bank, to its manual of procedures to cover WCF operations (para.
68). In order to encourage participating banks to allocate and price these
funds competitively, the WCF resources would be excluded from the portfolio



- 14 -
limitations of the participating financial intermediaries. The Government
agreed, as a condition of loan effectiveness, to undertake appropriate action
to exempt the WCF resources from the portfolio limitations of the partici-
pating intermediaries (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Relending Terms
57.       The introduction of free market criteria in fixing the cost of
project funds would be an important development. The absence of a domestic
market for long-term investment resources, however, makes it difficult to
determine a bench market for lending costs. The arrangements proposed below
are considered to be the most practicable and economic in present circunr-
stances.
58.       In the case of financing for long-term investments by credit or
leasing, BACEN would rediscount 80% of the financing extended by the partici-
pating banks and charge, after full monetary correction, an interest rate
equivalent to the primary market yield on five-year ORTN bonds (which are
used for the great bulk of Government's domestic borrowing). Participating
banks would charge sub-borrowers, after full monetary correction, a blended
rate of interest, based on: (a) the rediscounting rate charged by BACEN,
plus a spread of up to 4%, on the amount rediscounted; and (b) on their 20%
participation, a rate equal to the average of the rates paid by first line
banks on certificates of deposit plus a spread of up to 4%. Therefore, the
real interest rates payable by sub-borrowers on long-term loans would
initially be about 12% (with an initial ceiling of 14%) given the current
yields on ORTN bonds (around 7 1/2%) and certificates of deposit (around
15%). Where the financing was provided by way of equipment leasing, the
terms described above would also apply.
59.       In the case of financing by way of the purchase of securities,
BACEN would rediscount in the same way, while the value of the equity
purchased would, in each case, be a matter for negotiation between the sub-
borrower and intermediary concerned. Demand for such funding is expected to
be on a smaller scale than for long-term credit or leasing and probably will
be used as part of a total financing package. A financial intermediary
purchasing securities (shares or debentures) issued by a sub-borrower to help
finance an approved sub-project could rediscount up to 80% of the cost of the
securities purchased.
60.       In the case of the WCF, BACEN would rediscount one third of the
amount of the working capital subloan at a rate 4% below the rate of the
subloan; the latter would be negotiated between the participating bank and
the sub-borrower. Rates on short-term loans, given current conditions, could
be expected to be higher than the rates of long-term investment. Spreads for
participating financial intermediaries would cover administrative costs and
credit risks. The principal of all subloans, both long-term and short-term,
would be corrected for changes in inflation according to the ORTN index
(Schedule 2 of draft Project Agreement). Interest rates are expected to
remain positive over the life of the subloans. They would be reviewed every
six months by BACEN and would be revised to reflect changes in the cost of
funds. It has been agreed that, if the adjustment of the principal of the
sub-loans together with the interest rates applicable to such loans fail to
be positive in relation to the prevailing inflation rate in Brazil over a
period of three months, commitments and disbursements from the loan will be
suspended (Section 5.01(e) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 15-
61.       In the event of the liquidation or sale by participating inter-
mediaries of investment credit, securities or working capital credit provided
under the project, the proceeds would be applied to the repayment of the
associated loan from BACEN to the intermediary. In addition, BACEN at its
option could call on any balance remaining on such loan (Schedule 2 of the
draft Project Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
62.       The project would support a total program of US$1,200 million:
US$750 million for long-term investments and US$450 million for working
capital. The foreign exchange component for long-term investments is estim-
ated at US$190 million. The proposed Bank loan would provide US$250 million
for long-term investments; an additional US$150 million would be provided by
the Bank for working capital. In total the Bank loan would cover 33% of
total project costs. The Government would be the borrower and assume the
foreign exchange risk which it would pass on to the final beneficiaries
through the relending rate. Under the proposed financing scheme, BACEN would
provide 33% of total project cost for long-term investment. The partici-
pating Banks would contribute 16% toward the financing of long-term invest-
ment and 67% toward working capital financing. The final beneficiaries would
finance 20% of the sub-projects.
Procurement
63.       Procurement would be in accordance with standard practice for loans
to DFCs and would follow normal commercial practice. The Brazilian construc-
tion and capital goods industries are highly developed and there is a signif-
icant foreign participation with most major foreign equipment manufacturers
present or represented in Brazil. Accordingly, ICB procedures would apply in
the use of contracts of US$3 million or more. Brazilian contractors and
suppliers would receive a 15% preference over foreign suppliers. Few, if
any, foreign contractors are expected to bid on the majority of subprojects.
At the present time, leasing firms are prohibited from leasing imported
equipment. Items financed under the project would be exempt from these
restrictions (Section 2.02(c.IV) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
64.       Bank disbursements would be 41.5% of disbursements by participating
banks for eligible subprojects and would be made against statements of expen-
diture. Participating banks would require sub-borrowers to retain the
supporting documentation for disbursements made by them to the sub-borrowers;
these disbursements would be made directly to suppliers and contractors,
where practicable, having regard to the sums involved. The statements of
expenditure submitted by PAGRI to the Bank, and by tbe participating banks to
PAGRI, along with the internal controls and procedures involved in their
preparation, would be covered by the project auditing arrangements.
65.       In order to reduce the interval during which BACEN would finance
the Bank's share of subloans with its own resources, a Special Account would
be opened in BACEN with an initial deposit of up to US$25 million from the
loan account (Section 2.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Bank would



- 16 -
replenish the Special Account on the basis of withdrawal applications sent by
BACEN after BACEN has paid the financial intermediaries.
Project Execution
66.       The project would be administered by BACEN which has administered
both the First and Second Agro-Industrial Projects since their inception.
Most of the larger financial intermediaries provide a variety of services
through subsidiary commercial and investment banks, finance and leasing
companies. By international standards they are, for the most part, efficient
and highly sophisticated operations. A number of them have participated in
the first two projects. The regional and state development banks have been
the main users of the first two Bank loans and would be expected to continue
to play a major role in the proposed project. BACEN would, through the
proposed project, support the initiatives taken by BNDES through the Second
Development Banking Project (Loan 2225-BR) to strengthen the financial inter-
mediaries institutionally and would support programs to train their staff in
calculating economic rates of return of projects. All subprojects over the
free limit of DESPE and over the free Limit of the participating banks would
be subject to economic evaluation as required by, respectively, the Bank and
DESPE (Schedule 2(B)(1) of draft Project Agreement). The loan is expected to
be committed in three years and be fully disbursed by June 30, 1988. The
closing date is December 31, 1988.
Subproject Evaluation
67.       Detailed guidelines for the evaluation of the subprojects are set
out in a manual developed by BACEN with Bank assistance under the First and
Second Agro-Industrial Credit Projects. These cover the general background
of the sub-borrower, its legal status, shareholders, management capacity and
experience and the results obtained over the last three years, including
profitability, capacity utilization and market position.
68.       With regard to the subproject itself, the manual covers:  the
objectives sought--e.g., expansion of existing capacity; markets for the
products; location and size of the subproject and main factors of the produc-
tion; technical aspects; financial projections; and other matters such as
employment generation, increased exports or import substitution and environ-
mental aspects. Since the proposed project includes many innovations, by
ways of project financing through leasing arrangements and equity participa-
tion, a condition of effectiveness would be that appropriate changes in the
manual of procedures had been made and were acceptable to the Bank to cover
these new operations (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
69.       In keeping with the project objective of devolving responsibility
for subproject appraisal to participating financing institutions, review
procedures and approval limits would be as follows (Schedule 2 of the draft
Project Agreement).
(a) subloans of up to US$500,000 could be approved by participating
banks;
(b) for subloans between US$500,000 and US$5 million, BACEN would fix
approval limits for individual banks on the basis of its assessment
of their managerial and technical capacity and experience; and



- 17 -
(c) for the first three subloans for leasing of equipment, for the
first three subloans for securities operations, for the first three
subloans for working capital and all sub-loans of US$5 million and
above, the approval of both BACEN and the Bank would be required.
70.       All subprojects over the free limit, together with the related
operations of the sub-borrowers, would be reviewed by the Central Bank to see
whether they were likely to be affected by economic distortions. In submit-
ting the subproject to the Bank, BACEN would include in its evaluation a
specific judgment on this issue. The Bank and BACEN would then decide in
consultation what further economic evaluation should be carried out.
Participating financial intermediaries would be required to submit to BACEN
detailed annual reports on all subprojects, quarterly progress reports and a
final completion report covering the detailed financial and economic results
deriving from the subproject.
Auditing
71.       The audit arrangements for BACEN would be the same as under Loan
1317-BR. BACEN would cause the Project Account to be audited annually by an
independent auditing unit of the National Monetary Council and would,
promptly after the audit and not later than four months after the close of
its fiscal year, transmit to the Bank certified copies of the account,
together with a certified copy of the auditor's report, including a descrip-
tion of the audit procedures. The participating banks and sub- borrowers
would have their accounts audited by independent professional auditors.
Copies of the annual accounts, together with the auditor's opinion, would be
submitted to the Bank, in the case of the participating banks, and to BACEN,
in the case of the sub-borrowers, within four months after the end of each
financial year. Separate audit arrangements would be made in the case of
small- and medium-scale enterprises. Each year BACEN would select a sample
of these and would arrange for the auditor of the participating banks
concerned to cover project operations with the selected enterprises during
the course of his normal audit work. The independent auditors engaged by
participating banks and sub-borrowers would, during the course of their
annual audits, carry out such test checks as were in their professional
judgment required of the internal controls over project transactions and of
the implementation of these controls; the test checks would specifically
include, in the case of participating banks, the preparation of statements
of expenditure supporting disbursement requests. The auditors would include
in their long form reports such comments or observations as they judged
necessary on project transactions.
Project Benefits and Risks
72.       The proposed project is expected to make a significant contribution
to the availability of long and short-term credit, which has been in short
supply. The projected interest rates imply financial rates of return of at
least 15% and economic rates are expected to be substantially higher than the
financial returns. The project is expected to result in the creation of some
50,000 to 60,000 jobs and to contribute to the strengthening of the develop-
ment banks and the Brazilian banking system through the provision of new
financial pathways that are expected to respond better to the needs of
private investors. There is a risk that demand for resources will not



- 18 -
develop as forceast due to slower than expected economic recovery in Brazil
and in world trade and commodity prices. This would delay the execution of
the project.
73.       There is also a risk that the Government may again introduce
subsidized lending to stimulate investment. The Government, however,
considers that subsidized lending has been the principal cause of the high
inflation of recent years and it is believed that it will continue to phase
out subsidized programs. A related risk is that the Government will fail to
adjust the ORTN index to fully reflect inflation in Brazil. Failure to do so
could lead to negative interest rates to the final beneficiaries. Should
this occur, loan commitments and disbursements could be suspended (para. 60).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Central Bank and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement, and the draft Resolution approving the proposed
loan, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Condi-
tions of effectiveness would be: appropriate revisions, acceptable to the
Bank, to BACEN's manual of procedures to cover the operations under the new
financing schemes included in the project, and the exclusion of the WCF
resources from the portfolio limitations of the participating financial
intermediaries. The main features of these agreements are referred to in the
text and are listed in Section III of Annex III of this report.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 5, 1983
Washington, D.C.



19                                                    ANNEX I
19-                            ~                       Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                         REFERENCE GROWS (WEIGHTED AVENGES
AREA (THOUSAND  SQ.                                                                 - MOST RECENT ESTIH&TE)-
TOTAL           8512.0                                 MOST RECENT             MIDDLE SIECE             MDDLE INCU
AGRICULTURAL    2195.0               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  320.0       570.0    2050.0                    1902.0                   2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    374.6         540.9    1018.3                   1259.9                    2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 71513.0      95322.0  118667.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.1         55.9      67.6                     65.7                      47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      176.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        281.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                         8.4        11.2      13.7                     35.2                      83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      44.1        48.2      53.1                     92.5                     155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.6        42.7      39.2                     39.7                      31.1
15-64 YRS.                         53.8         54.3      56.8                     56.1                      61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.6          3.0       4.0                      4.2                       7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.0         2.9       2.2                      2.4                       1.6
URBAN                               5.5         4.8       4.1                      3.8                       3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      42.6        37.3      29.5                     31.4                      23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      13.1        10.6       8.7                      8.4                       9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.0         2.6       2.0                      2.1                       1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       111.0     203.6/C
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.0        102.0     124.0                    110.0                     116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  107.3        104.3     110.6/d                  108.4                     125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          64.8         62.0      64.4/d                   66.0                      92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       35.7         34.4      35.9/i                   34.0                      35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      19.4        12.5       7.2                      5.6                       9.2
HEALTH
ItFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.7         58.9      62.8                     64.2                      67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           118.2        98.6      77.4                     64.2                      65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         55.0      77.1/e                   65.6
URBAN                               ..         78.0      87.0/i                   78.9
RURAL                               ..         28.0      56.8/1e                  43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        58.0      64.8/e                   59.3
URBAN                               ..         85.0      83.7/i                   75.3
RURAL                                ..        24.0      31.7/i                   36.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2561.2      2123.8    1700.0/f                 1617.3                    1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2772.1       1112.3     822.0/1                 1063.5                     634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            307.0        269.0     247.7Je                  477.4                     286.a
URBAN                            325.6        322.6         ..                   679.8                     192.0
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..                   1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        18.0         *-                    27.3                      20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.1         4.8       4.9/e
URBAN                                ..         4.6       4.7/*-
RURAL                               ..          5.2       5.3/i.
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          1.1
URBAN                                ..         1.0
RURAL                               ..          1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             38.7         47.6      63.0/e
URBAN                                ..        75.6      84.9/ie
RURAL                               ..          8.4      19.2/i.



ANNEX I
- 20 -                                                   Page 2 of 5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)  -
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA,& CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 95.0        125.0      89.0/d                   104.3                     102.9
MALE                  97.0       125.0       90.071j                 106.4                     107.1
FEMALE                93.0       125.0       87.O7                   103.3                      99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 11.0         26.0      32.0/d.S                  41.3                      60.2
MALE                  11.0        26.0       30. OiR                  40.4                      66.4
FEMALE                10.0        26.0       35.07;                   41.8                      54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  18.6          16.7      58.0/d,g                  33.7                      31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            33.1         28.0      22.9/d                    29.9                      25.8
SECONDARY                          12.5         13.2      14.57d                    16.7                      22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        61.0         66.2       76.4/e                   79.1                      75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.7         24.4      53.6/e                   42.8                       51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         66.4        123.8     300.3                     270.5                     157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         16.8         64.0     128.7                     107.7                     123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  53.7         35.8      44.5                      63.7                     112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0           2.0        1.8                      2.7                       4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    22978.5       29557.2   43796.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   17.2         20.1      27.5                     24.4                       36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              51.9         45.6      29.9                      31.3                      38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 14.8         18.3      24.4                     23.9                       25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                32.1         31.0      36.9                      33.6                      44.5
MALE                                 52.7         49.3       53.1                     50.4                      56.3
FEMALE                               11.2         12.6      20.5                      16.8                      32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4         1.4        1.2                      1.3                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RLECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60.0          63.5      62.0/c
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.8           3.2       2.8/c
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.8           9.0       9.4/i
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                ..           ..     150.O/d                  184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..     465.0/d                   518.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     332.0/2                  371.1                      406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URRAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data fot 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1975; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f 1974.
/S   Beginning 1973 primary and secondary educations cover age groups 7-14 and 15-17 instead of 7-10 and 11-17
in earlier years; therefore most recent estimates are not comparable with earlier data.
May, 1982



- 21 -
ANNEX I
DFNTOSOF SOCIAL IN4DICATOU                               ~Pag                                        3   of 5
hoe  ltanic. d-t  .ra draI  fro  turi  geialy J.4g.d the  -.  -oh-titeti- .0  -elIbL., LIt ahold akin hi noti  that tha  may non haiar
niooacl" ycotiul          --ta.  of the 1-k of  -tad.rdiod deftitiona and  --qOet. .eid by diff-reti  Ionnint  collecting th, data.  Tb. "ar, nra.  ia
ttIhlis..   .. tol tod . Ownrih  otd.te ofiet.cd . .ditntI.t-d.. sod char-c-ini     -e-tai   ij-r diffi_nc. htaoo-                    Ot.
Thectnt  top   r  (              MI)ce  .a .... coay gHo   f the ..b tac  co..tt  and (2) .  -oonty i-, with ia.ebht highe-  Lvti            -ncm   th.a ta  -outry groap
of  boeobec  coonIfylnor  jt "igh incomep Oil. ap                  Iir   gop ata i 41d. I-o  north Aftil. nod Ifddl. Knot- L.a lo_na  b_ta_ ofroee
ao--.o-cota  ajIolli)         oM Yefrec   trou  daatIiean   t   oolto    ogtd                          thaLI m sfor oath loitto  no, d ah-  o.iy w
_alrty of cIioat.inatopLsdata  oRIthat indczr    tn     l   ain.o                                    Lcni.aa   h    toi,tr  dapand  onMb  -sl.biilty ofdt
and iintchfr.cuion  nit ha  Ioeciad   .trltn    nrg.o   t .dctvt  nti.Ta  ....taa  a..oiy oief.i IA oep                                                    the n.n, of
Lo iod ioon   etaie  naag the coontIy .adtfttigru.
AREA (Ih....Od eqo)PrltO    a    ntta   a      oa.ahn   d  rtl-Pplio   iel
-To-1    oa  aofontnoPtIiaog land area  nd Inland etr    1979 dnt.                                  ohn.  o  tonI  div.Osd hi hertapcto nato  h1apit.i baa.
for crpi. (etotn. airtn  nodticohn Cardna orto li  fa1lon; 1979 d.ta.            hatlttoacnaa   depial  nra naah.i-t   y.                       Eaty1 .tffd
by at lI..t  n   bcy.tcf.. f.Iabiiaftaoaep-o4idig pttotipail  ant
ap PitR CAPITA (Ill-GO   a  cpt  ettt.   tcucn Carket prl."i cal-                                   diltt Ynntlcoa.tn                       opnl.ma.               ieold. health
clata   to a    c onitaEo   ntid on Aorld Bath  AYi.. (17-do haln; 195,an I'din  cen.otP.rmaetiy saffid by a  hyali-a  Z,a by
1970. atd 1980 data.                                                                             nta    elto.fo.    eloia.-n.l ehith offe"' pnla    n O
dation iid Provdo     llinid range of ndion1 fenlt..    For aaie-
ENERGY CONCI7tPTON PER CAPITA - -.o-Ionopra  of cor-l.1krnagy  (col                                 tic-I yoPoIen-  oha- hoapitli in-Lod. lWe. Pti"idpa1/gn-ar   hoaPitala.
nod licti-e    eoon  naoa..i and hydo-.  -oc-r adg -oohaei iL.r-                                  and rrI...I    icln  loal or _oI haapitos no  mdicol and maternity
trioltyl Ln kil.ogl.ai ol col-     nlolt  yar capita; 1960. 1970. and 1979                        crtt       peatLioad hePitaI. at. inclad'd oniy oodar tn-ai
dat.                                                                                          Adalainoa ran ita..it.i b5ad -  nTi.I.  n.et. of naaaaato or diatbargie
Ito. hoip itain dIitded by tha aoW- of had..
FOPULATION ANDS OITOIL STATISTICS
Tota  P.polatlo-  fLid-Y ... (clh-ad.) -A  of July 1; 1960. 1970. and 1980                   60(1519
dat.p.l-Aveha- kId of  ienahai  Irraaptbeabff-ttl  0h.  n   o
diffa...In  deflitioa_ of othoaaimy afc                    tb.ly of data                       tad thair ma.n  .a..  A hbarda  nr 1adgir ny ar mp not ha 1Inndid in
an    oaii;1960. 1970. ne4 IWO0 data.                                                 th. h ..iebol.d fat- alan.   upe.
yp I.no  PIaratinn                                                                         .0m       tco   aen-totn     anV hn   e   ual -   -4eeg  a.-
y...root na  20000 - Curan.-    plaiatproJectfoaa ore, hud on 1900                     bar o      Wf;pta.   arto  in .11  tha. 'Idrra.napdoantai
total popltnlnl    by ag  and an  and teir nrtakl.ty an  fertiity raa.deeLLnge. repativly.[fai.g  aetlad   -.-P-,aie   no-otac   Add
tnt (Ifaropectocy an bith  iotraaiog wih conr'   a   aiaio                        c....r. nilatriity (P.-eo  nfde.lel-ttl.   ra.ndcrl 
it fa.4ndjel   liepnac ftblan   at 77.1 yea-.Tthe yap                                      CanveIitioel d-1.ne it  elcntoieJy in 1linig q-nr.. an petostv
"Iaa  o  fertility ranaki  hnn  thln   I .l. IL.a.n  diie  Inoftoa. ar-. ad Irra  d-elling  r. etil
tctcety Ih..te  oeagnd on  of the.- nine  -beiation   of  -itlity               EDUCTwION
an Ifrl.ltj  trend. for poetlnpurpoa..                                                 tdto-nd gao.. I et Ratio.
stoti ....y cpokoria   - Ioteta,tionary ypnilaton  thenIa an  rowt-h nnari may  cho.   tt -. a. ned fanie  - G-e  ttl  ala add female
the bIIrt   rit  la  qua  tohe death rate. and alan the ag   tutt   e                           nolm,   fnlai   ttepImoyln    npacnaeof raapmttfn
malta cottont.Tim  I.   hienedonly aft-r fotlwlay rat. ....eln   .o                   pt.-ry  thoo-ega  poLdeo.;l n.kl   Lollo.".  hbLdo   agd6-l
,h. typoc--n  (-l of coit ant caP-oarution rat, oh.. roth genalnyeao  hot adj-n    for differ-n  length. of PrIEar  e4toata   fat
of  tmn cylos  itel  tatty.Th  ettinay           ooltnnieancureswth oni-a-o  ed-titato  nero11een   ma  aoed  S  perat
eofatdo  cita':f h   roorrI" fa  itelcao   hepplaIn                                             lc  inpoit   a.h"`eorae. h    ffaalehaLae
in tha Yea  20000, ed the rota of dec11  of jc.iilLEyrIE. encrapl.e-                         inodr  coo.-ttl, l.f idfn1                      C.mpted an  bho.;  eod
Y-a otoicarycoolato  Le Iec boa - (he cant nba. *ttni"wacY  'poplatian                            Prontd.a  -iaa.        OI-. nt tetbrtrinn   inranEda f r 'ils
tine -ill       ..rnctd.                                                                       onaakly of 12 to 17 y-nt  of age;cotearnac t.  a.gsrly
F.cd1 tlonDonly                                                                                    neoludedt.Yj
yet  q. o.-l.-wrcyltn pet uqo. kIant.r (100 hactacee   of                                    V.afoa ar_ _let L             -rce  of eoony       nataliaiaf
jo-o   oa;1960. 1970 .60 1979 datn.                                                          inlada1    shot.   indentyak. o   ta    rga    ka   pwa   aee
Par n   n   alotrlnd- CompuE.d aa abo.e foE anio Ior    ad                                     _ncEol    a  dep_tnt. of eeadnry  Itntltata-
iocontia  0evStracane(rpreat  - Cildre  70.10 y..te) , -okieg-age (15-                    P""er  end e""ndt  Level. divddh  n~t   fti                  Le . I  the
h4 year.), an   aticed 165 irate an   vr   apretgeo  1-yea  papa-                              -urepn-digl.esel.a
lotion; 1960, 1970. aed 1980 data..AAnLt lIter-Y rate (r-e...t) - LLkteret  adolte lanie to redd =vin.)
PooainGrowh Sate  ("rar..E> - tot..l - dAnaL-  growt   a-e  nf-ota  aid-                   anap-nteetog  of tota.L adea pipaltben age Lt yaee .M we
ywrp   -aaMa   a  :%950-0  1960-70, nod 19701-00.
PotoinC-oh   w (rrcn) -urbn-                -Inu   groth I.i.a of orb-- Popo-          COggiorrTxO,
lati..n for 190-0   96-70. and 19704.yne_e   ar  rntonndrweaie   Peaenge  car  copno  n
Crude girth nat  (per ct edl - Aoqa-I lice  lmbo pet chocaand of ald-y-a                         tar _atOg l.. than niht per_; a-nlods                            h--s..bara  .Aa
yoo.to;1960.191. and 1990 dtna.                                                         I0li-tay   hOIa
Croan D-ht fRe (mt th....dl-AOod-I ditha Pet  ha dof aId-year                                  Odl ttIna I...        thaadprltu              -All. typu  of racdvare for radio
oplto.1960. 190.ad 1980 data.                                                            bodcEt. nogarl. puLi  peI             baaa f pnPakati-el  aludaean
Groi Oar -dcoo  0010 - Avarge .nfor  fdugoeaanaaill bea. IA                                       ticand r-L-er  IA  -untine neL i  Yaern  h-a -eglra-ia   of rad
eTr          .P oc.1tpOtt.E- - pe io If  ah   aetn      ren g-pcif L  fet-                     tue  a %I:ffeco; data Ifo, recan  yare say eat hacb             nah..ic
litt  rta.y      ial   iern  avrg.edn   A10.170, ond 19g0na  cani.bo.ibnd li_in in.
of   h_.th _nt_ok d_ivire  nade  isre f osafai.l fanlly PI- .o   rgrn                          anrlp:n.icfr  baa    pipetCLaa;-enL"-e  -1li.eea  TV  eevr
pnblkoatlandeve-a  pri.ectly en rctIeg  ewre  am.  In LA nueLdend
L.aa  c              bodrya   ii.f     C-andil"a corer prlnary goudi (n... angarcs             and mabili -nit..
inen    f eug-) ahio   r -dine adontn  -natt Ct  (e.#. ..ffe. and
anna Itlded).  Angtgr tE. produtino  fTec    ountry La baend on                       010 Pt3bc
nat _ionl.     j onetge   oo pr price viha1961-5 1910.an  1960 data.                         Toa.  lbo  Fr   (th...aade    -Koneally acIII   Pa-a,a ialuding
nt ceyta aoorl 0f calrie. (rtract  f rnI.n1 nta- Computed El ra-d  ore  aa   a.p.ayd hat anlodin  harasive.   ade.an.
..arry aaoaetof net j od euPPllEe. ovlu Le -ntooy par .epi-                                    coverin  poPuatian of nil ogee D. af-1 inEl        L. in vr. oaOla 
per day.  A_alleble enPpliae  -ompia. danto   rdOtk          n.impotna Ia...                   ant cpaa ; 1960. 1910 ada 1909  data.
atyntr. ada  huoge  In etnk.  Pt epp 1asanlda anine  feed, sad..                      P.-I.a (per.Enn   - r-al  l.eb- forte an par-taae. of fta"l Lahw  faw-
quatitna    h    fdLA  nod  ranNin. andlam.  in dL.aerbuto          nuie                   Agralnnoe.pe          y)-Lb.hYa for.i  f.arein  fu.-aty  h-ein  and
wi.er   .tintad by FAG heand on phyafaagiak needa I orY acrra  ac_.                      Pfii          .          Iag f total  abr forte  IW60. 1910 am  19U0 data
oty tad halt  -oetdair  -niard              ko-    fnaa  body wihn   g                          ounr   mne)-Inha  fEae E. miin.   cetwini.infnao
aLnd a-  Oatrtbntie of PopuaionI. and.1 al"ing 1o panent fat oaata anadeai_ ilt    te   ad-                                        a -a peetneoga ef tat.1 inle  foE.;
-                       hnnee.fto~~~:7Z ld le-ek  1961-65. 1970 and 1977 date.                                           1960. 1970 mod 19&0 data.
Pe  aita   'Prly of prot1i (era.. r dav 1- Protein.  content..uf p-rcupola.                Eatcnt.eRt  rrrn)-ttl.mk.ad  .l       etoptae
ne  spply 0f fond yep   a.ne         py  ffn  I. dat icda.aae.g-                              ciie    .teoen       -nnd An tnal,mak.7e Tf--I. labo  fEda a
qormnafor nl       .lcntaetnhkiahd by USDA. ptnvid. for.         l                       percentage. of total, mol an  femple paeat of nIl a.a  raeaon.vly;
aowaaof.60 ae of corel protein per dey an  20  rA.-  of ..lneI an                        1960. 1970. and k9Ma daa.  Th-i  a-  ba.Ad on ILO0' Parrolaei  St
pul.a  proein.of o Ich1  grnneu.   a  en protein.  Thee. cane-                          t     ttgae-a   trutun  of nhe pupelato. sad long tine treed.  A
ar 1an   oerta  thoei of75 atneo   tota  pro.nin ne d 23 tS---  of                     fan .itate   ar  ft.. nlutinaul eao-
o                       an~~~:imal PIoca..   en a. anoragaf- the nrld,p-opaaa  by PlC in nba Third                  Efaomeic bEpanden     &"J. - ftia of ppl.Wilne ande  1O and 65 an  o-
Ould rood S_rta; 19h 1-6i.  970"ed  977 daa,t  the total labor fo-.
Pat,  nt   ritearlyfo  nein.i end nl. -                    roennpkof food da-
citd   te  nial. odpuie  I  ga-  Per day; l9bl,65. 1970 and 1977 data.           INCOME DIlSTKlIthTOf
Child (.:Z, 1-A) Death Sat  (per thatend) - A--Io daathe per thounad Ed                        Prainof PrIntn. lata   (both in c.ah and kInd   1-4hcav    by tih-a
aotop1-Or yesZ. to child-e in thia aga troop, for  -a  dnaloylg coca-                    5f .eca. ... hat 2  per-.e. maea  Z0 rPrcenn  and pon-  40 Panca
trien data dinta  froId  kifa table.; 1960. 1910 and 1990 data,o .h-nehIda.
HEALTHt                                                                                        POVERTY TARGKT GRtOUPi
Ilfa. Cocac rac at ttrt   (Y.ra   - 6-Y.g. oute  of raurn of klOa r-neling                     Tiefloigatntaaevr   prent   aun    f p-nrylve.
at birth; 1960, 190ad 1980  Iota                                                               and ehald h   uepei    Itc idtbaaui.
(afotatalY Rt (e  toead 2               - i-1a  drbo of ittfant  ard-r ye.en                   fat imted Aha_lone F ...ty (anon  (nel US$ a   sie      ra   n   on 
AAca- to Safe Wite  frctof popIblol-  oal  rhn nod co-a  - o-                                    ourtonl   dcnaOttpa    entn    o-food r-muiret  is ant
han of people (ttl   roan. end cora..   aith  -eieoblm  ncemtsa.farduble.
yacnon   f      LchaIn  ep.Eci_ popuation.    Ienrbnaaaolc                                   tanX.   tcmao.hec.ty    tan vLl.a d-ciad trw  the rura
(cutai  or E-1cp-w  1ocatad ant acre than 200 sae.from  a hon.ayb-ee-wt   don                                           o  higher  -ot olItog inrbeeura
cnIdered an,. h Rn ei.hio   -.nonblsac-eamf that h..e..  Incrlaem                             etet -.1 ....Sa.n  ltokta  oet  ncm   ae  (p-mnemt..r-arb..
caaneblo aci.ocl          ly  h"r Lthe baaa-ife o,    eet   of  ha h.-aodadcrl-Pren   fprlto    oa   edttl   laaeaaka
dco   aocspend a d"PIePropt _nn  oo  ofth  ny  Infetchn.           h
Acc.n. to  E-oteta Dtenna !I        canf ooo il.ol - tota. o rta.  d rra
Ouoe if an. (rtal,,. .bhu. and total)servd hyb         trt   ierwa  a
the I c  cILan and di           ..oga . abonithaut itnen, of bia   acrt
end  rac-nni   -naa-hor   ayaa   o  the ci   f pit   EVEanan  timl-
Pooato   ne  phvaicta   - P.puetioo dividad hr ... er of pra-ria to  phya.i-                                                   fca-lno  Soct"I Dat  DOliofa
cita  qunllfitd fIto. a adine-l        I  schol atur .aity  I.-I.                                                             loacA-akyal.. ad            oaioaDep.rt.-
torulaclon ratoE.La. y-ar     - ?Popoati   divided hi t..terof  MrcliA                                                                             ly 1902
anaadfZ lnuaon               u.natetnn,patclcrn   o



-22-                                                                   ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population     :  119.0 million (1980)
GNP Per Capita:  US$2,050 (1980)
Indicator                                   Amount                        Average Annual Increase (S) 8hare of GDP at Market Prices (I)
(Million US$ Current)                  (at Constant 1970 Prices)                            (at current Prices)
1981                   1965-70    1970-75      1975-80    1981-86              1970        1975       1981 ib
National Accounts
Gross Domestic Product /a                            284,003                   7.7        10.6         6.9         2.0             100.0       100.0       100.0
Agriculture                                         29,196                   1.9         5.7         4.7         4.5             10.2         10.9        12.0
Industry                                            77,115                  9.2        11.6         7.6           .03            35.8        37.2        31.9
Services                                           135,275                  8.0        10.7          6.8        4.1              54.0        51.9        55.9
Consumption                                          230,325                   7.7         9.8         5.7         3.3             77.8         76.6       81.1
Gross Investment                                       55,328                  9.4        14.6         5.2         3.6              22.7        21.3        19.5
Esports of Goods and NFS                               25,575                 8.2         11.2         7.3         6.5               6.7         7.5         9.0
Imports of Goods and NFS                              27,199                  14.5        17.2         2.8         4.4              7.2         11.4         9.6
Gross Domestic Savings                              53,677                  7.9         12.9         6.1         -               22.2        23.4         18.9
Amount                    Average Annual Increase (1)               Coaposition of Merchandise Trade (2)
(Million US$ Current)              (at Constant 1970 Prices)                        (at Current Prices)
1981                 1970-75          1975-80      1981-86                  1970          1975        1980
Merchandise Trade
Merchandise Exports                                   23,393                11.1             7.7             2.8                    100.0        100.0       100.0
Primary c/                                          8,954                 8.3              1.1             0.8                    76.7         62.7         38.3
Manufactures d/                                     13,358.6             28.2             18.2             5.6                    22.5          34.8        57.1
Merchandise Import                                   22,080                14.8            -3.3               1.2                   100.0        100.0       100.0
Food (cereals)                                       1,077               -6.7             17.5             8.8                     4.5           3.0         4.8
Petroleum                                          11,333                 7.6              4.3           -11.0                    11.2          25.4        51.3
Machinery and Equipment e/                          4,020                15.2            -7.5              2.0                    36.2          32.2        18.2
Other                                               5,650                28.4            -1.9              4.3                    48.1         39.4         25.7
1975           1976           1977            1978           1979            1980             1981
Prices and Terms of Trade
GDP Deflator (1970 = 100)                                    305.1          444.3           632.7          892.5        1,399.4         2,724.6         5,696.8
Exchange Rate (Cr$/US$)                                        8.1            10.6           14.1           18.1            26.9           52.7             93.1
Export Price Index (1970 - 100)                              176.0           192.0          226.0          228.0           266.0          290.0           305
Import Price Index (1970 - 100)                              242.0          255.0           286.0          317.0          389.0           431.0           461
Terms of Trade Index (1970 - 100)                             72.0           75.0            79.0           72.0            68.0           67.0            66
As 1 of GDP
(at Current Cruzeiro Prices)
1970            1975              1979            1980 I/       1981 1/
Public Finance (Central Government)
Current Revenue                                                                    16.6             19.8             20.8              19.7          18
Current Expenditure                                                                14.4            15.8              17.6              17.8          17.5
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                          2.2'            4.0               3.2               1.9            .5
Capital Expenditure                                                                 2.6             3.8               3.7               6.6           6.3
Financing (Net)                                                                    -0.4             0.2              -0.5               4.7           5.8
1965-70           1970-75            1975-79               1981-86
Other Indicators
GNP Growth Rate (X)                                                                7.7              10.7                5.8                   2.1
GNP per Capita Growth Rate (1)                                                     4.6               7.7                3.0                  -0.5
Energy Consumption Growth Rate (2)                                                 7.2               7.3                6.5
ICOR f/                                                                            2.9               3.0                3.9                   3.2
Marginal Savings Rate f/                                                          20.5               25.7              22.7                  24.0
Import Elasticity  f/                                                              2.2                1.6               0.3                  -0.6
a!   At market prices; components are net domestic products expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of depreciation and indirect
taxes less subsidies
c/   Includes:  coffee (beans and soluble), other agriculture and minerals
d/   Includes:  manufactured and semi-processed
e/   Includes:  transportation materials
f/   the 1981-86 projections are average arithmetic mean of the six-year
g/   1980 and 1981 include government expenditures effected through the monetary budget and some minor government funds
February 28, 1983
Source: Conjuntura Economica FJV Banco Central do Brazil, Brazil Standard Model (World Bank)



B&AlACEjOP L70=87, mUrA~L  AITA  AIID 1OT                                                                                          A        I
(Ailion D6t at tossetet pnitas) 
Populatio:        119 million (1980)
GNP Pot Capita:  US32,050 (1980)
ACTUAL                                                                           PIO2ICSD  3/
1975         1976         1977         1979         1979         130           131              132          iUT3          134          933          1316
balance of Payxails
N7bt eports of Sgoda aed services                                  -6,702       -6,018       -4.037        -6,086      -10,039      -12,564      -11,173           -14,697       -7,197       -5,197        -6,029      -4,197
Exports of goode                                                 (9 670)    (10,128)    (12,120)    (12,659)    (15,244)    (20.132)    (23,293)                  20,175       23,000       26,000        29,000      33,000
I.otts of Goods                                                (-12,210)   (-12.383)   (-12.023)   (-13,683)   (-18,084)   (-22.955)   (-22.080)               (-19,400)   (-17,000)   (-1 ,000)   (-20,000)  (-26,000)
Ntl  factot incoe                                               -1,733       -2,199       -2,556       -3,257        -4,621       -6,621       -9,549           -13.003      -11.197      -11.000      -10,774    -10,597
(of ehi  Ot  ners   amet)(                                    (-1,493)    (-1,910)    (-0,103)    (-2,496)    (-4. 195)    1-6.311)    (-9,179)               (10,900)    (11,000)        (9.000)      (9.300)    (9,500)
Net non-fact or strirt-a                                         -1,429       -1,574       -1,578       -1,905       -2,371        -3,120       -2, 37            -2,469       -2.000       -2,197       -2,255      -2,300
tOnt nraxafeos                                                           2            1            -           71            16         168           1                197           197          197          197         197
Currstt arrantt balsto e-6,700                                                  -6,017       -4,037       -6,015      -10,021       -12,396      -10,976           -14,500       -7,000       -5,000       -3,532       -4.000
Dictt pticate Lov ttenn  lb                                           892           959          810        1,071        1,491        1,121.0      1.569             1,691        1,763         1,961        2,204       2,466
MALT loans act                                                      4,830        5,542         5,650       10,018        5,297        3,475.0      9,571  8/ 9,492                5,686        6,039         4,094       4,433
Tradinio .a..ar-                                                   (955        11,147)      (1,059)      (1,450)       1,462)      (1,457.4)   (4,314)            (6,226)      (3,1265)     (3,965)       (3.3610     (3,316)
Pinanciul credits                                               (6,027)      (7,013'      (9,2)4)    (3, 714)    (10 266)         (9 632.3)  (13.113)           (12,45)    (10 000)    (11 310)    (10 4,12)   (13.206)
.Aornicarion                                                    (-2,152)    (-2,618)    (-3 633)    (-5,146)    (-6,431)           (6,610.0)  (-7,856)           (-7,190)    )-7,449)    (-9.236)   (-10,369)  (-12.036)
Brazilian iot.s.arosd (set)                                          -190         -240         -267         -357         -610           416         -702           -1,043        -1,146       -1,500       -1,966      -2,292
Other capital n.t.i.                                                   218          956      -1,526          -455          628        4,063         1,393,0          1,362        2,297            -             -           -
Chisgt inreserces (--increase) /0                                        950      -1,192          -630       -4,262        3,215        3,321         -855             4,000       -1,900       -1,500          -500        -600
Io-roa-io..l    ser-ts  4d 4,041                                                  6,544        7,256       11,895        9,699        6,913        7,505             3,000        4,900        6,600         6,900       7,500
Ba asron as sconthi  of iVorta  In                                         4            6.3          7 .2        10.3          6.4           3,6          4.1              1,8           3.5          6.3          4           3.4
ACTAL
1975         1976         1977                      1979          960           81              1982
Caternal Debt
Total debn oot,aotdiog and disbnesnd                               23,298       70,483       34,601       46,436        51,342       54,065       61,400  fI        68,400  f/
Publir sod poblirly gY arstte-d                                  13,706       17,349       21,595       30,284       35,478        38,260            -                 -
Official noance                                                 3,959        4,431        4,717        5,401        5,009        6,46 
IBY                                                          (1095)       (1,217)      (1,413)      (1,602)      (1,827)      (2,069)            -                -
Onh-                                                         (2,866)      (3,214)      (3,304)      (3,799)      (4,062)      (4,347)
Private .==rce                                                  9 747       12,918       16,878       23,883       29,589       31,844
Private on=-guarasteed                                            9 592       11,133       13,D05        16,152       15,864       16,603
lodiaboraed debc (pobinc osly)                                      3,879        6,620        8,411        10,209       12,448       14,041
Gross Oiaboressont
Total groa1  dialarsemt       of H6LT loana                         6,981        0 160         9,702       15.164       11,770       10,085
Poblit nod poblicly goareoceed                                    3,700        4,921        5,422        10,116       9,152         6,893
Official e-pont -tdit.                                            428          405          169          490          448           467
1061                                                             250          173          218          271          302          363--
nt   msltilatenal                                                119          113           92           136         206           192
Pr iotesoorce                                                  2,991        4,233        4,662        9,216        0,197        5,992
Private  -n-gosrsotred                                           3,194        3,239        3 ,61        5 048        2,576         3,192
Debt S-rvite
Total debt stroie payments                                         4,195        4,322        5,642        9,252        11,147       13,168       15,554            17,990
Interest (oto)                                                  (1.677)      (1,423)      (1,651)      (2,457)      135555)      (5,412)            -                -
P.ysenteas Y of ECp ot. sod 07S                                       43 0          38 7          2. 3        58 8         66 .8        60 .0        61,0              81.0
Paymets as 7 of GNP                                                     2.9          2.6          3.0          3.7          4.3          4            -
Aerage itnerts rate an the public debt (7) Ij                            807           7.6          8.3          9.9         11.2         12,3
official soorres                                                        7.7          7,9          9.0          7.5          8.3         ,87
Avera eaturity of tee guerasteed loas                                     9,0         11 .3        10,0         10 0         11,5         10.3
official sosroe                                                        8                                         34 16,3  16,1  14,5  14.0  13        -
Private soorre                                                          7 0          9 3          8.7         903          11.2          9. 5
IB6D Capoanre
70D 7ODTnotl                                                           4,7           4,3          4.1          3 4          3 6          3.0 8
13dD disb.s rseonsItosIa  gross diaboreemen  (1)                       3.5           2.1          3.2          1,0          2.6          34 
IbRD debt tervice/total debt tennire (7)                               2,5           3.2          3,7          2,7          2.2          2            -
Ag 7 of total debt anotandito
at end of December 1180       /h
Debt Stirotare
H-turity trootort of debt nots:t.diog
Ostorittee doe vithit I pears                                                                   67
h rarities due  lt'hi. 10 years                                                                 33
/a  6ance 1984 n. it refers oly to itnerear  an M6LT Ie.
lb isciodiug ne-i.vested profitS
c  YSalodiig dollsr v-lsntion sdjataenta asd menetteation of domstic gold
/d Incloding gold end dollar va-1atino adja teets
I/ Ganda nnly
If Densils oa-aileblr
I/ Public debt cly
lh Prelimooary
7i 7HP
/i fra-il standard mede1 (World BDnk)
February 29, 1983
S0urce:  Dano Cstrel do Brasil; Ettoroal Debt Date  (EPD): 78-81 (World bDak)
IffP .=rce



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of September 30, 1982)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Fifty-six loans fully disbursed                                  1,950.1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -        Power              125.0            3.2
Itumbiara
1008   1974  Cia. Ridro Eletrica do Sao         Power               81.0           14.3
Francisco-CHESF
1067   1974  Brazil                             Education           23.5            5.4
1075   1975  Brazil                             Roads              110.0           12.2
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry               95.0            8.5
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry               60.0           16.6
1153   1975  Brazil                             Agriculture         23.0            1.0
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista         Railways            75.0            7.9
1195   1976  Brazil                             Rural Development  12.0             6.5
1207   1976  Brazil                             Feeder Roads        55.0          25.6
1249   1976  Brazil                             Agriculture         40.0           3.4
1300   1976  Eletrobras                         Power               50.0             .3
1302   1976  Brazil                             Nutrition           19.0             .6
1317   1976  Brazil                             Agro-Industry       83.0          47.9
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                          Power               82.0           14.7
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais              Rural Development  42.0            8.4
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes            Fertilizer          52.0           3.4
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do              Fertilizer          55.0            1.7
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452   1977  Brazil                             Education           32.0          21.8
1488   1977  Brazil                            'Rural Development  17.0           11.5
1525   1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Sewerage           110.0          66.4
1537   1978  Brazil                             Rural Development  24.0           18.9
1538   1978  ELETROBRAS                         Power              130.0          49.5
1557   1978  Brazil                             Roads              114.0          84.5
1562   1978  COPESUL                            Petrochemicals      85.0           8.6
1563   1978  Brazil                             Urban Transport    88.0           28.7
1568   1978  Brazil                             Agric. Extension  100.0           67.9
1589   1978  Brazil                             Rural Development  37.0           27.0
1654   1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Sites & Services   93.0           50.8
1656   1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Water & Sewerage  100.0           73.1
1660   1979  Valesul Aluminio.S.A.              Aluminum            78.8           2.9



-25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of September 30, 1982)
Amount less
Loan #  Year              Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1714    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   26.0            22.9
1720    1979  Brazil                           Urban Development   70.0            53.7
1721    1979  COPEL                            Power                109.0          72.6
1728    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   40.0            33.4
1729    1979  Brazil                           Irrigation            28.0          15.8
1730    1979  Brazil                           Roads                110.0          87.3
1822    1980  Brazil/BNDE                      Pollution Control   58.0            57.9
1823    1980  Banco Nacional
da Habitacao                  Water Supply        130.0          100.7
1824    1980  CEEE                             Power               114.0          111.1
1839    1980  Brazil                           Urban Transport    159.0           154.6
1850    1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            139.0         104.7
1867    1980  Brazil                           Education             32.0          30.4
1877    1980  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development   63.0            60.0
1895    1980  ELETROSUL                        Power               125.0          123.6
1924    1981  Brazil                           Rural Development   56.0            49.7
1939    1981  ELETROBRAS                       Power                 54.0          51.9
1965    1981  EBTU                             Urban Transport       90.0          88.0
1970    1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply           180.0          153.2
1989    1981  Brazil                           Alcohol Devt.       250.0         247.1
2015    1981  Brazil                           Agriculture           29.0          25.5
2016    1981  Brazil                           Agriculture           60.0          56.7
2060    1982  Brazil                           Agriculture           67.0          63.0
2061    1982  Brazil                           Health                13.0          12.0
2062    1982  Brazil                           Highways            240.0          217.8
2116    1982  Brazil                           Agriculture           26.4          26.0
2138 /1 1982  ELETROBRAS                       Power                182.7         182.7
2163 /1 1982  Brazil                           Agriculture           26.4          26.4
2170 /1 1982  Brazil                           Urban Development  123.9           123.9
2177 /1 1982  Brazil                           Rural Development   42.7            42.7
2193 /1 1982  Brazil                           Urban Development    8.9             8.9
2196 /1 1982  CVRD                             Iron Ore            304.5         304.5
Total                                              6,998.9 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                  991.0
Total now outstanding                              6,007.9
Amount sold                           45.8
of which has been repaid            45.5              0.3
Total now held by Bank                             6,007.6
Total undisbursed                                                3,401.9
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Paoe 3 of 15
B.  STATEMENT OF IPC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                                                                                                                                              Amount in US$ million
Year                                              0 b 1 i g o r                                         Type of Business                        Loans       Equity      Total
1957                     Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Electricidade                                    Electrical Equipment                           2.00         -         2.00
1958                     Ulinkraft, S. A. Celalose e Papel                                          Pulp and Paper                                 1.70         -         1.20
1958                     D. L. R. Plasticos do Brasil, S. A.                                        Automotive Parts                               0.45         -         0.45
1958                     Willys-Overland do Brasil, S. A. - Industria a Corercio                    Motor Vehicles                                 2.45         -         2.45
1959                     Coopanhia Mineira de Ciwneto Portland, S. A.                               Cement                                         1.20         -         1.00
1959                     Chaopio. Celulose, S. A.                                                   Pulp                                           4.00         -         4.00
!966/1968/1972           Acos Villares, S. A.                                                       Steel                                          6.00        1.93       9.93
1966/1969                Papel e Celulose Catarioense, S. A.                                        Pulp and Paper                                 3.76        3.41       7.19
1967/1972                Ult-rfertil, S. A. - Industria e Comercio de Fertilizantea                 Fertili.ers                                   8.22         3.03      11.25
1969                     Petroqulmica Uoiao, S. A.                                                  Petrochemicals                                 5.50        2.88       8.39
1970                     Poliolefinas, S. A. Induotria e Comercio                                   Petrochemicals                                 5.50        2.89       8.35
1971                     Oxiteno, S. A. Industria e Comercio                                        Petrochemicals                                 4.60        1.44       6.04
1971                     Rio Graode - Corpanhia de Celulose do Sul                                  Pulp                                           4.90         -         4.90
1972/1975/1981           Coapanhia de Cimento Nacional do Meis                                      Cement                                       169.14        6.70     175.84
1973/1974/1977/198i    Co.panhia Siderurgica da GCunabara - COSIGUA                                 Steel                                        76.97        11.22      88.19
1973                     Capital Market Development FPnd - FUMCAP                                   Capital Market Development                     5.00         -         5.00
1973/1978                Erpresa do Deseovolvimento do Recursos Minerais - CODEMIN, S. A.    Nickel Mining and Refining                          85.00         8.34       93.34
1974                     Industrias Villares, S. A.                                                 Elevators snd Industrial Equipment             6.00         -         6.00
1974                     Fabrica de Tecido Tatuope, S. A.                                           Textiles                                     31.00          -        31.00
1975/1979                Capoova Carbonos Induatrias Ltd.                                           Carbon Black                                  6.13         1.10       7.37
1975                     Oxiteno Nordeste, S. A.                                                    Petrochemicals                                10.00         -        10.00
1976                     Santista Induntria - Textil do Nordeste, S. A.                             Textiles                                       6.45        1.00       7.45
1976/19S0                Tecasor S. A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste                             Textiles                                      16.20         -        16.20
1977                     FMB S. A. Productos Metalurgicos                                           Iron and Aluminum Castings                    20.00         -        20.00
1977                     Mineraco Rio do Norte S. A.                                                Mining                                        15.00         -        15.00
1978                     Cimetal Siderurgia S. A.                                                   Iron and Steel                                 7.00        3.00      10.00
1979                     Volvo do Brasil Motores e Veiculos, S. A.                                  Motor Vehicles                               60.00         5.27      65.27
1960                     Bering do Nordeste S. A. - Malhas                                          Redy-nde Garwents                              2.00         -         2.00
1980                     Dende do Pars S/A - Demposa - Agricusltur, Industria
e Comercin de Oleaginosas                                              Palm-Oil                                       3.50        1.00       4.50
1980                     Villares Industrias do BMae S. A. - VIRASA                                 Iron and Steel                                5.00          -         5.00
1980                     PPP - Companhia Industrial do Polipropile.o                                Chemicals and Petrochemicals                  15.00        2.00      17.00
1980                     Destilaria Cia-orte S. A.                                                  Chemicals and Petrochemicals                   -           0.25       0.25
1980                     Sotave A-oconia Qui=ica e Mineral S/A                                      Pertili-ers                                  16.00         4.00      20.00
19oO                     Polinul Petroquimica                                                       Chemicals and Petrochemicals                 43.00         5.00      48.O
1961                     Brasilpar                                                                  Money and Capitol Markets                      -           1.50       1.50
1981                     Conipanhia Brasileiro de Agropeco-ria - COBRAPE                            Food and Food Processing                       5.50        3.00       8.50
1981                     Triunfo                                                                    Chericals and Petrochemicals                 46.00        4.00      56.00
1962                     Cimento CAUE                                                               Cement and Construction Materials            40.00        5.00      45.00
1962                     Iochpe Agro Industrial S.A.                                                Money Capital Market                         30.00         0.45     30.45
1983                     Cia Riograndense do Participa.oes (CRP)                                    Money Capitol Market                           -           0.72       0.72
Total Gross Camitments                                                                                      771.74       79.21    950.95
Less Cancelltiotns, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                                      560.32       12.16    572.48
Total Comitments No. Held by IPC                                                                            211.42       67.05    278.47
Total Undinbursed                                                                                           159.28        14.02    173.30
February 4, 1983



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
C.   Status of Projects in Execution
As of September 30, 1982 1/
As of September 30, 1982, there were 57 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125.0 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is nearing completion. Procurement has been
completed. Four of the six generating units have been in service
since late 1980; the other two were commissioned in 1981. A cost
overrun of about 57% is forecast due mainly to a substantial
increase in the size of the transmission works and to an increase
in the cost of civil works.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81.0 million loan
of June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and of
the Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27, 1974;
Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project execution is about two years behind schedule mainly because
of delays during the early stages. Forty-four of the 51 facilities
to be constructed are now operating. Progress in implementation of
the enlarged project is satisfactory. However, there might be a need
to postpone the Closing Date to June, 1983 to complete disbursements.
Overall costs are within reviewed estimates. A local project
completion report will be issued before the end of 1982.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110.0 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is approaching completion. All project components,
except DNER's Weighing Stations Program (Phase I) and some state
highway rehabilitation works in Minas Gerais, are substantially
completed. Construction of the weighing stations has been
hindered by the financial difficulties of DNER which have left
the stations program without the necessary funds. The program
is being reformulated and is expected to be completed in late
1983.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
June 9, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Measures for ensuring completion of the CSN
project by mid-1983 and meeting certain financial ratios according
to a specified schedule were agreed with Government in June 1982.
Despite this, however, the project remains virtually stopped and
the company's financial position has continued to deteriorate.
This situation has arisen due to: delays in the granting of
price increases and the provision of equity funds; lower cash
generation due to weak steel markets; and difficult international
credit markets which have prevented CSN from raising the long-
term funds it needs. In light of this situation, a meeting in
Washington is planned for late November to review with the
Government and CSN the progress being made in meeting the
commitments for 1982 and proposals for 1983 which, taking into
account the likely available internal and external resources in
that year, will result in an optimum balance between progress on
project implementation and achieving an acceptable level of
liquidity for CSN.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
December 30, 1983. Measures for ensuring completion of the
COSIPA project by mid-1983 and meeting certain financial ratios
according to a specified schedule were agreed with Government in
June 1982. Despite this, however, the project remains virtually
stopped and the company's financial position has continued to
deteriorate. This situation has arisen due to: delays in the
granting of price increases and the provision of equity funds;
lower cash generation due to weak steel markets; and difficult
international credit markets which have prevented COSIPA from
raising the long-term funds it needs. In light of this situation,
a meeting in Washington is planned for late November to review
with the Government and COSIPA the progress being made in meeting
the commitments for 1982 and proposals for 1983 which, taking
into account the likely available internal and external resources
in that year, will result in an optimum balance between progress
on project implementation and achieving an acceptable level of
liquidity for COSIPA.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date:  November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983: The Bank agreed to a CODEVASF proposal to
drop the Brejo Grande varzea from the scope of the project and
reallocated funds to the construction of civil engineering works
unforeseen during the project evaluation phase. The Closing Date
was postponed to September 30, 1983. CODEVASF operations on
production activities continue to improve substantially. The
rate of disbursements has risen sharply and about 95% of the
loan is now disbursed.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: September 30,
1983. The implementation of the project, as redefined to take into
account FEPASA's weak financial position in 1976-78, is improving.
Completion is estimated for mid-1983. FEPASA's operations continue
to improve significantly. The railway has reduced its operating
costs in the past year mainly due to reduction in staff and improve-
ment in train operations.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily,
although one year behind the original schedule. The design of
Phase II, extended project activities to new municipalities,
sharpened the project's focus on the lowest income farmers, and
included new components in the areas of marketing, storage, support
to cooperatives, land services, seed production, and inland fisheries.
Serious droughts in the last three years, coupled with delays in the
release of funds, have slowed down the implementation of Phase II,
but progress in recent months has been encouraging. A proposal for
project reformulation, including expansion into seven new munici-
palities is currently being considered.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. The loan was fully committed by mid-1980 for
16 subprojects in 12 states. Because of implementation delays
and constant devaluation of the ORTN, the monetary unit in which
subloans are denominated, a major reformulation was necessary to
restore BNDE/DNER/IBRD participation to its initial level. Under-
taken by mid-1981, the reformulation of the project was completed in
early 1982, resulting in a reduction of its scope to improvement or
construction of 5,210 km of roads and 62 bridges, and in the provision
of about US$23 million from the second Loan (1730-BR) for additional
financing of 10 subprojects under the first project. Physical imple-
mentation of the project, which had reached 50% as of March 31, 1982,
is now progressing well. Disbursements under the first loan have
reached 53% as of September 30, 1982, and are expected to be completed
by the end of 1983.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. With the removal of constraints on the levels of
incremental staff, imports of project related equipment and
controls on the training programs (abroad) for research technicians,
the project progressed satisfactorily during 1981 and the rate of
disbursements rose sharply. Latest indications (10/15/82) are
that the necessary levels of counterpart funding and project
implementation are being sustained during 1982, and that the
project should be completed by about end-1982. The Closing Date
was postponed to June 30, 1983.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 mnillion loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Except for a small portion (about 8%) oE COELBA's subproject all
works have been completed. A balance of about US$300,000 will
remain undisbursed and will have to be cancelled. The agreed
targets for connection of low income households have been widely
exceeded. Substantial improvements in the management of the project
companies have been achieved, particularly in the areas of financial
control and planning of COELBA and CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. An amending Agreement to the Loan and
Project Agreements was signed on January 14, 1981. The major
changes in the project involved the elimination of a credit program
for nutritious foods industries and the incorporation of a program
for the distribution of basic foods to low-income urban families.
The reformulated project responds better to the Government's
institutional priorities. Since this reformulation, project
operations have improved substantially. Problems still remain
with the quality of evaluation studies presently carried out and
counterpart funding for these studies. The rate of disbursements
has risen sharply. About 90% of the loan is now dlsbursed.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitmenat delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project (Loan No. 924-BR of August 1, 1973,
the undisbursed balance of which was cancelled as of December 31,
1980), disbursements for the second loan began only in 1981.
Difficulties arising from competing credit lines at subsidized
rates and inadequate monetary correction have ended. Arrangements
for monitoring the adequacy of monetary correction were agreed
with the Government. The project has been progressing well in
very difficult economic conditions. The loan is expected to be
fully committed shortly. A third project is due to be appraised
in October/November 1982.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project is about 95% complete and 100% of
the contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
The Closing Date was postponed to December 31, 1982 to allow
sufficient time to meet retention payments on equipment contracts.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project I:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. This project is progressing satisfactorily
after initial delays. Participation in this project by landless
producers was initially lower than originally envisaged, but
concerted efforts by the state government and the participating
banks have improved this situation markedly. A second, final post-
ponement of the closing date by 18 months to permit completion of
project activities including a program for further strengthening of
institutions responsible for marketing, farm management extension,
and community development, is being envisaged.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1982.
The plant has been completed and was formally inaugurated in
September 1982. The plants are operating satisfactorily. The
costs to complete the project are expected to be about 15% below
the appraisal estimate. The Closing Date was postponed to
November 30, 1982.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project has been in operation from August 1980.
During this period it achieved an average capacity utilization of
81% for sulfuric acid, 55% for MAP and 37% for TSP. Several plant
modifications have been carried out to improve performance of MAP
and TSP plants. Market constraints following revised credit
policies and fertilizer price increases in early 1981 have affected
production of finished products by about 20%. The Closing Date was
postponed to December 31, 1982.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The loan was amended on March 26, 1982, subsequent to a project
reformulation required by: (a) reduction in counterpart funds
affecting one component, and (b) difficulties encountered in
acquiring suitable sites for a number of hotel training centers.
The presidential decree approving the legal and financial definition
of SENAR was signed, which now permits this component to be fully
implemented. The Closing Date was postponed to June 30, 1985.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Agricultural extension has been particularly successful in reach-
ing target farmers, and initial land purchases for a first small
group of farmers have been made. Agricultural credit has suffered
from shortages of local bank funds. Physical and social infra-
structure is proceeding well, although there are some difficulties
in administering the health component and delays in carrying out the
water supply program. The project has been reformulated with a
special focus in the remaining years on the Carrasco sub-region.
The Closing Date was postponed to December 31, 1985.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. Physical execution of the
project is experiencing difficulties because of inadequate funding
from the State and because of political problems. The Bank has
requested BNH to present a plan to complete works by the end of
1985. BNH and SABESP agreed to meet with the newly-elected govern-
ment to resolve the political and funding problems and present
solutions to the Bank by May 1983. Project completion is expected
to be delayed by about two years.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
Financial and managerial problems created significant delays in
project implementation over the first two years, but the situation
improved markedly with a reorganization of project administration
and the reformulation of several components. Nonetheless, the
project has recently encountered new difficulties which will require
reorientation of management and agricultural development activities.
The state is currently undertaking a complete evaluation study,
which will include a proposal to reformulate certain aspects of the
project and to extend the Closing Date.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan
of May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Disbursements were initially delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays. Initially there were also delays in project
execution due to low tariff levels and insufficient counterpart
funds. In July 1981, ELETROBRAS arranged for the required counter-
part funds to be provided and in September 1981 the Government
agreed with the Bank to increase tariffs to appropriate levels so
that these projects can now proceed satisfactorily. The Closing
Date will be postponed by two years to December 31, 1984.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Rehabilitation of highways foreseen under the project proceeded
satisfactorily to mid-1980, when works were suspended because of
financial constraints imposed by the federal government. Highway
rehabilitation works were reactivated by mid-1981 but at a slow
pace because of inadequate funding. The maintenance program in
the state of Parana is progressing well. The second phase of the
weighing station program will not begin until the first phase
(under Loan 1075-BR) has been completed and the effects monitored.
The Project is being reformulated to reflect current priorities.
Project completion could be delayed by two years.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is proceeding well with an overall completion
ratio approaching 97%. Commencement of commercial operations is
expected in October/November 1982. The anticipated cost to complete
the project is presently running about 7% below the original estimate.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress
initially varied widely among the five cities involved. The
project has been partially reformulated to delete certain items
whose implementation was no longer justified as originally envisaged
at appraisal, or could not be physically completed by the revised
project completion date, December 31, 1982. At the same time, some
new items have been included to achieve the project's objective, which
is improvement of the delivery of urban transport services in several
cities.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22,
1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984. The executing agency, EMBRATER, continues to work closely with
state/territory agencies to achieve adequate project implementation.
The Project Coordination Unit has been effective, and project
execution proceeded satisfactorily during 1981/82. Partial exemption
to re-imposed Government hiring restrictions (12/28/81) are being
arranged by EMBRATER, on a state by state basis to prevent a serious
slow-down in project development. Hiring restrictions are only part
of the problem in some states however, mostly in the North and
Northeast, where lack of counterpart funding to pay additional
staff salaries is now the key issue. Administrative changes, due
to election results of November 15, 1982 could well cause some
delay in project execution during early 1983 until the new state
administrations become familiar with project objectives.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983. The pace of project execution is now satisfactory, and delays
in funding have been reduced. Extension and land titling services
have been improved, but lack of land purchase credit is hampering



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
the balanced progress of the project. The quality of feeder road
construction has been uneven, but supervision of construction is
being strengthened. The health component is proceeding smoothly;
and the execution of the education and water supply components are
approaching appraisal targets.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Housing targets are being met and
difficulties which had been encountered in meeting the sites and
services targets have been overcome. Contracts for the last housing
scheme of the Project will be tendered at the end of October, 1982.
The Bank has approved a proposal that wiLl offer a solution to the
problems which have caused slow progress in this project and an
amendment to the Loan Agreement was signed earlier this year.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the
five year investment program of the project water companies for the
period 1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have
also been approved and construction is underway. Due to inherent
weaknesses in the State Water Company, the project may be completed
with about a one-year delay.
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$98.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: January 31, 1983.
The Loan Agreement has been amended to cancel US$19.2 million of
the loan which will not be utilized. Construction is 99% complete,
and training pots were started in January 1982. There is a cost
overrun of about 8%. The shareholders are preparing an action
plan to finance project completion and start-up losses during 1982,
which are expected due to very low aluminum prices. The Closing Date
was postponed to January 31, 1983.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. Reasonable progress is being made with most
project components. Extension services achieved very close to
first year targets and exceeded second and third year targets.
The land titling and colorization components are progressing
more slowly, but remedial action is beginning to show results.
The management of the project has become quite effective, and
the monitoring and evaluation of project results is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1720      Medium-Sized Cities Project:  US$70.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: May 2, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
After a slow start, the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Planned investments in the first four cities included in the project
have practically been completed, and it is now expected that all
investments will be completed within the revised schedule.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
(The loan's closing date was postponed from December 31, 1983 to
December 31, 1985). Two of the additional three cities incorporated
into the project last August were already appraised during October,
and the last city is expected to be appraised during the first
quarter of 1983. About 60% of the loan is expected to be disbursed
by October 1983.
1721      COPEL Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Project implementation is about six months behind
schedule because the Borrower postponed procurement pending loan
effectiveness. The Borrower is, however, accelerating procure-
ment and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. All project components have progressed slowly,
mainly due to delays in the release of federal funds.  Urgently
needed road maintenance has not yet begun because of funding
problems in the municipalities. Project administration and
management is gradually improving, but further improvements in
coordination among the agencies involved in execution is still
needed.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. While previously initiated civil works have
proceeded satisfactorily, local funding shortfalls and technical
problems emerging in the detailed design of project works for the
Boacica sub-area have slowed project progress. The infrastructure
developed by PETROBRAS in the Brejo Grande sub-area has led to
the dropping from the project of previously planned irrigation
and drainage investments there. The monitoring unit has been
installed and is now operational.
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20,
1979; Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986. The Second Feeder Roads Project provides
continuity to the program started under Loan 1207-BR. The loan
is now fully committed for 16 subprojects in 15 states, totalling
improvement or construction of 4,790 km of roads and 239 bridges.
Physical implementation is on schedule. Disbursements have reached
US$22.7 million by the end of September 1982, which is in line with
appraisal estimate. Completion is scheduled for June 30, 1986.
1822      Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project:  US$58.0 million
loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984. The project is experiencing some initial
delays, due mainly to long lead times in developing specific engi-
neering solutions to the pollution problems of individual industrial
concerns, but the first subprojects have begun to reach the Bank.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
1823      Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$130.0
million loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983. After init:ial delays, the project
is now advancing at a good pace and is expected to be completed by
the end of 1984.
1824      CEEE Power Distribution Project:  US$114.0 million loan of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: July 15, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1984. After some initial delays, project implementation proceeded
satisfactorily, though the company is facing financial difficulties
which, if not resolved, could delay project completion.
1839      Second Urban Transport - Porto Alegre Project: US$159.0 million
loan of June 2, 1980; Effective Date: December 9, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Some problems concerning procurement have somewhat delayed the
implementation and procurement schedule.
1850      Third Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project: US$139.0 million
loan of July 18, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985. This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Most
works are already committed, and physical execution is progressing
on schedule.
1867      Northeast Basic Education Project:  US$32.0 million loan of July 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 12, 1981; Closing Date: September 1, 1985.
Project implementation is delayed by about twelve months due to delay
in effectiveness and in transferring resources to project states
during calendar years 1980 to 1982. The delay is expected to be made
up for during the remaining period of project implementation. To this
end, the PIU is preparing a reprogramming of the remaining project
implementation schedule, which will constitute the basis for discus-
sion with the forthcoming supervision mission. A substantial impact
evaluation effort being mounted as part of this project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1877      Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project:  US$63.0 million
loan of September 15, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985. Prevlous plans for co-financing
have fallen through, leading to financing problems which have slowed
project implementation such that some reformulation of project targets
is being considered. Subject to these constraints, the project is
proceeding satisfactorily.
1895      ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project:  US$125.0 million loan
of October 6, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1924      Ceara Second Rural Development Project:  US$56.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: July 7, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding slower than anticipated,
mainly due to funding delays and institutional problems. Some remedial
actions are being taken.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
1939      Electric Power System Coordination:  US$54.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: July 7, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Procurement is in progress.
1965      Third Urban Transport Project:  US$90.0 million loan of June 5, 1981;
Effective Date: October 20, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Implementation of this project is about twelve months behind schedule.
Corrective measures are being taken to bring the project back to its
original schedule as a result of recent (July 1982) discussions held
in Brazil.
1970      Multi-State Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$180.0 million
loan of May 18, 1981; Effective Date: December 15, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985. Project execution is advancing satisfactorily.
1989      Alcohol and Biomass Energy Development Project:  US$250.0 million
loan of June 12, 1981; Effective Date: November 10, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985. All parts of the program are progress-
ing satisfactorily, although the production component may suffer
temporary delays due to financial stringency at the national level.
2015      Piaui Rural Development Project:  US$29.0 million loan of August 10,
1981; Effective Date: February 5, 1982; Closing Date: December 31,
1986. Although project start-up was delayed because of the late
receipt of funds, implementation is now proceeding satisfactorily,
with over 300 beneficiaries of land redistribution and several
hundred more titles to be distributed in the next few months. Other
components have also progressed well, although limited execution
capacity has slowed progress in small-scale irrigation and water
supply, and delayed the establishment of the State Land Institute.
Overall, project administration is functioning well.
2016      Second Agricultural Research Project:  US$60.0 million loan of
July 8, 1981; Effective Date: December 8, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987. Minor start-up delays occurred during 1982 as a
result of less than optimal counterpart funding. Also, Government
restrictions on hiring (12/28/81) are necessitating special arrange-
ments by EMBRAPA to overcome these restrictions on a case by case
basis. Assurances have now been received from SEPLAN that, commencing
with CY83, there would be full allocation of essential counterpart
funding for the project.
2060      Northwest Region Integrated Development Program; First Phase:
Agriculture Project: US$67.0 million loan of December 15, 1981;
Effective Date: April 26, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Construction of agricultural infrastructure is proceeding faster
than initially assumed, but there have been some delays in transfer
of funds to local implementing agencies. There has been erratic
progress in environmental component and project coordination
structures, with the exception of Amerindian protection program
which has been progressing satisfactorily.



- 38 
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
2061      Northwest Region Integrated Development Program; First Phase;
Health Project US$13.0 million loan of December 15, 1981;
Effective Date:  April 26, 1982; Closing Date:  June 30, 1987.
Project start-up is generally satisfactory. The construction
program is proceeding according to schedule but some critical
delays have occurred in the implementation of the malaria control
program because of budgetary constraints at the national level.
2062      Northwest Region Integrated Development Program; First Phase;
Highway Project: US$240.0 million loan of December 15, 1981;
Effective Date: April 26, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
Construction of the Campinas-Ariquemes highway, the main project
component, is progressing well in most of the 19 construction lots
into which the highway is divided. Works started in October 1981
and are scheduled for completion in 1985. The quality of works
is good and DNER's supervision, assisted by six consultants, is
adequate. The strengthening program for the Rondonia Highway
Department is experiencing start-up difficulties because of
management changes. The situation should improve in 1983 with
the start of the technical assistance financed under the project.
2116      Northwest Region Development Program; Second Phase; Mato Grosso
Rural Development Project; US$26.4 million loan of May 12, 1982;
Effective Date:  August 9, 1982; Closing Date:  December 31, 1986.
Delays in funding have slowed initial construction activities.
Additional extension staff are being trained and other start-up
activities are proceeding satisfactorily.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
THIRD AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:    9 months
(b)  Agencies which prepared project:  BACEN/DESPE
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:    February 1982
(d)  First Mission to Review Project:  April 1982
(e)  Appraisal Mission:                  November 1982
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:         March 25, 1983
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:    August 1983
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Exclusion of WCF resources from the portfolio limitations of
participating intermediaries and appropriate revisions acceptable
to the Bank to BACEN's manual of procedures to cover the operations
under the new financing schemes included in the project would be
conditions of effectiveness (para. 56).
(b) The principal of all subloans would be corrected for changes in
inflation according to the ORTN index. Interest rates would be
reviewed every six months by BACEN and revised to reflect changes
in the cost of funds. If interest rates applicable to subloans
fail to be positive in relation to the prevailing inflation rate in
Brazil, commitments and disbursements from the loan could be
suspended (para. 60).



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) In the event of the liquidation or sale by participating inter-
mediaries of investment credit, securities or working capital
credit provided under the project, the proceeds would be applied to
the repayment of the associated loan from BACEN to the inter-
mediary. In addition, BACEN at its option could call on any
balance remaining on such loan (para. 61).
(d) Leasing firms will not be prohibited to acquire imported equipment
to be leased to agro-industrial firms for approved subprojects
(para. 63).
(e) All subprojects over the free limit of DESPE and over the free
limit of the participating banks would be subject to economic
evaluation as required by, respectively, the Bank and DESPE (para
66).
(f) Review procedures and approval limits for subprojects would be as
follows:
(i) subloans of up to US$500,000 could be approved by
participating banks;
(ii) for subloans between US$500,000 and US$5 million, DESPE would
fix approval limits for individual banks on the basis of their
managerial and technical capacity and experience;
(iii) for the first three subloans for leasing of equipment, for
securities operations and for working capital and all subloans
of US$5 million and above, the approval of both DESPE and the
Bank would be required (para. 69).



(F| JV0SE N E <; 50- 4i);-                                                 IBRD-15685
5h  (VENEZUELA, .US                                                    560                                    4bh                      APRIL 1981
L  ,     B         t>             t^   -. A,! Boo Vita        ;E'  -f
COLOMBIA/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AAP
Moo                                            A  f LA   / f p      C
APo.t'JeA O    C                  A A   /V    <     '   iNS % A     N
na   t:  2             \ t;   >j.ANCaCATARI;JA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ersia\Lf.A  ~
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aaa
QSOUTH>p   )    i  A  R G  E N  T  l A   A   N8/        8vFlori7tolis         p                 B~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Resn'CAZIL 11" l
P P   t1A ~Joc,oPessoa
''Recife
A S ~  ~    ~    o,o,h          lAdAoArI
2   A&     Tm h, bmE-E,     \IBRASiLIA Dtcte
B (D I  I  ~ A                            N                                             f
PA  CI Ft_3   OCEAI     N. twheldwwool=raZimsir;e~andd   lf   I      ,      \    g            MILES O    ]00   2          .-*-*CapoGrande  *BoIonl TnA IN 
HorizonRie Y Kiit,rt
/                                          A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /~~f-'~Vtl  A  TLZANTI  C
0 C E A N                          ~~~~\PARAGUAY\    -                          PAfO                   Aad
-        Cor,N dc CA AR
K   A R G E N T I~ ~ ~   A                    \   F~ lo r io n 6o li                B  R A  Z I L
B R  Z I L ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~ A  R G   E N  TuL 
S                               [                 @   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~National capital
Ass 5.s55ss,dos ~~~~.  ~ ~   ~       PosrloAlegr                                       *    State and territory capitols
A/AE    c       ss.s.oA',                                          tss       KILOMETERSO A  AC 20,0 30,0 4,00 50     State and trioyboundaries
I.  Th.d.sssss,.Rise,s,.0.sdsA,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~MLE oar &                   9   A00  3A0              International boondaries
Woolss Bsssk.ssS 551 OsOosso  URUGUAY                                            ~~~~~~~~ ~~~Risersml
55*55555 seAl. ilosi ness sA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p



