Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4363-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
THIRD AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
April 1, 1983
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                =     Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00                      =     Cr$ 415.46 (April 1, 1983)
Cr$ 1.00                     -     US$0.002406
Cr$ 1 million                =     US$2,406
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
ABBREVIATIONS
BACEN       Central Bank of Brazil
BB          Bank of Brazil
BNDES       National Economic and Social Development Bank
BNR         National Housing Bank
DESPE       Department of Industrial Credit and Special Programs
IOF         Tax on Financial Transactions
ORTN        Readjustable Obligations of the National Treasury
PAGRI       Agro-Industrial Credit Program
WCF         Working Capital Facility



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  PROJECT CONCEPT ........................................... 1
II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
Structure of the Financial System ........................ 2
The Economic Environment .................................. 4
Current Problems and Issues .............................. 5
Policy Priorities and Government Intentions ............... 6
III. THE AGRO-INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
General ................................................. 7
Agriculture ............................................... 8
Export Markets ................. ,8
Domestic Markets.                                             9
The Need for Structural Changes .10
Financing Agro-Industrial Enterprises .11
New Activities and Investments .12
IV. PREVIOUS BANK LENDING
Agro-Industrial Credit .14
Agriculture and Rural Development .16
V. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives .16
Brief Project Description .16
Detailed Features .17
Long-Term Financing .17
Risk Capital Financing .18
Working Capital Facility .18
Interest Rates and Spreads .19
Project Cost and Financing .21
Procurement .22
Disbursements .22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil in October/November 1982. The mission comprised Mr. F. M. Crowe,
Ms. B. Insel and Mr. C Lewis (Bank).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents
Page No.
VI.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Administration                ........................................... 23
The Evaluation of Subprojects .......   .......... ...... 23
Monitoring                .................................. ............ 25
Auditing .......................................... .  ...... 25
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits ........................                              .......................... 26
Risks .................................................... 27
VIII.  AGREEMENTS OBTAINED AND RECOMMENDATION .................. 27
ANNEXES
1. Department of Industrial Credit and Special
Programs (DESPE) ............................. .....  .29
2.  Documents Available in Project File .................. 30
SUPPORTING TABLES
Table 1: Loan 1317-BR: Sample of Subprojects
Financed    .      ............................. 32
Table 2:  BACEN Cash Flow from the Project ............... 34
CHART:  Organization of the Central Bank of Brazil ............. 37
MAP: Brazil: IBRD 15685



BRAZIL
THIRD AGRO-INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. PROJECT CONCEPT
1.01      Brazilian agro-industry has a record of remarkable achievements
since 1970; these achievements have not been made in an easy environment.
1.02      Although less frequent in the last two years, Government
interventions (through quotas, price controls, credit subsidies and the
administrative direction of sales) have tended to result in structural
imbalances in the agro-industrial sector while normal market developments
have brought the need to adjust to new conditions and find new products and
markets. Financial conditions in Brazil, moreover, have recently been such
as to threaten the survival of many inherently viable firms and to thwart the
growth of new and innovative ones. Distortions in the financial system have
weakened its essential role of mobilizing savings and allocating resources in
response to market forces--a point of critical importance not only for
agro-industries, but for Brazilian business generally.
1.03      In major respects, Government policies have taken a new and more
liberal direction since 1981. This trend has been continued and reinforced
by the recent agreement with the IMF, the 1983 monetary budget and the
ongoing policy dialogue with the Bank (paras 2.22 and 3.01). For example,
interest rate subsidies on rural credit are being reduced and those on most
industrial and commercial credit have been freed. At the same time, public
sector deficits are being drastically cut.
1.04      The current transition from structural imbalances in the
agro-industrial sector and from subsidies, interest rate dispersion, market
segmentation and narrowly directed and regulated credit in the financial
sector will take time and careful management, particularly in the aftermath
of the recent devaluation. Funds will be needed on terms that give positive
spreads to financial intermediaries and are yet compatible with realistic
returns on the investments financed. Long-term loan and equity portfolios
need to be re-established with an accompanying development of risk-taking
decisions. The availability of working capital finance will be an important
determinant of firms' willingness to invest.
1.05      The proposed project would help provide the financial facilities
necessary to enable Brazilian agro-industry to use its proven ability to
adjust and innovate on domestic and international markets. An additional
objective would be, by way of demonstration and experience, to help lay the
groundwork for more efficient and competitive financial markets.



- 2 -
II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
Structure of the Financial System 1/
2.01      The Brazilian financial sector is well developed and in many ways
highly sophisticated. It currently faces a variety of difficulties and
structural imbalances which impair its efficiency and stability. The 1983
policy changes adopted by the Brazilian government could--along with
additional measures--permit the financial sector to support investments in
productive sectors such as agro-industries which will be needed, as Brazil
emerges from its current recession, in order to fulfill its planned increase
in exports.
2.02      Reforms initiated in 1964 shaped the present Brazilian financial
system, creating the National Monetary Council and defining the functions of
existing and new financial institutions. A range of assets bearing monetary
correction was introduced, the most important being Readjustable Obligations
of the National Treasury (ORTNs) and savings deposits. Monetary correction,
theoretically kept in line with inflation, is designed to preserve the time
profile of long-term debt; it is widely used in Brazilian financial con-
tracts. Traditional non-indexed demand and time deposits and bills of ex-
change continued unchanged and were joined in 1970 by Treasury Bills
auctioned at competitive discounts. Three compulsory savings funds were
introduced, bearing monetary correction and interest of 3% p.a. To promote
the formation of risk capital, tax deductions were granted for purchases of
shares in equity-holding fiscal funds.
2.03      There are four main federal banks:  the Central Bank of Brazil
(BACEN) and the Bank of Brazil (BB), which, together, form the Monetary
Authority; the National Economic and Social Development Bank (BNDES); and the
National Housing Bank (BNH). Three of these--BACEN, BNDES and BNH--are
second-tier institutions, that is, they pass on funds for relending to
first-tier intermediaries such as commercial and investment banks, including
BB; except for BACEN, they also lend directly. The 15 state and regional
development banks have acted principally as agencies of the second-tier banks
for medium- and long- term credit, although foreign borrowing and
certificates of deposit have recently become important sources of funds.
2.04      BB is the largest commercial bank in Brazil and the main window for
the lending operations of the Monetary Authority, primarily directed to agri-
culture, exports and energy; funds originate from demand deposits, redis-
counts, and, of the greatest quantitative importance, BB's current account
through which most of the official credit to agriculture has been channeled
(representing about 60% of BB's loans outstanding). The funds thus supplied
are not subject to any monetary correction or interest charges even though
they have been substantial:  at end July 1982, the balance on the account was
some US$8.6 billion equivalent-- almost exactly equal to the monetary base,
or about 55% of M 1. At current levels of inflation, the annualized implicit
subsidy on such a balance is more than US$4 billion equivalent.
1/ A comprehensive description and analysis can be found in Bank Report
No.2790a, "Brazil, Financial System Review," of November 1980.



2.05      There are 81 private commercial banks and 21 owned by state gov-
ernments. They concentrate on short-term credit as, in current conditions,
do the 38 investment banks who also place and underwrite corporate debt and
equity. Housing and consumer finance is provided by finance houses, savings
banks, housing finance companies and savings and loans institutions. Other
important sources of finance are institutional investors, with private
pension funds growing most rapidly. The fiscal funds are also substantial,
but the tax credits which support them are now being reduced. Insurance
companies, investment funds, and mutual funds have smaller portfolios, but
are growing in real terms.
2.06      Leasing companies, mostly controlled by bank conglomerates, have
recently become important sources of term financing and have been the fastest
growing financial subsector in Brazil over the last five years.  Costs to the
user tend to be lower for leasing operations than for other forms of medium-
or long-term finance. Also, it has been the only type of credit operation
not requiring special types of collateral, which made it attractive to
smaller enterprises not affiliated with larger conglomerates. Another
similar, innovation, albeit on a much smaller scale, has been the emergence
of venture capital firms in Brazil which take equity positions in high
potential firms. Both these institutional developments have been facilitated
by IFC projects.
2.07      The Brazilian securities markets, while dominated by Government
borrowings, are competitive and sophisticated. Because the ORTN bonds carry
an option for convertibility on the basis of foreign exchange, instead of
indexation based on official estimates of domestic inflation, private
investors are able to hedge their foreign exchange exposure; this also gives
a market test of Government credibility regarding decisions about indexation
and devaluations. In addition, there is a massive market, based on borrowing
ORTNs, which is used for overnight deposits of cash. In terms of private
securities, there has been rapid growth in debentures, including convertible
issues, although the market for shares has been hurt by Government policies,
inflation and the attractiveness of alternative investments. And although a
commercial paper market is so far expressly prohibited, there is an extremely
well developed system of discounting invoices (duplicatas) through which
commercial enterprises are able to finance short-term operations; BACEN
operates a central clearing house to facilitate this market's operations.
2.08      Recently, there has been a shift of credit from the private to the
public sector. The private sector's share of domestic credit from the
monetary authorities (BACEN and BB) fell from 78% in 1979 to 44% in 1981. In
the case of BNDES, which supplied nearly all the long-term financing require-
ments of industry during the 1970s, the private sector's share of total
approvals declined from 86% in 1978 to 23% in 1981; since the total also de-
clined, the value of loan approvals to the private sector in 1981 was, in
constant terms, only 20% of what it had been in 1978. Lending by the state
development banks shows a similar trend, with the private sector's share fal-
ling from 78% in 1977 to 50% in 1981. The proposed project would, therefore,
help to meet an important need in providing both long- and short-term
financing to the agro-industrial sector, while minimizing the call on public
sector resources.



-4
The Economic Environment
2.09      After the quadrupling of the price of imported oil in 1973,
successive Brazilian governments attempted to cope with the worsened
terms-of-trade and at the same time maintain a high rate of growth of output
and employment. Although reduced from the 11% annual growth of the 1967 to
1973 period, GDP grew at a still remarkable 7% average annual rate from 1974
through 1980. To manage the resulting balance-of-payments strains, foreign
borrowing was expanded, import restrictions and export subsidies were
increased, and renewed efforts were made to subsitute domestic production for
imported manufactures. At the same time, official credit to agriculture, at
highly subsidized rates, was expanded, along with investments in state
enterprises. The cost of the credit subsidies and the cash deficits of the
state enterprises were the main causes of the growth of the public sector
deficit from an estimated 5.3% of GDP in 1978, to 8.1% in 1979.  During the
period, inflation rose from about 15% in 1972 to 80% in 1979.
2.10      The second oil price jump of 1979, along with higher international
interest rates, exacerbated balance of payments and inflation problems. At
the end of 1979, the cruzeiro was devalued by 30%. In 1980, monetary
correction and devaluation were pre-fixed at rates below inflation and
negat-ive returns to financial assets led to a flight into goods; monetary
velocity increased and inflation rose to over 100% despite stable growth in
the monetary base. Important consequences were a substantially overvalued
cruzeiro, an erosion of long-term portfolios and, consequently, a sharp fall
in long-term lending.
2.11      In 1981, there were far-reaching changes in policies.  Monetary
correction and mini-devaluations were kept in line with inflation; interest
rates generally were freed, except those on the official lines of credit for
agriculture, energy and exports; and price controls on agricultural products
were mostly removed. Credit ceilings were, however, retained. At the same
time, Government turned to Treasury debt and externally borrowed funds,
temporarily frozen in compulsory deposits carrying exchange correction, to
finance the continuing credit subsidies and the cash requirements of the
state enterprises. This, however, meant that the monetary authorities were
operating at large negative spreads. Also, because of the credit ceilings,
lower monetary base growth, and the increase in Government borrowing,
interest rates in the unadministered portion of the capital market reached
levels of 30 to 45% in real terms.  In response, firms cut production sharply
and domestic consumption dropped. In 1982, despite some indications that the
recession had bottomed out, it soon became apparent that the inflation rate
for the year would show no improvement. Growing foreign indebtedness--over
80 billion at end-1982--was accompanied by a further tightening of liquidity
in private domestic capital markets.
2.12      The Government's 1983 program is primarily geared to restraining
further growth in the external debt and reducing the public sector deficits.
The principal objectives are to show at least a US$6 billion merchandise
trade surplus and to reduce the public sector deficit from 5.8% of GDP in
1982 to 3.5% in 1983.  This is to be accomplished through improvements in
revenues, cuts in public expenditures and in credit subsidies to
agriculture. Longer term objectives include a continuing liberalization of
financial markets.
2.13      As a result of the economic difficulties of the last decade, there
has been a decline in gross capital formation (from 27.2% of GDP in 1975 to
21.1% in 1980), and in private savings (from over 13% to GDP in 1975 to 6% in



1980). Given the changes in Government policy referred to above, a
resumption of normal levels of economic activity in Brazil is likely to lead
to an upsurge of demand for finance to meet a backlog of investment in
expansion, modernization and replacement, as well as the accompanying
expansion of working capital requirements. To meet this demand in the most
economic way will call for greater flexibility and efficiency in financial
markets. The project proposed in this report would help provide the finance
that will be needed by agro-industrial firms; it would also help to improve
the efficiency of financial intermediation.
Current Problems and Issues
2.14      The economic environment and policies described above, together
with international economic developments, have combined to create conditions
of uncertainty in the Brazilian financial sector. Through the contraction of
domestic credit, Government has sought to reduce inflationary pressures,
force firms to borrow abroad (and thus help the balance of payments) and
facilitate its own borrowing. During 1981 and 1982, the commercial banks
have had the expansion of most of their credit restricted to 50%, in current
terms, of the amounts outstanding at the end of the preceding year. Given
inflation rates approaching 100% p.a., these restrictions are very severe.
Even more important, since the ceilings are applied equally to all banks,
they freeze market shares and have largely eliminated competition; the result
has been policy-induced monopoly profits for the commercial banks. In
addition, with credit at both free and controlled interest rates extremely
scarce, the banks tend to favor large well-established customers, at the
expense of emerging, innovative firms, in order to minimize their risks.
More recently, the level of the commercial banks' compulsory deposits with
BACEN, under new legislation, may be raised to 60% and applied not only to
sight deposits but also to time deposits and other instruments. Such powers
would seem to obviate the need for the additional credit limitations applied
to individual banks.
2.15      The administrative allocation of credit further impairs the role of
the commercial banks as financial intermediaries. The principal allocations
are to agriculture: 35% of the credit portfolios must be applied to rural
credit, at the negative real interest rates charged on the official lines,
and a further 10% at full monetary correction plus 8% interest. There are
other smaller allocations--currently, to small- and medium-industries,
cooperatives and state development banks. This, of course, reduces the
availability and increases the costs of funds to other sectors of the
economy.
2.16      The level and dispersion of interest rates have increased
dramatically as a result of the contraction and administrative allocation of
credit described above and shown in the following table:
Interest Rate Dispersion
Dec.     Dec.      Dec.     Aug.
78       80        81       82
…_________…___    %    -------------
Inflation, 12 months to date                38.2      86.3     100.5    96.5
Certificates of Deposit                     58.0    105.0      105.0   129.0
Rural credit (highest rate)                 15.7      51.2      51.2    51.2
Investment banks, 180 days                  65.0    122.7      152.7   163.2



- 6 -
Other rates are well outside the range shown above: in late 1982, rural
credit in the Northeast had rates of 12% and lower, while firms were dis-
counting receivables at effective rates of 350% and above. The incentive to
divert rural credit from its intended purpose is enormous; at the same time,
there can be few business investments with returns at the margin equal to the
yield on certificates of deposit, much less the market cost of credit.  In
short, financial speculation is made much more attractive than productive
investment.
2.17      The Tax on Financial Transactions (IOF), which, on long-term loans
amounts to 6.9% annualized on the amounts disbursed, is now the country's
third highest yielding tax. Given the present position of the banks, the IOF
is probably acting more as a tax on monopoly profits than as a cause of very
high real interest rates. Were credit ceilings to be removed, however, the
IOF would act to keep interest rates higher than they would otherwise be. It
would then be a disincentive to investment.
2.18      High administrative costs result from the intensive regulation of
the financial markets and the consequent uncertainties and instabilities. The
benefits obtainable from subsidized credit, for example, and the incentives
to divert it, call forth elaborate regulations which are burdensome to both
borrowers and lenders. The absorption of entrepreneurial and professional
time on the part of the banks' customers also imposes a heavy cost.
Policy Priorities and Government Intentions
2.19      From a medium- or long-term perspective, successful Brazilian ad-
justment requires a more favorable investment climate and a larger share of
financing coming out of domestic savings rather than foreign borrowings. A
number of changes are necessary if the financial sector is to operate
efficiently toward this end in the mobilization of savings and the allocation
of resources for investment. However, the policy changes since 1980 are
important steps in the right direction.
2.20      The 1983 monetary budget introduces, for the first time, partial
monetary correction for rural credit (70% of correction plus 5% interest for
most of the country). Assuming inflation to be in the range of 70% to 80% in
1983 and the cost of capital zero, the implicit annual subsidy will then be
of the order of 8% or 9%. Since Government has to pay 7% to 8% real on its
bonds, the negative spread for the monetary authorities is that much higher
(i.e. 15% to 17%) on the part of official credit financed by borrowing.
Government plans further reduction of the credit subsidies over the next two
or three years and has set specific goals in this regard. Their final
elimination is a topic of Bank's ongoing policy dialogue with Government
(para 2.22).
2.21      The removal of the credit ceilings on the commercial and investment
banks is the principal immediate requirement. Essentially, these ceilings
freeze the market shares of the banks and enable them to earn quasi-monopoly
profits (para 2.11). The 1983 monetary budget says that the ceilings will be
applied with more flexibility and reviewed quarterly. With the removal of
the credit ceilings, the IOF would probably become the main factor keeping
the cost of money to Brazilian borrowers out of line with international
rates. Government has already reduced the rate of the IOF. In addition to



- 7 -
the IOF, the administrative allocation of commercial bank lending (to rural
credit and small and medium enterprises) would remain as a serious distorting
influence. Other important objectives over the next two or three years
should be to foster the development of inter-bank and corporate paper
markets, with a view to developing benchmark interest rates and drastically
reducing the number of narrowly directed official lines of credit (a process
already begun).
2.22      During negotiations the Bank's concern on these issues was conveyed
to Government and an understanding reached on the direction of future
policy. Government confirmed its intention to proceed with the
liberalization of the financial system during the next three years. In
particular, the credit ceilings for individual banks are to be further
relaxed in 1983; consideration will be given to relaxing the sectoral
allocation of credit and, in 1984, to further reducing the rate of the tax on
financial transactions.
2.23      With changes of the type outlined above and with the planned
reductions in the public sector deficits, the efficiency of the financial
sector would be greatly increased. At the same time, Government's control
over broad monetary policy would be strengthened, rather than otherwise, by
dismantling much of the regulatory apparatus which has developed, in a
somewhat ad hoc manner, in recent years and which has proved to be generally
ineffective. There is little doubt that the Brazilian financial sector has
institutions and managers fully capable of restoring and further developing
sophisticated and competitive financial markets.  It is intended to address
the issues discussed above in the course of the Bank's ongoing dialogue with
Government in the context of the overall lending program. Discussions on
industrial policy are already in progress, accompanying the implementation of
the Second Development Banking Project.
III. THE AGRO-INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
General
3.01      The Brazilian economy is particularly dependent on the capacity and
efficiency of agro-industries. Roughly half of all export earnings and about
10% of total GDP - about equal to the value added on-farm - depend on this
sector, which, broadly defined, includes:
(a) the processing of agricultural raw materials, including drying,
grading, and packaging;
(b) the production of agricultural inputs, such as fertilizer, balanced
feed, improved seeds and implements; and
(c) the storage, marketing and distribution of agro-industrial
products.
Nonetheless, the sector has been, and continues to be, handicapped by
Government restrictions on imported goods and services and export and value
added taxes which bear heavily on agro-industrial products (although
manufactured products are exempt). In its policy dialogue with Government



- 8 -
the Bank will address these issues, together with the issues referred to in
the remainder of this chapter. In this connection, the Bank is planning an
extensive program of agricultural sector work. During negotiations,
Government confirmed its agreement to undertake with the Bank a joint
analysis of agricultural policy issues, particularly relating to agricultural
pricing and incentives.
Agriculture
3.02      Although its relative importance in the Brazilian economy has
gradually declined, agriculture remains an important sector, employing 36% of
Brazil's labor force and contributing over 10% of the total GDP and about
half of total export earnings. Some 36% of Brazil's 1980 population of 119
million now live in rural areas, compared to 39% in 1970. The average annual
agricultural growth rate in the decade to 1980 was just over 5%. Brazil is
the world's largest exporter of coffee and orange juice, the largest producer
of sugar cane, and the second largest producer of soybeans. Other major
agricultural exports include meat and fish products, cotton, peanuts, cocoa,
castor oil, and sisal. In most years Brazil is self-sufficient in basic food
production, except for wheat.  Bad crop years result in periodic imports of
maize, rice and beans. Natural rubber is also imported. Most of the
productivity gains, expanded production areas, and increased market
integration experienced in the recent past have occurred in the south and
center-west of the country, while the north and northeast have largely
continued to use traditional agricultural practices with rudimentary
technology.
3.03      Agriculture development has been assigned a high priority in
Brazil's 1980-1985 development plan. It is given a key role in the
Government's efforts to reduce inflation, through expanded food production,
and, to improve the balance-of-payments, through increased production of
export crops and energy substitutes. To help achieve these objectives, the
Government has continued its support for special regional programs, despite
high inflation and public sector deficits which have caused restraint in
public expenditure elsewhere. The Government is also trying to reduce the
very high agricultural credit subsidies, an instrument used extensively in
the past decade (para 2.20).
Export Markets
3.04      Brazilian agricultural exports have played a major part in the
country's overall economic growth, increasing by about 10% each year in the
1970s. Earnings from traditional exports such as coffee and sugar have
fluctuated in line with world prices.  The direct processing of agricultural
raw materials destined for world markets has grown dramatically. Since the
early 1970s, the share of processed farm products in the total agricultural
trade account rose from less than 20% to about 60% by the early 1980s.
Increased processing capacity, for inputs and post-harvest transformations,
has been the critical underpinning of the successful development of soybeans,
orange juice and poultry--the three fastest growing foreign exchange earners
of the 1970s, which alone brought Brazil about US$4.2 billion in foreign
exchange in 1981 and accounted for 45% of all agricultural trade:



- 9 -
Major Agro-Industrial Exports
(million metric tons)
Soybeans         Oranges          Poultry
1970                      1.5              2.1              0.2
1975                     10.8              4.1              0.5
1980                     15.5              9.3              1.2
Source: USDA
3.05      Partly because of its success in increasing market share, Brazil
was extremely vulnerable to the fall in commodity prices which started in
late 1980 and has continued through the end of 1982. In Brazil, unlike the
US or the EEC, international trade has not, with the exception of poultry,
been associated with domestic surpluses, so that adjusting to a short-term
decline in export markets is more difficult where there is no domestic
cushion. In addition, there are potentially serious longer term
difficulties. Sluggish demand, related to lower gains in per capita income in
both developed and middle income importers, is likely to continue for some
time, and recently important trading partners, such as the East Europeans and
some oil exporters, face foreign exchange constraints. Even more threatening
is the possible impact of protectionism.
Domestic Markets
3.06      Parallel to rapid growth in export-oriented processing, changes in
domestic food consumption and retail patterns have led to greater value added
post harvest. Today well over half of the urban food budget pays for
agro-industrial services, which are also a major source of employment for
lower income urban groups. But despite these changes, which have included
the emergence of integrated, high turnover supermarkets, there remain
important new investment opportunities that have not yet been taken up for a
variety of reasons, including:
(a) sometimes erratic Government price policies which have helped
destabilize local markets;
(b) the atomized structure of urban retailing, which has precluded
economies of scale at the wholesale level. Even in the modern
retail subsector, most supermarkets are not part of larger
purchasing or distribution networks. And public sector efforts to
correct this problem in the urban centers of the Northeast have not
yet improved productivity;
(c) the absence of production-level collection centers, which has
increased the burden on often inadequate transportation services
and made efficient intermediation more difficult; and
(d)  the lack of consumer-accepted product grades and standards, which
raises merchant risks, increases the time consumers spend shopping
and prevents retail chains from marketing on a national basis.
3.07      The development of industries which supply critical farm inputs has
generally kept pace with the modernization of the overall agro-industrial and



- 10 -
farming system. Fertilizer consumption doubled between 1975 and 1980, with
the share being met by local production rising from about 30% to over 50%.
Similar consumption and supply patterns have emerged for pesticides,
machinery and seeds. But gaps remain between Government-sponsored research
(including that financed by the Bank under the First and Second Agricultural
Research Projects) and its application on a commercially sustainable basis.
The proposed project would help in this regard (para 3.24).
The Need for Structural Changes
3.08      Weaker demand for Brazilian products, domestic and export, have
exacerbated structural inefficiencies in the agro-industrial sector which
were less obvious in the previous period of rapid growth and extremely low
cost capital. During the 1970s, directed credit programs almost completely
crowded out alternative sources of funding, including the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project (para 4.03). As a result, investment
decisions reflected artificial financial incentives, rather than true
economic opportunities; the pattern of industrial development became
increasingly distorted and processing capacity continued to grow even where
existing facilities were more than adequate to handle current and prospective
requirements. This was most obvious in the soya, poultry, and orange juice
subsectors.
3.09      The investment signals have been further affected by Government
price support and the availability of negative interest rate funding for
commercial inventories. The ability of the Brazilian investor to take
advantage of Government programs has often brought unintended results in
terms of prices, "week-end processors," inventories carried at the public's
expense, and lower returns to genuine agro-industrial enterprises. Even
worse from the standpoint of long-term capital formation, resources which
should have been directed to value adding projects have instead been
allocated to purely speculative activities made rewarding by policy-induced
distortions.
3.10      At the same time, difficult problems in terms of marketing costs
have not been addressed although they have now become serious. In key crops
such as soya, Brazil's advantages as the world's low cost producer are more
than offset by distribution inefficiencies. While the costs of soy
production are lower than in the US, marketing margins are, in real terms,
much higher. This is partly the result of tranportation problems, but there
are other equally important reasons, as described below.
3.11      First, risk premiums.  While commodity price risks are hedged by
both multinationals and local enterprises in the international commodity
futures markets, the protection remains only partial because of uncertainties
about local prices and foreign exchange rates that derive from Government
interventions. The result is that marketing margins have to include a
substantial risk premium. While difficult to calculate, surveys and
appraisal mission estimates would suggest that the absence of effective
hedging has raised costs by as much as 10% (of the fob value).
3.12      Second, transaction costs. The distortions in local financial
markets, an inadequate crop information system and problems in enforcing
contracts increase the costs of doing business. Taken together these



- 11 -
elements, especially the extremely large adminstrative costs of banking and
commodity trading services, are at least as important as risk premiums.
3.13      Third, inventory management.  The pattern of stockholding has been
skewed by the complex of interventions which have subsidized commercial and
processor inventories. This has made it impossible to introduce an effective
storage warrant system and has had two additional side effects. First,
excessively large stocks are held by agro-industrial concerns. For example,
otherwise efficient soya crushers have stock turnover rates far lower than
their North American or West European competitors--which would effectively
price them out of world markets if off-setting Government subsidies were not
being provided. Second, adequate farm storage has not been built up to
levels required for economical distribution or flexible producer marketing.
These three elements may well account for the greater part of the marketing
cost differentials between Brazil and its competitors.
Financing Agro-Industrial Enterprises
3.14      In recent years as real interest rates have risen, subsidized
credit has become proportionately less important to agro-industrial concerns
who have had to rely increasingly on extremely costly financing.   And as
rates have increased, terms have narrowed. At present, the free market cost
of funds is at least 20% above monetary correction (three to four times
higher than real rates in the Libor market) and maturities average six
months. The strongest firms, often those which are held by large family
trusts, have responded by shedding debt and holding forward price exposure to
a minimum (including inventories of commodities or dollar-denominated
liabilities).   Other firms, perhaps the majority, find themselves with
unsustainable levels of inventories, financing charges and exposure to
changes in short-term interest or exchange rates.
3.15      It follows that almost all managerial and capital resources in the
agro-industrial sector are presently focused on immediate exigencies.
Government subsidies for agro-industries are now going almost exclusively to
exports such as soy or poultry, where future growth is limited, so that
capital that would otherwise be available to develop Brazil's potential
future agro-industrial successes is being diverted to support existing
enterprises, including over-capacity in traditional processing activities.
The net effect has been to delay consolidation where weaker operations would
either go bankrupt or be absorbed by better managed and capitalized groups.
3.16      Agro-industrial enterprises have pursued a variety of strategies in
response to these problems. As Government policies change, however, the
legacy of many of the strategies which proved profitable in recent years is
likely to become a handicap. In the recent past, agro-industrial enterprises
maximized borrowing at subsidized rates and expanded inventories to take
advantage of the negative interest rate offered by the Government for storing
commodities. Cash from retained earnings and other internally generated
funds were invested in the overnight ORTN market at high real rates while
subsidized credit met working capital needs. With debt so inexpensive,
maximum leverage was sought, equity was minimized. Export incentives led to
expanded processing capacity, which narrowed margins as processors bid up the
prices of domestic raw materials, even as international prices deteriorated,
severely narrowing operating margins.



- 12 -
3.17      In 1981, interest rates rose and access to subsidized working
capital became difficult. Firms found themselves facing severe liquidity
problems, high overhead and narrowing operating margins and holding
substantial but unmarketable fixed investments. Pressure for working capital
finance from the private market pushed free market interest rates up. As a
result, many firms incurred operating losses in 1982 and face even more
severe operating problems in 1983. Some consolidation among firms presently
operating in agro-industries is therefore likely to take place; once
completed, remaining enterprises can be expected to take advantage of new
opportunities provided they have access to appropriate and adequate financial
resources.
3.18      The lack of long-term finance for agro-industrial projects has had
a negative impact on new investment activity (based on surveys of banks
participating in the Second Agro-Industries Credit Project, BACEN and other
institutions; Annex 2 includes a partial list of relevant studies). There
appears to be considerable demand for credit by firms which have had to
postpone attractive projects because of the difficult financial situation in
respect of credit and capital markets. Even greater interest has been
expressed about projects in innovative agro-industrial subsectors where
market growth prospects are best. But at the same time, the current shortage
of working capital credit for firms interested in new projects would--if not
relieved--adversely affect demand for longer term credit such as provided by
the Second Agro-Industries Credit Project and proposed in this project.
New Activities and Investments
3.19      The future requirements of the ag ro-i dustria  SectQr hre directly
related to tne nee  for structural adjustmEnts (para i.l7) an  t e
opportunities for providing new services or products that meet international
and domestic demand. In the less protected environment now emerging,
agro-industrial enterprises will need access to equity, reasonable term
financing, and stable sources of raw materials, together with the ability to
diversify into new markets, products, and uses for existing capacity.
While there is little scope for additional capacity being financed in the
mature subsectors, as studies completed by BACEN amply demonstrate, there
remains a large number of new opportunities. In addition there is likely to
be demand for retro-fitting plants with equipment for energy saving, improved
material handling, and better use of the by-products of processing which are
presently wasted.
3.20      Projects which would increase marketing efficiency--a critical
aspect of Brazilian export performance and domestic growth--will become
attractive when the distortions caused by credit controls are eliminated.
These could include increased demand for investments in farmer-owned storage
and ancillary equipment, such as mobile small-scale dryers and elevators and
other local collection, grading and warehousing facilities, which would ease
congestion further down the distribution pipeline. Supermarket chains are
already in the process of rationalizing the marketing pipeline for perishable
products destined for domestic consumption through investments in
refrigerated storage, packing or transportation equipment.
3.21      The development of charcoal is one promising new area for
agro-industrial development. Assuming a recovery in steel output and growth
in exports, demand for Brazilian charcoal could well double by 1990.



- 13 -
Manufacturers will be increasing users of charcoal, and pilot projects that
demonstrate its cost advantages might be part of a market development
program. Producers could increase the yield of charcoal per unit of wood
through furnaces which would reduce processing losses and recover by-products
such as tar. Other technical improvements might put Brazilian charcoal
exports into higher price market segments (e.g. used as briquettes for
barbecues in developed countries).
3.22      Charcoal is but one of a number of possible energy-oriented
agro-industrial activities. Tapping existing supplies of wood chips which
are not presently used at paper or saw mills would be another way of
substituting for higher cost fuels. Related investments could include the
infrastructure required to collect, hold and distribute the commodity. More
generally, there appears to be a number of opportunities for processing
forestry by-products.
3.23      Another major area for future agro-industrial growth is development
of new food products and beverages where unit values are high, export markets
open, and the need to achieve high quality all important. Specific ideas
which are already being explored by agro-industrial concerns and financial
intermediaries such as the development banks and venture capital firms
include:
(a)  expansion of the domestic wine industry;
(b)  creation of a local market for fresh orange juice which would
complement the export orientation of current production and
processing;
(c)  development of new juices, for which many of the fruits are grown
in the Northeast, for both Brazilian and world markets;
(d)  introduction of specialized seasonings and horticultural
commodities (which will require careful attention to consumer
preferences and reliability of supplies and will, therefore, likely
start out as integrated production and processing operations).
Modern systems for dehydration, freezing and packaging could be
applied for products such as tropical fruits, onions, garlic,
spices and asparagus;
(e)  processing of fish and shrimp, including shipboard refrigerated
storage; and
*              (f)  vertically integrated tree crop production and processing.
3.24      The commercial replication and marketing of new farm inputs could
complement current research programs, including those being supported by the
Bank, taking advantage of the existence of well developed and technically
sophisticated private firms for supplying genetically improved seeds and
breeding stock. Areas where recent advances could have large-scale
application--given adequate investment in facilities--include cloning by
means of tissue culture, which improves the productivity of tree crops such
as rubber, coconuts and oil palm, and new high yielding varieties of seeds.



- 14 -
3.25      A final area where investment could prove useful is in the
improvement of management information in agro-industrial enterprises with
large marketing operations and inventories. The application of modern data
processing and telecommunications technology could bring about substantial
economies for the firms concerned as well as for the country as a whole. In
addition, the capital costs associated with improved trading could be met.
3.26      Innovative firms, developing new products and markets and taking
advantage of research results and modern information technologies, should
find the range of financing options offered by the proposed project of
particular advantage.
IV. PREVIOUS BANK LENDING
Agro-Industrial Credit
4.01      There have been two previous Bank loans for agro-industrial credit
in Brazil, both of which helped finance a line of credit, known as the
Agro-Industrial Credit Program (PAGRI), administered by the Department of
Industrial Credit and Special Programs (DESPE) of BACEN (Annex 1). PAGRI
ref inances subloans made by approved participating banks (so far mainly State
Development Banks). Operations were restricted to the south, south-east and
center-west regions of the country.
4.02      The First Agro-Industries Credit Project (Loan 924-BR) is the
subject of a Project Completion Report dated June 25, 1981 and a Project
Performance Audit Report dated December 30, 1982. The loan of US$54 million
became effective in March 1974.
4.03      The two principal objectives of the project were to introduce
on-lending, subject to full monetary correction, and to increase beef exports
by 140,000 tons a year by 1978. Because of Government limitations to, or
pre-fixation of, the correction index used (ORTN), interest rates were
increasingly negative in real terms, until they reached negative 25% in 1979
and negative 60% in 1980. At the same time, competing lines of more highly
subsidized official credit made the program virtually inoperative for
substantial periods. Also, largely as a result of Government restrictions on
exports, total national beef exports in 1978 were no more than 63,000 tons,
less than half the pre-project figure. The loan closed on December 31, 1980,
when an undisbursed balance of US$17.8 million was cancelled.
4.04      Thus, Government policies were not conducive to success and the
project probably had a negative rate of return; many of the sub-borrowers had
serious financial problems. As a further result, the second project (Loan
1317-BR for US$83 million, which had become effective in March 1977), did not
begin disbursement until January 1981. Both the Completion Report and the
Project Performance Audit Report questioned, in retrospect, the timing of the
second project.
4.05      Far-reaching changes in Government policy since the end of 1980,
however, have removed the main obstacles which prevented the success of the
first project and delayed the start of the second. Monetary correction since
January 1981 has been slightly ahead of inflation, so that the subsidization
of interest rates ceased; also, the availability of competing and more highly



- 15 -
subsidized credit lines ended.  In addition, quantitative and price controls
on agricultural products (both unprocessed and processed) have been largely
abolished or relaxed.
4.06      The table below  summarizes disbursements since the beginning of
the program in 1974.
Agro-Industries Credit Projects Disbursements
US$ million
Loan 924-BR               1974-76                6.8 a/
1977-79                5.6
1980                   9.1
Loan 1317-BR             1981                   15.6
1982                  23.3
a/ Net of US$14.7 million prepayment in February 1977.
The acceleration of disbursements reflects, of course, the acute shortage of
long-term funds resulting from the Government's policy of monetary
contraction. Nonetheless, it is a significant achievement when account is
taken of the current recession and the abrupt increase in the real rates of
interest on project funds--from around negative 60% in 1980 to positive 3% or
5% in 1981. The second loan is now almost fully committed, although there
has been a slackening in the rate of commitments during 1982, due partly to
the recession, but more perhaps to the very high cost of money to the
participating banks, who have to contribute 10% of the financing from their
own funds. The working capital facility provided for under the proposed
project should expedite commitments. A condition, under the proposed
project, of loan disbursements for long-term credit in the states and for the
activities eligible under Loan 1317-BR would be the full commitment of that
loan.
4.07      It is too early to judge the results of investments made under the
second loan. Given present economic conditions and the fact that most firms
are working well below capacity, these results must be expected to be
generally modest in the near future, but may well improve before the project
closes. Information provided by the participating banks (Table 1) from a
substantial sample (some 70% of the total) of subprojects in the course of
implementation, indicates that the subprojects reviewed are expected to
create some 4,300 new jobs and to increase sales by some US$450 million
equivalent. Of the 55 firms included in the sample, nine are newly
established; of the remainder, six showed losses in their most recent
accounts and 40 showed profits. Of the profitable firms, 19 showed returns
of up to 10% of net equity, 11 between 10% and 20%, and 10 over 20%.
4.08      The administration of the program is now established on a sound and
effective basls. The loan has helped in the development and improvement of
appraisal and supervision procedures by the participating banks, its
standards in this regard being perhaps the highest of those applied by the
numerous official lines of credit.



- 16 -
Agriculture and Rural Development
4.09      The Bank has so far made 23 loans, totalling US$844.9 million, for
agriculture and rural development in Brazil. These include two, totalling
US$60.5 million for livestock development; one for US$18.2 million for grain
storage; two amounting to US$100 million for agricultural research; one for
US$100 million to improve agricultural extension services; and 17, totalling
US$566.2 million, for various settlement, irrigation and rural development
projects, 12 of which are located in the Northeast. In addition, there have
been three loans totalling US$196 million for fertilizer production; a loan
of US$19 million for a nutrition research and development project; a loan of
US$32 million for a Northeast basic education project; and two loans,
totalling US$165 million for secondary and feeder roads. An agricultural
development project in Amazonas state and a rural development project in
Maranhao were recently approved by the Board. Recent rural development
projects with land regularization activities include: the Bahia, first
Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba and Sergipe Rural Development Projects.
The second Ceara, Piaui and Maranhao Development Projects provide support for
land discrimination, titling, and development of new state land institutes.
4.10      The Completion and Project Performance Audit Reports issued for the
grain storage and livestock development projects reveal significant
differences which developed between the Government and the Bank regarding
interest rate policy, leading to some cancellation and/or early repayment of
the loans.
V. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
5.01      The proposed project would help provide the financial facilities
necessary to enable Brazilian agro-industry to use its proven ability to
adjust and innovate on domestic and international markets. An additional
objective would be, by way of demonstration and experience, to help lay the
groundwork for more efficient and competitive financial markets. The
introduction of a floating, market-determined, interest rate for relending
would be particularly important in this regard. Finally, the project would
support and facilitate the execution of Government's current policies.
5.02      A fundamental characteristic of the project is that investment and
lending decisions would, to the greatest extent practicable, be left to those
taking risks. Identification and preparation of subprojects would be left
largely to the enterpreneurs and financial intermediaries undertaking new
agro-industrial ventures. It would facilitate efficient decision-making, not
by credit allocations or other types of extra-market intervention, but by:
re-establishing long- and medium-term financing, as well as risk capital, in
the agro-industrial sector; ensuring that on-lending rates provide an
adequate margin over the cost of funds mobilized; and providing a range of
financial facilities, which could, either separately or in combination, be
adapted to fit the particular needs of the enterprises financed.. At the same
time, it would minimize the calls on public sector funds.
Brief Project Description
5.03      The proposed project would continue to support the PAGRI (para
4.01) line of credit. It would have a much broader range than the two



- 17 -
earlier projects, both geographically and in terms of the activities financed
and the variety of financial services provided. Thus, the project would cover
the whole country and seek the broadest possible participation of the
Brazilian banking system in assisting all types of agro-industrial activity.
It would provide long-term investments and working capital by means of:
(a) long-term credit;
(b) loans to leasing companies in respect of agro-industrial machinery
and equipment;
(c) financing financial intermediary purchases of agro-industrial
enterprise securities; and
(d) short- or medium-term finance for working capital requirements
through a special Working Capital Facility (WCF).
The executing agency would be DESPE (Annex 1), a department of BACEN. Any
bank or similar institution legally classified as a financial agent (agente
financeiro) in Brazil would be eligible to become a participating bank,
subject to the approval of DESPE. DESPE operates a number of special credit
lines (including PROALCOOL industrial credit) as well as PAGRI. It has
competent staff, with adequate professional training and experience and has
established the administration of PAGRI on a sound basis (para 4.08).
5.04      The types of activity which could qualify for support under the
program would include:
(a) any transformation including storage of an agricultural raw
material from the time it is harvested until immediately before
retail;
(b) the manufacture of farm inputs;
(c) the fixed investments associated with the incremental production of
agricultural commodities as raw materials for a vertically
integrated agro-industrial enterprise; and
(d) investment in market research and development.
The latter is a new use for the PAGRI line of credit which is potentially
very important. Subprojects of this sort could include, for example,
investments in specialized processing or distribution facilities that would
require raw materials from centrally operated satellite farming operations
where output and quality could be controlled.
Detailed Features
5.05      The project would provide a number of financial options for
agro-industrial firms; these would be used either separately or in
combination to assist sound and profitable investments in approved
subprojects. The evaluation of subprojects (para 6.04) would be the same for
all types and combinations of financing.
5.06      Long-Term Financing.  Long-term investment credit, of the type
provided under the first two projects, would continue and would probably be



- 18 -
the option most frequently used. This credit would have a term of up to 10
years, including three years of grace. It would help not only
agro-industrial firms currently faced with a critical shortage of long-term
capital, but, in the process, would also help investment and development
banks.
5.07      There would also be an important innovation which falls into the
general category of long-term financing--that is, enabling leasing companies
to borrow project funds for the acquisition of machinery and equipment to be
leased to agro-industrial firms for use in approved subprojects. Demand for
credit for this purpose is likely to be substantial as leasing has a number
of advantages from the sub-borrowers' standpoint: (a) no increase in debt;
(b) better retail networks than the banks among leasing companies; and (c) in
some instances reduction of borrowing costs.
5.08      Risk Capital Financing.  Risk capital financing for investments in
approved subprojects--funding where returns are contingent upon
performance--would be another new element with many advantages to sub-
borrowers. Demand for such funding is expected to be smaller than for
long-term credit or leasing and will probably come as part of a total
financing package for subprojects. This financial pathway would operate
similarly to normal long-term credit, with the difference that the BACEN loan
would be made to the financial intermediary who would use the funds to
purchase (or underwrite) securities issued by the final borrower. Debentures
would be the most common type of security used (although others might also
prove popular, including convertible debentures, participations or straight
equity). The need to provide a spread premium for the higher level of risks
being assumed by the financial intermediaries would be recognized by
permitting a market-determined return on financing met through securities
(para 5.15).
5.09      An additional means of providing risk capital is under active
consideration and, if satisfactory to the Bank, would be introduced at an
early stage of project implementation. Under this arrangement, venture
capital firms would be allowed to borrow directly from a participating bank
to fund a project or could guarantee on-lending by such a bank. The spread
to the participating bank would be no more than the standard 4%, with direct
investment of the venture capital firm counting as the intermediary
participation of 20%. For the purposes of this specialized program, the
venture capital firms could guarantee up to four times their net worth,
provided an investment bank, which under Brazilian law can grant real
guarantees, found their security acceptable.
5.10      Working Capital Facility (WCF) . The availability of working
capital (one-to-three-year maturity) would be a major determinant of demand
for longer term investment funds. In addition, in the absence of such funds,
many basically viable agro-industrial concerns, including those implementing
ongoing subprojects under the second loan, may be forced to contract or even
cease operations since few, if any, firms can earn real returns of the order
of 20% to 40%--the current cost of money on the free market--on resources
employed.
5.11      To meet this requirement, a WCF would be established.  In order to
minimize the calls on the resources of the monetary authorities, BACEN would
act only as a clearinghouse for Bank disbursements and provide no funds



- 19 -
itself for this part of the project.  A condition of effectiveness would be
that WCF operations--including the contributions of the participating
banks--had been exempted from credit ceilings (this refers to the credit
ceilings described in paragraph 2.14 and not to limitations resulting from
compulsory reserve requirements). This would encourage participating banks
to allocate and price funds competitively and, in consequence, obviate the
need to prescribe spreads for on-lending institutions.
5.12      In order to qualify for use of these funds, participating banks
would submit a financial plan demonstrating the need for the funds and
detailing how they would be used. To limit demand and facilitate efficient
controls, WFC credit would be available only to enterprises which have
borrowed for subprojects under the proposed loan; the amount of working
capital credit provided could be no greater than twice the amount of the
total investment costs for the approved subproject. The WCF would also be
open on the same basis to borrowers for subprojects approved under the Second
Agro-Industries Credit Project. As these subprojects have been approved only
since January 1981, and are being closely monitored, this extension would not
pose any administrative problems and would bring substantial benefits to hard
pressed but efficient firms. There is expected to be strong demand for funds
from the WCF.
5.13      In the event of the liquidation or sale by participating banks of
long-term credit, securities or working capital credit rediscounted under the
project, the proceeds would be applied to the repayment of the associated
loan from BACEN to the participating bank. In addition, BACEN could at its
option call any remaining balance on such loan.
Interest Rates and Spreads
5.14      The introduction of free market criteria in fixing the cost of
project funds would be an important departure from past Bank and Government
practice. The absence of a domestic market for long-term investment
resources, however, makes it difficult to determine a benchmark for lending
costs: there is no satisfactory Brazilian equivalent for either a "prime" or
"inter-bank" rate. Given the current problems of market segmentation and
interest rate dispersion in the Brazilian financial sector, as well as the
shift to flexible interest rates recently introduced by the Bank (but which
Brazilian firms have long been familiar with in their libor-linked credit),
it is vital that the on-lending rates be adjustable in a consistent fashion.
The arrangements proposed below are considered to be the most practicable and
economic in present circumstances.
5.15      First, in the case of financing for long-term investments by credit
or leasing:
(a) BACEN would rediscount 80% of the financing extended by the
par-icipating banks and charge, after full monetary correction, an
interest rate equivalent to the primary market yield on five-year
ORTN bonds (which are used for the great bulk of Government's
domestic borrowing); and
(b) participating banks would charge sub-borrowers, after full monetary
correction, a blended rate of interest, based on:
(i) the rediscounting rate charged by BACEN plus a spread of up to
4% on the amount rediscounted; and



- 20 -
(ii) a rate equal to the average of the rates paid by first line
banks on Certificates of Deposit on their 20% participation
(which reflects the cost of funds to participating financial
institutions), plus a spread of up to 4%.
A commitment fee of 1% would be charged on undisbursed balances. The
rediscounting and final on-lending rates would be adjusted every six months
in line with the previous period's average weekly base rates. There would be
a ceiling of 10% on the rediscounting rate charged by BACEN; this ceiling
would be subject to review at the option of either the Bank or BACEN. Should
such a review not lead to agreement, the Bank would have the right to refuse
to approve or authorize new subloan commitments. Where the financing was
provided by way of equipment leasing, the terms described above would be
reflected in the writing of the leasing contracts.
5.16      Second, in the case of financing by way of the purchase of
securities, BACEN would rediscount in exactly the same way as that described
in paragraph 5.15 (a), while the terms of the equity financing would, in the
nature of the case, be a matter for mutual agreement between the sub-borrower
and intermediary concerned.
5.17      Third, in the case of the WCF, BACEN would rediscount one third of
the amount of the working capital subloan at a rate 4% below the rate of the
subloan; the latter would be as agreed between the participating bank and the
sub-borrower.
5.18      The real interest rate payable by sub-borrowers on long-term loans
would be about 12% (with an intial ceiling of 14% - para 5.15), given the
current yields on ORTN bonds (around 7 1/2%) and certificates of deposit
(around 15%).  It should be noted that the yields on ORTN bonds (and thus the
interest rates payable by sub-borrowers), would reflect market expectations
about the over or under correction of the ORTN index in relation to
inflation. Rates on short-term loans, again given current conditions, could
be expected to be significantly higher, although exemption from the credit
ceilings (para 5.11) would introduce an element of competition which could
hold the rates below, say, 20%. Such real rates are, of course,
extraordinarily high by any historical standards and would impose a severe
test on proposed investments. However, the current trend of international
rates and the removal of some of the main distortions in the Brazilian
financial sector could lead to sharp reductions in Brazilian rates and bring
them more in line with international ones within, say, the range of 5% to 10%
real.
5.19      Assuming the real cost to BACEN of Bank funds to be about 4% or
4.5% real, BACEN would receive a spread of about 3% real on the long-term
rediscounts and substantially more on the short-term ones. Although these
spreads would narrow with a fall in Brazilian rates, they should be more than
adequate to cover the foreign exchange risk, which would be taken by BACEN,
and administrative costs. Spreads for participating financial intermediaries
would cover administrative costs and credit risks, which are the
responsibility of participating banks (although the sub-borrower has to
pledge real guarantees, larger than the subloan). The spreads should be high
enough to attract much greater participation by profit-oriented financial
institutions than under the Second Agro-Industries Credit Project and should



- 21 -
do much to encourage more competitive servicing of the agro-industries
sector's financial needs.
5.20      Agreement was obtained that, if the adjustment of the principal of
the subloans, together with the interest rates applicable to such loans,
should, in the Bank's opinion, fail to be positive in relation to the
prevailing inflation rate in Brazil, commitments and disbursements could be
suspended.
Project Cost and Financing
5.21      The project would support a total financing program of US$1,200
million; US$750 million for long-term agro-industrial investments, including
taxes equivalent at current rates to 16% to 20%, and US$450 million for a
special WCF available to agro-industrial enterprises. The costs are as
follows:
Project Costs
(US$ million)
Local           Foreign           Total
Long-term investments         560             190               750
Working capital               n.a.            n.a.              450
The proposed Bank loan would provide US$249 million for long-term
investments and US$1 million for the capitalized front-end fee; the entire
foreign exchange component would be covered along with US$60 million in local
costs An additional US$150 million would be provided by the Bank for the
WCF. In total the Bank loan would be for US$400 million, or 33% of the total
project costs, for a 15-year term, including a three-year grace period, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate, commitment charge and front-end
fee. Government would be the borrower and assume the foreign exchange risk.
The onlending terms are considered to provide an adequate spread to BACEN to
cover this risk (para 5.19). Under the proposed financing scheme,
participating banks would take a larger share than under the Second
Agro-Industries Credit Project, with 20% of investment funding as compared
with 10% previously; they would, in addition, provide 67% of the new WCF.
Financing under the proposed project would be in the following amounts and
proportions:
Project Financing
(US$ million)
Participating      Sub-
Amounts        Total      Bank       BACEN        Banks     Borrowers
Long-term
investments          750    250(33%)   230(31%)    120(16%)    150(20%)
Working capital         450    150(33%)       -         300(67%)
Total         1,200    400(33%)   230(19.5%)  420(35%)    150(12.5%)
The Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of four years.



- 22 -
Procurement
5.22      Procurement for most subprojects would be in accordance with
standard practice for loans of this type and would follow the normal
commercial practice of private sector enterprises, the main beneficiaries of
the proposed loan. The Brazilian construction and capital goods industries
are highly developed and there is a significant foreign participation in
these industries, with most major foreign equipment manufacturers present or
represented in Brazil. Brazilian contractors and suppliers would receive a
15% preference over foreign suppliers. As a result, few, if any, foreign
contractors are expected to bid on the majority of subprojects. Agreements
were obtained at negotiations that:
(a) international competitive bidding procedures would apply in the
case of contracts of US$3 million or more; and
(b) items financed under the project would be exempt from restrictions
on the leasing of imported equipment (Brazilian leasing firms are
currently prohibited from leasing imported equipment).
Disbursements
5.23      Bank disbursements would be 41.5% of disbursements by participating
banks for eligible subprojects (para 6.04) and would be made against
statements of expenditure. This operation would normally be handled through
the regional offices of BACEN. Participating banks would require
sub-borrowers to retain the supporting documentation for disbursements made
by them to the sub-borrowers; these disbursements would be made directly to
suppliers and contractors, where practicable, having regard to the sums
involved. The statements of expenditure submitted by PAGRI to the Bank and
by the participating banks to PAGRI, along with the internal controls and
procedures involved in their preparation, would be explicitly covered by the
project auditing arrangements described in paragraphs 6.10 to 6.13.
5.24      BACEN may request the Bank to make advance payments from the loan
account into a Special Account, to be opened in US dollars in BACEN.  This
procedure reduces the time lag between disbursements and Bank reimbursements
to BACEN.  The time lag results in an erosion of the exchange rate at which
it is reimbursed by the Bank. Similar accounts have been established under a
number of previous Bank loans in Brazil and are working satisfactorily. The
advances would be used to finance only the Bank's share of the project cost.
The amount deposited in the Special Account may be increased or decreased by
the Bank as required for project execution, but should not exceed US$25
million. BACEN would be entitled to make withdrawals from the Special
Account at the exchange rate applicable on the day BACEN disbursed its
funds. Agreement on these matters were obtained at negotiations.



- 23 -
VI. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Administration
6.01      The project would be administered by DESPE which has administered
both the First and Second Agro-Industries Credit Projects since their
inception (see BACEN organization chart).   Any institution with the legal
status of financial agent 2/ (agente financeiro) carrying on business in
Brazil would be eligible to participate in the project, subject to the
approval of DESPE, taking into account its financial position and management
capability and experience. The proposed project would continue the trend,
already established under the ongoing second project, of decentralizing the
detailed review and approval of subprojects to the participating banks;
concurrently, more emphasis would be placed on the continuous review and
assessment by DESPE, in consultation with other departments of BACEN as
required, of the overall capability and performance of the participating
banks and of market prospects and relevant economic conditions.
6.02      A principal objective of the proposed project would be to encourage
the broader participation of efficient and competitive financial
institutions, by making the terms, conditions and procedures of financing as
flexible and businesslike as possible. Most of the larger financial
intermediaries provide a variety of services through subsidiary commercial
and investment banks, finance and leasing companies, and the like. By
international standards these are, for the most part, efficient and highly
sophisticated operations. A number of them have participated in the first
two projects, but only on a relatively small scale.
6.03      The regional and state development banks have been the main users
of the first two Bank loans and wquld be expected to continue to play a major
role in the proposed project. These banks vary widely in size and quality:
some are well managed, financially prudent institutions while others are
financially weak and subject to undue political influence. All the
development banks suffered severe capital erosion in recent years as a result
of their dependence on official lines of subsidized credit and equity
contributions from the states, but they are now, with varying degrees of
success, mobilizing new resources on the market and rebuilding their
portfolios.  The proposed project could help considerably in this regard.
In this connection, a program of institutional strengthening through BNDES is
being carried out under the Second Development Banking Project.
The Evaluation of Subprojects
6.04    Detailed guidelines for the evaluation of subprojects are set out in
a PAGRI manual, developed under the First and Second Agro-Industrial Credit
Projects. The guidelines cover the general backgound of the firm proposing
the subproject, its legal status, shareholders, management capacity and
experience, and the results obtained over the last three years, including
profitability, capacity utilization and market position.
2/ Leasing companies have this status.



- 24 -
6.05      With regard to the subproject itself, the manual covers:
(a) the objectives sought--e.g. expansion of existing capacity,
modernization, establishment of new operations;
(b) markets for the product--supply and demand situation, price trends
and prospects;
(c) location and size of the subproject and main factors of
production;
(d) technical aspects, such as the type of process, machinery and
equipment and layout;
(e) financial results, including investment costs, financial rate of
return, repayment capacity and impact on the overall financial
position of the firm; and
(f) other matters such as employment generation, increased exports, or
import substitution.
6.06      During the preparation of the proposed project, BACEN reviewed the
PAGRI procedures and, in addition, canvassed the views of the participating
banks regarding possible improvements and simplification. As a result, a
number of improvements are now being introduced into the procedures. In
addition, the appraisal mission held extensive discussions with final
borrowers and financial institutions which have not previously participated
in the program. The proposed project includes many innovations in terms of
financial pathways open to final borrowers and financial intermediaries. A
condition of effectiveness would be that BACEN had made appropriate
revisions, acceptable to the Bank, to the PAGRI manual of procedures to cover
WCF operations, as well as leasing and securities operations.  In addition,
assurances were obtained that any other material changes to the PAGRI manual
would be acceptable to the Bank.
6.07      As a further safeguard, all subprojects over the free limit of
DESPE and over the free limit of the participating banks (para 6.08) would be
subject to economic evaluation as required by, respectively, the Bank and
DESPE.  In determining the criteria to be used in the economic evaluation of
sub-projects, BACEN would consult with BNDES which is carrying out, under the
Second Development Banking Project, a program to train the staff of regional
and state development banks in calculating economic rates of return.
6.08      In keeping with the project's objective of devolving responsibility
for subproject appraisal from BACEN to participating financial institutions,
review procedures have been simplified and approval limits revised as
follows:
(a) subloans of up to US$500,000 could be approved by participating
banks. A short appraisal summary would be submitted to DESPE, with
the more detailed subproject analysis being retained by the
participating banks;
(b) for subloans between US$500,000 and US$5 million, DESPE would fix
approval limits for individual banks on the basis of its assessment
of their capability and experience and, at its discretion, raise or



- 25 -
lower these limits. For subloans below the approval limits, the
documentation would be handled as in (a); for subloans requiring
DESPE approval, full documentation would be submitted; and
(c) for the first three subloans for leasing of equipment, for equity
participation and for working capital, and for all subloans of US$5
million and above, the approval of both DESPE and the Bank would be
required, with the submission of full documentation in each case.
Monitoring
6.09      Monitoring subproject implementation and the overall program of
financial activities would be the responsibility of BACEN. Participating
financial intermediaries would be required, as at present, to submit detailed
annual reports on all subprojects, less detailed quarterly progress reports,
and a final completion report that includes detailed financial and economic
results deriving from the subproject. In addition, BACEN would prepare
summary reports for review by the Bank staff and, following implementation, a
completion report. Agreements were obtained regarding preparation of the
completion report.
Auditing
6.10      The audit arrangements for BACEN would be the same as under the
Second Agro-Industries Credit Project. That is to say, BACEN would cause the
Project Account to be audited annually by an independent auditing unit of the
Conselho Monetario Nacional and would, promptly after the audit and not later
than four months after the close of its fiscal year, transmit to the Bank
certified copies of such audit, together with a certified copy of the
auditor's report, including a description of the audit procedures.
6.11      The participating banks and sub-borrowers (with the exceptions
noted in paragraph 6.12) would have their accounts audited by independent
professional auditors acceptable to the Bank. Copies of the annual accounts,
together with the auditors' opinion, would be submitted to the Bank in the
case of the participating banks and to BACEN, in the case of sub-borrowers,
within four months after the end of each financial year.
6.12       Separate audit arrangements would be made in the case of small-
and medium-scale enterprises whose total financing under the project did not
exceed the equivalent of US$500,000 and, which, in addition, fell within the
definition of small and medium enterprises for the purposes of BACEN's
PRODAGRI program. 3/ Each year BACEN would select a sample of these small
3/ For this purpose, small-and medium-scale enterprises are defined as
those:
(a)  whose turnover in the calendar year immediately preceding the
submission of their project proposal to the participating banks did
not exceed the equivalent of 85,000 times the "reference value"
(MVR) in force at the end of that year; and
(b) in the case of new enterprises whose projected turnover operating at
full capacity did not exceed the limit defined in (a).



- 26 -
and medium enterprises and would arrange for the auditor of the participating
banks concerned to cover project operations with the selected enterprises
during the course of his normal audit work. The size of the sample selected
would be at the discretion of BACEN, but would be consistent with the amounts
of financing involved in relation to the project as a whole.
6.13      The independent auditors engaged by participating banks and
sub-borrowers would, during the course of their annual audits, carry out such
test checks as were, in their professional judgment, required of the internal
controls over project transactions and of the implementation of these
controls; the test checks would specifically include, in the case of
participating banks, the preparation of statements of expenditure supporting
disbursement requests. The auditors would include in their long-form reports
such comments or observations as they judged necessary on project
transactions.
6.14      Agreements on the above audit arrangements were obtained at
negotiations.
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
7.01      While specific investment decisions by individual entrepreneurs and
risk-bearing financial intermediaries cannot be predicted, the aggregate
impact of the activities made possible through the proposed loan is expected
to be substantial. In physical terms, there would be investments of almost
US$1 billion in new plant and equipment, while approximately 50,000 to 60,000
additional jobs would be created on the basis of experience from the First
and Second Agro-Industries Credit Project and IDF in the cost of job
creation.
7.02      The direct economic benefits that would derive from particular
subprojects would be high, given the real rate of interest to be charged for
PAGRI funds. There is, in fact, every reason to expect that economic returns
to subprojects will be substantially higher than financial returns, which
would probably not fall below 15%. At present, the most important economic
distortion is perhaps over-priced labor, accompanied by high levels of
unemployment.  As labor costs are substantial in most agro-industrial
subprojects, economic rate of return adjustments would improve already high
financial rates of return. The requirements initiated by Government in 1983
should eliminate most other distortions. Foreign exchange is not expected to
be seriously overvalued by the time disbursements begin. Nor are commodity
price controls likely to be reintroduced on a broad scale. Subsidized
investment credit for agro-industry is no longer available (although
short-term subsidized credit for export is), and the rural credit subsidies
are being phased out. Economic distortions would be carefully monitored and
taken into account in the evaluation of subprojects (para 6.07) in order to
forestall uneconomic but financially attractive investments.
7.03      Finally, if the project achieves its objectives, the most important
benefits could well prove to be indirect. The project would contribute to
the process of internal adjustment associated with the new policy measures
introduced in 1983 by the Government. The demonstration effect of providing
new financial pathways in line with the needs of private investors could be



- 27 -
substantial; financial intermediaries would apply sound PAGRI procedures to
other investment activities (this has actually been the experience in earlier
agro-industries projects). On a more general level, the provision of risk
capital along with the support for more competitive financial intermediation
would help entrepreneurs introduce new products. Given the need for growth
outside traditional agro-industrial markets, especially in the area of
marketing where the removal of current credit subsidies would open many new
commercial opportunities, some of the smaller subprojects could have
extremely important long-term benefits.
Risks
7.04      The spreads to BACEN and the participating banks must be adequate
if the project is to be successful. Given the uncertainties surrounding
rates of inflation, interest and foreign exchange, and the likely volatility
of these rates, any quantification of the returns to the banks must be
largely speculative; however, there seems to be little doubt that they would
be favorable. On the basis of reasonable assumptions, for example, it is
estimated (Table 2 ) that the rate of return to BACEN would be significantly
above its average assumed cost of borrowing. BACEN should always have a
positive spread on project operations unless (which is unlikely) Brazilian
real interest rates fall below international rates, as reflected in the
Bank's own rate. The project has been designed with such a spread as one of
its explicit objectives.
7.05      The principal risk facing the project, therefore, is that the
economic climate might be such as to discourage investment in agro-industry
and thus dampen the demand for project funds. This would happen in the case
of a continuing or deepening recession in Brazil with widespread financial
failure among firms (a real possibility following the recent devaluation) ,
or if there were to be no recovery in world trade and commodity prices. This
risk, of course, is not specific .to the project, but applies to most types of
investment in Brazil today. The nature of the risk is essentially one of
timing--sooner or later there will be some recovery of economic activity.
There is, therefore, a significant risk of slow initial disbursements for new
projects (the WCF would, however, be less affected). But this is judged to
be an acceptable risk in view of the potential loss of benefits if the
project were to be delayed until there was unequivocal evidence of economic
recovery.
7.06      A further risk is that the Government might once again impose an
array of price controls, quotas and the like, which would severely undermine
business confidence and the willingness to invest. In view of the recent IMF
agreement, however, and the recently intensified policy discussions between
Government and the Bank, this risk is also considered to be acceptable.
VIII. AGREEMENTS OBTAINED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During loan negotiations, agreements were obtained from Government
that:
(a) if the adjustment of the principal of the subloans together with
the interest rates applicable to such loans, should, in the Bank's
opinion, fail to be positive in relation to the prevailing



- 28 -
inflation rate in Brazil, commitments and disbursements could be
suspended (para 5.20);
(b) international competitive bidding procedures would apply in the
case of contracts of US$3 million or more (para 5.22);
(c) items financed under the project would be exempt from restrictions
on the leasing of imported equipment (para 5.22);
(d) suitable arrangements would be made for the establishment and
operation of a Special Account in BACEN (para 5.24);
(e) any material changes to the PAGRI manual would be acceptable to the
Bank (para 6.06);
(f) following implementation, BACEN would prepare a completion report
(para 6.09); and
(g) the audit arrangements described in paragraphs 6.10 to 6.13 would
be followed.
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a) lending under the WCF had been exempted from limitations on the
lending volumes of individual banks to ensure its being used
competitively (para 5.11); and
(b) BACEN had made appropriate revisions, acceptable to the Bank, to
the PAGRI manual of procedures to cover WCF operations as well as
leasing and securities operations (para 6.06).
8.03      It would be a condition of disbursements for long-term credit in
the states and for the activities eligible-under Loan 1317-BR that Loan
1317-BR had been fully committed (para 4.06).
8.04      With the above agreements, the proposed project would be a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$400 million.
April 1, 1983



- 29-                          ANNEX 1
BRAZIL
THIRD AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Department of Industrial Credit and Special Programs (DESPE)
1.        The project would be administered by the Department of Industrial
Credit and Special Programs (DESPE) in the BACEN, which has administered both
the First and Second Agro-Industrial Projects since their inception. DESPE
is responsible to the Director of Rural and Industrial Credit and Special
Operations, who, in turn, is responsible to the President of BACEN. The
organization chart of BACEN is attached. DESPE comprises four divisions,
which are responsible respectively for:
(a) credit operations, including the accreditation of financial agents
and the allocation of funds to them;
(b)  maintaining accounts for the various programs adminstered by DESPE;
(c) fixing the standards and criteria to be used in evaluating the
financial and economic viability of projects; direct supervision of
projects and financial agents and the review of the agents'
quarterly supervision reports; and
(d) planning investment programs and budgets and preparing operational
manuals and instructions. Recently, with a view to decentralizing
and simplifying its operations, DESPE has been delegating authority
to the regional offices of BACEN, including, for example, the
approval and processing of disbursement requests from financial
agents.
2.        The main lines of credit administered by PAGRI, together with some
key statistics as at-the end of 1981, are summarized in the following table:
No. of           Commitmments
No. of Banks       Projects         (Cr$ million)
Credit Line             Accredited      1981  to Date    1981    to Date
PROALCOOL (Industrial)          67           76     314    131.772   167.221
PAGRI                           25           82     246      11.221    16.792
PRODAGRI                        29           20      20         874        874
PRONAZEM (Industrial)           32           36     225       2.013      4.253
PROCAL                          33            2      49         291        716
The last three of the credit lines listed above cover, respectively, small
and medium agro-industrial enterprises, storage of agricultural products and
the production of lime for agricultural purposes. All the five lines, except
PAGRI, have heavily subsidized rates of interest.
3.        In November 1982, DESPE had 73 staff, comprising:  6 managers of
the level of division chief or above; 42 professional staff, some of whom
hold deputy management positions, and including economists, accountants,
lawyers and engineers; and 25 technical and secretarial staff. Experience
under the first two agro-industrial projects indicates a good level of
administrative and technical competence.



ANNEX 2
- 30 -                       Page I
BRAZIL
THIRD AGtO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Documents Available in Project File
1.        Agro-industrial studies are regularly prepared by banks, state
agencies, the regional offices of BACEN itself and other institutions. In
addition, the annual reports of agro-industrial firms contain a great deal of
information about the sector and their own operations in it. A brief
selection of some recent studies is given below:
Regional Development Bank of the Extreme South (BRDE)
Swine - Profile of the Sector (1976)
Economic Study of Tanning in Parana (October 1976)
Economic Studies on Foodstuffs in Parana (April 1977)
Maize Processing
Pastas (spaghetti, macaroni etc.)
Beef Products
Pork Products
Poultry
Support Program for Poultry Enterprises in Parana
(December 1978)
Study of Milk and Dairy Products in Parana (April 1980)
The Vegetable Oil Industry in Parana (1980)
Agricultural Residues for Energy (August 1981)
Industrial Uses of Cotton (May 1981)
Agro-Industrial Balance Sheet for Parana, 1978-81 (May 1982)
Development Bank of Minas Gerais (BDMG)
Development Program for Citriculture (1980)
Annual Program of Swine Production 1981/82 (February 1981)
Annual Program of Poultry Production 1981/82 (February 1981)
The Fisheries Sector in Minas Gerais
Agro-Industrial Credit
Development Bank of the State of Sao Paulo (BADESP)
Agro-Industry and Development in the State of Sao Paulo --
A Functional Analysis (April 1979)
Development Bank of Parana (BADEP)
Agro-Industrial Program 1979/83 (June 1979)
Central Bank of Brazil
Special Study - Soybean Crushing Firms in Prana (1981)
Investigation of Fertilizer Supply/Demand in the Southern
Region of the Country (1981)
Special Study - The Fertilizer Market (1981)
Three Special Studies of the National Poultry Market (1982)
Other Institutions
Program of Support for Goat and Sheep Production in the
Semi-arid Region of Bahia (Secretariat of Planning, Science
and Technology of the State of Bahia - 1980)
The Economic Potential of Reforestation - Charcoal in Bahia
as above)
Packing Machine Industry - Production and Marketing
(ABIMAQ/SINDIMAQ - Economic and Statistical Division -
1982)



ANNEX 2
- 31 -                      Page 2
Technical and Economic Profile of Agro-Industry in the State
of Sao Paulo:
Analysis of the Food Industry
Energy Agro-Industry and its Prospects
(Secretariat of Industry, Commerce, Swine and Technology of
State of Sao Paulo - May 1982)
Guidelines for the Development of Some Branches of Agro-Industry in
the State of Sao Paulo (as above)
2.        Other documents on file include the following:
PAGRI Manual of Procedures
U.S. Commerce Department - Brazilian Agroindustral Sector (1981)
USDA                   Brazil Agricultural Situation (4/82)
Annual Oilseeds Report (4/82)
Annual Livestock Report (4/82)
Special Report on Brazilian Poulry Industry (6/82)
Vargas Institute -     Agroanalysis (Vol. 6, /7)
Brasilpar              Semesa Proposa de Aumento ie Capital (8/26/82)
Arrail S/A Agro-Auicola e Peuarin: Proposta le
Investmento (n/81)
Agriale: Agroindustrial do Vale do Sao Francisco
(1/82)
Misc. Investment Proposals (Agroindustrial)
TAV                     Leasing
Misc. Project Proposals (Agroindustrial)
UNEF                    Annual Report
Misc. Investment Proposals
ABEL                    Annual Report (1981 & 82)
Brasilinvest            Misc. Investment Proposals
BDMG                    Misc. Project Proposals
ABID                    Annual Report (1981 & 82)
COBAL                   Annual Report
Misc. Project Proposals
Producao e (Commercializacao de Alimentos (1981)



BRAZIL
THIRD AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Loan 1317-R - Sample of SubProjects Financed
PARTICIPATING               SUB-BORROWER                       DATE OF      AMOUNT       JOBS        INCREASE IN TURNOVER       LAST YEAR'S PROFIT
BANKS                                                     CONTRACT    FINANCED   CREATED        (Cr$ millions - 6/82)           Cr$       %          OPERATION
ORTNS                                                Million  Equity
BRDE/RS     Coop. Avicola Vale do Taq. (COOPAVE)            11/80       278,233      206             7,938                     0.10       0.00       Poultry
Coop. Avicola Vale do Taq. (COOPAVE)           10/81       100,710      191               923                     0.10       0.00       Cold storage
Coop. Regional Trit. Serrana Ltda.             12/81        12.847        5                39                   150.40       3.80       Miscellaneous
Coop. Regional Trit. Serrana Ltda.             01/81        70,044       14             1,408                   150.40       3.80       Animal feeds
Coop. Triticola Taperense Ltda.                09/81        49,342       15             1,132                    10.70       4.90       Milk processing
Coop. Triticola Santa Barbara Ltda.            12/81        17,471        9               249                     5.40       2.50       Milk processing
Coop. Triticola Mista Campo Novo Ltda.         12/81        15,930        4               319                     5.40       2.50       Milk processing
Coop. Triticola de Passo Fundo Ltda.           11/81        71,194        -               179                     2.60       0.10       Soy oil
Randon Agro-Silvo-Pastoril Ltda.               11/81        50,277        4               357                    18,80      12.90       Feed grading &
storage
S U B T O T A L                                            666,048      448            12,544
BRDE/SC     Perdigao Agropecuaria S.A.                      12/81        29,502       13               209                   271.25      20.60       Beef processing
Perdigao Agropecuaria S.A.                     12/81        56,840       10               171                   271.25      20.60       Beef processing
Perdigao Agroindustrial                        03/82        52,393        9             1,585                   347.97      16.46       Miscellaneous
Energe S.A. Alimentos Especiais                01/81        71,815       39             1,347                    19.18       3.75       Mixed processing
CEVAL - Export. S.A. - Ind. e Com.             04/82       325,970       76            14,117                    23.53       1.90       Mixed processing
Renar Rutas S.A.                                 /81       182,691      254               367                    66.18      23.20       Beverages
Vinicola Fraiburgo                             07/81        17,279       32                65                    66.04       5.90       Beverages
Vinicola Fraiburgo                             10/81        55,290       17               330                    66.04       5.90       Beverages
Chapeco Avicola S.A.                           09/81        26,530       15             2,028                   433.81      37.80       Beef processing
Chapeco Avicola S.A.                           03/82        84,895      110             2,058                   433.81      37.80       Beef processing
Industrias Reunidas Jaragua S.A.               10/81        76,362       48               160                     Loss        -        Miscellaneous
S/A - Industria e Comercio Chapeco             10/81        32,530       42               993                   321.96      13.50       Beef processing
BRETZKE - Ind. Com. Prod. Alim. Ltda.          11/81         8,483        8               183                     Loss        -         Miscellaneous
S U B T 0 T A L                                          1,020,580      673            23,613
BRDE/PR     Coop. Carnes de Ponta Grossa                    07/81         9,405       30               410                     Loss        -         Beef processing
Coop. Central Lat. do Parana Ltda.             12/81        24,300       64               235                   516.00      21.76       Miscellaneous
Coop. Central Lat. do Parana Ltda.             05/82        31,500       37               732                   516.00      21.76       Miscellaneous
Coop. Agropecuaria Cascavel Ltda.              09/81        18,540       11               280                    86.00       6.24       Mixed processing
Coop. Agropecuaria Mouraoense                  06/81       115,174      111             1,589                 1,858.00      40.57       Vegetable oils
Coop. Agropeucaria Tres fronteiras             10/81       394,583      111             2,968                    71.00       4.63       Vegetable oils
Kowaslski Alimentos S.A.                       03/81        30,267       10               310                     Loss        -         Miscellaneous
Frigorifico de Frangos Sudoeste Ltda.          12/81        79,340       76               556                     0.60       7.59       Beef processing
S U B T O T A L                                            703,109      450             7,080
BADESP       Arraial S.A. Agro Avicola e pec.               05/82        68,069      216             1,165                    43.55      54.87       Beef processing
Laticinios Mococa S.A.                         05/81        32,442       28             6,875                     0.42       0.06       Milk processing
Cia. Entrepostos e Armazens Gerais S.A.        12/81       535,967   No. con.          No. con.                   Loss        -        Miscellaneous
Baldan Implementos Agricolas                     /81        65,819      190             5,000                     3.40       0.20       Agricultural
implements
Microquimica Com. e Import. Ltda.                /81        25,563       19               420                    15.19      15.26       Agricultural
chemicals
Fabrica de Doces Santa Helena                  02/82        11,283       77               199                     7.35      83.74      Miscellaneous
S U B T O T A L                                            739143       530            13,659



BRAZIL
THIRD AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Loan 1317-BR - Sample of SubProjects Financed
PARTICIPATING                                                    DATE OF      AMOUNT        JOBS       INCREASE IN TURNOVER         LAST YEAR'S PROFIT
BANKS                   SUB-BORROWER                       CONTRACT    FINANCED   CREATED         (Cr$ millions - 6/82)             Cr$       2          OPFRATION
ORTNS                                                 Million  Equity
BADEP         Solorrico S.A. - Ind. e Com.                     12/8l        26,694       30              3,583                    477.00      15.88       Miscellaneous
Ind. e Com. de Generos Alim. "A SERRANA"    09/81             10,808       12                 46              (only recently completed)  Miscellaneous
Ind. e Com. de Prod. Alim. e sucos Arapoti  11/81             31,481       21                470              (only recently completed)  Miscellanious
Coop. dos prod. de Mandioca do Oeste do Pr. 03/82             10,987       32                169              (only recently completed)  Grain processing
Lactobras - lnd. e Com. de Latincinios          11/81         25,316        4                311              (only recently completed)  Dairy products
Indumilo - Inid. e Com. de Deriv. do Milho   04/82            32,179       16                135              (only recently completed)  Grain processing
Industrial de Fecula Cia-Larenz            t    03/81         27,621       73              1,833                     80.00      11.72       Miscellaneous
S U B T 0 T A L                                              165,086      188              6,547
BDMG         Frigorifico Irmaos Nogueira S.A.                 11/81        61,404       25              3,151                     19.80      12.34       Miscellaneous
Cia. Ibirapuera de Avicultura                   06/81        169,817      467              1,119                     79.30       6.17       Miscellaneous
Maroca e Russo Ind. e Com. Ltda.                07/81         82,120        3              1,078                     30,30      19.60       Dairy products
Quimica Ind. Brasileira - QUIMBRASIL               /81       169.817      109              2,049                 1,407.00       25.60       Miscellaneous
S U B T O T A L                                              483,158      604              7,397
BADESUL      FITESA - Fiacao, Testeis e Emb. Plasticas   03/81            173,825      450                594                    131.80       7.40       Miscellaneous
Duratex S.A.                                    07/81        335,980      152                963                 1,729.40       10.50       Miscellaneous
Divani S.A. - Embalagens                           /81       293,034      144                996                      1.60       0.16       Miscellaneous
Metalurgia Guerreior S.A.                       04/81         69,133    NIHIL                177                     55.60      15.50       Miscellaneous
Corbeta S.A. - Ind. e Com.                      12/81         18,939        5               NINIL                    73.60       9.30       Miscellaneous
Cia. Vacariense de Laticinios - COVAL           12/81         12,693       11                125                      4.00       8.00       Miscellaneous
Cia. Riograndense de Lat. e Correlatos          09/81         46,645       33                 16                   326.20       46.00       Dairy products
Industria porto Alegrense de
Plasticos Ltda.                               03/81         19,944       39                 82                                            Miscellaneous
Ind. Brasileira de Gelatinas e Derivados           /81        39,530       12                146                          (Loss)            Miscellaneous
S U B T O T A L                                            _,009,723      846              3,099
BADESC       A. Colonial Ltda.                                04/81         1,739        27                96                      2.00      21.41       Miscellaneous
Planalto Alimentos Ltda.                         12/81        16,702       18       (still in progress)                                     Miscellaneous
Sao Joaquim Macas Com. e Ind.                   12/81         48,999        5       (still in progress)                                     Grain processing
Agropecuaria Planalto Ltda. - AGROPLAN           12/81         6,006       18                 20                   (still in progress)    Miscellanesous
Suely Avicola S.A.                               12/81        78,143      205                637                     70.00      10.80       Beef processing
Frigorifico Canta Galo                           12/81        73,519      132                361                     41.00      10.80       Beef processing
PROMIFRAI - Adm. Prod. Agricolas Ltda.          10/E1         56,902      135                115                      5.00       8.20       Miscellaneous
S U B T O T A L                                              282,010      540              1,229
SUMMARY
AF                       Value in           Jobs               Incrrase
ORTINs          Created            in Turnover
B R D E (RS)               666.048            448                12.544
B R D E (SC)             1,020.580            673                23.613
B R D E (PR)               703.109            450                  7,080
BADESP                     739.143            530                13.659
BADEP                      165.086            188                 6.547
BDMG                       483.158            604                 7.397
BADESUL                  1,009.010            846                 3.099
BADESC                     282.010            540                 1.229
T o t a 1            5,068.857          4,279                75.168
March 2, 1983



BRAZIL
THIRD AGRO INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
BACEN Cash Flow From the Project a/
…-------------…--------------------------US$ Millions (Constant 1983)--------------
INFLOWS
IBRD Loan                         97.0        137.0    130.0         -           -          -        -                                                                                  -
PBs Debt Service
-  long-term                     3.5         10.9      17.7      30.4       55.3        76.4    73.9       71.3      68.9       66.3      50.9      22.4
- working capital--
interest                    2.4         5.7       6.7       6.6         3.9        1.3       -          -         -         -         -          -
principal                                                  48.5        44.3       42.5
Total             102.9       153.6    154.4        85.5      103.5      120.2        -
OUTFLOWS
Loans to PB's
-  long-term                    93.0       176.0    166.0          -
-  short-term                   48.5        44.3       42.5        -
IBRD debt service                 10.8         17.6      30.2      52.8       48.2        43.9    39.9       36.2      32.7       29.1      26.6      23.8       21.3      18.9      16.7
Total             152.3       237.9    238.7        52.8      48.2          -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -
Annual Balance                    (49.4)      (84.3)   (84.3)    32.7         55.3        76.3    34.0       35.1       46.2      37.2      24.3       (1.4)    (21.3)   (18.9)   (16.7)
Cummulative Balance                          (133.7)  (248.0)  (175.3)  (120.0)          (43.7)   (9.7)    25.4        71.6    108.8    133.1    132.7           111.4      92.5       75.8
a/ See pages 2 and 3 notes.
m t-



TABLE 2
- 35 -                Page 2
NOTES
1.        The projected cash flow set out in Table 2 is of necessity highly
speculative because:
(a)  the investment climate in Brazil is very uncertain and likely to
remain so for some time, so that there is no firm basis for
estimating the profile of disbursements:
(b)  the following key variables cannot be predicted:
(i)  the rate of interest on the Bank loan to Brazil, which is
adjusted periodically to reflect changes in the cost of funds;
(ii) the rate of interest on BACEN's loans to the participating
banks, which is also adjusted periodically to reflect the
yields or Brazilian Government bonds;
(iii)  the extent to which the monetary correction applied to BACEN's
on lending will be exactly in line with inflation; and
(iv) exchange rate variations.
Consequently, a number of simplifying assumptions have been made.
2.        First, disbursements are assumed to be made as follows:
Working Capital
Year           Investment Finance       Facility        Total
… ------------…US$ millions-------------
1                     50                 50            100
2                    100                 50            150
3                    100                 50            150
3.        Second, it is assumed that monetary correction will in fact equal
inflation. All the cash flow figures, therefore, are expressed in constant
1983 US dollars.
4.        Third, the following interest and inflation rates have been
asssumed:
Working Capital
Bank                                         Yield on        Real
Interest                   Real Bank         Brazilian   Discounting
Year      Rate        Inflation  Interest Rate    Govt. Bonds         Rate
1         11            6.5           4.5              7.5            10
2         10            6.0           4.0              6.0             8
3          9            5.5           3.5              5.0             6
4 &        8            5.0           3.0              4.0             6
after



TABLE 2
- 36-                         Page 3
5.        The level of the rates themselves is, of course, less important for
present purposes than the differential between the Bank rate, the yield on
Government bonds and the real discounting rate (based on final onlending at
market rates less a final spread) for working capital loans. The
differentials assumed are judged to be reasonable.
6.        The indicated return on BACEN's own funds is rather more than 6%,
or significantly above its average assumed cost of borrowing. BACEN should
always have a positive spread on project operations unless (which is
unlikely) Brazilian real interest rates fall below internatinal rates, as
reflected in the Bank's own rate. The project has been designed with this as
one of its explicit objectives.
.~~~~~~~~~~



- 37 -
CHART
CENTRAL BANK OF BRAZIL
BORDO   DRECTORS
,, s | X, ,DentsDEFa: 
DIRECTOR                           OF CAPITALRECT
OF EXTERNAL                                         F CAPITAL
AFFAIRS
< / ~~~~~~PRESIDENTX 
-\ <> _           > AND SPECIAL                                                             AFFAIS                         DE
;  -   e     ,    -                                                                                       /                 -- jPROGRAMS
<                             DtR EECTOR R
/            /*ds    ADMINISTRA-             O
" -/\ --,
DESPA  DESAL                DESHO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D
SPECIAL UNITS  0                                                    CENTRAL UNIT   Q
PRESI    Office of the President                                    DEAFI   Department of Financial Administration
DIRAD  - Office of the Director of Administration                  DEBAN   Department of Banking Operations
r                                     DIBAN    Office of the Director of Banking Affairs                  DECAM   Deparment of Foreign Exchange
DIREX    Office of the Director of Exterm External Affairs          DEFIB    Department of Banking Soperintendence
DIMEC    Office of the Director of Capital Market Affairs          DEFIM    Department of Capital Market Superintendence
DICRI    Office of the Director of Rural Credit and Special Programs    DEJUR    Legal Department
DIDIP    Office of the Director of Public Debt                     DEMAP   Department of Administration of Physical Assets
'--N                               ~~~~~~~~~~~DEMEC   Capitol Market s Department
REGIONAL UNITS ()                                                  DEMOB   Departmen't of Securities Operations
DEOPE   Department of Control of Special Operations
DEBEL   Regional Department of Belem                               DEORB   Department of Banking Organization and Accreditation
DEBHO   Regional Department of Belo Horizonte                      DEORI   Department of International Organizations and Agreements
DECUR   Regional Department of Curitiba                            DEPEC    Economics Department
DEFOR   Regional Department of Forteleza                           DEPES    Department of Administration of Human Resources
DEPAL   Regional Department of Porto Alegre                        DEPIN    Department of international Operations
DEREC   Regional Department of Recife                              DEPRO    Data Processing Department
DERJA    Regional Department of Rio de Janeiro                     DEPUR   Department of Rural Credit
DESAL   Regional Department of Sal,ador                             w.-   Department of Industrial Credit and Special Programs
DESPA    Regional Department of Sao Paulo                           FIRCE    Department of Superintendence and Registration of Foreign Capital
MECIR    Department of Administration of the Currency
Administratve Authority
- -   -_ Technical Authority                                                                                                   World Bank-24668






I BRD-15685
tVE`NEZUElA   ,,Y......                                                                                                     00                           APRILA1981
CO LOM B I A/                     -  ~)~1SURINAME\G1A
, R /'0 _2 X                                       Fortaleza
; ;r'S v gz \ ,/ isf r t 6 , I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Teresina, 
Natal
'ioao Pessoa
<f  T J                                                                                                                                                "'orto+ g g  / k  | V F  oV  ;t   Sj  02 :0 2  *Recife
,A,;_r4:9Branco  <   Velho  A^,  \    )   t   4G.-9  ~  f/   g      '                         , ,, ,,, ,,                          '-.Macei6
°,                           3, E* RSSR    CR:fF  i.< '  X: p    a     0   t )   $ ;,  e / 'Arocaju
I                                                                                                               I-                     ' ci5;  AL ' ;f g0'11; ffi ;; (; J   X 0g  ifi k 5-?   l   \  2   /   1yz    '  0  i  *Salvador
*                        BRASILIA
Go6n,a*
P;2 f7; A   C: 8 7- /IF Ci  /(r;    p5 yi-H\;7 ;5; l;;\   ';                           Campo Grande           -59oye
a                                 o  ~Belo         
20';StV  /7;i:;                                                                                                                        Horizonte *;:  :08si  \0 !;m::  $ X :  G   '   t H  Vitdro
gILi02:-: :0# i ;X;;<0 tY.Ej ~~~~~~~~Sao Paulas:' odeut
CHILE/  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                      /~~~~                  Rio de Janer,a
.O '     i'   i       i     .  ii  Curlhiba
t rS    slUT             f  1 5i    XAFlor-6oaolis                                                                                             BRAZIL
S :)AiOUTHCffJ      Ad, ;jt            IgN   A 0                                                                                               ®1  0 i t (;   '4>   PortoAlogre-¢/  s  National copital
AMERIC                                                       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~PO  rAlegre                               .     Stote and territory caOptls
vnp.,oo by 0~~~~~~~           l,j ~I 6,0
03/ANTIC  07oP09~~rIcci,P~           0                   '~.       P-~         KILO.ETFR5 0  100 200 300 40 0 500              Stote ond territory boundaries
,,00000  0 OpOp  I,,                                                                  oicn 0     ice   0cc   000                 International boundories
00~000007000   S    : S 5   itt    W U5URUGUAY                                                                  Rivers                                 le'
x  0,0oor~~~~~~~00 00000 kOOi&,,0.o 00 ~  ~            ~           ~           50,40-3i



