OFF/ DLUMNUMBER 2268 BR
L)OCUMENT
Project Agreement
(Third Agro-industries Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO CENTRAL DO BRASIL
Dated                                , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2268 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                A             , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and BANCO CENTRAL DO BRASIL (hereinafter
called the Central Bank).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Federative Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to four
hundred million dollars ($400,000,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
the Central Bank agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be made available to the Central Bank on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Central Bank, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Description of the Project;
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Central Bank in financing such agro-industrial facilities and
activities in Brazil as will contribute to the economic and
social development of the country.


﻿-2-
(b) The Project consists in: (i) the financing of Invest-
ment Projects through Sub-loans, Investments, Leasing Loans and
Leasing Sub-loans; and (ii) the financing of Financing Plans
through Working Capital Sub-loans, all in furtherance of such
corporate purposes of the Central Bank as are provided in its
Statutes and the PAGRI Operating Regulations.
Section 2.02. (a) The Central Bank shall carry out the
Project described in Section 2.01 of this Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, technical and administrative practices and in accor-
dance with the provisions of the Lending Policies and the PAGRI
Operating Regulations.
(b) The Central Bank shall on-lend the proceeds of the Loan
made available to it by the Borrower under the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Lending Policies and the PAGRI Operating
Regulations.
Section 2.03. (a) The Central Bank shall, at the request
of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan.
(b) The Central Bank shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan, or the performance by the Central Bank of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purposes between the Central
Bank and the Bank, the Central Bank shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Project, and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance
by the Central Bank and the Bank of their respective obligations
under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Central Bank
Section 3.01. The Central Bank shall carry on its operations
and conduct its affairs in respect of the Project in accordance


﻿- 3 -
with sound administrative, financial, banking and agro-industrial
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers and in
accordance with the provisions of the PAGRI Operating Regula-
tions.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Central Bank shall maintain separate
accounts and records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
opezations and financial condition, in respect of the Project,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
(b) The Central Bank shall retains, or cause to be retained,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure,
and shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
records.
Section 4.02. The Central Bank shall: (i) have the accounts
in respect of the Project for each fiscal year audited in accor-
dance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
such accounts for such year as so audited and (B) the report or
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, including, without limitation
to the foregoing, separate opinions by said auditors in respect
of the expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b)
of this Agreement, as to whether the proceeds of the Loan made
available to it and withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis
of statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such
other information concerning said accounts, records and expendi-
tures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of the Central Bank thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminaLe in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the Central Bank
thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 5-
For the Central Bank:
Banco Central do Brasil
Setor Bancario Sur
Projegao 33-A
70074 Brasilia (DF)
Brasil
Telex:
61183-BCB
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Central Bank, or by the Central Bank
on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken
or executed by the President of the Central Bank or such other
person or persons as the President shall designate in writing,
and the Central Bank shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in         __4__
Federal Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Autorized Representative
BANCO CENTRAL DO BRASIL
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except  as   provided  in  paragraph  D  of   this  Schedule,
contracts for goods and civil works shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Central Bank shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Central Bank shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port-of-entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included; and (iv)
the port improvement charge and the merchant fleet renewal charge
in their nature as port user charges shall be included.


﻿- 7 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which would be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following two groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering      goods manufactured   in
Brazil if the bidders shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
such goods contain components manufactured in
Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the
complete goods.
(2) Group B: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding (i) to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be
imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of
(A) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a
non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation of the
goods offered in such group B bid; or (B) 15% of the c.i.f. bid
price of such goods, and (ii) to the ex-factory bid price of
goods supplied domestically offered in each group B bid an amount


﻿-8-
equal to the smaller of (A) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which would be levied on the goods offered in
such group B if they originated from the same foreign country as
the bid included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs
duties and other taxes, or (B) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of
such goods. If, as a result of this comparison, the bid group A
is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the
lowest bid from group B, as determined under paragraph 3 above,
shall be selected for the award.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods and civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Central Bank shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Central Bank shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and com-
parison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Central Bank and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.


﻿- 9 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Central Bank shall
inform the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Central
Bank and state the reasons for its determination.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for goods and services estimated to cost less than
$3,000,000 equivalent shall be purchased at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time
of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence
of the parties rendering them.
E.   Publication of Awards
Upon the award by an Investment Enterprise or a Leasing
Company of any contract for goods, works or services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may publish a
description thereof, the name and nationality of the party to
whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Leanding Policies
I.   Rules Applicable to Participating Intermediaries
A.   Terms and conditions of Lending Operations:
1.   Central Bank Loans and Working Capital Loans shall be
repayable in accordance with amortization schedules substantially
conforming to the terms of the Sub-loan or Leasing Sub-loan or
Working Capital Sub-loan, and in such cases where applicable, of
the Investment, to be financed out of the proceeds of the respec-
tive Central Bank Loan or Working Capital Loan, as the case may
be. In any case, the Central Bank Loan shall have a repayment
period not exceeding ten years, including three years of grace
and the Working Capital Loan shall have a repayment period not
exceeding three years.
2.   If a Sub-loan, Leasing Sub-loan or Working Capital
Sub-loan would be repaid or an Investment liquidated prior to the
maturity of the respective Central Bank Loan or Working Capital
Loan utilized for the financing of the respective Sub-loan,
Investment, Leasing Sub-loan or Working Capital Sub-loan, the
Participating Intermediary will utilize the proceeds of such
repayment or liquidation exclusively for purposes of pre-paying
the respective Central Bank Loan or Working Capital Loan. If the
proceeds of such repayment or liquidation would not cover the
total amount of the respective Central Bank Loan or Working
Capital Loan, the Central Bank will be entitled to accelerate the
maturity of the remaining balance of the corresponding Central
Bank Loan or Working Capital Loan.
3.   The terms of the lease made by the Leasing Company to
the Investment Enterprise shall be substantially in conformity
with the terms of the respective Leasing Loan or Leasing Sub-
loan.
4.   The amount of the Central Bank Loan shall not exceed
80% of the total amount of the corresponding Sub-loan, Investment
or Leasing Sub-loan. The balance between the amount of the
Central Bank Loan and the corresponding Sub-loan, Investment or
Leasing Sub-loan shall be made available by the Participating
Intermediary from its own resources.


﻿- 11 -
5.   The principal of the Central Bank Loans shall be
denominated in ORTN and shall be adjustable from time to time in
accordance with the variations in the value of the ORTN.
6.   The outstanding principal amount of the Central Bank
Loans shall bear a variable interest rate, to be adjusted on
January 1 and July 1 in each year, at an annual rate equivalent
to the primary market average yield on a five year term ORTN
bonds (hereinafter ORTN issue) during the six month period
immediately preceding each such January 1 and July 1. For
purposes of this paragraph: (i) the term "primary market" means
the public auctions carried out by the Central Bank for the
direct sale of ORTN issues to the public; (ii) the term "yield"
means the actual interest rate to be paid by the Central Bank on
ORTN issues based on the discount or premium price at which the
bonds were auctioned; and (iii) the average yield shall be
calculated by weighting the yield of each ORTN issue in direct
proportion to the nominal principal amount of such ORTN issue
relative to the aggregate nominal principal amount of all ORTN
issues auctioned during the corresponding six-month period.
7.   Notwithstanding the provisions referred to in paragraph
6. above, the actual interest rate applicable to Central Bank
loans shall not exceed in any case 10% per annum.
The Bank or the Central Bank may request a revision of the
rate referred to above whenever the cost of funds to the Central
Bank as set forth in paragraph 6 above, either in the Bank's or
the Central Bank's opinion, as the case may be, differ in
significant terms from the said rate.
If, after a period of 45 days from the request of revision
of the rate referred to above, the Bank and the Central Bank
shall have not reached an agreement on the interest rate referred
to above, the Bank may refrain from approving or authorizing new
Sub-loans, Leasing Loans, Leasing Sub-loans or Investments
pursuant to Part I.B of this Schedule.
8.    The outstanding principal amount of the Sub-loans and
Leasing Sub-loans (to be denominated in ORTN) shall bear a
variable interest rate, to be adjusted on January 1 and July 1 in
each year at an annual rate equivalent: (i) in respect of the
portion of the Sub-loan or Leasing Sub-loan financed out of the
proceeds of the Central Bank Loan, to the rate applicable to the
Central Bank Loans pursuant to paragraph 6 above, plus a spread


﻿- 12 -
of up to 4 percentage points; and (ii) in respect of the portion
of the Sub-loan or Leasing Sub-loan financed out of the Partici-
pating Intermediary's own resources, to the average rate paid by
commercial banks selected by the Central Bank in accordance with
criteria satisfactory to the Bank on their 180 days certificates
of deposits during the previous six-month period plus a spread of
up to 4 percentage points, such rate to be determined by the
Central Bank by January 1 and July 1 in each year and to be
notified by the Central Bank to the Bank not later than 30 days
thereafter, together with a brief description of the basis for
its determination.
9.   The goods financed out of the proceeds of a Leasing
Loan or a Leasing Sub-loan shall be leased by the Leasing Company
to an Investment Enterprise for purposes of an Investment Project
in terms and conditions which shall substantially conform to the
terms set forth for purposes of the Sub-loans pursuant to para-
graph 8 above.
10.   Sub-loans and Leasing Sub-loans shall be repayable in a
period not to exceed ten years, including three years of grace.
11.   Participating Intermediaries shall make Working Capital
Sub-loans to Participating Investment Enterprises in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the lower of: (i) the working capital
requirements justified in the Financial Plan; or (ii) twice the
cost of the Investment Project (excluding the cost of incremental
working capital) carried out or to be carried out by the Partici-
pating Investment Enterprise under the Loan or the Prior Loan.
12.   Working Capital Sub-loans shall be repayable in a
period of more than one year but up to a period of three years.
13.   Working Capital Sub-loans shall bear an interest rate
to be agreed upon between the Participating Intermediary and the
Participating Investment Enterprise. The Central Bank shall
on-lend the proceeds of the Working Capital Loan at a rate of up
to four percentage points below the rate of the Working Capital
Sub-loan.
14.   The amount of the Working Capital Loan shall not exceed
33% of the total amount of the Working Capital Sub-loan. The
balance shall be made available by the Participating Intermediary
from its own resources.


﻿- 13 -
B.   Approval of Financing Operations:
1.   The  Central   Bank  shall  present  to   the  Bank  for
approval: (i) all Financing Operations presented to it by the
Participating Intermediaries for approval, when the amount of the
said Financing Operation, when added to any other Financing
Operation, the proceeds of which have been or are being utilized
for the financing of an Investment Project or Financing Plan,
exceeds the sum of $5,000,000 equivalent; and (ii) the first
three Investments, the first three Leasing Loans or Leasing
Sub-loans and the first three Working Capital Sub-loans presented
by the Participating Intermediaries to the Central Bank for
approval.
The Central Bank shall present to the Bank together with an
application in form satisfactory to the Bank: (i) a description
of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment
Project or the Financing Plan, including a description of the
expenditures proposals to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan; (ii) the proposed terms of the Financing Operation; and
(iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank may, after receipt of the information referred
to above and in those cases it shall deem appropriate, request an
economic evaluation of the respective Investment Project.
2.   Approval of free-limit Financing Operations
(a) In respect of Category I free-limit Financing Opera-
tions, the Participating Intermediary shall present to the
Central Bank together with an application in form satisfactory to
the Bank: (i) a description of the Investment Enterprise and an
appraisal of the Investment Project or the Financing Plan, in-
cluding a description of the expenditures to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms of the Financ-
ing Operation; and (iii) such other information as the Central
Bank shall reasonably request. The Central Bank may, after
receipt of the information referred to above and in those cases
it shall deem appropriate request an economic evaluation of the
respective Investment Project.
The Central Bank shall, in case it would approve the
application referred to above, present to the Bank a request to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of the said
free-limit Financing Operation together with: (A) a description
of the Investment Enterprise and the evaluation of the Investment


﻿- 14 -
Project or the Financing Plan made by the Central Bank; (B) the
proposed terms and conditions of the Financing Operation proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Central Bank Loan or
Working Capital Loan; and (C) such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) In respect of Category 2 free-limit Financing Opera-
tions  and  Category   3  free-limit  Financing  Operations,   the
Financing Operation to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Central Bank Loan or the Working Capital Loan shall be approved
by the Participating Intermediary. The latter shall present to
the Central Bank together with a request to make withdrawals from
the respective Central Bank Loan or Working Capital Loan or the
Financing Plan: (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprises and the Investment Project or the Financing Plan,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and
condtions of the respective Financing Operation.
The Central Bank shall present to the Bank in respect of
Categor- 3 free-limit Financing Operations a request for authori-
zation to make withdrawal from the Loan Account together with the
information furnished to the Central Bank by the Participating
Intermediary referred to in the previous paragraph.
3.   For purposes of this paragraph B, the following terms
have the respective meanings herein set forth:
(a)  "Financing Operation" means one or more Sub-loans,
Leasing Loans, Leasing Sub-loans, Working Capital Sub-loans or
Investments.
(b) "Free-limit Financing Operation" means a Financing
Operation which is included in the Categories set forth below:
(i)  "Category 1 free-limit Financing Operation" means
a Financing Operation:
(A) which   is   above  the  limit  set  forth   in
sub-paragraph (iii) below and does not exceed
the sum of $5,000,000 equivalent, when added
to any other outstanding amounts financed out
of the proceeds of a Financing Operation for
the respective Investment Project; and


﻿- 15 -
(B) is above the free-limit (limite de algada)
set by the Central Bank for the respective
Participating Intermediary making the Financ-
ing Operation.
(ii)  "Category 2 free-limit Financing Operation" means
a Financing Operation: (A) which is above the
limit set forth in sub-paragraph (iii) below and
does not exceed the sum of $5,000,000, when added
to any outstanding amounts financed out of the
proceeds of a Financing Operation for the respec-
tive Investment Project; and (B) is below the
free-limit (limite de alrada) set by the Central
Bank for the respective Participating Intermediary
making the Financing Operation.
(iii)  "Category 3 free-limit Financing Operation" means
a Financing Operation which does not exceed the
sum of $500,000 equivalent, when added to any out-
standing amounts financed out of the proceeds of a
Financing Operation for the respective Investment
Project.
C.   Auditing
1.   Participating Intermediaries
(a) Participating Intermediaries shall open and thereafter
maintain separate accounts to reflect, in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices, their opera-
tions in respect of the Project.
(b) Participating Intermediaries shall: (i) have their
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; and (ii) furnish to the Bank, through the Central Bank, not
later than four months after the end of each fiscal year, certi-
fied copies of their financial statements for such year as so
audited and the report of such audit by said auditors, including
separate opinions as to whether the proceeds of the Loan made
available to them on the basis of statements of expenditures have
been used for the purposes for which they were stated in such
statements.


﻿- 16 -
2.   Investment Enterprises and Participating Investment
Enterprises:
(a) Investment Enterprises and Participating Investment
Enterprises shall open and thereafter maintain separate accounts,
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices, their operation in respect of their respective Invest-
ment Project or Financing Plan.
(b) Investment Enterprises and Participating Investment
Enterprises shall: (i) have their accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) furnish to
the respective Participating Intermediary not later than four
months after the end of each fiscal year, certified copies of
their financial statements for such year as so audited and the
report of such audit by said auditors, including separate
opinions as to whether the proceeds of the Loan made available to
them on the basis of statements of expenditures have been used
for the purposes for which they were stated in such statements;
provided, however, that in respect of Investment Enterprises or
Participating Investment Enterprises which are considered small-
or medium-scale enterprises pursuant to the PAGRI Operating
Regulations and which have obtained financing under the Project
for an amount not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000, the
Central Bank shall: (A) in each fiscal year determine a
representative sample of Investment Enterprises or Participating
Investment Enterprises to be subjected to auditing of their
accounts in respect of the Project and shall cause the respective
Participating Intermediary to have audited such accounts in
accordance with appropriate acccounting principles consistently
applied during the course of the Intermediary's regular audit
operations by independent auditors acceptable to the Central
Bank; and (B) furnish to the Bank not later than four months
after the end of each fiscal year, certified copies of the finan-
cial statements of the Investment Enterprises or Participating
Investment Enterprises included in the sample as so audited and
the report of such audit.
II. Rules applicable to Investment Enterprises benefitting from
a Sub-loan or Investment
Any Sub-loan or Investment will be made on terms whereby the
Participating Intermediary shall obtain, by written contract with


﻿- 17 -
the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means the
Investment Enterprises's obligations to comply, inter alia, with
the terms and conditions set forth in this Schedule and the
following:
1.   the Investment Enterprises obligation to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
2.   that the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased pursuant to the provi-
sions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
3.   that the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be used exclusively in the carrying of
the Investment Project;
4.   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Central Bank and the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, such
goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in
the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents;
5.   require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance,
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent
with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation
upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan or Investment to the place of
use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable
in a currency freely useable by the Investment Enterprise to
replace or repair such goods;
6.   obtain all such information as the Bank or the Central
Bank or the Participating Intermedaries shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Investment Enterprises and to the
benefits to be derived from the Investment Project; and
7.   suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enter-
prise to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan or Investment
upon failure by such Investment Enterprises to perform its
obligations under its contract with the Borrower.


﻿- 18 -
The Central Bank shall cause each Participating Intermediary
to exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Project in
such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank, the
Central Bank and the Participating Intermediary; (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
III. Rules Applicable to Investment Enterprises and Leasing
Companies benefitting from a Leasing Loan or a Leasing Sub-
loan
Any Leasing Loan or Leasing Sub-loan shall be made on terms
whereby the Central Bank or the Participating Intermediary, as
the case may be, shall obtain by written contract with the
Leasing Company and the Investment Enterprises benefitting from
the Lease or by other appropriate legal means, inter alia, with
the terms and conditions set forth in this Schedule:
1.   the Leasing   Company's obligation, to comply, inter
alia, with the terms and conditions set forth in this Sched-
ule and: (i) to utilize the proceeds of the Leasing Sub-loan
exclusively for the acquisition of the goods required by the
Investment Enterprise to carry out the Investment Project; (ii)
notwithstanding the Investment Enterprise's obligations pursuant
to the terms of the lease, to procure the goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; (iii) to terminate the right of the
Investment Enterprises to utilize the goods under the lease and
recover the possession of such goods or accelerate the payment of
the lease, upon failure by the Investment Enterprises to perform
its obligations under its contract with the Central Bank or the
Participating Intermediary, as the case may be, and the Leasing
Company; (iv) in case of recuperation of the goods referred to in
(iii) above, to utilize such goods exclusively for purposes of an
Investment Project; or, in the case of acceleration of the pay-
ment of the lease, to pre-pay the respective Leasing Loan or
Leasing Sub-loan; and (v) to the extent practicable, the Leasing
Company's obligation to allow the Central Bank or the Partici-
pating Intermediary, as the case may be, to exercise the rights
obtained by the Leasing Company pursuant to the terms of the
lease.
2.   the Investment Enterprise's obligation:


﻿- 19 -
(i) to carry out and operate the Investment Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accord-
ance with sound technical, financial and manage-
rial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(ii) to utilize the goods made available to it by the
Leasing Company exclusively in the carrying out of
the Investment Project;
(iii)  to  enable   the  Participating   Intermediary   to
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives
of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such
goods and the sites, works, plants and construc-
tion included in the Investment Project, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents;
(iv) require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise shall
take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (2) without any limitation
upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover
hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery of goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made
payable in a currency freely usable by the
Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such
goods; and
(v) obtain all such information as the Bank or the
Central Bank or the Participating Intermediary
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and   to   the   administration,   operations   and
financial condition of the Investment Enterprise
and to the benefits to be derived from the Invest-
ment Project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this     l    day of .1    , 1983
FOR SECRETARY


