Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 23354
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25370)
ON AN
IDA CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$24.5 MILLION
T'O
THE REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT - ASMIP
(CREDIT NO. 2537-TA)
DECEMBER 31, 2001
Rural Development Operations
Eastern & Southern Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the peiformance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchalnge Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Tanzania Shilling ( Tsh.)
At Appraisal: Tsh. 350 = US$ 1.00
At Completioni: Tsh. 880 = US$ 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASDS               Agricultural Sector Development Study
ASIP               Agricultural Sector Investment Program
ASMP               Agricultural Sector Management Project
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
DCA                Development Credit Agreement
GOT                Government of Tanzania
IDOS               Institutional Development Objectives and Strategy
ISC                Inter-ministerial Steering Committee
MAC                Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
MOA                Ministry of Agriculture
OJT                On-the-job training
PC                 Project Coordinator
PPF                Project Preparation Facility
PSC                Personal Service Contract
PSRC               Parastatal Sector Reform Commission
QAG                Quality Assurance Group
RTF                Rationalization Task Force
SAPDEP             Strategic Agricultural Partnership Development Project
SEC                Project Secretariat
SOFRAIP            Soil Fertility Recapitalization and Agricultural Intensification Project
STA                Special Training Assignment
TTG                Technical Task Groups
Vice President Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director James Adams
Sector Manager/Director Karen Brooks
Task Team Leader/Task Manager Tekola Dejene



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 2537-TA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting tmplementation and Outcome                                   7
6. Sustainabilitv                                                                       8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     11
9. Partner Comments                                                                    12
10. Additional Information                                                             12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Framne Matrix                               13-15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                16-18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   1 8
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               21-71
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P002801 t                                        Project Name: ASMP
Team Leader: Tekola Dejene                                   TL Unit: AFTRI
ICR Tvpe: Cor7e ICR                                          Report Date: October 25, 2001
1.     Project Data
Name:  ASMP                                      JCTF_ Number:  LDA-25370
Country/Department:  TANZANIA                                         Region:  Africa Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: AG - Agency Reform
KEY DATES
Ori!inal                Revised/Actual
PCD:   0915/1992                      Effective:  10/01/1993               01/10/1994
Appraisal:  02/20/1993                        AITR:  06/30/1996                 10/06/1996
A pproval:  07/20/1993                     Closing:  06/30/1999                06/30/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:   GOT/GOV
Other Partners:
STAFF                 CURRENT                              AT APPRAISAL
Vice President:       Callisto E. Madavo                   E. Jaycox
Country Manager:      Janmes W. Adams                      F. Colaco
Sector Manager:        Karen Brooks                        Sushma Ganguly
Team Leader at ICR:    Tekola Dejene                       F. Byamugisha
ICR Primarv Author:   Pietros Kidane (TL - FAO/CP) and
Ephrem Asebe, Consultant
2.     Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN-Unlikely,
HlUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability L
InCstitutional Developrnent Imnpact: SUS
Banlc Performance: S
BorrowXer PerJormnance:  S
QAG (if available)         ICR
Quality at WEntr:                           S
Prqject at Risk atAny Time: No



3.      Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The rationale for ASMP was the need for an institutional framework in Tanzania's agricultural
sector to manage the transition toward a market-oriented economy. The MOA was overloaded with tasks for
which it was ill suited or, for which it did not have adequate resources and expertise. There was, therefore, ani
obvious need for reformning and strengthening the agricultural institutioins to deal with policy formulation and
implementation and to support the process of developing and implementing a strategy in wlich state institutions
manage less but better. In addition, there was a need for developing an institutional capacity to prepare and
implement the next phase of sector reforms. ASMP was forMLulated, therefore, to meet these needs.
The main objective of the ASMP was to strengthen institutional capacity to formulate and implement
the Government's agricultural development policies, strategies and programs. Specific objectives included
fostering institutional capacity to support: (i) the rationalization and strengthening of Government functions in
the agricultural sector; (ii) the fornulation and implementation of agricultural policies; and (iii) the improvement
of the agricultural information systems and services. These interventions were expected to facilitate an effective
functioning of Government and the private sector in a market-based economy. In the context of Tanzania of the
early nineties, the main project objective was sensible and timely, as the country was then gearing up to
transform its public-dominated economy into a market-oriented one. Hence, strengthening the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA)l to enable it to take lead in reorganizing itself and initiating a reform process to modernize
the agricultural sector was relevant indeed.
3.2 Revised Objective.
Project objectives were not modified throughout the implementation period. However, more emphasis
was placed in the latter years of project execution on activities related to private sector development (e.g.
reviewing the regulatory framework, enhancing diologtie between public and private sector, supporting the
fonration and strengthening of commodity associations, etc.) and preparation of feasibility studies for furtlier
agricultural development. Although these activities are conisidered a logical corollary to the successful
implementation of the main project components, the feasibility studies were not foreseen at appraisal. As such,
they became added objectives, to the original ones, and this was reflected in the Development Credit Agreement
(DCA). which was accordingly amended.
3.3 Original Components:
The project comprised three components: (i) rationalization and strengtlhening of Government functions
in the agricultural sector; (ii) formulation and implemeentation of agricultural policies; and (iii) improvement of
the agricultural information systems and services required to facilitate an effective functioniing of the
Government and the private sector in a market-oriented economy. These components should be regarded as
logical choices, if looked at from their potential in achieving project objectives rapidly. T hey were also
consistent with the Institutional Development Objectives and Strategy (IDOS) for agriculture, elaborated by the
Govemment of Tanzania (GOT) in 1992/93, which was endorsed by the World Bank. Major elements of the
Government strategy covered areas such as: the transfer of commercial type of MOA activities to the private
sector; privatization of agricultural parastatal organizations; revising laws and regulations to encourage private
sector investment in agriculture; developing maniagement systems required to improve the efficiency of MOA,
: In 1998, the name of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) was changed to Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MAC).
In November 2000, it is again changed to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security (MAFS). The acronym MOA has been used in this
report to refer to these three ministerial names. In November 2000, when the Ministry became MAFS, GOT decided to transfer two
departments away from it, i.e. the Department of Livestock to the Ministry of Water, and the Department of Cooperatives and Marketing to
form a new ministry of its own. Therefore, public responsibility for the agricultural sector is now vested within three ministries.
2



including its reorganization; and strengthening the agricultural infonrmation systems and services to support the
emergence of a market-based economy.
3.4 Revised Components:
No revision was made of project design or components. However, as implementation of the key
components was completed, the project endeavored to assist the counitry by undertaking additional task-s. Among
other things, the project facilitated three feasibility studies: i) the Strategic Agricultural Partnership Development
Project (SAPDEP), which the GoT proposed a follow-on project to ASMP. ii) the Soil Fertility Recapitalization
and Agricultural Intensification Project (SOFRAIP) and, (iii) River Basin Management and Smallholder
Irrigation Improvement Project (RBMSIIP). The project also provided support to the Ministry of Lands for the
implementation of the 1999 Land Act.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was not subjected to performance rating by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) of the
World Bank. At project completion, the quality at entiy is regarded as satisfactory for the following reasons.
First, the design of ASMP was anchored in the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which
emphasized the need to accelerate implementation of policy reforms as part of the overall effort to move to
higher rates of economic growth. Second, ASMP was designed and implemented under a relatively favorable
macroeconomic environment that was established by two earlier economic adjustment programs: Economic
Recovery Program (ERP) that was launched in 1986 anid succeeded by the Economic and Social Action Program
(ESAP) in 1989, which were aimed at reversing the decline and reducing the extreme instabilities in the
Tanzanian economy. Third, ASMP design and implementation took place at a time when the role of the public
sector in the economy was gradually declining and being r eplaced by an increasing role of the private sector,
concurrently with the implementation of public sector adjustment reforms that were intended to transfolrn the
role of Government to one that facilitates private sector's development and provides public goods effectively and
efficiently. IDA-funded Public and Parastatal Sector Reform Project (PPSRP) and the Public Sector Adjustment
Credit (PSAC) supported these public sector adjustment reforms. Fourth, ASMP design also benefited from the
lessons learned during the implementation of the previous technical assistance projects in the agricultural sector
(Cr. 1206-TA and Cr. 1524-TA). The lessons that guided the design of ASMP and its implementation plan
included: (a) institutional building and personnel development require long-term assistance and continuity of
implementationi; (b) the success of capacity building projects is enhaniced if assistance is targeted at the strategic
functions of the relevant institutions; (c) the need for a clearly thought-out institutional development strategy;
(d) the need to take the borrower's limited absorptive capacity into account; and (e) the need for adequate
supervision, especially from World Bank Resident Missions. Fifth, the design of ASMP was grounded on a
major analytic work, Tanzania: Agricultural Sector Review, 1992.
Tak-ing advantage of the reform processes and taking into account lessons learned from the
implementation of IDA-funded projects. ASMP designi was deliberately kept simple to increase the chance for
its successful implementation. For instance, it had only three components and they were all to be implemented
by MOA, within its existing setup, but under the overall direction of an Inter-ministerial Steering Committee
(ISC) chaired by the Principal Secretary of MOA. Since reforming the agricultural sector had implications that
go beyond agriculture, the appraisal mission aptly involved other concerned institutions in the ISC, inter alia,
the Ministry of Finanice, the Civil Service Department (implementing), the Planning Commission, the National
Bureau of Statistics and the Parastatal Sector Reform Commission (PSRC - Implementing) by making them full
members of the ISC. Moreover, an Advisory Technical Committee (ATC) was established within the MOA to
provide technical guidanice on project activities. These arrangements have proven to work well during
implementation by involving key institutions in decisions regarding institutional and policy reforms, as
agreements were sought a priori within the ISC, thus clearing up any potential obstacle. The project provided for
the establishment of a Project Secretariat (SEC), to be headed by a full-time Project Coordinator (PC), supported
by five professional staff specialized in different disciplines. The SEC proved to be an adequate vehicle for the
I



coordination, planning and timely implementation of project activities.
4.     Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project has successfully achieved its main objective, and its outcome is rated as satisfactory. At
completion, Govemnment function in the agricultural sector has been better defined and orientated. The exercise
has enabled the Ministry to adopt three major tasks - policy formulation and planning, development and
provision of services in partnership with the private sector, and regulation and inspection - and to restructure
itself around these responsibilities. This entailed the divestLre of many agricultural parastatal, spinning-off of
services of a commercial nature to the private sector and staff reduction witlhin MOA. The Ministry has started
to strengthen its capacity to formulate and implement agricultural policies, as staff skills have been up-graded
through on-the-job training and higher education overseas. More than 18 major studies were completed, which
made major contributions to the current sector policy. The project has enabled MOA to prepare sector policy,
strategy and feasibility studies and to establish a mechanism for monitoring the implementation of the price and
market reform. Importanit achievements have also been made in improving the agricultural information systems
and services, conflicting information on production were reconciled; sources of agricultural information
streamlined, an agricultural data base developed, and, a cost-effective production on developed, and, a cost-
effective production data collection system is in place. MOA is now carrying out annual agricultural surveys
and disseminates results on a timely basis. See Annex I and 7b for details
4.2 Outputs by components:
(a) Rationalization and strengthening of Government functions in the agricultural sector.
The major outputs associated with the rationalization of MOA functions include the following. First,
priority core functions and mnission of MOA were defined and the non-core functions slotted for privatization and
joint undertakings. The core functions were primarily aimed at creating an enabling environment for private
sector participation in agricuiltural production, trade and processing. Second, based on the new priority core
functions, a new organizational structure was derived and approved in January 1998 by the Civil Service
Department. Third, following the definition of core functions and the preparation of the organizational structure,
a staff inventory was completed and a staffing plan (scheme of service) for all new departments and work units,
including the zones, regions, and districts was developed. Based on the staffing plan, 7800 staff were retrenched
and 7,906 staff redeployed to the Regional Administration and Local Government. Fourth, the spinning off of
about 85% of the original 48 non-core functions that were identified for privatization or joint venture during
project preparation was completed. Fifth, developed and implemented guidelines to facilitate the formation of
joint ventures and cost sharing mechanisms for some of the activities that were identified for joint venture at
appraisal. Agreement was reached with the respective commodity boards on the cost sharingr mechanisms for
research of most of the main export crops (coffee, cotton, and tobacco). Some research activities for major export
crops have actually been privatized or, are in the process of privatization (tea, tobacco). Sixth, the designing and
implementation of improved internal operating systems and MIS was completed. Electronic connectivity within
the MOA is established through a Local Area Network (LAN) after installing the computers and softvare that
were procured under the project. Seventh, assisted PSRC in determining the most suitable divestiture strategies
and by preparing 177 profiles for agricultural parastatals for divestiture.
(b)    Strengthening Institutional Capacity to Formulate and Implement Policies.
Staff training and policy analysis/formnulation were the two key elemnents of this component. Substantial
training input, comprising in-service training, short- and long-term  overseas training and study tours were
provided under the project (Annex 7b). The in-service training programs were of innovative niature and consisted
of: on-the-job training (OJT) and the Personal Service Contract (PSC) later changed to Special Training
4



Assignment (STA). The OJTs were of two kinds: (i) a less intensive module carried out under the ratioualization
component, which covered mainly tasks related to project activity planning; and (ii) intensive OJTs undertaken
within the policy formulation component in whiclh the assignments entailed rigorous analysis and research, and
clearance/approval of reports by the management, after a formal qualitv review. Staff engaged in intensive OJTs
were provided with training mentors - usually from the University of Dar es Salaam - to see that the trainees
were supervised adequately. Under the STA, staff carry out major analytic work and are attached to the project's
technical assistance personlel so that they could be mentored.
Parallel to the OJTs and STAs, the project also undertook a vigorous training program in the form of the
short- and long-term individual training, study tours, workshops and seminars, which were important tools for
capacity building of MOA. Twenty-three staff members were sent overseas for various degree course traininjg in
the fields of agricultural development and information technology. About 50 staff members were given short-
termn training abroad mainly in agricultural development and management. The various workshops and tailor-
made courses that were organized by the project covered a wide-range of topics, including research
methodology, techniques of report writing, commodity price review, development planning, macro-economic
policies and computer data processing and application. Tailor-made local courses were given to 191 staff.
The overall project outputs concerning staff training and the impacts of this on raising MOA capacities
was impressive as witnessed by the project accomplishments. Besides fostering staff skills, the training programs
under the project were instrumental in reorienting the staff thinking towards the new role of the Government in
the agriculture sector. Few of the trained staff has left MOA to work in other parts of the Government or the
private sector during project implementation. Although the present level of turnover has not affected the
Ministry's efficiency, the situation calls for a system of continuous training within MOA in order to maintain the
experience gained and the competence attained under the project.
Supported by the training program and guided by a policy and regulatorv reform agenda, the project
carried out numerous analytic works that made maajor contributionis towards the current sector policy and
regulatory framework. At completion, 18 major studies2 were prepared by staff working within OJT/STA, and
these were crucial inputs to the preparation of 15 agricultur-al policy and strategy related studies including
Agricultural Sector Development Strategy (ASDS), Agricultural Input Supply, Agricultural Taxationl, Agri-
business Development, Livestock Sub-sector Development, Cooperatives Development Policy, Rationalization
of Regulatory Function of MOA, etc., to mention a few (Anmex 7b - table 1). The preparation of special reports,
like the export crop and food crop reviews, made considerable contribution to the restructuring of the
Commodity Boards. The revision of some current legislation (e.g.. Acts for pyrethrum, sisal and tea to improve
private sector participation in the association) was facilitated by the crop studies done under the project. The
reports on parastatal profiles and strategies provided key inputs in the privatization of parastatals. The
Agribusiness Development Study was instrumental in initiating and deepening the interface between
Government and the private agribusiness sector in the country. This led to the intensification of tlle private/public
sector dialogue through consultative workshops and the Minister ofAgriculture s Round Table Con ferences.
These have provided useful for a for private sector's contribution to major policy formulation, including mlajor
agricultural tax reforms in 1999 and 2000. Resulting from these interactions with the private sector, ASMP
assisted in setting up an industry-based organization called the Tanzania Chamber ofAgriculture and Livestock
(TCA1L) in 2001 as an apex organization of industry-based agricultural associations, suclh as cotton, caslhew,
tobacco, sisal and coffee growers associations.
However, the adoptioin of the recommendations and findings of the studies or implementation is not
without difficulty. In some instances, the Government failed to carry out the recommenidations (e.g. food crop
2These studies do not include the over 240 OJT reports covering policy reviews, annual commodity market reviews, export crop reviews,
livestock and agricultural input reviews and profile preparation on parastatals.
S5



marketing study), thereby, reducing impact of the studies. This kind of situation required a strategy that involve
working with Bank teams who work in other areas such as public sector reform, adjustment credit and private
sector development to implement the finding in part or in full.
(c)    Agriculture Information Systems and Services.
As planned, the project enabled MOA to establish a working system of agricultural data collection.
processing, and dissemination to end-users in the public and private sectors. A national sample survey that
serves as the base-year data for aimual surveys was completed in 1994/95. The Expanded Agricultural Survey, a
nationwide post census agricultural survey, was implemented in 1995/96 and 1996/97 to collect and compile
current agricultural statistics. In 1997/98, an Integrated Agricultural Survey was carried out and was followed by
a District Agricultural Survey in 1998/99.  The District Agricultural Survey, for the first time, provided
disaggregated information by district. In 1999/2000, a Rapid Appraisal Survey was conducted. Ihis survey
method was aimed at introducing a cost-effective and sustainable data collection method and was a resounding;
success. For instance, the 1999/2000 Rapid Appraisal Survey was carried out at a cost of Tsh.56 million,
compared to Tsh.400 million for the previous agricultural survey. ASMP has also carried out surveys of large-
scale farms, urban agriculture, and of coffee, the major export crop.
The Agricultural Statistical Unit of MOA has implemented this component in collaboration with the
National Bureau of Statistics by pooling staff and financial resources, and this has led to a stable cooperation,
which is continuing even after the project is closed. This is "best Practice" in institutional collaboration and
coordination of an activity that fall within the purview of two institutions. This UJnit has developed and
implemented an agricultural database system. The market information and crop monitoring activities have also
been strengthiened. Information on food commodities and prices are collected and released regularly, and the
data collection capacity of the Early Waming System under MOA has been improved under the project.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economnic rate of return:
As an institutional building project, no quantitative economic analysis was carried out for the project at
appraisal or completion. The project benefits that were identified at appraisal and expected to accrue during and
after project implementation have materialized, largely, and will continue to do so in the coming years. 'Fhere
are, however, several economic benefits directly associated with the interventions implemiiented under ASMP.
First, ASMP provided the institutional framework in Tanzania's agricultural sector to manage the transition
toward a market-oriented economy. Second, the role of Government in the agriculture sector is now focused on
the provision of public goods and priority core functions. The policy and regulatory framework necessary to
facilitate private sector is in place and evolving. Third, the project's rationalization component is now serving as
a model for the ongoing public service reform program that is directed at rationalizing public functions at the
national level, enhancing core management principles, and performance management systems. Fourth, the
Govemment's capacity for policy formulation and implementation has been strengthened to the extent of
initiating and implementing key agricultural policy and legal reforms (the ASDS), programs and projects (e.g.,
SAPDEP, SOFRAIP). Fifth, the agricultural information base, data systems and services hiave become more
reliable and frequently sought after by both the public and private sectors. Sixth, although the agricultural
parastatal divestiture process has not yet been brought to an end, it has had profound impact on agriculture's
transition toward becoming a market-based production system. The monopolistic marketing boards and
cooperative unions, which were the backbone of the single-channel marketing system in Tanzania, have been
restructured, or have become moribund. The private sector's response to the opportunities created is strong. This
is evident in the increasing shares of the private sector in the various commodity markets. Trade in miajor grains
(maize, rice, and wheat), which were previously the sole domain of the giant parastatal, the National Milling
Corporation, and government-controlled cooperative unions, are now entirely private. Private small and medium-
scale mills now do about 98% of the milling of grains. The marketing and processing of the major export
commodities (coffee, cotton, tea, tobacco, sisal, cashews and pyrethrum) is now virtually in the hands of private
6



operators, with a few cooperative unions competing. Similarly, there has been spontaneous private investment in
marketing and primary processing facilities in several sub-sectors, especially in tobacco, cotton and grain
milling.
It should be realized, however, that these benefits are not solely due to ASMP, since the project was
implemented in a policy and institutional framework that was facilitated bv other Bank-supported opcrations.
ASMP implementation concunrent with other macroeconomic adjustment and structural reformi programiis exerted
positive externalities (linkages) on its development objectives.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The project was not subject to quantitative financial analysis at appraisal and completion. However, the
project has contributed significanitly to budgetary savings, privatization revenue, and removal of parastatal
subsidies. There are two major sources of budgetary savings for the Government, arising from  the
imsplementationi of ASMP. First, because of the retrenching of more than 7,800 staff, Government reduced its
fiscal burden associated with staff salaries and benefits, and the provision of ineffective public services. Second,
during the period of central economic management, Goverm-ienit used to incur substantial costs of supporting
these parastatals. For instance, support to parastatals accounted for 70% of the development budget allocated to
MOA in the late 1980s. During 1993/94 and 1994/95, when ASMP started implementation, Government
provided Tsh.50.3 billion and Tsh.2 1 .8 billion, respectively, as direct support to the operating parastatals. Since
1995/96 Govemment no longer provides operational support to parastatals that are earmarked for privatization or
to the restructured Commodity Boards. The latter are financed through industry cess. Accordingly, the divestiture
of agricultural parastatals has removed the fiscal burden from the shoulders of the Govemment. On the otlher
hand, the privatization of 80 agricultural parastatals, subsidiary companies and operating units has generated
revenue to the national treasury and helped to offset btudget deficits. In addition, the privatization of the
parastatals has broadened the tax base since private firms are liable to a variety of taxes. It is believed that some
of these have already been instrumental in increased tax revenue. Data has yet to be collected to verifyv the
accrued financial benefits of liberalization in the agricultural sector. Again, these benefits are not solelv due to
ASMP. Other programs and projects contributed to the positive performance of the project.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
At completion, the project's institutional impact has been substantial. First, MOA has been streamlined
through a well reasoned out process of rationalizing its functions in line with the newly introduced market-based
economic policy. This entailed the shedding of many MOA functions, hence enabling it to concentrate on the
few core ones related to policy planning, provision of technical services and nionitoring and regulating the
agricultural sector. This has induced the Ministry to devote itself to fewer tasks, and in the process to focus its
activities and to specialize. The strong training program, both in-service and other type training, as it up-graded
the Ministry's planning and the implementation capacity of policies and programs facilitated the process. MOA' s
institutional enhancement has also benefited from the reorganization that ensued fiom  the rationalization of the
Ministry's functions, as this has enabled the identification of posts and their terms of reference. The provision of
vehicles and office equipment has also contributed to better performance. A noteworthy capacity boost has been
given by ASMP to the Ministry's agricultural data collection, processing and dissemination. At completioni, the
Agricultural Statistics Unit of MOA is able to carry out annual agricultural surveys and produce reports for all
interested users, and has established the foundation for building a useful agricultural database.
5.     Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing aigency:
The only factor that can be cited here is the drought of 1993/94 that obliged the project to repeat the
sample survey.
7



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control.
Two factors that marginally affected the project were: (i) the shortage of counterpart funds as a result of
Government stringent budget policy during the implementation period; and (ii) the delay in the approval of the
1991 organizational structure of MOA as this created some anxiety within the MOA staff. Nevertheless, it should
also be recognized that the strong GOT support accorded to the project were instrumlenital in paving the way for
the smooth execution of the project.
5.3 Factors gen7erally subject to implementing agency control:
The dedication of the project secretariat, its success in coordinating the implementation units within
MOA and its ability to cooperate with agencies such as the National Bureau of Statistics, enabled the project to
achieve its objectives and make efficient use of resources. The same ability to cooperate with the Civil Service
Department and the Ministry of Finance should also be noted, as these institLtions remained good supporters of
the project.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At appraisal, total project costs were estimated at US$ 27.2 million. About 90% of these costs or US$
24.5 million was planned to be financed by IDA and the remainder by GOT. IDA financing was to include a PPF
of US$ 0.75 million. At completion, total project costs amounted to US$ 21.04 million of which IDA financed
US$ 20.41 million (97%) and GOT US$ 0.63 million (3%). About US$ 2.86 million have been cancelled and
US$ 0.85 million was undisbursed. The reasons for the savings of costs are the strong exchange rate of the SDR
vis-a-vis the US$ during the implementation period, and the lower than anticipated expenditure on training,
workshops and seminars and operating costs. The increased level of in-country and in-service training, as
opposed to overseas training, has also led to substantial savings. Variation betweeni appraisal and latest estimate
component costs are due to reallocations, as new activities were funded and government contribution was
reduced due to pressure from macroeconomic imbalance.
6.     Sustainability
6. 1 Rationale for sustainabiliiv rating.
Overall, sustainability of the project is likely. TIhis is because the institutionial changes introduced by the
project will be long lasting since they are in line with the country's long-term plans. For instance, because of the
rationalization exercise, the core functions of MOA are defined and new structures consistent with the new role
and functions are implemented leaving no room for major deviations. The retrenchment and redeployment has
left the Ministry lean and focused in its core functionis. The Ministry's effort to decentralize its activities to the
districts has been reinforced by the recent government decentralization policy and its implementation is fully
assured. The current GOT policy to improve civil service salaries, whose implementation started in 1999, hlas
eased the concern that the capacity created during the project life would be eroded. This policy, whicli focuses
on raising significantly salaries and benefits, has improved the prospect of retaining MOA trained staff and
attracting qualified new staff.
A scrutiny of the division of MOA's activities in three ministries also suggests that it will have little
effect on the sustainability of project activities. It is assumed that current performance levels will be maintained
because the departments moved to the new ministries with their entire staff and related functionis. However, there
is a clear disadvantage to the newly created ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing, in that it
will have to secure the additional overhead costs in its new headquarters in Dodoma. Certainly, the division of
the original MOA tasks into three ministries will call for serious efforts of coordination of activities among the
ministries.
Well thought-out initiatives that ensure continuity and sustainability of the activities supported by
the project are in place. First, the preparation of ASDS, through a broad consultative process was completed and
approved by Government. The actions and interventions envisaged in the strategy paper are partly aimed at
X



ensuring the implementation of policy and institutional refomns in a sustainable way. Second, the preparation of
a follow-on project that translates the strategy into a program of action is ready for appraisal and implementation.
Thlis proposed project, SAPDEP, builds on the work of ASMP and is aimed at advancing the achievements in the
areas of expanding production and export of traditional and non-traditional commodities; development of private
agribusiness sector; building governiment capacity at the district and the center to carry out its core functionis and
production and dissemination of agricultural information. Multi-donor funding is expected ftor implementinig this
project. Third, preparation of another project. SOFRAIP, that addresses major constraints in smallholder
production system, such as sustainable productive technology, service delivery and access to inputs. is
completed.  Fourth, an effort was mnade to introduce a cost-effective agricultural data collection and
dissemination methodology so that it can be supported by GOT in the absence of donor support. The project has
succeeded in identifying and piloting a methodology whiich can be financed under the GO'I' recurrent and
development budget. In addition, arrangements are being made with the National Bureau of Statistics to obtain
finance from district'local administrations, as they are the main users and have shown a keen interest in the
activity.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations.
Mainstreaming the project activities into the normal finctions of the MOA has been the main goal of the
project since the Mid-term review. All along, the SEC was lean with a maximLum of five key staff, including
'Technical Assistance. 'The activities were carried out by various units of MOA and, when necessary, by outside
consultants. Therefore, the task of mainstreaming was not difficult. The remaining staff of the SEC were fully
absorbed into the normal functions of the Ministry at project completioni.
In order to maintain a reasonable level of activity after project completioni, the GOT has allocated a
btudget for FY01/02 and MOA plans to tap into the resources of ongoing projects siuch as the Agricultural Sector
Support Program financed by DANIDA and new projects such as the recently appraised IFAD project -
Agricultural Marketing Systems Development Program until the government proposed SAPDEP is implemented.
7.            Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lendinig:
The Bank was actively involved in the conceptualization of the project as it has jointly identified ASMP
with the Government in 1992 within the framework of a major study. This is an analytic work jointly carried
with the Government with the aim to understand the status of the sector and propose key actions for the short and
medium-termn. The Bank also provided crucial support to project preparation by making funds available under a
Project Preparation Facility (PPF). Project design, whlich was jointly developed by the Bank and GOT, was
simple and clearly defined and concentrated on essential activities. The management of the pioject was also well
organized. Assigning the implementation responsibility solely to \4OA, but the overall direction to an inter-
ministerial steering committee has worked very well. With hindsight, it can be said that project preparation
should have paid niiore attention to private sector (agri-business) development from the start.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank calTied out 12 supervision missions and 6 PSR updates (Annex 4a), including one before the
project became effective. There was no clear pattern in the frequency of the missions. Some years more than two
missions were carried out and in others only one. The variability in frequency of missions is explained by the
presence of Operations Officer in the Country Office who was following tup project implementation in the field
and sending updates regularly. From the outset, a strong relationship was established between the project
management and the Bank's Country Office, and many issues and routine matters were discussed and dealt with
in situ.
Qualitatively, the supervision missions were skillfully and professionally executed. In general, the skill
9



mix of the missions was appropriate. Bank staff were particularly helpful in resolving problems that emerged
during implementation. For instance, they endeavored to accelerate the approval of the new structure of MOA by
GOT in 1998. Based on the outcome of the analytic work, the supervision missions carried out dialogue with
concerned Government ministries and agencies regarding the recommended policy and institutional reforms, and
facilitated their adoption and implementation. The supervision missions recommended raising the share of IDA
financing, thereby, obviating the implementation difficulties that were encountered due to shortage of
counterpart funds. The missions also recommended twice the extension of project closing date to ensure full
implementation of project activities. The supervision missions were also supportive of new ideas. In this context,
they approved the inclusion of activities aimed at supporting the private sector; three feasibility studies for
agricultural development projects; support to the Ministry of Lands and, agreed to the implementation of an
innovative training scheme. As demonstrated in the financial management, audit, procurement, etc., records of
the project the follow up on fiduciary responsibility is exemplary. External Bank procurement auditors (SGS)
reported procurement under the project as best practice and audit reports were always submitted before the due
dates during the life of the project. These audit reports were always unqualified except in 1999/00, whichi was
minor and remedied immediately.
7.3 Overall Batnkperformance:
Overall Bank performance was satisfactory. The rating would have been highly satisfactoiy had the
Bank paid attention to the agri-business development aspect from the start.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation.
Given the importance of the project in reforming the agricultural sector, project preparation was dealt
with in a systematic manner giving it a broad-based participation of institutions. The overall project formulation
task was entrusted to a team made up from MOA and the National Planning Commission, which was supported
by a local consultancy firm. In order to ensure the participationi of other institutions, the responsibility for
overseeing the preparation work was given to an ad hoc inter-ministerial task force. The task force provided
policy guidance and finally cleared the project preparation document, after thorough discussions in workshops
organized for discussing initial project design and review of the final report. These arrangements have resulted in
producing quality preparation document endorsed by several GOT institutions, hence attracting strong
commitment from such institutions. This is one of the reasons for the smooth project appraisal and
implementation.
7. 5 Government implemzentation performance:
GOT provided adequate political support to the project, signaling its strong commitment to the project
throughout the entire project implementation period and has been found satisfactory. One of the shortcomings
was the less than anticipated GOT budget allocation to the project resulting in shortage of counterpart funds. The
other is the recent division of MOA responsibilities into three ministries, diluting project organizational
achievements. Although MOA management point out that the project's objectives and outputs have remained
intact and the new arrangement will provide greater focus to the sector, it is a fact that such a decision has
entailed the search for a suitable framework for coordinating the work of the three ministries. The other
weakness is the delay experienced in some key policy and institutional refonn decisions.
7.6 Implenmenting AgencY:
The performance of MOA, through SEC, was highly satisfactory. All the tasks that pertained to project
management were carried out diligently and on a timely basis. Progress reports were prepared on time with all
the necessary information. Procurement of goods and services were carried out so competently, that the project
was singled out as best performer among sampled Bank projects in Tanzania. Project accounts were kept in
order, and the preparation of accounts and submission of audit reports were made consistently ahead of the set
deadline. Savings on project operating costs has been achieved, illustrating efficient project management. Tl he
10



ratings of supervision missions on project implementation and development objectives were, without fail,
satisfactory and above. The ISC met regularly and played a useful role in providing the project the necessary
support and guidance.
7. 7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory. GOT's elaborate preparation of the project
and the support given during implementation would have suggested a rating that is higher than satisfactory.
However, due to the delay experienced in the approval of the organizational structure of the MOA and in filling
management positions associated with the new structure, a higher rating has not been accorded.
8.     Lessons Learned
The following are the main lessons learned from the project:
a.     Successful economic adjustment programs are critical for the implementation of institutional reforms
and capacity building initiatives such as ASMP. The successful implementation of macro-economic reform
programs in the first half of 90's significantly contributed to the success of ASMP and the achievement of its
development objectives.
b.     Overarching National Reforms Fundamental to Sector Reforms. The implenientation of broad
reform measures are also critical for implementation of a project. For instance, delay in the implementationi of a
national Civil Service Reform  delayed the implementation of reforms that were formulated under the ASMP.
The Government's adoption of the Decentralization Program  significantly helped ASMP's decentralization
objectives and interventions. On the other hand, hiving-off of some of the MOA entities was delayed because the
Ministry of Finance, which is the repository of all govermment assets, did not have well developed guidelines that
allow public agencies to dispose off properties. These three cases demlonstrate that the presence, and lack
thereof, of certain overarching institutional reforms and guidelines affect progress in the implementation of
project activities. In the absence of key institutional reforms such as civil service reform or public sector refonn
and decentralization, the project had to struggle to convince senior officials in cenitral ministries to approve or
agree with proposed sectoral refonn and, in some cases, failed to achieve the goals. It would have been easier to
implement ASMP had there been an overall framework in place before embarking on implementation of sector
reform.
c.     Create Incentive to Undertake Reform. Although the project succeeded in curtailing MOA's costs
through staff retrenchment, hiving-off certain fuLtctions and disposing of unutilized/underutilized assets, resulting
from the strea.mlining of its functions, the savings made were never ploughed back to the Ministry in the form of
either increased staff salaries or increased operating cost.  This was contrary to management and staff
expectations and must have dampened the enthusiasm to inove aggressively with the reform process and the
willingness to engage in cost reduction mechanisms.
d.     Sustained Long-term Assistance to Realize the Full Benefit of Institutional Reform. A five-year
project like ASMP can help introduce key reforrns in a sector. However, most reforms are complex and take
time before they are fully absorbed and the desired cultural change and institutional reform are achieved. The
completion of a project can at times be the beginning of a major transformation process and, subsequently, other
interventions phases are required to realize the full benefit of the initial intervention. The ASMP experience
clearly shows this need and it is hoped that follow on projects will carry forward what has been initiated under
this project.
1 1



e.    Implementing Findings and Recommendations. Analytic work carTied out through projects should
address felt needs of the Government or the agency concerned. The work should address important problems
with a reasonable prospect for action. The analysis should be of good quality and lead to substantive
conclusions. At times, inspite of the good quality and strategic relevance of the work, there will be no interest to
follow-up on the recommendations and, take action on the part of the Government and project impact can
reduced. Therefore, other instruments within the Bank's country program should be explored and used to
implement recommendations and introduce the needed changes.
f      Keeping Project Design Simple. A simple project design with well-focused objectives, relatively few
components and with implementation arrangement that defines the role of each participant is likely to enjoy
smooth implenmentation experience and satisfactory performance.
g.     Flexibility and Innovation in Project Implementation. As a project is implemenited, there is a need to
be flexible and innovative.  The design should allow this to take place as the environment in which
implementation takes place is dynamic. The training schemes, such as OJTs and STAs, the support to the
Ministry of Land to help implementation of the Land Act of 1999, and initerventions in the private sector are
good examples of minovation and flexibility.
9.    Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
GOT has produced a completion report on the project, the summary of which is attached. The overall
findings of the Borrower are generally positive as they consider the project to have been implemented smoothly
and to have succeeded in meeting its main objectives.
(b) Cofinaniciers
not applicable:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector)
not applicable:
10.   Additional Information
Detailed information on project achievements is given in Annex 7b of this report.
12



Annex 1
Key Performance Indicators
Key Performance Indicator               Projected in SAR               Actual/Latest Estimates
Outcome/Impact Indicators
1. Refocused MOA to the provision    Efficient provision of public  Substantive progress has been made in
of public goods and enabling      goods; and conducive          each area. For details see Annex 7c.
environment to private sector     environment to private sector
2. MOA as a pioneer participant in the  Enhanced: pay, morale,  MOA reform has served as an examnple
planned Civil Service Reforms which   performance, and productivity    for refonning other institutions. But
are geared to enhancing                                         expected incentives to employees have
Govermnment's employees                                         yet to materialize.
3. MOA's policy formulation and   Accelerated implementation of   Accelerated implementation of
implementation capacity         agricultural reforms          Agricultural reforms have been
strengthened                                                    undertaken. See for details in Annex 7c.
4. Agricultural information base,  Facilitate improved public sector  Significant progress in each of the three
systems and services strengthened  management, planning and     areas has been achieved. Quality of
management of the private     statistics has significantly improved.
sector and cost savings in
surveys
5. Overall improvement in economic    Agricultural sector growth; food   Foundation for agricultural growth has
management                        security improved; foreign    been established,
exchange earnings increased
Output Indicators
A. Rationalization of MOA Functions
1. Prepare reorganization proposal of   Prepare an organizational  Completed in 1995 with participation of
MOA, get approval and implement    structure                    stakeholders.
1.1 Determnine MOA core and non-
core functions                 Determiination in line with the    Completed in 1998.
identified functions at appraisal
1.2 Complete the process of
restructuring based on core    Reduce functions to eight core
function                       ones                          Completed, January 1998.
1.3 Secure GOT approval           Within two years
Completed in 1996.
1.4 Establish staffing/manning level   To be established following the
for new structure             identification of posts        A total of 7,200 staff were retrenched
between 1996 and 1998.
1.5 Retrench redundant staff      Establish the nurnber of
redundant staff and propose   A total of 7,800 staff were transferred to
retrenchment                  local Government Authorities during
1999/2000.
1.6 Re-deploy staff to districts and  Not foreseen at appraisal  31 of 48 function (65%) now fully hived
transfer to Local Government                                 off; 9 out of 48 functions no longer
require hiving-off; 8 functions are
Phasing-out of non-core functions  Phase-out 31 of 48 identified  gradually evolving for hiving-off.
non-core functions
13



Annex 1
e~~~
2. Assist PSRC in the divestiture   Prepare as many profiles as  177 profiles and position papers were
of Agricultural                 required 148 enterprises       prepared
parastatals/enterprises
2.1 Prepare enterprise profiles                                78 enterprises (divested by PSRC); growth in
investment, employment and productivity yet
to be surveyed.
2.2 Divest/liquidate enterprises
21 enterprises (under process)
29 enterprises under government ownership.
These are enterprises mainly associated with
the land issue.
B. Sector Policy Formulation, Plinning  'and Monitoring Componcit
1. Policy analysis/skills      Train a total of 70 staff       A total of 45 staff, 12 female and 33 male,
development                                                participated in workshops on research
1.1 InMOA                                                      methodology and techniques of report writing
Through preparation of                                     for a total of 132 staff weeks. Some 40 staff, 5
Policy and Strategic studies;                              female and 35 male, participated in workshops
OJT/STA studies; Pricing and                               for commodity policy review for a total of 88
Marketing Studies; General                                 staff weeks; 19 staff, all male, participated in
Studies; Workshops and                                     regional agriculture policy planning for a total
Local Short Courses                                        of 30 staff weeks; and 51 staff, 13 female and
28 male, participated in macro policies issues
for a total of 150 staff weeks.
A total of 23 staff, 21 male and 2 female, have
received long-term overseas training. At
completion, 18 of these were still with MOA.
1.2 Long-term Universities or
higher institutions of learning
overseas                                                   A total of 53 staff, 40 male and 13 female,
have received a short-term overseas training.
Of these, 14 have left MOA, most of them to
work with the private sector.
1.3 Short-term overseas training
2. Sector policy and strategy   Cabinet paper prepared and     Completed
prepared                        approved
3. Prepared sector performance  Sector performnance review     16 policy and strategic studies were prepared.
analysis                        Public investment review       18 OJT/STA studies were completed which
Commodity review               provide input to the policy and strategic
studies. Also pricing and marketing studies
were completed.
14



Annex I
Key Performance                pu -:               RtP-                Achieved/Remarks
Indicator
C. Agricultural Information Sy items and  Services
1. Agricultural Census 1993/94   Completed by December, 1995  Census repeated in 1994/95 because of
drought
2. Agricultural Census 1994/95   Completed by December, 1995  Report produced in April, 1996 and has
become a base year for the following annual
surveys
3. National Annual Surveys   Produce an annual report         Annual reports are produced every year until
1999/2000 and preparations are on the way for
2000/2001. The reports have become useful
documents for planning by both the public and
the private sectors.
4. Coffee Pilot Survey 1995/96   Completed in January, 1997   Report produced in May 1997, and has
introduced new methodologies for data
collection of perennial crops.
5. Urban Agricultural Survey  Completed in April, 2001        Report produced in May, 2001. This is
1997/98                                                       expected to provide significant improvement
to   planning   for   urban   agricultural
development.
6. Integrated District Survey  Completed in January, 2001     Report produced in February 2001. District
1998/99                                                       officials are now enabled to have a clear
picture of the situation of their agriculture, and
this is expected to help their exercise in
development planning.
7. Rapid Appraisal Survey    Completed in June 2001           Report produced in August 2001
8. Reconcile Agri. G.D.P.    Completed in 2000                Agricultural Production data going back to
Statistics                                                    1990 was adjusted and new  Agri. GDP
estimate generated.



Project Costs and Financine
Annex 2a
Proiect Costs by ComRonent (in US$ ; 000' eguivalent)
A. MOA Rationalization
1. Parastatal Divestiture                           401                 55                14
2. Functions Rationalizations                     3,271               1,784               55
3. New Mission & MGT System                         337                546               162
4. Reg .Dist. Rationalization                       333                 76                23
5. Strengthening Management System                3,438                279                 8
Sub- total                          7,780              2,740               35
B. Policy
1. Policy Agenda                                  2,551              7,525              295
2. Institutional Strengthening                    4,591              6,970               152
Sub- total                          7,142             14,495              203
C Agricultural Information System
1. Agricultural Census                            4,093              2,886               71
2. Agricultural Survey                            5,931                610                10
3. Early Warning -Crop Data                         379                148                39
4. Early Warning- Rain Data                         378                159                42
Sub- total                         10,781              3,803               35
Total Baseline Costs                             25,703             21,039                82
Price Contingencies                               1,539
Total Project Costs                              27,242             21,039                77
16



Annex 2b
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million e uivalent)
Procuremet Metho        .
Expenditure Category        ICB            NCI3         .NB.F-
1. Works                      0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                     4522.00         411.00         300.00          0.00
(4522.00)       (411.00)       (300.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                   0.00            0.00          9451.00         0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (9451.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous/I            0.00            0.00          3657.00         0.00
(0,00)         (0.00)        (3657.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous/2            0.00            0.00          8920.00         0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (8920.00)       (0.00)
Total                     4522.00         411.00         22328.00         0.00
(4522.00)       (411.00)      (22328.00)       (0.00)
1/ Worskhops, Seminars and MOA rationalization
2/ Incremental Operating Costs
Annex 2c
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Metiod.
Ex'pediture Category        ICR             NCB           oih-er2                  Tota rCost
1. Works                        0.00           0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                       3899.45         41.27          279.25        0.00        4219.97
(3899.45)       (41.27)        (279.25)      (0.00)      (4219.97)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00          9305.40        0.00        9305.40
(0.00)         (0.00)        (9305.40)     (0.00)      (9305.40)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          1395.31        0.00        1395.31
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1395.31)      (0.00)     (1395.31)
5. Miscellaneous/1              0.00           0.00          1865.78        0.00        1865.78
(0.00)        (0.00)         (1865.78)      (0.00)     (1865.78)
6. Miscellaneous/2              0.00           0.00          4253.39        0.00        4253.39
(0.00)        (0.00)         (4253.39)      (0.00)     (4253.39)
Total                       3899.45         41.27         17099.13        0.00       21039.85
(3899.45)      (41.27)        (17099.13)     (0.00)     (21039.85)
1/ Workshops, Seminars and MOA Rationalization
2/ Incremental operating Costs
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-leniding project funds to local government Lnits.
17



Annex 2d
Project Financin  b  Expenditure Cate o   (in US$ million equivalent)
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f, RN0('2i
1. Vehicle & Equipment   4.00     1.23      0.00       3.90         0.32             97.5   26.0   0.0
2. Workshops & Seminars    1.40   0.00      0.00       0.57         0.00      0.00    40.7    0.0   0.0
3. Techinical Assistance &    4.70  0.00    0.00       7.62         0.00      0.00   162 1   0.0   0.0
Studies
4. T1raining             3.40     0.00      0.00        1.69        0.00      0.00    49.7    0.0   0.0
5. MOA Rationalizaiton   2.00     0.00      0.00        1.30        O.00      0.00    65.0    0.0   0.0
6. Incremental Operating    6.00   1.57     0.00       3.95         0.31      0.00    65.8   19.7   0.0
Costs
7. Refund of PPF Advance   0.70   0.00      0.00       0.00         0.00      0.00    0.0    0.0   0.0
8. Unallocated           2.30     0.00      0.00        1.40        0.00      0.00    60.9    0.0   0.0
Annex 3
Economic Costs and Benefits
A X! " 04  MR  '
~                         Qualitative assessment presented in paragraph 4.3 and 4.4
I
~~~~~~ I _                     _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1X



Bank Inputs: Missions
Annex 4a
Stgeff . -J Ot ;~oe                                                 4 *.
Identifiiatioi*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 i n
11/1992             4     A, Ee  F I
Appra!=Wegoi,o, ,
03/1993             7     A, E, E, T, F, I, PR
Su ervision,
Supervision 1 (10/93)       3     F, PR, 1N                          S              HS
Supervision 2 (03/94)       3     E, E, I                            S              HS
Supervisi6n 3 (07/94) UD    2     E, 0                               S               S
Supervisi6n 4 (11-12/94)    5     E, F, EX, V, S                     S              HS
Supervision 5 (04/95)       5     E, EX, F, I, P                     S               S
Supervision 6 (02-03/96)    5     E, E, EX, I, S                     S               S
Supervision 7 (10/96)       7     E, EX, F, I, PR, 0, S              S               S
Supervision 8 (10/96)       5     E, E, EX, F, 0                     S               S
Supervision 9 (06/97)       2     E, 0                               S               S
UD
Supervision 10 (07/97)      4     E, 0, F, P                         S               S
Supervision 11 (03/98)      6     E, EX, F, F, PS                    S               S
Supervision 12 (11/98)      5     E, EX, F, I, P                     S               S
Supervision 13 (03/99)      3     E, EX, P                           S               S
Supervision 14 (06/99)      2     E, 0                               S               S
UD
Supervision 15 (11/99)      5     E, EX, F, t, O                     S               S
Supervision 16 (06/00)      2     E, 0                               S               S
UD
Supervision 17 (12/00)      2     E, 0                               S               S
UD
Supervision 18 (03/01)      4     E, F, T, 0                         S               S
A = Agriculturist; E = Economnist; EX = Extension Specialist; F = Financial Analyst; I = Institutions Specialist; IN
Agricultural Informnation Specialist; P = Privatisation Specialist; T = Training Specialist; 0 = Operations Officer; PR =
Procurement Specialist; S  Statistician; V = Veterinarian; UD = PSR Update
Annex 4b
Bank Inputs: Staff
Stage of Project Cycle:tl.*afWuc
Identificotiort/PparaUon- -22.6                                            68,6
.ppraial/NenoUan } = =40.5                                            121.6
Supe,vison--                               249.0                         1025.6
ICR'                                        8.0                           40.0
Total                                      319.1                         1255.8
*Includes a large FAO/CP fund used in the reconciliation of production statistics.
19



RatinLis for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs b-y Components
Annex 5
Z  E E    i|   Xn
.,~~~~ "I I    mS-
F Mg,     M g,S             
X KlES r g~~~~~~~
i i i B E E~~~~
Ratin2s of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 6
-~~~~0MOM                                                                           1  
IBank Performance:I
IBorrower Performance: 
PM     -I                                       x      III
20



TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit no. 2537-TA)
ANNEX 7A
ICR PREPARED BY GOVERNMENT
21



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FOOD SECURITY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
OF
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(ASMP)
TECHNICAL REPORT
VOLUME II
Final Draft
June 30, 2001
22



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FOOD SECURITY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.    STRATEGIC CONTEXT OF ASMP IMPLEMENTATATION
II.     ASMP Project Context
Policy Environment for ASMP
Institutional Framework for ASMP
Lessons Underlying ASMP Design
III.   ASMP OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
IV.    ASMP Objectives
ASMP Components
Rationalization Component
Policy and Institutional Strengthening Component
Agricultural Information Systems and Services Component
III. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE RATIONALIZATION COMPONENT
Introduction
Rationalization of the Functions of MOA
Implementation of Rationalization of MOA Functions
Rationalization Outputs
Impact of the Rationalization Component
Improved Legal and Regulatory Framework
MAC Functional and Structural Changes
Reduction in Public Fiscal Burden
Improved Public-Private Sector Interface
Issues Limiting the Impact of Rationalization of MOA's Functions
Inadequate Support to the Emerging Private Sector
Limited Culture Change in MAC
Inadequate Incentives for MAC
Government Red Tape
Agricultural Parastatal Divestiture
MOA's Role in Divestiture
Implementation of Divestiture
Divestiture Performance
Impact of Divestiture



IV. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
COMPONENT
Policy Analysis
Institutional Strengthening
Training Outputs
Impact of Policy and Institutional Strengthening Component
V.  IMPLEMENTATION    OF   AGRICULTURAL    INFORMATION    SYSTEMS
A-ND SERVICES COMPONENT
Implementation of AISS
AISS Outputs
Impact of AISS Component
VI. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE
Introduction
Project Costs and Financing
Disbursements, Accounts and Audits
Procurement
Technical Assistance
Project Benefits
Project Management Performance
World Bank Performance
24



Agricultural Sector Management Project
Fact Sheet
Activity                                    Date
Project Preparation Completion              March, 1993
Project Appraisal                           March, 1993
Board Approval                              July, 1993
Credit Agreement Signing                    July 26, 1993
Credit Effectiveness                        January, 1994
Initial Disbursement                        April, 1994
First Credit Agreement Amendment            May 5, 1995
Second Credit Agreement Amendment                  1999
Third Credit Agreement Amendment                   2000
Original Credit Closing                     June 30, 1999
First Credit Extension                      July 1, 1999
Second Credit Extension                     July 1, 2000
Extended Credit Closing                     June 30, 2001
25



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASMP           Agricultural Sector Management Project
ATC            Advisory Technical Committee
ASU            Agricultural Statistics Unit
CMEWU          Crop Monitoring and Early Warning Unit
CSD            Civil Service Department
DAFCO          Dairy Farm Company
DANIDA         Danish International Development Agency
DTF            Divestiture Task Force
ERP            Economic Recovery Program
ESAP           Economic and Social Action Program
FAO            United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization
IDA            International Development Association
LAPSO          Inter-Agency Procurement Services Organization
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDOS           Institutional Development Objectives and Strategy
ISC            Inter-ministerial Steering Committee
LAN            Local Area Network
LC             Letter of Credit
LGA            Local Government Authority
MAC            Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
MDB            Marketing Development Bureau
MIS            Management Information System
MOA            Ministry of Agriculture
MRALG          Ministry of Regional Administration and Local Government
NAFCO          National Agriculture and Food Corporation
NARCO          National Ranch Company
NBS            National Bureau of Statistics
NMC            National Milling Corporation
NSCA           National Sample Census of Agriculture
OJT            On-the-job Training
PCC            Policy Coordinating Committee
PMD            Policy and Marketing Department
PPMB           Project Preparation and Monitoring Bureau
PPSRP          Public and Parastatal Sector Reform Program
PO-RALG        President's Office- Regional Administration and Local Government
PSAC           Pubic Sector Adjustment Credit
PSC            Personal Service Contract
PSRC           Parastatal Sector Reform Commission
RTF            Rationalization Task Force
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
SOE            Statement of Expenditure
STA            Special Training Assignment
SUA            Sokoine University of Agriculture
TA             Technical Assistance
TCAL           Tanzania Chamber of Agriculture and Livestock
TTG            Technical Task Group
26



TSA            Tanzania Sisal Authority
I.    STRATEGIC CONTEXT OF ASMP IMPLEMENTATION
ASMP Project Context
1.1       The Agricultural Sector Management Project (Cr. 2537-TA) was a third IDA-
funded technical assistance intervention in the agricultural sector in Tanzania. Its design and
implementation benefited from the lessons learned from the implementation of two previous technical
assistance projects: Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1206-TA) and Technical Assistance Project (Cr.
1524-TA). The first project supported the Ministry of Agriculture's capacity to implement agricultural
policies and to increase exports of eight agricultural parastatals. The second project was a response to
the poor performance of the agricultural project portfolio. It was, therefore, focused at strengthening
the capacity of the relevant Departments of the Ministry of Agriculture to coordinate and monitor
project and parastatal performance. Under the two projects, the major recipients of institutional
strengthening were: the Sectoral Planning Section, the Project Preparation and Monitoring Bureau
(that monitored public investments and parastatal operations), and the Marketing Development Bureau
(that provided pricing and marketing information and advice to stakeholders).
1.2 The two projects improved the Ministry's stock of trained personnel in policy analysis, project and parastatal
monitoring. However, as pointed out in the ASMP's appraisal, utilization of these personnel was limited
because the majority was deployed in general planning functions, controlling and directing the economy.
Sustainability of the Ministry's capacity was still dependent on technical assistance and was considered
very fragile. Continued external assistance was, therefore, considered necessary to support the
formulation and implementation of the pending sector reforms for transforming agriculture into a
market-oriented economy. Consequently, ASMP was primarily designed as a technical assistance
project to support the formulation and implementation of reforms to facilitate the agriculture's transition
toward a market-based production system.
1.3 The rationale for ASMP was the need for an institutional framework in Tanzania's agricultural sector to
manage the transition toward a market-oriented economy. At ASMP appraisal time, MOAs' roles,
structures and functions were based on the interventionist approach to development. Under this
approach, the public sector was overloaded with tasks for which it was ill suited or for which it did not
have adequate resources and expertise. There was, therefore, an obvious need for reforming and
strengthening the agricultural institutions to deal with policy formulation and implementation and to
support the process of developing and implementing a strategy in which state institutions manage less
but better. . In addition, while the technical assistance financed under Agriculture Sector
Adjustment program had done a credible job in implementing sector reforms, there was a need
for developing an institutional capacity to prepare and implement the next phase of reforms.
This required yet another project: ASMP.
Policy Environment for ASMP
1.4 The policy environment under which ASMP was designed and implemented had important bearing on the
project's implementation performance and impact. ASMP was designed and implemented under a
relatively favorable MOAroeconomic environment that was established by two earlier economic
adjustment programs. These programs included the Economic Recovery Program (ERP) that was
launched in 1986 and succeeded by the Economic and Social Action Program (ESAP) in 1989. These
27



programs contained reforms that helped reverse the decline and reduce the extreme instabilities in the
Tanzanian economy. The policy reforms consisted of MOAroeconomic stabilization, exchange rate and
trade liberalization, and financial and structural reforms (including agricultural marketing reforms). As a
result of these reforms and external assistance, the Tanzanian economy registered a real economic
growth of about 4.9 % per year during 1986-1991. However, this growth recovery was considered
unsatisfactory, given Tanzania's potential and high population growth.
1.5 The design of ASMP was also anchored in the World Bank's assistance strategy. This strategy emphasized
the need to accelerate implementation of policy reforms as part of the overall effort to move to higher
rates of economic growth. Given the importance of agriculture in the economy, it was considered
necessary to accord top priority to policy and institutional reforms and improved sectoral management in
agriculture. In this context, ASMP was considered and designed as an important complement to the
MOAroeconomic adjustment and structural reforms in the economy. In this sense, the implementation
performance and impact of ASMP were highly influenced by the implementation of previous and
concurrent MOAroeconomic adjustment and structural reforms.
Institutional Framework for ASMP
1.6 ASMP implementation took place at a time when the role of the public sector in the economy was gradually
declining and being replaced by an increasing role of the private sector. The role of the public sector in
economic production and marketing declined as a consequence of the increased participation of the
private sector following the implementation of the ERP. Since then, private agribusinesses have
expanded their roles in agricultural production, trade, transportation, and processing. The role of the
parastatal sector and government-controlled cooperative unions in these activities has virtually
disappeared as a result of privatization and divestiture of state enterprises. At the same time, Government
role has been shifted from central planning to creating a policy and legal environment for vibrant private
sector participation and investment in agriculture. ASMP was implemented concurrently with the
implementation of public sector adjustment reforms that were intended to transform the role of
Government to one that facilitates private sector's development and provides public goods effectively
and efficiently. IDA-funded Public and Parastatal Sector Reform Project (PPSRP) and the Public Sector
Adjustment Credit (PSAC) supported these public sector adjustment reforms.
1.7 Prior to and during the implementation of ASMP, several other projects were implemented to strengthen the
institutional and technical capacity of MOA. These projects included the National Agricultural and
Livestock Research Rehabilitation Projects (NALRP I&fl) and the National Agricultural and Livestock
Extension Rehabilitation Projects (NALERP I&II). The former rehabilitated and strengthened
agricultural research services in terms of research planning, program management and financing. The
latter project established a streamlined organization and management structure for extension services
within MOA on a single chain of command at all levels and introduced the famous Training and Visit
extension methodology.
Lessons Underlying ASMP Design
1.8 ASMP design benefited from the lessons learned during the implementation of the previous
technical assistance projects in the agricultural sector (Cr. 1206-TA and Cr. 1524-TA). The
lessons that guided the design of ASMP and its implementation plan included: (a) institutional
building and personnel development require long-term assistance and continuity of
implementation; (b) the success of capacity building projects is enhanced if assistance is
targeted at the strategic functions of the relevant institutions; (c) the need for a clearly thought-
out institutional development strategy; (d) the need to take the borrower's limited absorptive
2R



capacity into account; and (e) the need for adequate supervision, especially from World Bank
Resident Missions.
1.9 On the basis of these "best practices" ASMP was designed to focus on implementing key elements of a long-
term institutional development strategy. This strategy envisaged: (i) phasing out the involvement of
Govemment in activities that were suited for the private sector; (ii) enabling Government to undertake
more effectively and efficiently the remaining critical public sector functions; and (iii) building
government capacity to provide an appropriate policy framework and to manage the process of
functional rationalization.
1.10  In addition, ASMP was made simple in design, as it was limited to supporting only three project
components, all in one ministry. Also, the Resident Mission staffs were expected to do most of ASMP
supervision.
ASMP OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
ASMP Objectives
2.1    The primary objective of ASMP was to strengthen institutional capacity for formulating and
implementing the Government's agricultural development policies, strategies and programs.
Specific objectives included promoting institutional capacity to support: (a) rationalization and
strengthening of government functions in the agricultural sector; (b) formulation and
implementation of agricultural policies; and (c) improvement of the agricultural information
system and services required to facilitate an effective functioning of Government and private
sector in a market-oriented economy.
2.2    These objectives were to be achieved through the Government's institutional development objectives and
strategy (IDOS) for agriculture. The key elements of this strategy were included in a letter of IDOS to
IDA. During negotiations, Government made assurances to IDA to implement the program contained in
the IDOS.
ASMP Components
2.3    ASMP contained the following three components: rationalization component, policy and institutional
strengthening component, and agricultural information systems and services component.
(a)    Rationalization Component. This component consisted of the following three sub-components and
activities:
(i)    ASMP financed the implementation of activities related to supporting a process to:
*  Phase out about 48 already identified MOA non-core functions.
*  Implement joint operation by MOA and private sector of about 20 identified activities.
*  Assist PSRC in the restructuring and privatization of about 80 agricultural parastatals.
*  Strengthen MOA's capacity to manage the transition and to better perform the remaining
activities, including the planning and budgeting process, personnel management, management
information systems, management training, procurement and accounting.
(ii)    Carrying out of seminars and workshops, study tours and short-term training to support the above
activities.
(iii)   Procurement of office equipment and vehicles for the above activities.
(b)    Policy Formulation and Implementation Component. This component had the following five sub-
29



components and activities:
(i)    Preparation of sector policies, including short and medium-term policies, programs and projects,
including the following activities:
*  Implementation of improved policy coordination and feedback through strengthening the Policy
Analysis and Policy Coordination Committee.
*  Implementation of improved regulations and incentives to create an enabling environment for
private sector development in agriculture.
*  Development of a food security policy.
(ii)   Preparation of a comprehensive staff-training program and improving the work environment and
facilities.
(iii)  Improving feedback on policy implementation, strengthening data collection and improving
dissemination of new policies.
(iv)   Provision of seminars, workshops and training for staff
(v)    Carrying out of studies and procurement of vehicles and office equipment to support the above
activities.
(c)    Agricultural Information Systems and Services Component. This component comprised the following
three sub-components and activities:
(i)    Strengthening, rationalizing and expanding the agricultural sector information base through:
*  Carrying out a national sample census of agriculture.
*  Expanding subsequent surveys so as to provide adequate data for planning on an annual basis.
*  Carrying out a pilot survey in one of the main crops, using a different and more cost effective
methodology, once the census is completed.
*  Providing the Crop Monitoring Early Warning System with adequate equipment for rainfall data
collection.
*  Improving communication equipment for better collection and dissemination of marketing and
trade information by MDB.
(ii)   Procurement of vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles, equipment, reference books, and professional
journals.
(iii)   Provision of training for MOA staff to support the above activities.
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE RATIONALIZATION COMPONENT
Introduction
3.1 The primary objective of the Rationalization Component was to rationalize MOA functions, getting out of
functions better served by the private sector and strengthening the remaining core functions. The
remaining core functions of MOA were intended to create an enabling environment for private sector
investment in agricultural production, marketing and processing. In other words, supporting the
transition process from a command economy to a market-based agriculture was the linchpin of ASMP. It
should be noted, however, that the actual strengthening of the management and financing of some core
functions relating to agricultural research, extension and irrigation services was implemented under
separate projects as noted in paragraph 1.7. The rationalization component was targeted at strengthening
MOA's management systems that supported its core functions and at improving MOA's implementation
capacity for all its programs. The areas of specific actions were well defined and included: (a) defining
MOA's core functions, new mission and organizational structure; (b) spinning off about 48 functions
identified in the ASMP Preparation Report; (c) crafting MOA rationalization strategy and actions in light
of the general civil service reform; (d) proposing specific strategies for public/private cooperation in
30



about 20 functions previously identified; and (e) support for MOA's role in parastatal divestiture;
Rationalization of the Functions of MOA
3.2 ASMP supported the implementation of activities related to the process of: (i) phasing out about 48 already
identified non-core functions of MOA; (ii) implementing joint operation by MOA and private sector of
about 20 identified activities; (iii) strengthening MOA's capacity to manage the sector's transition and to
better perform its core functions; and (iv) carrying out seminars and workshops, study tours and short-
term training. The last activity is discussed under the training section in the report.
(a)   Implementation of Rationalization of MOA Functions
3.3 During the appraisal of ASMP there was evident support and consensus that a number of MOA services
should be phased out and passed on to the private sector. The objective of ASMP support in the
rationalization of MOA functions was to provide a systematic framework for defining MOA's core
functions and spinning off the non-core functions. Although the non-core functions were identified
during the preparation of ASMP and were contained in the Preparation Report, MOA adopted a
systematic and sequential approach to implement the rationalization component. This approach involved
analysis of MOA functions, determining MOA structure, determining staffing levels, preparing job
description for each position, and appointments for established positions. The analysis of functions led
to defining and/or confirming the core and non-core functions identified during preparation. The
definition/confirmation of MOA core functions was used to determine the organizational structure and
staffing plan for the ministry, regions and districts. This was followed by job description for each
position contained in the staffing plan. Appointments, mainly through promotions, were then made for
each staff position. In the midst of implementing the staffing plan and appointments, Government
decided to implement its Decentralization Program. Under this program, local government authorities
were re-established and designated as the institutions responsible for planning and implementing all local
development initiatives, including agricultural development activities. As a result, the staffing positions
at regional and district level were designated as decentralized and were transferred to the Ministry of
Regional Administration and Local Government (MRALG), now known as the President's Office -
Regional Administration and Local Government (PO - RALG). The transfers were, however,
administrative rather than physical. Physical transfers were limited to MOA-to-MOA transfers involving
specialists from hived-off activities to remaining programs. As a result of this decentralization, the recent
split up of MOA into three separate ministries has not affected the set-up of agricultural services at
regional and district levels, where the services remain unified under the local government authorities. To
ensure close cooperation among the decentralized agricultural staff at the district level, operational
guidelines have been jointly developed by the ministries responsible for Agriculture and Food Security,
Cooperatives and Marketing, Water and Livestock Development, and President's Office- Regional
Administration and Local Government.
3.4 It was decided fairly early during the process of rationalization that the process had to be participatory and
inclusive. Consequently, the rationalization strategy required the implementation of the rationalization
activities to be undertaken by the relevant organizational units within MOA. However, coordination of
implementation was the responsibility of the Project Coordination Office through the Rationalization
Task Manager. A Rationalization Task Force, under the chair of the Principal Secretary of MOA and
assisted by numerous Technical Task Groups (TTGs), managed the rationalization process.
31



3.5 The Rationalization Task Force (RTF) was established to set priorities, develop action plans, assign roles and
responsibilities, and monitor implementation progress. The make up of the RTF was broad enough to
ensure that activities were fully integrated into other components of the project. The RTF adopted a
participatory process similar to that used during project preparation. The process was initiated through an
implementation start-up workshop in which rationalization objectives were reviewed, roles and
responsibilities were established, and a draft overall action plan was developed and agreed.
3.6 Eight TTGs were established for (i) livestock services, (ii) crop services, (iii) cooperative development
services, (iv) irrigation services, (v) administration and personnel, (vi) extension services, (vii) research
and training, and (viii) planning and policy formulation. The TTGs were the vehicles for providing a
participatory process for rationalizing the ministry. The TTGs were instrumental in preparing detailed
analyses of functions, staffing plans, and job descriptions. They essentially identified the tasks for
phasing out or joint operation (with cost recovery arrangements) of individual services within their
technical areas. The TTGs received some on-the-job training remuneration.
3.7 Appointment of the Rationalization Task Manager (RTM) was a condition for Credit Effectiveness. A local
RTM was hired for the entire project period (up to FY 1998/99) to assist the Project Coordinator in
supporting the activities of the RTF and TTGs, and coordinating the activities of short-term consultants.
He provided guidance to the RTF and served as the secretary at its meetings.
3.8 The Inter-ministerial Steering Committee (ISC) and Advisory Technical Committee (ATC) played an
important role in the implementation of the Rationalization Component. The ISC, chaired by the
Principal Secretary of MOA, had the responsibility of overall policy guidance, resource allocation, and
review of project implementation. It drew its membership from MOA Commissioners/Directors,
representatives from the Civil Service Department, PSRC, Planning Commission, Central Bureau of
Statistics and Ministry of Finance. The ATC, chaired by the Commissioner/Director for Planning and
Marketing, was responsible for providing technical guidance and leadership in guiding the work of the
various TTGs and task forces under the project.
3.9 An institutional development specialist was hired for nine months to provide external guidance and support
to the RTM and RTF. He reviewed the strategies adopted, analyzed implementation progress and helped
in identifying and resolving implementation problems.
(b)    Rationalization Outputs
3.10         The major outputs associated with the rationalization of MOA functions include: definition of
priority core functions and mission of MOA; a new organizational structure of MOA; development of a
staffing plan for all department and work units; spinning off of non-core functions implemented;
implementation of staff retrenchment; transfer of staff at regional and district levels to local government
authorities and development of operational and coordination modalities; guidelines for joint ventures and
cost sharing mechanisms in service delivery; and improved internal operating systems and an integrated
MIS.
Core Functions and Mission of MOA
3.11   The rationalization of functions of MOA started with the analysis of functions performed by all Ministry
departments, sections and units to define the core functions and non-core functions. The latter functions
were slotted for privatization or joint undertaking. The agreed core functions of MOA consisted of (i)
policy formulation and review; (ii) review of laws, regulations, procedures and guidelines; (iii) setting
standards and criteria for service delivery; (iv) determination of staffing/manning levels; (iv) staff
32



training in relevant fields; (v) monitoring the implementation of policies, laws, regulations, procedures
and guidelines; and (vi) carrying out research relevant to sectors concerned. These functions were
primarily aimed at creating an enabling environment for private sector investment in agricultural
production, trade and processing. This was also perceived to be the mission of MOA.
A New Organizational Structure fir MOA
3.12   Based on the new priority core functions, a new organizational structure was derived and approved in
January 1998 by the Civil Service Department. The new structure3 had four technical Divisions: Crop
Development, Livestock Development, Cooperative Development, and Research and Development. It
also had Divisions or Sections for the following staff functions: Policy and Planning, Training, Food
Security, Finance, Administration and Audit. This structure was somewhat different from the one
envisaged during ASMP appraisal that grouped technical and extension services for crops and livestock
under the Extension and Technical Services Division. During negotiations of the Credit Agreement, it
had been agreed that Government would consult IDA prior to carrying out any significant changes in the
structure of the MOA. The World Bank was initially concerned about the proposed new structure, but
after consultations the World Bank had no objection to the new structure.
Development of Staffing Plans for All Levels
3.13   Following the definition of core functions and the preparation of the organizational structure, MOA
completed an initial staff inventory, which revealed staff strength of 19,522. The initial staffing schedule
included 13,500 staff and identified some 6,000 staff for retrenchment. The staff inventory exercise led
to confirmation of posts, promotions and establishment of a seniority list. The staff inventory exercise
led to confirmation of posts, promotions and establishment of a seniority list. Improved staff records and
management human resources were put in place, including staff assessment, and training of personnel
staff. A staffing plan (scheme of service) for all departments and work units, including the zones,
regions, and districts were developed by March 1996. However, implementation of both the new scheme
of service and retrenchment were protracted for reasons indicated later in this report.
Spinning off of Non-Core Functions
3.14   MOA completed the spinning off of about 85% of the original 48 non-core functions that were identified
for privatization or joint venture during project preparation. Some of the privatized non-core functions
included: supply and distribution of farm and veterinary inputs, veterinary services, disposal of irrigation
and range development construction equipment, cooperative audit services, cattle dipping services,
farmers' training services, etc. Due to lack of clear guidelines on hiving off MOA's assets, the disposal
of assets of non-core functions was considerably delayed. The Treasury later issued guidelines that
allowed the unpackaging of MOA assets into three categories: (a) assets that could be disposed by MOA
using set procedures; (b) assets to be disposed by the Treasury; and (c) assets that required development
of new hiving-off/privatization schemes. Assets falling under the first and second category were largely
hived-off. Those under the third category have proved difficult to hive-off. These include the nine heifer
breeding and four seed farms that are still awaiting privatization.
Retrenchment of Staff
3With the separation of the Livestock Development and Cooperative Development and Marketing into two fully-fledged
ministries in 2001, the new structure for MOA is no longer valid.
33I



3.15   In addition to 6,000 staff that were retrenched in the first round, MOA also retrenched 600 staff during
the second and identified another 1,200 staff for a third round. Earlier retrenchment costs were provided
by the British Government and the CSD mobilized funds for the follow up retrenches.
Transfer of Staff to Local Government Authorities
3.16  In 1997, Government, under the auspices of the Local Government Reform Program, decided to transfer
the function of providing agricultural services to farmers to the local govemment authorities (LGAs).
Following this development, about 7,906 MOA staff were transferred to the Regional Administration
and Local Government. The transfer of the staff to RALG was purely administrative and did not involve
physical movement. MOA completed the redeployment exercise in 1999/200. MAFS, MCM, MWLD
and PO-RALG have jointly prepared and issued guidelines that specify the roles and functions of the
central Ministries vis-a-vis the departments of agriculture of the LGAs, the inter-linkages/coordination
that need to exist between the two levels, and identify the LGA's roles and functions that require support
from the central ministries.
Guidelines for Joint Ventures and Cost Sharing
3.17   MOA prepared guidelines to facilitate the formation of joinves and cost sharing mechanisms for
some of the activities that were identified for joint venture (Appendix    the technical report. The
guidelines for agricultural extension and training were completed in 1999 and therefore caused a delay in
the implementation of the targeted services. MOA also reached agreement with the respective
commodity boards on the cost sharing mechanisms for research of most of the main export crops (coffee,
cotton, and tobacco). Some research activities for major export crops have actually been privatized or
under privatization. Tea is under the Tea Research Institute of Tanzania (TRIT), which is a private
organization. Tobacco and Coffee Research are under final stages of privatization and will be under the
Tobacco Research Institute of Tanzania (TORITA), and the Tanzania Coffee Research Institute (TACRI)
respectively. For other export crops, cost sharing guidelines for research were prepared early enough to
attract the establishment of Trust Funds.
Improved Internal Operating Systems and MIS
3.18   The designing and implementation of improved internal operating systems and MIS were intended to
strengthen MOA capacity to implement its core functions. Electronic connectivity within Kilimo House
I was established through a Local Area Network (LAN) after installing the computers and software that
were procured under the project. This LAN is being expanded to other offices of the ministry, using
funding provided under other existing agricultural projects. MOA commissioned a study to streamline
its budget preparation procedures and, as result, an integrated budgeting approach was recommended.
Under this approach, the recurrent and development budgets were to be integrated or linked.
Government, however, could not adopt this approach for MOA alone, because doing so would have
introduced a distortion in the entire budgeting system of the Government, since other ministries were not
ready for its adoption. Recent adoption of the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) has,
however, began to implement the integrated budgeting approach that was proposed under ASMP.
Impact of the Rationalization Component
3.19   The implementation of the rationalization component was critical to strengthening government capacity
to provide public services more efficiently and to provide an enabling environment for private sector
development in agriculture. Overall the project succeeded in several key areas: establishment of an
improved legal and regulatory framework, MOA functional and structural changes, reduction in public
34



fiscal burden, and improved public-private interface.
(a)    Improved Legal and Regulatory Framework
3.18   ASMP, complemented by concurrent structural reform operations, initiated the process to create a
satisfactory legal and regulatory framework. This was done through the restructuring of the commodity
boards and the revision of key legislation (e.g., rationalization and amendment of the Commodity
Boards) to permit private operators to market, process and export under license. Private operators
actually started to purchase cotton and coffee in 1994/95 and tobacco in 1995/96, pyrethrum in 1998. A
new Tea Act was approved in 1997 to permit the privatization of TTA estates and factories. The Plant
Protection Act, 1997 was approved to underpin government regulatory and control services with respect
to disease and pest control, and regulation of farm inputs.
(b)    MOA Functional and Structural Changes
3.19   Through a participatory process, involving staff at all levels, MOA succeeded in galvanizing
commitment to an irreversible change that allowed the ministry's functional and structural changes to be
implemented with minimum resistance or detraction. This was achieved through a systematic program of
awareness seminars and workshops for all staff aimed at the need, the rationale and the mechanism for
rationalization of functions and activities of the ministry. The participatory TTG process facilitated the
building of an unprecedented sense of ownership of the rationalization process among the staff. Given
that this was the first retrenchment exercise in the public sector and that it was confined to MOA (acting
as a pilot for a later civil service reform), the achievement under the rationalization component had
important implications for a wider civil service reform, which is currently ongoing.
(c)    Reduction in Public Fiscal Burden
3.20   As a result of the retrenching of more than 7,000 staff, Government reduced its fiscal burden associated
with the provision of public service in agriculture. However, because of severe financial constraints that
Government generally faced at the time, the resulting savings were not used to improve the performance
and morale of the remaining staff in MOA.
(d)    Improved Public-Private Sector Interface
3.21   Although ASMP was originally designed to support the development of the private sector through
putting in place a favorable legal and policy environment only, the changes made during the Mid-Term
Review to provide direct support to the private sector had positive effects. As a result of creating a
private sector desk in the ASMP Secretariat, the interface between the public and private sectors
considerably improved. Several private sector institutions or organizations were identified and targeted
to participate in the private-public sector dialogue during the Agriculture Minister's Round Table
Meetings. MOA also assisted in facilitating the establishment of Regional Commissioners' roundtable
meetings with private sector stakeholders. MOA also assisted the private sector to set up industry-based
organization, such as the Tanzania Chamber of Agriculture and Livestock (TCAL) that was established
in 2001 as the apex organization of industry-based agricultural associations.
3-5



Issues Limiting the Impact of Rationalization of MOA's Functions
3.22   Implementation of the rationalization component in general and the rationalization of the functions of
MOA/MOA in particular, raised and experienced a number of serious issues that impeded the sub-
component's implementation and limited its impact on the original objectives. The major issues that
constrained the sub-component's impact on its original objectives consisted of (a) inadequate support to
the emerging private sector, (b) limited impact on culture change among MOA/MOA staff, (c)
inadequate incentives for MOA/MOA to implement the rationalization sub-component, and (d)
Government red tape.
(a)   Inadequate Support to the Emerging Private Sector
3.25   There was one serious omission during the design of the rationalization component. Direct support to the
emerging and fledgling private sector was not included in the design of the project, despite the fact that
promotion of the private sector development was one of the primary objectives of the rationalization
component. It was, nevertheless, acknowledged by the project designers that there were "two sides to the
spinning off coin: getting MOA out and enticing the private sector go in" (SAR, page 32). Both were
perceived as necessary and neither was automatic. And yet, "enticing" or supporting the development of
the private sector was not considered as one of the core functions of MOA. Instead, creating a conducive
policy environment for private sector participation in the activities hived off by the Government was
considered the best way of promoting private sector's entry and development. In Tanzania, like in many
other African countries, it is evident that policy and institutional reforms alone are not adequate
conditions for positive private sector response to new production and market opportunities that are
associated with the improvements in the policy environment. Tanzania's agribusiness sector, which
purchases raw commodities for processing/trading from and sells or provides inputs and finance to
smallholder and commercial farmers, faces numerous constraints. These have largely accounted for the
slow response in the private agribusiness sector. They include: inadequate basic entrepreneurship skills;
lack of basic skills in investment planning and evaluation, insufficient skills in basic management skills
(accounting, inventory control, marketing and market research); limited knowledge of technical know
how for reducing costs and increasing operating efficiency; lack of financial intermnediation services or
access to credit.
3.26   In addition, the new policy environment at the beginning of the transition process was bound to be
imperfect and fragile, so that private sector's confidence in the new policy environment was naturally
low. The omission of a private sector supportfunction among MOA's core functions and the late
recognition of its importance and incorporation into project activities, affected ASMP implementation.
Private sector's response in input delivery and credit services, for example, proved to be slow. ASMP
responded by launching studies that analyzed the underlying problems, but could not directly intervene
for lack of mandate. It was not until 1998, however, when a private sector development desk was
created in the Project Coordinator's Office to deal with private sector development issues. This one-
person desk was instrumental in initiating and deepening the interface between Government and the
private sector through encouraging policy dialogues, joint reviews of issues, analysis and fornulation of
policies and regulations. An inclusion of the private sector function in MOA's core functions, on a
transitory rather than permanent basis, would have helped facilitate the private sector's role in the
activities that were hived off and those retained or jointly operated with the private sector. A sub-
component to foster private sector participation in production, trade and investment should have been
formulated to complement ASMP's rationalization of MOA and privatization of parastatals. A proposal
to this effect was made during the Mid-Term Review and resulted in the creation of the one-person desk
for private sector development. In retrospect, a fully-fledged private sector section would have been
appropriate for deepening and broadening the interface between the public and private sector.
36



(b)    Limited Culture Change in MOA
3.27   The rationalization of MOA functions was intended, among other things, to (i) right-size the ministry to
affordable levels commensurate with its core functions, and (ii) introduce a new culture in terms of
shared core values and core management principles. The core values for the new MOA included the
pursuit of excellence in service, diligence on duty, and integrity. The new MOA core management
principles consisted of result-oriented performance, mission-driven, client focus, participatory-
orientation, value for money concern, innovativeness and decentralization. Both the shared core values
and core management principles are consistent with those of the ongoing broader Public Service Reform
Program (PSRP). Despite the general acceptance of these values and management practices among MOA
staff, culture change within the Ministry has been limited. Restoration of high morale and
professionalism as well as instilling total commitment to the new values among MOA staff will not take
place in the absence of improved incentives. The rationalization process in the ministry was and
continues to be implemented without the requisite incentives for improved staff performance. Staff
salaries and budgetary resources have deteriorated with high inflation rates in recent years. The savings
generated by the retrenchments in MOA and the revenue generated by the sale of agricultural paratstatals
could have been deployed to improve the staff incentives in MOA. Government considered this
unfeasible because MOA, despite being singled out as a pilot for a wider Civil Service Reform Program,
could not be treated differently from the rest of the civil service. As a result, an opportunity to learn and
gauge the impact of civil service reform at a pilot scale was missed. However, Government has leamt
from MOA's rationalization process that culture change cannot take place in the absence of improved
staff incentives. Government has therefore begun to address this issue under the PSRP by introducing a
variety of employment and benefits options, such as the Selective Accelerated Salary Enhancement
(SASE) annual contracts.
(c)    Inadequate Incentives for MOA
3.28   MOA implemented the rationalization program with a high degree of commitment, despite the
inadequate incentives that derived from the implementation of the component. As already pointed out,
the budgetary savings from the retrenchment of staff did neither directly accrue to MOA nor result in
increased budgetary allocations. Instead, Government used the savings to meet other public financial
requirements in the economy. The resulting deterioration in budgetary resource availability in MOA
aggravated staff morale. Staff turnover in MOA remained a chronic problem during the implementation
of ASMP. In addition, MOA had no incentive to expedite the hiving-off of non-core functions because
the Treasury retained the resulting revenue and savings. MOA's request for authorization to retain the
savings could not be granted because money was badly needed elsewhere in the public sector. Since
MOA staff had expected that the savings deriving from rationalization would be allocated to strengthen
incentive packages and implementation of core functions in MOA, staff were further demoralized when
they saw that this was not happening.
(d)    Government Red Tape
3.29   Although the CSD and MOF were members of the ISC of project, MOA had a tough time having some
of its rationalization proposals go through the Govermment red tape. For example, the approval of the
new organizational structure for MOA was protracted and its implementation, after approval, was slow.
Both the approval and implementation of the new structure required CSD vetting. The new structure for
MOA was submitted to the CSD in 1997, but was not approved until a year later. After its approval, the
heads of the approved positions remained in acting capacity until mid- 1999. The CSD delayed approval
of both on technical grounds. Accordingly, the approval of the structure and appointments were delayed
because of the need to ensure their consistency with the principles of the decentralization program and
37



the Public Service Management and Employment Policy. The latter was published in January 1999.
Also, Government's lengthy vetting process for the designated appointees contributed to the delay in.
effecting the appointments. Nevertheless, Government was aware that the delays impeded the
implementation of the project and affected the enthusiasm with which the rationalization program was
initially accorded by MOA staff. This was, perhaps, a fair price to pay, given the strategic importance of
MOA's rationalization program in the context of the overall PSRP.
3.30   As previously alluded to, the Treasury had good reasons for not releasing the savings made through the
implementation of MOA's rationalization program. While the Treasury, as a member of the ISC,
supported the project's thrust and development objectives, it was not capable of providing adequate
support to facilitate the implementation of the rationalization component. Its retention of the savings
from the hived off non-core functions and staff retrenchment as well as its withholding of the sale
proceeds of the agricultural parastatals, did not auger well for strengthening MOA's capacity to
effectively implement its core functions. Furthermore, by allocating fewer budgetary resources to MOA
and, hence, inadequate counterpart funds, the project's access to the Credit proceeds was somewhat
slowed down. Eventually, the adoption of "cash budgets" by the Treasury during the period of project
implementation, also adversely affected project implementation in general and the implementation of the
rationalization component in particular. As a result of cash budgeting, the availability of counterpart
funds became both inadequate and unpredictable, leading to slow down in project implementation and
limited achievement of the ultimate objectives of reforming MOA.
Agricultural Parastatal Divestiture
(a)    MOA 's Role in Divestiture
A3 .31    Agricultural parastatal divesture was considered a critical part of the process of rationalizing MOA' s
functions. However, MOA's role in the process of parastatal divesture was restricted to setting priorities,
identifying divestiture strategies and preparing parastatal profiles. The overall responsibility for
implementing the actual divestiture belonged to the PSRC. Consequently, the actions relating to
implementing the actual divestiture of the agricultural parastatals were not part of ASMP. Nevertheless,
MOA was required to provide continuous support to PSRC to meet its statutory responsibilities for
implementing the divestiture. For example, MOA continued to prepare the agricultural parastatals for
privatization on case-by-case basis as requested by PSRC. MOA was, however, discouraged from micro-
managing parastatals as this role was left to the management and Boards of the parastatals themselves.
(b)    Implementation of Divestiture
3.32   Prior to March, 1996, the process of parastatal privatization involved the following steps:
*  PSRC, in consultation with MOA, formulated a two-year rolling master plan.
*  For each parastatal in the master plan, PSRC established a Divestiture Task Force (DTF) under
its chair with members from the Treasury, MOA and the relevant parastatal; other relevant
ministries or government agencies were co-opted on demand basis.
*  MOA, through its PPMB, acted as the Secretariat of each DTF in addition to being responsible
for preparation of parastatal profiles and divestiture strategy for each parastatal.
*  The DTF reviewed and approved both the profile and strategy or directed additional reviews, if
deemed necessary, mainly focusing on financial and corporate structure.
*  The DTF recommendations were submitted to the Rationalization Task Force (RTF) of ASMP,
under the chair of the Principal Secretary with the Rationalization Task Manager acting as the
Secretary, for decision.



* RTF-approved divestiture strategy was sent to Minister of Agriculture for endorsement, after
which the strategy was sent back to the PSRC for action, namely to undertake sale or
restructuring procedures.
3.33   The above procedure was streamlined in March, 1996 on the basis of a MOA/PSRC/Treasury
recommendation to the Cabinet that issued the following general guidelines to the divestiture process:
*  Parastatals to remain 100 % owned regulatory bodies for maj or crops.
* Parastatals in which Government has to maintain a majority.
* Parastatals in which Government will maintain a minority.
*  Parastatals to be sold outright.
*  Parastatals to be closed down, liquidated.
(c)    Divestiture Performance
3.34   The performance indicators for divestiture of agricultural parastatals, as specified in the ASMP
Implementation Manual, included: (a) preparation of clearly specified MOA role and responsibilities vis-
a-vis PSRC for preparing for sale; (b) systematic incorporation of MOA data and studies into the
divestiture process; and (c) ultimately, the number of agricultural parastatals divested. These process
indicators of performance were achieved as described below.
3.34   ASMP's performance on the basis of the first two indicators was fully satisfactory. MOA, in close
coordination with PRSC, Treasury and parastatal management, had the final responsibility for deciding
the most suitable divestiture strategy for agricultural parastatals.
3.35   Regarding the third performance indicator, PSRC was responsible for divesting 80 agricultural
parastatals, subsidiary companies and operating units that were under the jurisdiction of MOA. As of
June 30, 2001 (Credit Closing Date), a total of 17 state farms and 12 cashew-processing plants had not
been sold or their divestiture had not been legally completed. Since the actual privatization of parastatals
was outside the mandate of ASMP, it is not appropriate to pass judgment on its performance in this
regard.
3.36   Progress in divesture of agricultural parastatals was much slower than originally anticipated. The original
five-year time frame for completion was exceeded. As a result, the entire privatization program in
agriculture was and remains behind schedule for several reasons, most of which were land-related:
(i)         Most agricultural parastatals had large tracts of land (e.g., DAFCO, NARCO, NAFCO, and
TSA) and their divestiture encountered the following land policy and land-related problems: non-
availability of land titles in the name of the parastatal; non-surveyed land of NARCO and DAFCO;
land titles in possession of creditors (banks) to secure long-term loans; squatters had occupied the
land of the parastatal (Kigamboni Poultry); villagers reclaimed lands that were previously
nationalized or those close to them (Hanang Wheat Complex); and population pressure or high
demand for land in certain cases (West Kilimanjaro).
(ii) Most agricultural parastatals had accumulated large amounts of long-term debts with local and
foreign lenders and the Treasury; such parastatals were less attractive to private investors.
(iii) The corporate structures of some agricultural parastatals were not appropriate for immediate
privatization. For example, NAFCO's Hanang Wheat Complex had seven wheat farms and central
maintenance service center that were established as separate companies owned by NAFCO. They
shared common agricultural infrastructure (on-farm roads) and it was not practical to sell these farms
to different investors due to the problems that would arise in sharing the common facilities.
39



(iv) Non-availability of working capital for parastatals that were still operating during privatization
forced them to cease operation as they could not borrow from banks; and the security of their assets
deteriorated and the value of the business declined, causing potential investors to lose interest.
(v)  Most agricultural parastatals did not have updated audited accounts or draft management accounts,
making it difficult to analyze their operations based on audited accounts and causing potential
investors to lose interest.
(vi) Rational delays in Government approval for concluded deals caused, in some cases, the purchaser to
withdraw his offer, or for the time frame for its validity to expire.
(vii) Underdeveloped financial and capital markets in the country have denied most private entrepreneurs
and enterprises the opportunity to purchase some of the agricultural parastatals of commercial
interest to them.
(d)   Impact of Divestiture
3.37   The impact of the agricultural parastatal divestiture program can best be assessed on the basis of the
objectives of the entire divestiture program. The objectives of divestiture included:
o      Increase efficiency, productivity and quality of goods and services through capital injection, new
and improved management and technology.
o     Reducing the fiscal budget on government.
O     Providing opportunities for wide share ownership amongst Tanzanians through various
measures, including the Privatization Trust Fund, Tanzania Investment Partnership, and sale
through Employee Share Ownership Plans.
O     Providing a source of revenue for Government from the sale proceeds.
3.38   In addition to factors that impeded progress in the process of agricultural parastatals privatization
(paragraph 3.36), the inherent trade-offs (contradictions) in the objectives of the divestiture program was
also a fundamental problem. There were irreconcilable trade-offs, for example, between the objectives
of providing a source of revenue for Government and providing opportunities for wide share ownership
amongst Tanzanians. Similarly, many of the objectives were inconsistent with economic and fiscal
efficiency. It was thus virtually impossible for PSRC to pay due attention to all the objectives of
divestiture and, at the same time, accelerate the divestiture process. Whenever, these trade-offs were
encountered PSRC had to resort to seeking clarification and approval from Government. This, of course,
protracted the divestiture process.
3.39   Although the agricultural parastatal divestiture process has not yet been brought to an end, it has had
profound impact on agriculture's transition toward becoming a market-based production system. The
monopolistic marketing boards and cooperative unions, which were the backbone of the single-channel
marketing system in Tanzania, have been restructured, or have become moribund. The disappearance of
Government owned trading monopolies has allowed many new private sector enterprises to enter and
play a key role in the marketing function. In almost all cases, the public monopolies have not been
replaced by private monopolies, allowing a reasonable degree of competition for most commodities
produced in the country. For instance, during the 2000/2001 marketing season, about 26 private
companies participated in the purchasing of seed cotton in the Western Zone, which includes the entire
Lake Victoria Basin regions.
3.40   The private sector's response to the opportunities created by the liberalization (under concurrent
adjustment and structural reform programs) and privatization (under ASMP) was strong. This was
evident in the increasing shares of the private sector in the various commodity markets. Trade in major
40



grains (maize, rice, and wheat), which were previously the sole domain of the giant NMC and
government-controlled cooperative unions, are now entirely private, except the trading operations of the
Strategic Grain Reserve. Private small and medium-scale mills now do about 98% of the milling of
grains, while the market share of NMC and Cooperative Unions has become negligible because their
mills are largely moribund. The marketing and processing of the major export commodities (coffee,
cotton, tea, tobacco, sisal, cashews and pyrethrum) is now virtually in the hands of private operators,
with a few cooperative unions competing. Similarly, there has been spontaneous private investment in
marketing and primary processing facilities in several sub-sectors, especially in tobacco, cotton and grain
milling. In the cashew sub-sector, the obsolescence of the technology of the 12 existing public
processing plants has greatly contributed to the lack of interest in them by private investors.
3.41   When Government owned and operated the agricultural parastatal portfolio, many of them operated
inefficiently and with substantial operating losses. During the period of central economic management,
Government used to incur substantial costs of supporting these parastatals. This cost of support
accounted for 70% of the development budget allocated to MOA in the early 1980s. During 1993/94 and
1994/95 Government provided Tsh.50.3 billion and Tsh.21.8 billion respectively as direct supports to the
operating parastatals. Since 1995/96 Government no longer provides operational support to parastatals
that are earmarked for privatization or to the restructured Commodity Boards. The latter are financed
through industry cess. Accordingly, the divestiture of agricultural parastatals has removed the fiscal
burden from the shoulders of the Government.
3.42 The savings and revenue generated by the agricultural parastatal divestiture program did not directly
benefit MOA/MOA or the agricultural sector. The substantial savings made by Government as a result of
getting rid of the fiscal burden of supporting parastatals and the revenue from the sale proceeds were not
ploughed back into the agriculture sector. Due to severe overall Government budget constraints, MOA' s
budget allocations declined between 1991/92 and 1998/99. The share of MOA in total government
expenditure (both recurrent and development) averaged 3.5% during 1991/92 and 1995/96, but declined
to 2.1 % in 1997/98. The declining budgetary allocations prevented MOA from strengthening its
management systems as envisaged under the Rationalization Component of ASMP. Due to limited
budgetary resources, MOA was not able to improve pay incentives for its remaining staff, making the
rationalization process of the ministry an end in itself. Finally, non-availability of adequate financial
resources adversely affected project implementation. One of the reasons for the poor disbursement under
the project was inadequate counterpart funding, particularly during 1995/96 and 1999/2000 to
2000/2001.
3.43   Allowing MOA to make use of part of the savings or revenue associated with the rationalization
component would have helped to provide adequate counterpart funding for ASMP. This did not happen.
Instead, MOA requested, and the World Bank agreed, to raise IDA contribution from 90% to 95%. The
World Bank did, however, raise the issue of using some of the savings to improve the pay incentives for
the remaining staff. But Government was not financially capable of being responsive to the proposal. As
stated previously, severe financial constraints and government red tape did not permit the Government to
address these issues in a timely fashion.
3.44   Government realizes that the delays in agricultural parastatal divestiture have substantial costs. Due to
mounting staff benefits claims, growing debt burden and increasing deterioration in assets, some of the
remaining parastatals may no longer be saleable. Their assets may turn out to be a total loss to the
economy. The remaining parastatals are still controlling substantial assets of land, buildings, equipment
and expertise that are not available to the productive sectors of the economy until their disposal takes
place. Thus, a substantial amount of capital available to the country is not productive at considerable
opportunity costs to the economy. Government, however, is committed to ensure that remaining
41



parastatal portfolio is divested as soon as practical.
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE POLICY FORMULATION AND IMPLEMENTATION COMPONENT
4.1 The Policy Formulation and Implementation Component had several activities as described in section 2.4
(b). The major activities consisted of policy analysis and institutional strengthening. Policy analysis
comprised preparation of sector policies and short and medium term programs and projects, while
institutional strengthening involved a comprehensive staff training program and improvement in work
environment and facilities.
Policy Analysis
4.2 The preparation of sector policies and programs and staff training were implemented to complement each
other. The bulk of the preparation of sector policies and programs was based on an in-service staff-
training program. The staff-training program consisted of long-term, short-term, seminars, workshops
and on-the-job assignments. The on-the-job assignments were an integral part of the staff-training
program and the preparation of sector policies and programs. The assignments were of two types: the on-
the-job tasks (OJT) and the personal service contract assignments (PSC) that were later changed to staff
training assignments (STA). These are described further later.
4.3 The project provided for in-service training under which staff of the Planning and Marketing Division
(PMD) were given special tasks, as part of their training included in the annual work plan of the PMD, to
prepare policy papers or programs focusing on priority issues. The staff were paid allowances for
undertaking such assignments. A decision was later made to separate "routine activities" from "special
assignment tasks". Staff were not paid for the former. A norm of 8 staff weeks was established for
completing the latter tasks.
4.4 The PMD had 3 sections, including Sector Planning, MDB and PPMB. In addition the Early Warning and
Crop Monitoring of the Food Security Department was included. The annual work plan of PMD
consisted of policy and program reviews by these sections. Staff assignments in these sections/units were
designated as OJTs or PSCs. The bulk of the assignments were under the first category. PSCs were more
complex assignments, both in terms of work involved and time required to complete them. They required
full time from the staff, who were generally required to take leave without pay but were paid a
reasonable allowance. Eventually, PSCs were replaced by special training assignments (STAs) that did
not require MOA staff to resign, but were assigned to work with local or foreign consultants on special
assignments.
4.5 The identification of OJTs and PSCs, as part of PMD's annual work plan was quite lengthy. It required the
staff's initiative that had to be vetted by both a training mentor and the unit head on the basis of its
relevant to the priorities of the unit. This was followed by the submission of the unit tasks by the unit
head to the section head. The section head's evaluation of the proposed tasks was based on the staff
competence and relevance of the proposed task to the section's issues priority agenda. Finally,
discussions were held with the ASMP Secretariat to clarify various issues, including workload of the
staff/section, resource availability for field research and staff allowances. The ASMP Secretariat
consolidated and submitted the proposed tasks to the Policy Coordinating Committee (PCC), ATC, and
ISC for approval at each stage. The ISC-approved work plan was sent to the World Bank for clearance.
The approved OJT/PSC list was returned to the respective sections and units for implementation. Policy
staff in collaboration jointly undertook some of the PSC tasks with local or international consultants.
42



4.6    Both OJTs and PSCs that were approved during the implementation of the project dealt with various
topics or themes relating to sector policies or programs that were considered of high priority at the time.
These themes included, among others: marketing and price reviews in relation to private sector
development; public expenditure reviews; monitoring of project/program implementation; project
formulation for smallholder irrigation and export crop development; preparation of parastatal profiles
and divestiture strategies to support the privatization program of state enterprises; review of food
security and rural credit.
Institutional Strengthening
4.7 The project aimed to enhance the analytical capacity of Policy and Planning Division to: (a) formulate and
monitor the implementation of policies affecting agricultural and rural development and (b) carry out
timely analysis and dissemination of agricultural information, including agricultural censuses, annual
surveys, pilot surveys and the production of crop monitoring and early waming bulletins.
4.8 FAO, under contract with MOA, managed both local and international training for the policy and
information components. FAO's responsibility included, in consultation with MOA, administering
fellowships and training and recruitment of a training adviser, national experts, consultants and
administrative support staff for training component. For the rationalization component, FAO handled
only international training and study tours.
4.9 Institutional strengthening comprised of a staff-training program with long- and short-term overseas training,
study tours, tailor-made local courses, seminars and workshops using local training institutions. For the
agricultural information system, priority was given to supporting the country's capacity to produce
reliable information on crop and livestock production, marketing and trade.
Training outputs
4.10   The implementation of the training program began in June 1994 and was completed in 1998. By project
Closing Date (June 30, 2001), training outputs included, among others, the following: the production of
245 OJT reports covering policy reviews, annual commodity market reviews, program preparation,
parastatal profiles and divestiture strategies, monitoring of program implementation, food security,
export and food crop reviews, livestock and agricultural inputs; completion of master's degree programs
by 20 staff in agricultural development, econometrics, infornation technology and data processing;
completion of short-term courses in different fields of agriculture and rural development for 21 staff,
short-term practical training abroad for 32 staff, and tailor-made local courses for about 191 staff; and 6
staff of ASU were trained at master's degree level and I at diploma level.
Impact of the Policy Formulation and Implementation Component
4.11   The primary objective of the Policy and Institutional Strengthening Component was to strengthen
MOA's capacity to formulate and monitor the implementation of policies that affect agriculture and rural
development in the country. Specifically, this component was to strengthen MOA's capacity to provide
reliable, high quality analytical position papers on pertinent agricultural issues to facilitate the process of
re-defining government policies in agriculture. This objective was largely met. A number of policy and
technical reports were prepared as OJT and SPA tasks. The quality of most of the reports was
satisfactory. Some of the reports were used as references in the parastatal privatization process,
restructuring of commodity boards, and preparation of key policy and legal documents. Similarly, three
projects were prepared under the auspices of ASMP: the Strategic Agricultural Partnership Development
Project (SAPDEP) as a follow up project to ASMP; the Soil Fertility Recapitalization and
43



Intensification Project (SOFRAIP); and the River Basin Project for irrigation development.
4.12   A training needs assessment of PMD staff in 1995 revealed that staff had a high level of academic
qualifications, but generally lacked practical work skills in quantitative analysis, research skills, policy
analysis skills and tools, computer skills, interdisciplinary work skills and report writing. The training
program's focus was accordingly shifted to meet this need through tailor-made local courses and OJTs.
However, an assessment of local training institutions' capacity to meet this need revealed that most of
these institutions could not adequately provide the needed training to PMD staff, except SUA in policy
areas. This placed a major constraint on the development and implementation of tailor-made courses for
PMD staff. However, MOA ingenuously made use of FAO, local and international consultants to
complement the local training institutions and managed to organized local courses that met the needs for
practical skills by the PMD staff. This, however, proved to be extremely management-intensive and
administratively time-consuming. The OJTs played a key role in imparting analytical skills among the
staff and in facilitating the use of the skills acquired by the staff during training.
4.13   The OJTs proved to be effective instruments in imparting analytical and drafting skills for the
preparation of policy documents to the professional staff of the PMD. They also provided the
opportunity for staff to make use of the skills they acquired through training, in line with the project's
capacity building objective. A substantial improvement in the presentation of OJT technical reports was
observed in 1997/98 and thereafter. Special effort was also made to use OJT findings and
recommendations in policy documents, ensuring that OJTs were demand-driven. This was particularly
the case for the preparation of policy and strategies, both of which were OJT assignments. However,
OJT reports were plagued by long delays and, at times, the use inaccurate infornation. These
deficiencies were caused by inadequate financial incentives for the staff involved.
4.14   The OJT and STA reports as well as the statistical reports provided useful inputs in the preparation of
key agricultural policy documents and legislation. The Agricultural and Livestock Policy, 1997; the
Agricultural Sector Memorandum (February 2000); the report on the Amendment of Acts/Ordinances
regulating the Livestock Sector; and the Agricultural Sector Development Strategy (June 2001), have
greatly benefited from the information and data contained in the various reports prepared during the
implementation of the ASMP. Development of a Food Security Policy was originally envisaged as one
of the key activities under the Policy Component. A decision was later made to include this in the
overall agricultural and livestock policy document of 1997 and also a chapter on food security was
incorporated in the Agricultural Sector Memorandum. Future preparation of investmnent or development
programs in the agricultural sector would also continue to use OJT reports as references on policy and
technical issues.
4.15   The preparation of special reports, like the export crop and food crop reviews, made considerably
contribution to the restructuring of the Commodity Boards. The revision of some current legislation
(e.g., Acts for pyrethrum, sisal and tea) was facilitated by the crop studies done under the project. The
OJT reports on parastatal profiles and strategies provided key inputs in the privatization of parastatals.
The ASMP-funded study on "Facilitating Agribusiness Development in Tanzania" was instrumental in
initiating and deepening the interface between Government and the private agribusiness sector in the
country. This led to the intensification of the private/public sector dialogue through consultative
workshops and the Minister of Agriculture's Round Table Conferences. These have provided useful fora
for private sector's contribution to major policy formulation, including taxation on agriculture in the
2001/02 budget.
4.16   The key indicator for ASMP training program was providing MOA with well-trained and experienced
44



staff to deal with sector reforms, policy analysis and formulation and preparation of sector policies,
programs and projects. This objective was largely met. As indicated earlier, a significant number of staff
were trained and these have produced several policy and technical documents that have provided major
inputs in the preparation of key strategic policy and legal reports. However, given the dynamics of the
transition of the agricultural sector in the country, there is need for continued upgrading of staff skills for
improved job performance. It is, however, clear that MOA has been finding it difficult to retain the
trained and skilled staff. Several of such staff have been "poached" by both the private sector and the
donor and NGO agencies that are based in the country.
4.17   The various reports that were prepared during ASMP implementation have clearly helped MOA to
articulate the pertinent issues in the agricultural sector. These issues have included the lack of an
agricultural sector development strategy to implement the sectoral policies, inadequate coordination of
agricultural programs at national and district levels, weak supporting services, low investment and
inadequate financing in agriculture, inefficient markets for agricultural inputs and outputs, inappropriate
administrative and legal environment, and inadequate environment for agribusiness development in the
country. MOA completed the preparation of an agricultural sector development strategy that would
provide guidelines for public and private interventions to address the identified development issues in
the sector. It is expected that the various policy documents prepared under ASMP would provide useful
references in this endeavor.
IMPLEMENTATION OF AGRICULTURAL INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND SERVICES
COMPONENT (AISS)
Implementation of AISS Component
5.1 The objective of this component was to strengthen, rationalize and expand the agricultural sector
information base for the benefit of the public and private sectors. The project was expected, under this
component, to put in place an integrated and rationalized framework for collecting, processing, reporting
and disseminating data and information that are relevant to policy analysis, planning, marketing,
evaluation and monitoring of the performance of the agricultural sector. Priority was accorded to
establishing a capacity to produce reliable information at national, regional and district level covering
production of crops and livestock, marketing and trade information.
5.2 The major activities under this component consisted of: national sample census of agriculture; annual
agricultural surveys; improving MDB capacity; and improving Crop Monitoring and Early Warning Unit
(CMEWU) capacity.
5.3 The implementation of this component required the collaboration of several institutions that dealt with
agricultural information systems and services. This included three units of MOA: Statistics Unit,
CMEWU, and MDB, and two sections in the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS): Agriculture Section
and Electronic Data Processing (EDP). These institutions attempted to rationalize their mandated
programs and pooled both financial and staff resources to provide official statistics on agriculture. They
established mechanisms for coordinating and pooling resources for implementing the Census of
Agriculture and the post-census surveys. These mechanisms comprised the National Census Committee,
National Census Technical Committee, Regional Census Committee and Regional Census Technical
Committee.
AISS Outputs
5.4 Originally, it was planned to undertake the National Sample Census of Agriculture In 1993/94. However,
45



due to drought conditions and unavailability of field equipment and vehicles, it was decided to repeat the
census during the 1994/95 season on a more comprehensive basis. Data processing, analysis was
completed and two reports were prepared, one containing mainly livestock information and the other
mainly crops. Also two reports were prepared and published for the 1993/94 NSCA.
5.5 The Expanded Agricultural Survey, a nationwide post census agricultural survey, was started in 1995/96 to
collect and compile current agricultural statistics. It provided estimates at national and regional levels
and is the main source of current data on the agricultural sector. In 1996/97 another Expanded
Agricultural Survey was carried out. In 1997/98 an Integrated Agricultural Survey was carried out and
followed by a District Agricultural Survey in 1998/99 and a Rapid Appraisal Survey in 1999/2000.
Under the leadership of the National Census Technical Committee, a field management system,
consisting of trained staff, logistics and field equipment, has been put in place to undertake data
collection and processing for the agricultural sector in the country. The rapid appraisal survey method
has proved to be cost-effective and sustainable. The 1999/2000 Rapid Appraisal Survey was carried out
at Tsh.56 million only, compared to Tsh.400 million for the previous agricultural surveys.
5.6 Other agricultural surveys undertaken under the project include the Large Scale Farms Survey, Urban
Agriculture Survey, and Coffee Pilot Survey. ASU has also developed a framework for an Agricultural
Database that is expected to become operational as soon as possible.
5.7 The Crop Monitoring and Early Warning Unit is part of the Tanzania Early Warning System. The primary
objective of CMEWU, as part of the Food Security Department of the Ministry, is establish a robust
system with the requisite capacity and infrastructure for providing reliable food security information. In
particular, CMEWU provides advance information on crop production and food supply to avert hunger
and other forms of food crisis
5.8 ASMLP supported the collection and publication of data and information relating to food and livestock
supply and prices by the Marketing Development Bureau of MOA. MDB regularly collects data on food
and livestock prices on a weekly basis from major regional towns in the country and published the
information through the press and radio on a regular basis. This has greatly helped make the food
markets become transparent and the information has become a good basis for decision making by the
private traders and producers in agriculture. The current MDB's provision of marketing and price
information is based on a comprehensive marketing information system (MIS) that was designed by
consultants in 1995/96 season.
Impact of the AISS Component
5.9 Implementation of the AISS component has been good. All planned tasks were carried out, although there
were unforeseen start-up delays. The quality of the products of the censuses and surveys has been also
generally good. The National Sample Census of agriculture (NSCA) for 1993/94 was carried out
successfully and a report was issued in June 1994. The NCAS for 1994/95 was launched on schedule and
report production was timely. In order to generate adequately comprehensive data on the agricultural
sector, an Expanded Survey (ES) was carried out for the crop seasons 1995/96 and 1996/97. Other
agricultural surveys that were carried out during 1997/98 to 1999/2000 were implemented on schedule
and their publications were timely. The Crop Monitoring and Early Warning Unit and the Marketing
Development Bureau implemented their work without major difficulties.
5. 10 Sustainability of the initial methods of agricultural information gathering and processing was an issue. The
cost of carrying out the surveys and censuses was extremely high and Government would have faced
difficulty in sustaining this high-cost agricultural information system. The adoption a rapid appraisal
46



survey in 1999/2000 has proved more cost-effective than the previous methods, paving the way for a
sustainable agricultural information system. Although staffing in ASU has been a problem, both in
quality and numbers, there appears that a sustainable capability to design a survey system, collect data,
process it and report in a timely manner has been developed, provided the cooperation between ASU and
the NBS is maintained. Technical leadership and a critical mass of trained personnel exists and the sub-
professional cadre at headquarters and in the field have been adequately trained.
5.11 In collaboration with FAO, MOA and NBS carried out a major exercise to reconcile discrepancies and
inconsistencies in the agricultural production and national accounts data, which was a major weakness of
the agricultural information system in the country. Methods of generating more reliable national account
data were agreed with the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). MOA also developed a framework for
integrated agricultural statistics aimed at improving the flow of consistent, accurate and timely
agricultural data.
VI.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE
Introduction
6.1 ASMP implementation performance was dependent on the Project Management and the World Bank. The
ASMP implementation performance indicators include the Project Management's/World Bank's
performance in respect of project costs and financing, disbursements, accounts and audits, procurement,
technical assistance and project benefits.
Project Costs and Financing
6.2 The project was implemented below the costs estimated at appraisal. The original total project costs were
estimated at USD27.2 million, or Tsh.9.535 billion, excluding taxes. The actual total project costs were
USD21.429 million, or Tsh. 13.776 billion4. This was about 79 % of the original cost estimates in dollar
terms. The rapid depreciation of the Tanzanian Shilling during the period of project implementation
accounted for the reduction of project costs in dollar terms. At the same time, it accounted for increasing
the project costs in the local currency by about 44 %. The IDA Credit financed about 97 % of project
costs (USD 20.783 million) as opposed to the original 90 % as provided in the Credit Agreement.
Government contributed only 3 % (USD0.6 million) as compared to the origin 10 %.
Disbursement, Accounts and Audits
6.3 Out of the original Credit amount of SDR17.300 million, SDR14.582 million, or USD18..52 million was
disbursed as of Closing Date. The disbursement period was 7.25 years and this was slightly lower than
the standard disbursement profile of 8 years for all agricultural projects in Tanzania. The annual average
disbursement was SDR2.01 million, or USD2.55 million. This level of disbursement was slightly higher
than the standard disbursement for agricultural projects in Tanzania. It was, however, slightly lower than
the SAR annual average disbursement estimate of USD3.02 million. The lower disbursement was,
largely, due to the temporary suspension of release of IDA funds to the Government of Tanzania by the
World Bank for reasons not connected to ASMP that led to delays in the implementation of some
activities planned for 1993/94. Also, delays in the engagement of international consultants accounted for
the low disbursement level. Finally, shortage of counterpart funds, particularly in 1995/96 and after
1998/99, led to lower disbursement in Credit funds.
4Based on a project expenditure weighted average exchange rate of US$1 =Tsh.642.88 for the period 1993/94 to 2000/201.
The exchange rate at appraisal was US$1 = Tsh.350.
47



6.4 The Credit amount was reduced once by mutual agreement. In 1999, the Credit amount was reduced from
SDR17.300 million to SDR15.167 million. This through cancellation of SDR 2.13 million. This
cancellation was deemed necessary because there was still a large amount of undisbursed balance after
the original project Closing Date of June 30, 1999.
6.5 Actual disbursements under the major expenditure categories of the project were considerably different from
the SRA estimates. Disbursement against 'equipment and vehicles' and 'consultants and studies'
exceeded appraisal estimates by 4 and 19 percentage points. The change was, largely, due to increase in
procurement prices and quantities. The disbursements against 'training', 'MOA rationalization' and
'incremental operating costs' turned out to be slightly less than those forecast at appraisal. The reduction
in disbursement against training reflected the need to re-orient the training program toward local short-
term training rather than long-term external training after the training needs assessment in 1995. The
decrease in actual expenditure for MOA rationalization was due to the effectiveness of the consultative
approach adopted by the Ministry in selling the need for change. Staff were more able to buy in the
change process than it was originally anticipated. This shortened the change process, so that by March
1996 the first 6,000 retrenchees had been identified. The decrease in incremental operating costs was,
largely, due to the substantial decrease in the domestic rate of inflation in the second half of 1990s.
6.6 Disbursement of Government counterpart funds was highly satisfactory during early years of project
implementation, when IDA was disbursing almost 100% of the incremental operating costs. During
these fiscal years, all counterpart needed to carry out the work programs were committed and disbursed.
Counterpart funding became a serious problem from 1995/96 onwards, due to severe budgetary
constraints. Tight budgetary situations resulted in reductions in work programs. The counterpart funding
reductions in recent years pose serious sustainability problems of project activities.
6.7 ASMP management information system and accounting were computerized. The overall financial
management system of ASMP was sound and books of accounts were well maintained and in good
order. The system of internal control was also sound, ensuring adequate supporting documentation,
verification and authorization. Claims under the SOEs were supported with adequate and appropriate
documents that were duly approved.
6.8 Audited annual accounts of ASMP were prepared and completed on time. All annual audited accounts,
unqualified reports of auditors and replies of Management were submitted to the IDA on time. The draft
accounts of the financial year ending June 30, 2001 are being finalized for submission to the auditors and
are expected to be submitted within the time limit agreed with IDA.
4R



Procurement
6.9 The project's original procurement plan was implemented, overall, on schedule with minor delays and
amendments, and following World Bank procedures and guidelines. Problems were experienced in the
initial procurement of intemational consultants and slightly delayed the Date of Effectiveness. The
procurement of international consultants for the agricultural information component and the training
program were managed by FAO, on behalf of the Government, in accordance with World Bank
procedures and guidelines. The supply of computers and software was carried out through the Inter-
Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) of the United Nations, instead of the original ICB. This
was done to expedite the procurement process to have the equipment in place well in advance of
the project closing date, to test and train MOA staff in running, maintenance and administration
of the system.
6.10         Technical Assistance
6.11      Long, medium and short-term TA was used under ASMP for the rationalization, policy formulation,
and agricultural information systems components. Two international consulting firms, FAO and a local
consulting firm were retained to provide various services. In several cases, the international consulting
firms used local consultants to carry out the assignments. In addition, individual local TA was recruited
for project management and for financial control and procurement.
6.12      With one exception, the performance of the consulting firms and the individuals used for the
assignments have been satisfactory. The performance of the local individual TA has been of the highest
standard. This, perhaps, reflects the objective approach to TA recruitment demonstrated by the ASMP
Secretariat. Following the Mid-Term Review mission's recommendation, long-term TA was phased out
in 1998 and the project has relied on short-term and, largely, local TA.
Project Benefits
6.13      The project benefits that were identified at appraisal and expected to accrue during and after project
implementation, have, to a large extent, materialized and will continue to do so in the near future. It
should be realized, however, that these benefits are not solely due to ASMP. As indicated in chapter 1 of
this report, ASMP was implemented in a policy and institutional framework that was facilitated by other
Bank-supported operations. It was also implemented concurrent with other MOAroeconomic adjustment
and structural reform programs that exerted positive externalities (linkages) on ASMP development
objectives. Within this strategic context, the benefits stemming from the implementation of ASMP
cannot be assigned to ASMP alone. Notwithstanding this, there are several benefits that are directly
associated with the interventions implemented under ASMP. First, the role of Government in the
agriculture sector is now focused on the provision of public goods and priority core functions. The policy
and regulatory framework necessary to facilitate the development of a vibrant private sector is in place
and evolving. Second, the project's rationalization component is now serving as a model for the ongoing
public service reform program that is directed at rationalizing public functions, enhancing core
management principles, and performance management systems. Third, the Ministry's capacity for policy
formulation and implementation has been strengthened to the extent of initiating and implementing key
agricultural policy and legal reforms as well as supervising the formulation of an agricultural sector
development strategy. Fourth, the agricultural information base, data systems and services have become
more reliable and frequently sought after by both the public and private sectors. Fifth, although the actual
privatization of parastatals was outside the ASMP, the project, through the preparation of
parastatal/company profiles and divestiture strategies, play a key role in privatization process of the
public agricultural portfolio.
49



Project Management Performance
6.14      On the basis of the above major performance indicators, it is evident that the management and
administration of ASMP has been highly effective and satisfactory. The key to this success has been the
efficient and effective Project Secretariat, headed by the Project Coordinator and consisting of
Rationalization Task Manager, Training Officer and Finance Manager. The ASMP Secretariat ably
provided leadership in coordinating the various components and activities of the project through the
Inter-ministerial Steering Committee (ISC) and the Advisory Technical Committee ATC). Both the ISC
and ATC provided the policy and technical guidance anticipated at project appraisal. The committees
met regularly and were involved in all major decisions regarding the project.
World Bank Performance
6.15      The performance of the World Bank is measured by the efficacy of the project design and the
efficiency of project review or supervision missions. The overall World Bank's performance in these
regards was highly satisfactory. The project was well designed to take into account the lessons of
previous projects and the implications of the concurrent policy and institutional reforms supported by the
World Bank. The only design deficiency was the lack of anticipation, at appraisal, that private sector
development, in the short and medium-term, would need government direct support, in addition to the
creation of a favorable regulatory and policy environment. Recognition of this need would have logically
led to defining private sector development support as one of the core and priority, albeit transitory,
functions of the Ministry of Agriculture. This did not happened until the Mid-Term Review and, even
then, the World Bank mission's review fell short of defining private sector development support as a
core and priority function of the Ministry.
6.16      The World Bank supervised the project in an efficient manner, in terms of providing timely advice
on implementation issues to the ASMP management and the Government. However, for unknown
reasons, the World Bank did not strictly adhere to the Project Supervision Plan (Annex G of the SAR).
Its supervision input was about 71 % of the total 90 staff-weeks anticipated at appraisal. This input
reduction could have been due to the World Bank's judgment that implementation of the project was
generally satisfactory and needed no intensive supervision as anticipated at appraisal. Budgetary reasons
might have played a role too.
50



TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit no. 2537-TA)
ANNEX 7B
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
51



ASMP ACHIEVEMENTS
LIST OF TABLES
1.     List of ASMP Studies and Reviews
2.     Status of Agricultural Parastatal Divestiture (As June 30, 2001)
3.     Training:
Fellowships and Study Tours: Long-Term Courses
Fellowships and Study Tours: Short-Term Courses
Workshops
52



ASMP ACHIEVEMENTS
Table 1. List of ASMP Studies and Reviews
I.   Policy and Strategic Studies:           Impact of the Studies
1.  (1995) Proposal for a Medium Term        Background document for the preparation of
Agricultural Development Strategy 1996-  1997 Agricultural and Livestock Policy.
2000 of the Government of Tanzania
(NEI/MAC)
2.  (1997) Agricultural and Livestock Policy  Is the basic Government document guiding
(MAC)                                   sub-sector development.
3.   (1998) Agricultural Input Supply        For expansion of agricultural database.
(NEI/MAC)
4.   (1998) Taxation in Agriculture Sector   Created public awareness on the nature and
(NEI/MAC)                               magnitude of taxes and levies for agricultural
sector.
5.  (1999) Taxation in Agriculture Sector    Helped in the reduction and harmonization of
(NEI/MAC)                               taxes and levies in the sector.
6.  (1999) Facilitating Agribusiness         Helped to improve dialogue and to forge
Development in Tanzania: What Government  partnership between public and private
Should Do (NEI/MAC)                     sectors.
7.   (1999) Sub-Sector Studies, Vol. 1-5     Assisted the Government in identifying
(NEI/MAC)                               opportunities and constraints of sub-sector.
This has helped in the preparation of
Agricultural Sector Development Study
(ASDS).
8.  (1999) Tanzania Livestock Sub-Sector Study  Assisted the Government in identifying
(NEI/MAC)                               opportunities and constraints of sub-sector.
This has helped in the preparation of ASDS.
9.   (1999) Cooperative Study (NEI/MAC)      Has assisted to identify weaknesses of 1991
Cooperative Act.
10.               (1997) Cooperative         Helped to guide development of cooperatives.
Development Policy
11.  (2000) Strategies for Developing the    Input to the approved 2001 Agricultural
Agriculture Sector (MAC)                Sector Development Strategy.
Input to the Rural Development Strategy
under preparations.
,53



Table 1. List of ASMP Studies and Reviews
I. Policy and Strategic Studies:             Impact of the Studies
12.  (2000) Tanzania Agriculture: Performance    Input to the preparation of Agricultural Sector
and Strategies for Sustainable Growth   Development Strategy.
(MAC/World Bank)                        Reference document for sector performance.
13.  (1999) Study on Rationalization of the  Helped the Government in the review of the
Regulatory Functions of the Ministry of  legal framework for the sector.
Agriculture and Cooperatives of Tanzania
(NEI)
14.  (2000) Draft Agricultural Sector        Helped the Government in the review of the
Development Strategy (MAC) (September,   legal framework for the sector.
2000)
15.  (1996) Food Security in Tanzania        Background document for the preparation of
(NEI/AGRIS)                             1997 Agricultural Policy.
16.  1999/2000 and 2000/2001 Public          Helped in resource allocation and preparation
Expenditure Reviews for the Agricultural  of Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
Sector (MAC)                            (MTEF).
54



Table 1. List of ASMP Studies and Reviews
II.    OJT/STA Studies:                             Impact of the Studies
1.  (1994) Agriculture and Livestock Policy -Revised
Edition (M.M. Ndimbo, et al.)
2.  (1993) Private Sector Participation into Agricultural  )
Inputs Trade (A. Nkwera, et al.)                  )
3.  (1993) Land Tenure Issues Affecting Agricultural and  )
Livestock Activities in Tanzania (O.O.N. Lemweli, et  )
al.)
4.  (1994) The Impact of Removing Subsidies on         )
Fertilizer on Small-scale Farmers (O.O.N. Lemweli,  )
et al.)                                           )
5.  (1994) General Policies of the Agricultural Sector and  )
the Importance of Irrigation in Tanzania (J.K.    )
Kabyemera, et al.)                                )
6.  (1993) Background to the Design and Management of
the Agricultural Sector Policies (J.K. Kabyemera)  )
7.  (1994) The Impact of Implementing Structural       )
Adjustment Program Reform in Environmental        )
Quality (F.P. Madembwe)                        Capacity building of MAC staff on
8.  (1995) Sisal Policy Paper (Willy Misanga)       policy formulation and analysis.
9.  (1995) Tea Policy Paper (E.C. Kimambo)          Reference material and input to the
10. (1995) Pyrethrum Policy Paper (K.S. Mbufu)      major studies above.
11. (1995) Agriculture Policy on Increased Food
Promotion (N. Nkwera)                             )
12. (1995) Issues on Environmental Sustainability of   )
Agriculture (A.R. Kwayu)                          )
13. (1996) Commodity Policy Review of Cotton in
Tanzania (E. Mbiaha, et al.)                      )
14. (1997) The Impact and Consequences of the          )
Liberalization of Cotton Processing and Marketing in
Tanzania (J.M. Mdadila)                           )
15. (1996) Commodity Policy Review for Food Crops in
Tanzania (N. Mdoe, et al.)                        )
16. (1995) Production Action Plan to Promote
Agricultural Exports (Agriculture and Livestock (C.
Joseph, et. al)                                   )
17. (1993) Livestock and Meat Export Study (A. Nestory)  )
18. (1994) Availability of Credit to Smallholder Dairy  )
Producers in Dar es Salaam: Problems and Policy
Implications (S.S. Mpaki)
.55



Table 1. List of ASMP Studies and Reviews
III. Pricing and Marketing Studies:                   Impact of the Studies
1. (1994) A Study on the Cross-Border Trade in the       )
Northern Zone (F. Mashamba, et al.)                  )
2.  (1994) A profile of the Wholesale Price of the Main  )
Crops in Tanzania (R. Mbelwa, et al.)                )
3.  (1994) A Study on Wholesale Prices of Maize, Rice,    Capacity building of MAC staff on
and Beans in Six Major Urban Markets in Tanzania  policy formulation and analysis.
(S.B. Toke, et al.)
Reference material and input to the
4. (1994) Beef Supply to Dar es Salaam (M.J. Munissi, et  majores abe.
al.)                                              major studies above.
5. (1994) Livestock Marketing Information Services (J.G.
Bokella)                                             )
6. (1995) Coffee Marketing Review (W.S. Mwaikambo)
7.  (1995) Industry Review of Horticultural Crops (R.    )
Mbelwa)                                              )
56



Table 2. Status of Agricultural Parastatal Divestiture
(As June 30, 2001)
A.    Privatized/Restructured Parastatals
Ownershik1
TANZANIA SISAL AUTHORITY:
1.             Chanjura Estate                                       P
2.             Musuwero Estate                                       P
3.             Rudewa Estate                                         P
4.             Mkumbura Estate                                       P
5.             Mnazi Estate                                          P
6.             Ndungu Estate                                         P
7.             Toronto Estate                                        P
8.             Zetternburg Estate                                    r
9.             Mkonge Group of Companies (8 Farm)                    P
TA-NSEED:
1. Rift Valley Seed Conmpany                                      P
DAFCO:
1 .           Kiwalani Central Workshop Co. Ltd.                     P
2.             Moshi Piggery                                          r
TCMB:
1 .           Tanganyika Coffee Curing Co. Ltd.                      P
2.             Mbinga Coffee Curing                                   P
3.             Mbozi Coffee Curing                                    P
NAPOCO:
1 .            Majohe                                                P
2.             Ukonga                                                 P
3.             Arusha GPS                                             P
NAFCO:
1.        ~~~Bagamoyo Farms Limited-Megani Farm                   P
MOPROCO:
1 .           Plant                                                  P
1.        ~~~Tobacco Processing Factory                           P
NMC:
I1.               Mzizima Plot No. 5 - Rice Mill                     P
2.                Morogoro                                            P
3.                Mbeya                                               P
4.                 Gairo godown                                       P
5.                Pugu Road godown                                    P
6.                Makambako godown                                    P
p= Private; G =Government
-7



B:      Non-Divested Parastatals:
Ownership
TCB:
1. Mtwara Cashew Co.                                                     G
2. Kibaha Cashew Factory                                                  G
3. Masasi Cashew Factory                                               Leased
4. Mtama Cashew Factory                                                   G
TSA:
1. Rump                                                      P
2.  Godowns, Staff Houses                                     P
3.  Mkonge Hotel                                              P
NMC:
1.                     Rump, Godowns, Staff Houses                        P
2.                     Isaka Rice Mill                                    P
3.                      Tabora Rice Mill                                  P
4.                      Shinyanga Rice Mill                               P
5.                      Mwanza Rice Mill                                  P
6.                     Mwanza Maize Mill                                  P
7.                      Mtwara Harnmer Mill                               P
,5X



Table 2. Status of Agricultural Parastatal Divestiture
(As June 30, 2001)
Ownership
8.                     Arusha Wheat and Maize Mill                 P
9.                     Pugu Road Complex                           P
10.                    Kurasini Complex                            P
11.                   Iringa Complex                               P
12.                    Dodoma Complex                              P
NAFCO:
1.                     Rump                                        G
2.                     Mbozi Coffee Farms (9)                   Partial (3)
Privatised
3.                     Kigamboni Poultry Farm                 Case in Court
4.                     Bagamoyo Farms Ltd                          P
S.                     Rotian Seed Co. Ltd                         P
6.                     Tanzania Seed Co. Ltd                 To be Liquidated
7.                     Mafia Coconuts Ltd (minority shares)         P
8.                     Kwamtili Estate Ltd (minority shares)       P
9.                     Ruvu Rice Farms Ltd                         G
10.                    Dakawa Rice Farms Ltd                     Leased
11.                    Mbarali Rice Farms Ltd                      G
12.                    Kapunga Rice Farms Ltd                      G
13.                    Mbozi Maize Farms Ltd                       G
14.                    Namtumbo Maize Farm                         G
15.                    Kahe Estates Ltd                            P
16.                    Hanang Wheat Complex (8)             G (1 Farm Leased)
17.                    West Kilimanjaro Livestock Co. Ltd          P
18.                    Tanzania Dairy Farming Co. Ltd              P
(Rump plus 4 farms)
19.                    National Poultry Co. Ltd (Rump plus 2       P
farms and a hatchery)
20.                    Tanzania Dairies Ltd (Rump plus 3            P
plants)
TLSB:
1 .                    Manawa Ginnery                              G
2.                     Pamba Engineering Co. Ltd                    G
TANITA:
1.                     Bukoba                                       P
Mbinga Coffee Curing Co. Ltd (minority shares)                      P
Mbozi Coffee Curing Co. Ltd (minority shares)                       P
Tanzania Coffee Establishments Ltd                                  P
SDC:                                                                P
1.                     Rump                                         P
2.                     TPC Ltd                                      P
3.                     Kagera Sugar Ltd                     Under P advanced
Divestiture
59



Table 2. Status of Agricultural Parastatal Divestiture
(As June 30, 2001)
Ownership
COASCO                                                           G
National Sugar Institute                                         G
Rufiji Basin Development Authority                               P
KOTACO                                                           G
NARCO:
1.                    Rump                                       G
2.                    Ranches (12)                               G
Tanaganyika Packers Ltd                                          G
Tanzania Tea Blenders                                     Under Liquidation
Mufindi Tea Co. Ltd                                              P
Malangali Tea Estate                                             P
Maruku/Katoke Tea Estates and Factory                            P
Dabaga Tea Estate                                                P
Lushoto Tea Estate and Factory                                   P
Njombe Tea Estate and Factory                                    P
Rungwe Tea Estate and Factory                                    P
Korogwe Tea Estate                                               P
Moproco (25% of shares)                                          P
Mtibwa Sugar Estates Co. Ltd (25% of shares)                     P
Lindi Cashew Factory                                      G (to be Privatized
soon)
Newala 1 Cashew Factory                                   G (to be Privatized
soon)
Newala 2 Cashew Factory                                   G (to be Privatized
soon)
Likombe Cashew Factory                                    G (to be Privatized
soon)
Tunduru Cashew Factory                                    G (to be Privatized
l_________________________________________________________      soon)
Tanita 1 Pugu Road Cashew Factory                         G (to be Privatized
soon)
Tanita 2 Mbagal Cashew Factory                            G (to be Privatized
soon)
Nachingwea Cashew Factory                                 G (to be Privatized
soon)
Note: A total of 78 units are privatized, 21 were under process; and 29 were owned by the Government.
60



Table 3. Training
Fellowships and Study Tours: Long-Tern Courses
Participants     Study                                   Place                          Date         Current Assignment
A.J. Ahmend      Agricultural Management                 Reading, the UK                1994/95      Research and Development
J.G. Bokella     Agricultural Development                Aberdeen, the UK               1994/96      Resigned-Private Sector
P.M. Mafuru      Agricultural Development                Aberdeen, the UK               1994/95      Irrigation - Economist
S.K. Mwinjaka    Agricultural Economnics                 Aberdeen, the UK               1994/95      Policy Ministry of Water and Livestock
Development
P. Ndeshilio     Agricultural Development                Aberdeen, the UK               1994/95      Policy Sector Reforms
A. Rutihinda     Agricultural Development                Aberdeen, the UK               1994/95      Resigned - Private Sector
G.L. Shange      Agricultural Development                Aberdeen, the UK               1994/95      Policy - Ministry of Water and Livestock
Development
A.L. Tax         Agricultural Economics                  York, the UK                   1994         Resigned - Private Sector
C.D. Wallwa      Agricultural Development and Rural      Bradfod, the UK                1994/95      Policy, Sector Plans and Budgets
Finance
I.G. Komba       Economics and Econometrics              Bradfod, the UK                1994/95      Sector Reforms and Divestiture
T.K. Mangare    Information Technology and Management    Maastrich School of Management  1994/95     Transferred Planning Commission
the Netherlands
A.O. Ntikha      Economic Development                    Glasgow, the UK                1994/95      Food Security, Crop Monitoring and Early
Waming
W.L.A.Missanga   Agricultural Economics                  Reading, the UK                1995/96      Deceased
S.A. Toke        Information Technology                  Silsoe, the UK                 1995/96      Management Information System
L. Lyimo         Agricultural Economics                  East Anglia, the UK            1995/96      Sector Policy
A.S. Baruti     Information Technology                   Maastrich School of            1995/96      Transferred Planning Commission
_  Management, the Netherlands
G.A. Mariki      Information Technology                  Maastrich School of            1995/96      National Bureau of Statistics
Management, the Netherlands
R. Makusi        Econometrics & Social Statistics        Kent, the UK                   1995         Agricultural Informnation
E. Mbogoro       Data Processing                         West London, the UK            1996         Agricultural Information
G.M. Mwaijonga  Information Technology                   Maastrich School of            1997/98      National Bureau of Statistics
Management, the Netherlands
T.L. Nshau       Computer Science/Data Base Management   University of Essex, the UK    1998/99      Deceased
J.C. Shuma       Computer Science/Data Base Management   University of Essex, the UK    1998/99      Management Information System
B.M. Ulaya       Computer Science/ Information Technology   University of Essex, the UK  1998/99     Management Information System
61



Table 3. Training
Fellowships and Study Tours: Short-Term Courses
Participants      Study                                   Place                           Date              Current Assignment                     Gender
E.G. Mbogoro      Microcomputer Processing                Commerce Bureau of the Census,  26/9/94-16/12/94   Agricultural Information                 F
System/Agricultural Statistics          the USA
J.Y. Mwakatobe    Personnel Management                    RIPA, the UK                    3rd Oct. 1994     Regional Administrative Secretary         M
9 Dec. 1994
D. Biseko         Planning and Financial Resources         Erasmus Growth Dynamic          5 Sept. 1994-    Resigned Private Sector - Consultant      M
Management                              Institute, the Netherlands Wye  30 Nov.1994
College, the UK
D. Gembe          Microcomputer Application in Agricultural   Wye College, the UK          10/10/94 -16/12/94    Retired                              M
Development
Microcomputer Application in Agricultural   Wye College, the UK          10 Oct. 1994-    Resigned - Postal Bank.                   F
B.J. Gogadi       Development                                                              16 Dec. 1994
P.S. Kamwela      Statistics for Development Policy       IDS/Sussex, the UK               19/9/94-9/12/994  Retired                                  M
J. Mahundaza      Management Information System           RIPA, the UK                     5/9/94 - 11/11/94  Resigned                                M
J.S.Mawalla       Management of Agriculture and Rural     Manchester, the UK               19 Sept. 1994 -    Policy, monitoring                      M
Development Program                                                     9 Dec. 1994
P. Minja          Development and Project Planning in Agro-   Bradford, the UK             19 Sept. 1994 -    River Basin Project                     M
industrial Project                                                      24 Dec. 1994
M. Munissi        Food Security in Africa:                 IDS/Sussex, the UK              19 Sept. 1994 -    Policy, Private Sector Desk Officer     M
Policy Planning and Interventions                                       9 Dec. 1994
J. Mwakisyala     Financial Restructuring                 Arthur D. Little, USA            17 Oct. 1994     Policy, Ministry of Cooperatives and      M
18 Nov. 1994     Marketing
Ole-Sirikwa       Financial Restructuring                 Arthur D. Little, USA            17/10/94 -18/11/94  Financial Controller, ASMP             M
A.M.G.            Micro-computer Application in Agricultural  Wye College, the UK          10 Oct. 1994-    Sector Policy                             F
Mwakyembe         Development                                                              16 Dec.1994
Micro-computer Application in Agricultural  Wye College, the UK          10/10/94-16/12/94   Sector Policy, gender issues           M
T.P. Msaki        Development
I.N. Kaduma      Project Management Development           Bradford, the UK                9 Jan. 1995-      Sector Policy, Ministry of Water and      M
_______________________________   31 March  1995  Livestock Development
L.D.Y. Mutani    Personnel Management                     RIPA, the UK                     13/3/95 -18/5/95   Retired                                 M
C. Joseph         Management Sustainable Project/Program  Bradford, the UK                25/4/95 -15/7/95   Sector Plans and Budgets                 M
62



Table 3. Training
Participants      Study                                    Place                          Date              Current Assignment                     Gender
D. Nsherenguzi    Rural Policy and Project Planning       Institute of Social Studies, the  9 Jan. 1995-    Resigned - Swiss Aid                      M
Netherlands                    7 July 1995
M. Ndimbo         Rural Policy and Project Planning       Institute of Social Studies, the  9 Jan. 1995-    Sector Policy, Ministry of Water and      M
Netherlands                    7 July 1995       Livestock Development
A.T. Kavishe      Data Processing                          Institute of Social Studies, the  9 Jan. 1995-   Crop Monitoring and Early Waming          F
Netherlands                    7 July 1995
A. Kwayu          Environmental Economics and Policy       Harvard Institute, USA          10 June 1996     Management Information System             M
Analysis                                                                12 July-1996
E. Massawe        Agricultural Sample Surveys and Census   Botswana, Malawi and Zimbabwe  3 Dec. 1994 -     Agricultural Inforrnation                 F
Procedures                                                               16 Dec. 1994
U. Mtenga         Agricultural Sample Surveys and Census   Botswana, Malawi and Zimbabwe  3 Dec. 1994 -     Retired                                   M
Procedures                                                               16 Dec. 1994
N.B. Chukilizo    Privatization of Procurement and         Quebec (Canada), Paris, Morocco  14 Nov. 1994-    Livestock Department                     M
Distribution of Veterinary Inputs Program    and Mali                   4 Dec. 1994
LS. Mawalla
Y.S. Sembiko      Privatization of Procurement and         Quebec (Canada), Paris, Morocco  14 Nov. 1994-    Resigned - Private Sector                M
Distribution of Veterinary Inputs Program    and Mali                   4 Dec. 1994
LS. Mawalla
H.R. Mwango       Monitoring and Evaluation of Agricultural    Bangladesh and Thailand    9/12/994 - 2/12/94   Resigned - Private Sector              M
Extension Projects
F.S. Katagira     Privatization of Procurement and         Malaysia                       26/6/95 -30/6/95   Plant Protection Section                 M
Distribution of Pesticides
A.L. Lyatuu       Distribution of Pesticides               Malaysia                       26 June 1995      Regional Secretariat                      F
30 June 1995
J. Kimati         Policy Management                        Viet Nam                       4 April 1995      Director of Policy, Ministry of           M
19 April 1995    Cooperatives & Marketing
W. Ngirwa         Policy Management                        Thailand and the UK            4 April 1995      Permanent Secretary, Ministry of          M
19 April 1994    Agriculture
J. Rugumyamheto  Human Resources Development              Indonesia                       4 April 1995      Permanent Secretary, Civil Service        M
15 April 1995    Department
J.R. Madata       Project Financing                        Thailand                       4/4/95- 15/4/95    Ministry of Finance                      M
J. Kimati         Preparation of ASIP                      Zambia                          11/2/96 - 23/2/96  Director of Policy, Ministry of         M
Cooperativcs and Marketing
F.P. Medembwe    Preparation of ASIP                       Zambia                          11/2/96-23/296    Local Government Reform                  M
E. Ndanshau       Preparation of ASIP                     Zambia                           11/2/96 -23/2/96   Seconded to an agricultural NGO         M
63



Table 3. Training
Participants      Study                                    Place                          Date              Current Assignment                     Gender
H. Chande         Preparation of ASIP                      Zambia                         11 Feb. 1996      Resigned - Private Sector                 F
23 Feb. 1996
P. Kirniti        Policy Management                        Malaysia and Indonesia         30 Sept. 1996 -   Member of Parliament                      M
October 1996
N. Kasaka         Improving Management                     Thailand                       24 Feb. 1997 -    Member of Parliament                      M
_____________________________   6  M arch   1997
R.O.S. Mollel     Managing the Transition to Market        Vietnam and China              7 April 1997 -    Permanent Secretary, Prime Minister's     M
Economy                                                                 24 April 1997     Office
E.J. Makoye       Managing the Transition to Market        Vietnam and China              7 April 1997 -    Retired                                   F
Economy                                                                 24 April 1997
T.N. Kirway       Managing the Transition to Market        Vietnam and China              7 April 1997 -    Farming Systems                           M
Economy                                                                 24 April 1997
A.Mwenye          Managing the Transition to Market        Vietnam and China              7 April 1997 -    Deceased                                  M
Economy                                                                 24 April 1997
E.L.K. Bubelwa    Managing the Transition to Market        Vietnam and China              7 April 1997 -    Retired                                   M
Economy                                                                 24 April 1997
P. Mbawala        ASIP Preparation                         Zambia and Mozambique           10 March 1997 -   Deputy Minister Agriculture              M
21 March 1997
T. Mahuwi         ASIP Preparation                         Zambia and Mozambique           10 March 1997 -   Retired                                  M
21 March 1997
J.F. Bitegeko     ASIP Preparation                        Zambia and Mozambique            10 March 1997 -   Director of Policy and Planning          F
21 March 1997
G.J. Lujuo        ASIP Preparation                        Zambia and Mozambique            10 March 1997 -   Retired                                  M
21 March 1997
C. Joseph         ASIP Preparation                        Zambia and Mozambique           10 March 1997 -   Sector Plans and Budgets                  F
21 March 1997
R.S. Mlay         Survey Methodology and Data processing  Zambia and Botswana             24 March 1997 -   Census Coordinator                        M
11 April 1997
M.P.L. Nsiima     Survey Methodology and Data processing  Zambia and Botswana             24 March 1997 -   Data Base Administrator                   M
11 April 1997
T.L. Nshau        Survey Methodology and Data processing  Zambia and Botswana             24 March 1997 -   Deceased                                  M
11 April 1997
W.R. Katunzi      Survey Methodology and Data processing  Zambia and Botswana             24 March 1997 -   Crop Monitoring and Early Warning         M
._________ _________ _________ ___   _____ _________ _____ _   11    A pril    1997  .
E.H. Hezron       Survey Methodology and Data processing  Zambia and Botswana             24 March 1997 -   National Bureau of Statistics             M
11 April 1997



Table 3. Training - Workshops
Activities Workshop on Research Methodology and Techniaiues of Report Writing
16-19 February, 25- 28 March and 22-25 April 1996
Department/section/                 Current Assignment                                     Gender
K.S. Mbufu               Marketing                           Marketing Information                                     M
E.C. Kizwalo             Policy and Planning                 Plans and Budgets                                         F
F.E. Makongo             Policy and Planning                 Plans and Budgets                                         M
F.C.J. Mushi             Policy and Planning                 Resigned                                                  M
B.K.P. Kalekezi          Policy and Planning                 Agricultural Information (Data Base Unit)                 M
W.E. Swai                Policy and Planning                 Monitoring Unit                                           M
P.N. Ndeshilio           Policy and Planning                 Sector Reform and Divestiture                             M
M. Madallali             Policy and Planning                 Retrenched                                                M
A. Assey                 Policy and Planning                 Monitoring                                                F
C.S. Luhindi             Policy and Planning                 Monitoring                                                F
E.C. Kimambo             Marketing                           Common Fund for Commodities Project                       F
D.M. Biswalo             Policy and Planning                 Plans and Budget                                          M
G. K. Rwiza              Policy and Planning                 Resigned (Agric. Business)                                F
LF. Myvela                Policy and Planning                Retrenched                                                F
A. G. Ngoo               Policy and Planning                 External Assistance Coordination                          F
R.K. Mwinjaka            Policy and Planning                 Ministry of Water and Livestock Development               M
N.J. Simkanga            Policy and Planning                  Sector Policy                                            F
LS. Lugaganya            Policy and Planning                 Ministry of Natural Resources                             M
C.T. Manumbu             Marketing                           Research and Market Information                           M
L. Lyimo                 Policy and Planning                 Sector Policy                                             M
Mbelwa                   Marketing                           Research and Market Information                           F
0. Majengo               Marketing                           Regulation and Promotion                                  M
D.M. Kinabo              Marketing                           Retired                                                   M
S.S. Mpaki               Policy and Planning                 Plans and Budget                                          M
A.G. Rutihinda           Policy and Planning                 Resigned (Private Sector)                                 M
J.B. Ngwira              Policy and Planning                 Plans and Programmes                                      M
M.A. Mwakyembe           Policy and Planning                 Sector Policy                                             M
D. Rwezaula              Policy and Planning                 Ministry of Water and Livestock Development               M
E.N. Ndanshau            Policy and Planning                 Seconded to an Agriculture (NGO)                          M
D.K.S. Gembe             Policy and Planning                 Retired                                                   M
F. Mhina                 Crop Department                     Deceased                                                  M
P. Hingi                 Policy and Planning                 Agricultural Attachee - Tanzania Embassy - Rome           F
P. Mafuru                Irrigation Section                  Agricultural Economist                                    M
65



Table 3. Training
Workshot on Research Methodolo2v and Techniwues of Report Writing
6-19 February, 25-28 March and 22-25 April 1996
._________ Department/Section                Current Assignment                                      Gender
A. Kajugusi               Crop Department                      Extension                                                 M
N.E. Ndauka               Crop Development                     Extension                                                 M
P.J.K. Mziray             Livestok Department                  Resigned - Politics                                       M
M. Achayo                 Policy and Planning                  Monitoring                                                M
0. Sirikwa                Policy and Planning                  Financial Controller - ASMP                               M
H. Chande                 Livestock                            Resigned - Private Sector                                  F
J. Mushi                  Policy and Planning                  Plans and Budgets                                         M
Mwakisyala                Cooperatives                         Sector Policy                                              F
G.K. Magai                Food Security                        Crop Monitoring and Early WamingM
0. Ntikba                 Food Security                        Crop Monitoring and Early Warning                         M
A. Ngondo                 Food Security                        Head of Department                                        M
H. Hongo                  Food Security                        Early Warning system                                      M
66



Table 3. Training
First Workshop on Commodity Policy Review
1-19 April 1996
__________________Devartment/Section  Current Assi2nment
P. Undolle          Marketing                            Research and Market Information
B. Ulaya            Policy and Planning                  Management Information System
R. Kadigi           Marketing                            Wildlife College Mweka
F. Mashamba         Marketing                            Research and Market Information
E. Kimambo          Marketing                            Common Fund for Commodities (CFC)
R. Mbelwa           Marketing                            Research and Market Information
K. Mbufu            Marketing                            Regulation and Promotion
0. Shuma            Policy and Planning                  Resigned (Private Sector - Consultant)
D. Nsherenguzi      Policy and Planning                  Resigned - SWISS - AID
K. Mnenwa           Policy and Planning                  Resigned - Lecturer - University of Sokoine
0.0. Lemweli        Food Security                        Food Policy
F.P. Madembwe       Policy and Planning                  Transferred to Local Govermnent Reformn Programme
C.D. Bundala        Policy and Planning                  Resigned - NGO
F.C. Mushi          Policy and Planning                  Resigned World Vision
G. Shange           Ministry of Water and Livestock      Policy and Planning
Development
M. Mwakyembe        Policy and Planning                  Sector Policy
J. Shuma            Policy and Planning                  Management Information Services
J. Mshana           Policy and Planning                  Sector Reform and Divestiture
A. Tax              Policy and Planning                  Resigned - (Private Bank)
Mziray              Livestock                            Resigned (Politics)
67



Table 3. Training
Workshop on Re2ional Agricultural Development Planning
2-17 May 1996
Department/Section                  Current Assienment                                        Gender
B.G. Njau                Marketing                           Regulation and Promotion                                     M
F.B. Machumu             Cooperative Development             Regional Supervisor (Statistics)                             M
M.E. Mrema               Crop Development                    Regional Supervisor (Agric. Statistics)                      M
M.A. Musa                Regional Secretariat                Crop Advisor                                                 M
S.S. Nyoni               Crop Development                    Regional Supervisor (Agric. Statistics)                      M
Workshop on Regional Agricultural Development Planning
2-7 May 1996
Department/Section                  Current Assienment                                       Gender
R.T.CG. Nkyeganaki       Regional Secretariat                Crop Advisor                                                M
U.A.M. Lyatuu            Regional Secretariat                Crop Advisor                                                 M
R.M. Oswald              Policy and Planning                 Census Coordinator                                          M
M.S. Nyanda              Crop                                Agric. Stastistics Supervisor                               M
M. Kajimbwa              Policy and Planning                 Crop Advisor                                                M
I. Mtabazi               Crop Development                    Deceased                                                    M
F.M. Tindwa              Regional Secretariat                Crop Advisor                                                 M
J. Maige                 Crop Development                    Agric. Stastistics Suspervisor                              M
R. Mfoi                  Regional Secretariat                Deceased                                                    M
R. Fundi                 Crop Development                    Agric. Stastistics Supervisor                                M
D.R. Maruchu             Regional Secretariat                Crop Advisor                                                M
L. S. Nkya               Regional Secretariat                Crop Advisor                                                M
J.K. Salu                 Crop Development                   Extension                                                    M
G. Masaki                Crop Development                    Extension                                                   M
68



Table 3. Training
Second Workshop on Commodity Policy Review, Morogoro
24 March-April 1997
Department/Section                 Current Assignment                                      Gender
J. Mdadila               Marketing Department                Head of Department                                        M
S. Toke                  Policy and Planning                MIS                                                        M
A. Kiriwagulu            Marketing Department               Research & Market Information                              M
W. Mwaikambo             Policy and Planning                External Assistance Coordinator                             F
W. Misanga               Policy and Planning                Deceased                                                   M
J. Kinabo                Marketing Department                Retired                                                    M
C. Manumbu               Marketing Department                Research & Market Information                              M
H. Mwaipyana             Marketing Department                Retired                                                    M
0. Majengo               Marketing Department                Regulation & Promotion                                     M
L. Lyimo                 Policy and Planning                 Sector Policies                                            M
E. Kizwalo               Policy and Planning                 Plans & Budgets                                            M
B. Kalekezi              Policy and Planning                 Agric. Information System                                  M
N. Ndanshau              Policy and Planning                 NGO (Agric. Advisor)                                       M
S.R. Mwinjaka            Livestock Department                Sector Policy                                              M
A. Lamosai               Policy and Planning                 Agric. Sector Programme Suport                             M
C. Wallwa                Ministry of Cooperative & Marketing    Policy and Planning                                     M
K. Kagaruki              Ministry of Cooperative & Marketing    Policy and Planning                                     M
-W, Swai                  Policy and Planning                 Monitoring                                                 M
P. Ndeshilio             Policy and Planning                 Sector Reform and Divestiture                              M
C. Kalamba               Irrigation                          Irrigation Schemes                                         M
69



Table 3. Training
Workshop on Macropolicies
21 July-7 August 1997
Department/Section                     Current Assignment                                    Gender
E. Ndanshau           Policy and Planning                    NGO (Agriculture)                                        M
J. Mawalla            Policy and Planning                    Plans and Budget                                         M
N. Simkanga           Policy and Planning                    Sector Policies                                          F
C. Tulahi             Policy and Planning                    Sector Policy                                            M
K. Mnenwa             Policy and Planning                    Resigned - Lecturer at SUA                               M
J. Lugaganya          Ministry of Natural Resources & Tourism  Policy and Planning                                    M
J. Shuma              Policy and Planning                    MIS                                                      M
M. Ndaba              Policy and Planning                    External Assistance Coordination                         F
D. Nsherenguzi        Policy and Planning                    Resigned - Swiss Aid                                     F
L. Lyimo              Policy and Planning                    Sector Policy                                            M
I. Kaduma             Ministry of Water and Livestock        Plans and Budgets                                        M
Development
S. Assey              Policy and Planning                    Monitoring                                               F
E. Achayo             Policy and Planning                    Monitoring                                               M
F. Madembwe           Policy and Planning                    Local Government Reform Programme                        M
C. Joseph             Policy and Planning                    Plans and Budgets                                        F
D. Biswalo            Policy and Planning                    Plans and Budgets                                        M
C. Luhindi            Policy and Planning                    Monitoring                                               F
J. Bokella            Marketing Department                   Resigned - Kibo Breweriest Ltd.                          M
S. Toke               Policy and Planning                    MIS                                                      M
0. Majengo            Marketing Department                   Regulation & Promotion                                   M
A.G. Ngoo             Policy and Planning                    External Assistance Coordinationi                        F
LS. Lugaganya         Ministry of Natural Resources and 'I'ourism    Sector Planning                                  M
M.M. Ndimbo           Ministry of Water and Livestock Dev.   Sector Planning                                          M
L.M. Lyimo            Policy and Planning                    Sector Policy                                            M
M. J. Ndaba           Policy and Planning                    External Assistance Coordination                         F
J. Ngwira             Policy and Planning                    Plans and Programmes                                     M
M.A.G. Mwakyembe    Policy and Planning                      Sector Policy                                            M
LS. Mawalla           Policy and Plaining                    Plans and Budgets                                        M
70



Table 3. Training
Department/Section                    Current Assi2znment                                     Gender
E.C. Kizwalo             Policy and Planning                   Plans and Budgets                                          F
MJ. Munisi               Policy and Planning                   Private Sector Development                                M
R.R. Makusi              Policy and Planning                   Agric. Information System                                 M
A.H. Simba               Crop Development                      Irrigation                                                M
Asurnwisye A.N. Mbwele   Crop Development                      Agric. Inputs and Mechanisation                           M
M.E. Ishumni             Ministry of Water & Livestock         Sanitary and Phytosanitary Duties                         M
Development
P.G. Kasuga              Cooperatives                          Cooperatives                                              M
H.A. Ulotu               Research Departmnent                  Farming Systems                                           M
M. Lyimo                 Crop Development                      Mechanisation                                             M
W.G. Mgema               Crop Development                      Extension                                                  F
C.A.A. Sonyi             Planning Comrnission                  Agriculture Sector                                        M
M. Rwenyagira            Crop Development                      Extension                                                  M
A. Bituro                Training                              Curriculum Development                                     F
S.H. Mangasin            Crop Development                      Extension                                                 M
Table 3. Training
Group Training in Computer Data Processing and Application
14-26 September 1998
Department/Section                   Current Assignment                                    Gender
T.L. Nshau               Policy and Planning                   Deceased                                                  M
E. Mbogoro               Policy and Planning                   Data Base                                                  F
M.P.L. Nsiima            Policy and Planming                   Data Base                                                 M
R.S. Mlay                Policy and Planning                   Agric. Census Coordinator                                 M
G. Mariki                National Bureau of Statistics         Agric. Statistics                                         M
E. Hezron                National Bureau of Statistics         Agric. Statistics                                         M
G. Gambamala             National Bureau of Statistics        Agric. Statistics                                          M
B. Kalekezi              Policy and Planning                   Agric. Inforrnation System                                M
T. Mwisomba              National Bureau of Statistics         Agric. Statistics                                         M
71






MAP SECTION






I  30'                    32'UG                    4'LNQAr--             33'                   38_
L~~~~ ~~~         ~~~~~           La 'S I YN> 'Xak                                            VIIAJR  
~Akoba
RWANDA       , KAG                                MSGA                           KENYA
BU < RUKY      NDI
hiny-ngN                                        \tro=
The ooundrJries rolors   HINYAy                  Ma-_ . R.                    ra               KILIMNAR
,k,, 5, of 4 5 0 AOMA                                                                                   "I",                        4
NVERS  REGION                         BOUNDARIES )STabora                                   T SNngidA
DIEM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
other informationsnINGIDA R
The World Bank Group,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~te                                             r 
an  0ugmn o00 the legal-                                                                                                                     
or   nany endoremen                                                                h                   3
The ondaries.    ir,M                                                                                                            CA
denomntos'n   n
of    on,  ri10                   00,                                                                                               ',
bo.ndories.  TANZANIA                                                                     L~~~~~~~~ZAM inUi
31  AI36 3OAD               REIN-AITL



