Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11769-TA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(ASMP)
JUNE 30, 1993
Agriculture and Environment
Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -       Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
US$1.00         -       TSh 350
SDR 1           -       US$1.41686 (as of May 20, 1993)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
ha                      -        hectare
km                       -       kilometer
mt                      -        metric tons
ABBREVIATIONS
ASMP            Agricultural Sector Management Project
ATC             Advisory Technical Committee
CBS             Central Bureau of Statistics
CIF             Cost Insurance Freight
CSRP            Civil Service Reform Program
CMEWU           Crop Monitoring and Early Waming Unit
ERP             Economic Recovery Program
ESAMI           Eastern and Southern Africa Management Institute
ESAP            Economic and Social Action Program
FAO             United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
IAPSO           Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
IDA             International Development Association
IDS             Institutional Development Strategy
IDOS            Institutional Development Objectives and Strategy
IMF             International Monetary Fund
LCB             Local Competitive Bidding
MDB             Marketing Development Bureau
MIS             Management Information System
MOA             Ministry of Agriculture
MTR             Mid-term Review
NALERP          National Agricultural and Livestock Extension Rehabilitation Project
NALRM           National Agricultural and Livestock Research Master
NALRP           National Agricultural and Livestock Research Rehabilitation Project
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
NMC             National Milling Corporation
OED             Operations Evaluation Department
OJT             On-the-job-training
PPMB            Project Preparation and Monitoring Bureau
PCR             Project Completion Report
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
PPRP            Parastatal Sector Reform Project
PSAC            Public Sector Adjustment Credit
PSRC            Public Sector Reform Commission
PTP             Personal Training Plan
RALDO           Regional Agriculture and Livestock Development Office
RPFB            Rolling Plan and Forward Budget
RTF             Rationalization Task Force
SOE             Statement of Expenditure
SPAAR           Special Program for African Agricultural Research
TA              Technical Assistance
TANAA           Tanzania Agricultural Adjustment Program
TANSEED         Tanzania Seed Company Ltd.
TOR             Terms of Reference
TTG             Technical Task Groups
UNDP            United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



TANZANIA                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Credit and Project Summary..
1. BACKGROUND   .........................................    1
Project Background  .....................................    1
Macroeconomic Setting   ..................................    2
Public Sector Adjustment Reform   ............................   2
2. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR   ..............................    5
Sector Performance and Prospects ............................   5
Sector Rehabilitation  ....................................    5
Sector Reforms   .......................................    6
................................. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
Institutional Constraints to Sector Management and Reforms   ...                   ........   8
An Agenda for Accelerated Reforms  ..........................   8
An Institutional Development Strategy  .........................  10
3. BANK  GROUP ASSISTANCE AND  STRATEGY   ....................  11
Lessons from  Previous IDA  Involvement  .......................  11
Rationale for IDA  Involvement ..............................   11
4. THE PROJECT  .1.2..................................... .   1
Project Objectives and Strategy ..............................  12
Project Description  .....................................  13
Detailed Features  ..........                 ............................   13
Project Costs and Financing ................................  15
Procurement . ......................................... 16
Disbursements  .           .......................................   19
Accounting and Audits ...................................  20
5. ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ....                                            ...... 21
6. BENEFITS, RISKS AND  SUSTAINABILITY  .......................  25
Benefits  .       ...........................................  25
Risks .     .............................................   25
Sustainability .........................................  25
Recurrent Cost Implications on the Budget .......................  25
7. AGREEMENTS, ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION ....                                           ........ 27
This report is based on the findings of a World Bank apprisal mision which took place in March 1993. The
mission was led by the tank nuager, Mr. F. Byamugisha, and included Mesrs. J. Coates (AF2AE), policy
component; R. Southworth (AF2TA), project implemtation  angemant; D. Sungusia (AF2TA), tbaining and
promotion of local conntultancy capacity; D. Gustafson, consultant, institutional development; C. Smavedra
connultant, agricultural information component; K. Kimgu, connultant, civil srvice reformn; and V. Jayaraman,
consultant, finncial analysim and procurement. Mr. J. Silvernmn (AFrES) wan 1a  Advisor and Mesrs. A.
Abramovich (LA2AG) and 1. Knapp (AF2PE) were the peer reviewen. Procesing assisance wan provided by
Ms. C. Jones and seretarial assitance by Mmes. M. Hileman and A. Tadeera. Sector Division Chief was Ms.
S. Ganguly; and Country Diretor was Mr. F. Colaeo.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
A.    Rationalization of MOA Functions
B.    Policy Formulation, Planning and Monitoring Component
C.    Agricultural Information Systems and Services
D.    Selected Project Cost Tables
E.    Terms of Reference for Key Positions and Consultants
F.    Schedule of Disbursements
G.    General Supervision Plan
H.    Procurement Schedule and other Procurement Tables
I.    Organization of the Ministry of Agriculture
J.    Selected Documents in the Project File



TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:    Government of Tanzania (GOT)
Benefariaes: Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
Amount:      SDR 17.3 million (US$24.5 million equivalent)
Terms:       Standard, with 40 years maturity
Project
Objectives: The overall objective of the project is to strengthen institutional capacity
to formulate and implement the Government's agricultural development
policies, strategies and programs. Specific objectives include
strengthening institutional capacity to support: (a) rationalization and
strengthening of goverrnent functions in the agricultural sector; (b)
formulation and implementation of agricultural policies; and (c)
improvement of the agricultural information systems and services required
to facilitate an effective functioning of the Government and the private
sector in a market-oriented economy.
Project
Description: The project would finance technical assistance, training, personnel service
contracts, workshops, seminars, study tours vehicles and office equipment
in support of the following components: (a) rationalization and
strengthening of MOA functions by supporting: (i) activities of MOA
task forces, task groups and consultants engaged in phasing out at least 48
MOA functions, developing cost sharing (with the private sector)
mechanisms for at least 20 other MOA functions and restructuring or
preparing for privatization about 80 agricultural parastatals; (ii)
strengthening management systems and capacity related to planning and
budgeting, management training, personnel management, management
information system, accounting and procurement. (b) Strengthening of
institutional capacity to formulate and implement policies by
supporting two sets of activities: (i) policy analyses; and (ii) longer term
institutional strengthening. The work program in the area of policy
analyses would include: preparation of sector policies and programs;
improved policy coordination and feedback through support to strengthen
the Policy Analysis and Advisory Committee; improved regulations,
incentives and an enabling environment for private sector development;
and food security policy and strategic grain reserve. Support for longer
term institutional strengthening would include a comprehensive training
program, and improved work environment and facilities. (c) Improving
agricultural information systems and services by supporting the
strengthening, rationalization and expansion of the agricultural information
base which is presently very weak. Priority would be given to supporting
the country's capacity to generate reliable information on crop and
livestock production and productivity, and marketing and trade, at the



ii
national, regional and district levels by (i) carrying out an agricultural
census; (ii) expanding the subsequent surveys to provide adequate data for
planning and policy evaluation on an annual basis; (iii) carrying out a pilot
survey to establish less expensive sources of data collection; (iv)
improving the data collection capacity of the Crop Monitoring Early
Warning System; and (v) improving communication facilities for better
collection and dissemination of marketing and trade information.
Benefits:    The project benefits would accrue from four sets of activities: Flrst, the
role of MOA would be refocused to the provision of public goods and an
enabling environment for the private sector. Second, successful
implementation of this project would set up MOA as a pioneer participant
in the forthcoming Civil Service reforms which are geared to enhancing
the pay, morale, performance and productivity of government employees.
Third, MOA's policy formulation and implementation capacity would be
strengthened, enabling the accelerated implementation of agricultural
reforms. Fourth, the agricultural information base, systems and services
would be strengthened, facilitating improved public sector management,
and planning and management by the private sector. These activities
would help to sustain the process of improving agricultural growth, food
security and foreign exchange earnings.
Risks:       The main risk relates to government commitment to implement the
institutional development strategy and to effectively utilize technical
assistance to strengthen institutional capacity. Government commitment
was tested during preparation of the institutional development strategy,
during preparation of the project by Government and local consultants and
during appraisal; it was found strong at technical and management levels.
The strength of government commitment was further demonstrated by the
Government's letter of institutional development objectives and strategy
addressed to IDA.



iii
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ Million)
Coonnt                            Local            Foreign              Total
Rationarion of MOA Functions                      4.2                3.6                 7.8
Policy Formulation and Implementation             2.1                5.0                 7.1
Agricultural Infonnation System                    6.1               4.7                10.8
Total Bawline Cogs                                12.4               13.3               25.7
Price Contingencies                                0.8               0.7                 1.5
Total Project Cosi                                13.2               14.0               27.2
(of which, Taxes and Duties)                    0.4                                      0.4
Financing Plan
(JS$  Million)
Local            Foreign              Total
IDA                            10.5        J      14.0               24.5
GOT                             2.7        |                 |        2.7
Total                           13.2       j       14.0       *    27.2   i
Estimated Disbursemnents from IDA Credit
(US$ Million)
IDA Fiscal Year       94       95       96       97       98       99
Annual                 5       4.4      4.5      5.0      2.5      2.6
Cumulative            5.5      9.9      14.4    19.4    21.9    24.5
Economic Rate Return: Not applicable
Map: IBRD No. 19829






TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (AS1M
1. BACKGROUND
Project Background
1.1   The proposed project would be the third IDA-funded technical assistance intervention
in the agricultural sector in Tanzania. The first Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1206-TA)
was identified in 1980 primarily to support an Export Rehabilitation Program. To this end,
the majority of the financing went to support the Ministry of Agriculture's (MOA) capacity to
implement agricultural policies and to increase exports of eight agricultural parastatals. Some
assistance was also allocated to support the preparation of an Economic Recovery Program.
The second Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1524-TA) was prompted by the poor
performance of the agricultural project portfolio and was therefore aimed at strengthening the
capacity of the relevant Departments in the Ministry of Agriculture to coordinate and monitor
project and parastatal performance. The organizational units within the Ministry of
Agriculture that have been the main recipients of institutional strengthening under the two
projects are: the Sectoral Planning Section; the Project Preparation and Monitoring Bureau,
which monitors Government investments and parastatal activities; and the Marketing
Development Bureau, which provides pricing and marketing information and advice to the
Government, farmers and traders.
1.2   While the two projects have improved the Ministry's stock of trained personnel in
policy analysis, as well as project and parastatal monitoring, there has been limited effective
utilization of this personnel primarily because they have until recently been deployed in
general planning functions, controlling and directing the economy. Moreover, the present
institutional strength has depended significantly on external assistance to finance the required
technical assistance, operating budget, and facilities. These are currendy financed under the
Tanzania Agricultural Adjustment Program (TANAA) supported by IDA (Cr. 2116-TA) and
other donors. Sustainability of this institutional capacity is very fragile and is significantly
conditioned on continuation of external assistance. Further external assistance is necessary to
support the formulation and implementation of the next phase of sector reforms since these are
expected to be more institutionally demanding in terms of design, implementation and
evaluation.
1.3   In addition to its weaknesses in policy management, the institutional framework in
Tanzania's agricultural sector is not yet equipped to manage a market-oriented economy.
MOA's roles, structures and functions are still fashioned on the old vision of interventionist
development. The country has attempted to do too much through the public sector, assigning
tasks to Government agricultural institutions for which they are ill-suited; some activities still
remain in public hands which conditions and resource availability no longer justify. The
agricultural institutions should be reformed and strengthened to deal not only with policy
formulation and implementation, but also to support the process of developing and
implementing a strategic vision in which agricultural institutions manage less but better. This



2                                                                       Chapter 1
means withdrawing from areas best served by the private sector and strengthening
performance in areas where the Government's contribution is vital.
Macroeconomic Setting
1.4   Since the Economic Recovery Program (ERP) was launched in 1986 and succeeded by
the Economic and Social Action Program (ESAP) in 1989, the decline in the Tanzanian
economy has been reversed by policy reforms aimed at transforming the economy from
central control to market orientation. The policy reforms have consisted of macroeconomic
stabilization, exchange and trade liberalization, and financial and sectoral restructuring
including agricultural marketing reforms supported by four IDA quick-disbursing operations.
While the reforms and increased external assistance have reversed Tanzania's economic
decline and supported a real economic growth rate of about 4.9 percent per year during the
period 1986 to 1991, the recovery falls short of Tanzania's potential and is not enough to
generate sufficient employment and incomes to match the country's fast growing population
(45 percent of whom are aged below 15 years). Moreover, the economy remains heavily
dependent on foreign savings, with the external current account deficit estimated to be about
30 percent of GDP.
1.5   The Bank's country assistance strategy highlights the need to accelerate
implementation of policy reforms as part of an overall effort to move to higher rates of
economic growth, while reducing dependence on foreign savings. This calls for decisive
economic management, a shift in the delivery of economic growth from the public to the
private sector, adequate infrastructure, efficient economic services and mobilization of
adequate external resources in the short to medium term. Given the importance of agriculture
in the economy (contributing in 1991 about 60 percent of GDP, 80 percent of recorded
exports and 90 percent of employment), it is imperative that policy and institutional reforms
and improved sectoral management assume top priority.
Public Sector Adjustment Reform
1.6   The role of the public sector in economic production and exchange has declined as a
direct consequence of the expansion of markets and private sector activities following the
launching of the ERP. For agriculture there has been expanded private trade, especially in
cereals and non-traditional exports, and expanded production associated with the farmers'
response to the improved incentive structure. The expansion in private trade in cereals has
taken away the market share of the main parastatal in that subsector, the National Milling
Corporation (NMC). While the expansion in private trade has forced the parastatals to adjust
their roles, this adjustment has been limited and brought about only indirectly. In order to
overcome this weakness, several initiatives intended to bring about a major adjustment of the
public sector have been made.
1.7   First, reforms in planning and budgeting have been introduced to rationalize
government priorities and move the Government from central planning to policy and
macroeconomic management. These reforms are centered around the replacement of the Five



Background                                                                     3
Year Development Plan with the Rolling Plan and Forward Budget. Second, a parastatal
restructuring and privatization program has been launched which aims at getting the
Government out of the economic activities that are best suited for the private sector, as well
as improving the efficiency of the activities the Government will stay involved in. Third, a
civil service reform program has been launched to reduce the size of the civil service,
improve its management and restructure its remuneration package for more effective
performance of the functions remaining with the Government. Overall, these public sector
adjustment reforms are expected to transform the role of Government to one that enables the
private sector's development and provides public goods effectively and efficiently. These
public sector adjustment reforms, pursued at macro level, will be supported by the IDA-
funded Public and Parastatal Sector Reform Project (PPRP) and the Public Sector Adjustment
Credit (PSAC). These operations will be implemented simultaneously with the proposed
ASMP.



4                                                                         Chapter Two



2. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Sector Performance and Prospects
2.1    Tanzania has a diverse ecology and ample land resources to sustain high levels of
agricultural growth. However, pervasive government interventions in the seventies and early
eighties, including villagization and the monopolization of agricultural inputs and produce
marketing by cooperatives and parastatals, plummeted real agricultural growth (which was
modest at 3.1 percent per year in 1965-73) to 2.6 percent per year (in constant 1976 prices)
during the period 1978-1985. The ERP and its follow-on program, the ESAP, supported the
liberalization of the marketing of food grains and non-traditional exports. Donor-supported
projects were initiated to rehabilitate rural infrastructure and agricultural extension and
research services. As a result of this rehabilitation, policy reforms, the increased supply of
consumer goods (associated with increased foreign exchange availability) and favorable
weather conditions, agricultural growth has rebounded to about 4.9 percent per annum during
the period 1986-1991. But with a predominantly rural population (90 percent) and a
population growth rate of 3.2 percent, higher agricultural growth rates are required to provide
food security, absorb new farm workers at high levels of productivity, and stimulate off-farm
economic activities and employment.
Sector Rehabilitation
2.2   The program for rehabilitating the agricultural sector has included the following
projects: the Integrated Roads Project, cofinanced by 16 donors including IDA (Cr. 2149-TA)
and the Sixth Highway Project (Cr. 1688-TA), which have supported rehabilitation and
maintenance of key highways, trunk roads, and some feeder and access roads; the Ports
Rehabilitation and Modernization Projects (Cr. 1536-TA and Cr. 2095-TA), the Railways
Restructuring Project (Cr. 2267-TA), and the Telecommunications II Project (Cr. 1810-TA)
which have supported rehabilitation of ports, railways and telecommunications networks; the
Agricultural Export Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1891-TA), which has supported the
rehabilitation of processing infrastructure for traditional export crops; and the National
Agricultural and Livestock Research Rehabilitation Project (NALRP; Cr. 1970-TA) and
National Agricultural and Livestock Extension Rehabilitation Project (NALERP; Cr. 1994-
TA), which have supported the rehabilitation of research and extension services, respectively.
2.3   The NALRP, co-financed by the African Development Fund, the Netherlands, the
United Kingdom and the Republic of Germany, is the first phase of a long-term program to
reinforce agricultural technology generation and dissemination in Tanzania. It has supported:
(i) the consolidation of various research agencies and units into one Directorate of Research
and Training under the Ministry of Agriculture; improvement of research planning and
management, and financial control and monitoring; the formulation and implementation of a
National Agricultural and Livestock Research Master (NALRM); establishment of an
Agricultural Research Fund to finance priority activities identified in the NALRM; purchase
of vehicles, equipment,and materials to sustain on-going programs; training for research staff
to strengthen management and research methodology, and to support the research program;
and financing of civil works, technical assistance, training and recurrent foreign costs. The



6                                                                     Chapter Two
support by the Special Program for African Agricultural Research (SPAAR) has facilitated
close donor coordination in project implementation. A mid-term review of the project
commenced in April 1993. Constraints to project implementation include lack of adequate
budgetary provisions by Government to cover operating costs of essential programs and
inadequate staff incentives required to motivate and retain staff.
2.4   The NALERP, co-financed by the African Development Bank, has been supporting
the rehabilitation and strengthening of the Ministry of Agriculture's capacity in planning and
implementing efficient and sustainable agricultural extension services in Tanzania. Its focus
has been on: establishing a streamlined organization and management structure for extension
services within MOA based on a single chain of command at all levels; introducing an
extension system based on the Training and Visit extension methodology; providing training
and supervising extension activities to facilitate the establishment of an efficient delivery
system for quick adoption of improved technologies; construction and upgrading of staff
houses and rehabilitation of training facilities, and provision of vehicles, bicycles, equipment,
furniture and other materials required to enable staff to attain a more extensive coverage of
the farming community through increased mobility; and enhancing the Ministry's extension
planning and implementation capacity through provision of technical assistance in specific
fields. The program is currently being implemented in 12 out of 20 regions of mainland
Tanzania covering an area which serves 3.2 million farm families. A mid-term review for the
project is currently underway. Issues arising from the project include inadequate budgetary
support to cover operational costs not covered by donors; and inadequate incentives for staff.
Sector Reforms
2.5    The agricultural sector has been favorably affected by a wide range of policy and
institutional reforms at the macroeconomic and sectoral levels over the last seven years.
Among the main policy instruments has been the exchange rate. The continued real
depreciation of the Tanzanian shilling since the mid-1980s has improved prices of exportable
commodities although part of this improvement has been absorbed by continuing high costs of
the single channel marketing system dominated by inefficient marketing cooperative unions.
Over the same period, real interest rates have moved from being strongly negative to zero or
slightly positive.
2.6   The increased availability of foreign exchange together with the liberalization of
external trade has increased imports and the availability of wage goods; this has provided a
stimulus to agricultural production particularly of food crops and non-traditional exports.
Exports of traditional crops have not responded positively because exchange rate benefits have
not been able to reach farmers in the form of improved real producer prices; they have
instead been absorbed by the single marketing channel dominated by cooperative unions and
marketing boards. Major changes have taken place in the marketing of food crops. The
deconfinement of domestic trade in food during the early 1980s has resulted in increased
competition and development in food grain markets. Consumer prices of food crops have
experienced large falls from their peak in 1983-85, whereas producer prices for export crops
have remained steady in real terms over the same period.



The Agricultural Sector                                                           7
2.7    As for trade in agricultural inputs, private sector entry and competition have been
limited. Although liberalization measures have attracted some private stockists, fertilizer
supply and use in the counitry has remained low while significant demand has remained unmet
in some farming areas. Supply of improved seeds is low despite the active involvement of a
multi-national company. Formal credit is not yet available to the majority of smallholder
farmers while informal credit markets are limited. Poor transport is still a constraint in the
development of marketing systems.
2.8    The macro reforms were underpinned by IDA support under the Multi-Sector
Rehabilitation Credits (Cr. 240-ET; Cr. 241-ET; and Cr. 1741-ET) which helped to initiate
the reform process by supporting the required macroeconomic measures and providing an
infusion of much needed foreign exchange. The agricultural sector reforms were underpinned
by TANAA which has, since 1990, supported policy and institutional changes in the pricing
and marketing systems for food crops, the three major export crops (coffee, cotton and
cashew nuts) and production inputs. The reforms in the cereal trade which focussed on
reducing restrictions to private trade resulted in a diminished role of government control over
the cereal trade in the late eighties. Adjustment in other subsectors of agriculture has
proceeded more slowly.
2.9    The main thrust of the reforms for the three traditional export crops were in the
following order. The cooperative unions which used to sell their crop to the marketing
boards were to own the crop to the point of export sale. The functions of the boards were to
change to that of administering tenders and auctions; quality control; market intelligence; and
providing advice to Government. Boards could also offer services as clearing agents to the
unions but in competition with private agents. Indicative prices were to be set only as a guide
to farmers in their negotiations with traders. Private traders were to be allowed to participate
in crop procurement in competition with the previous official buyers (the cooperatives and
marketing boards). Cooperative unions were to become member-controlled independent
organizations, with no government interference. The cashew industry was to play a leading
role in the liberalization of the nation's export crop marketing system, and it was planned that
lessons learnt in the process would be carried over into the other crop industries.
2.10   These government decisions were announced in April 1991. Except in the cashew
industry, where 100 traders have so far been licensed for the 1992/93 season, implementation
of the reforms has been very slow. Policy announcements have not been followed up by
legislative changes to effect the policy changes. As of today, the marketing of coffee and
cotton is still contained within a single channel system, dominated by the cooperative unions
which are inefficient and heavily indebted to the banking system. As for the reforms in the
area of agricultural inputs, the focus was on reducing the fertilizer subsidy which currently
stands at about 40 percent of the panterritorial price in the regions, as compared to a previous
high of 80 percent. Foreign multi-national companies have entered the improved seeds
industry; not much progress has been made in involving the private sector in agrochemicals
for disease control in cotton and coffee, or in the veterinary drugs sector.



8                                                                       Chapter Two
Institutional Constraints to Sector Managemnent and Reformns
2.11   Management of the agricultural sector through the Ministry of Agriculture has been
very weak. There are at least three underlying sources of this weakness. First, the
Government has attempted to do too much with declining resources. Its involvement has
ranged from investing in and managing public enterprises to controlling and operating the
producer and marketing cooperatives, providing services like agricultural mechanization,
veterinary services, distribution of agricultural inputs and research and extension even for the
specialized self-supporting crop enclaves. The Government ought to limit itself to critical
services for which it has a comparative advantage in delivering and leave the rest to the
private sector. Moreover, for some of the critical services the Government continues to
provide, user charges could be levied in order to improve financing and promote economy in
use of the services.
2.12   Second, there has not been any attempt to build institutional capacity on a long term
sustainable basis. Institutional support by donors, including IDA, has been motivated by and
directed at addressing short-term concerns. IDA's first Technical Assistance Project in the
agricultural sector was motivated by the institutional need to implement the Export
Rehabilitation Program of 1980 and to prepare a Structural Adjustment Program. The second
Technical Assistance Project in the sector was prompted by the poor performance of
agricultural projects and was hence designed to improve policy and project planning and
monitoring. The technical assistance component of TANAA was designed to implement the
TANAA reforms. Because these and other donor-supported technical assistance projects were
driven by the need to undertake certain tasks at a certain point in time, the institution building
effort has been uneven and ad hoc, requiring last minute requests for yet more technical
assistance in order to address emerging institutional challenges. For example, while the
technical assistance financed under TANAA has made a substantive contribution to
implementing TANAA sector reforms, there is no institutional capacity to prepare and
implement the next phase of sector reforms.
2.13   Third, institutional strengthening in policy management has been rendered ineffective
by an institutional and policy environment which has emphasized government domination of
the economy. The staff trained in policy analysis over the last ten years have found
themselves deployed in planning, controlling and directing the economy rather than in policy
analysis or the liberalization of markets and the business environment. Consequently, on-the-
job retraining in policy and strategic management of a market-driven economy is required for
government personnel.
An Agenda for Accelerated Reforms
2.14   A Joint Government of Tanzania-World Bank review of the agricultural sector in
October/November 1992 arrived at a consensus for the need for continued structural reforms
in agricultural production, processing and marketing. An accelerated reform program is more
urgently needed to handle the financial crisis of heavily indebted and insolvent cooperative
unions which market traditional export crops. The Government is unable to continue to
underwrite unsustainable processing and trading practices. The call on Government resources



The Agricultural Sector                                                        9
to finance basic social services and to respond to short term food security crises leaves little to
subsidize unprofitable and inefficient production and marketing activities. The review
concluded that a new policy approach was called for. This approach requires the Government
to play a fundamentally different role which is restricted to the provision of public goods,
policy management and the promotion of an enabling environment for the expansion of
private sector production, trade and investment. The review identified at least thirteen priority
areas for short- and medium-term actions. These are to:
(a) allow agricultural exporters to exchange their foreign earnings at the market exchange
rate;
(b) terminate Government's financial support to the marketing parastatals (including those
involved in agricultural inputs marketing), separate regulatory and commercial
functions of marketing boards, and amend all relevant laws and regulations governing
production, processing and marketing of export crops to allow multi-channel
competitive marketing;
(c) enable banks to manage the restructuring or liquidation of large cooperative union
debtors, including bank take-over of cotton ginneries and coffee factories so they may
be operated on a management contract or lease basis by the private sector;
(d) implement the 'spirit' of the 1991 Cooperative Act by stopping political interference
and dissolving or reconstituting cooperatives;
(e) amend the Acts that restrict private commerce in food grains;
(I)  identify and institute measures to formalize land tenure, including the development of
umbrella legislation based on recommendations from the Presidential Commission on
Land Tenure which are acceptable to the Government;
(g) identify and create conditions necessary for international inputs companies to import
and distribute on their own account;
(h) privatize veterinary services, veterinary drug distribution, heifer farms, and other
directly productive activities which are currently under the MOA;
(i)  review the functions of MOA and support a program to enhance policy management,
strengthen agricultural information systems and services and rationalize MOA
operations;
0)  restructure and staff the National Bank of Commerce and the Cooperative and Rural
Development Bank so they may lend commercially to agriculture;
(k)  promote new sources of long-term investment funding for non-traditional exports;
OI) define a national seed policy governing such items as patent protection, access to
germplasm, imports, exports and quarantine; and



10                                                                   Chapter Two
(m) undertake surveys and studies necessary to formulate a livestock development strategy
and program.
Detailed design and implementation of these measures requires an institutional capacity that is
currently lacking.
An Institutional Development Strategy
2.15   Recent changes in the economy have prompted the Government to consider revising
its agricultural policies. During 1991 and 1992, several studies were sponsored by the
Government, with donor support, to lay the foundation for a comprehensive review of the
agricultural sector. These studies culminated in a 4-week review of the agricultural sector by
a joint Government-IDA team in October and November, 1992 (para. 2.14). The review
focussed on formulating agricultural strategies and policies. The agricultural policies aim at
curtailing direct government intervention in production and marketing, and expanding the
reform program to include restructuring of traditional export crop marketing and reforming
the laws and regulations which restrict competition with the parastals and cooperatives, and
hinder the development of the private sector. One of these is an institutional development
strategy (IDS). While work on these is under way, there is a growing consensus on an IDS
designed to transform the role of Government from direct intervention in production and
marketing to one of facilitating the private sector to foster growth. This entails supporting a
long-term process that will: (i) phase out the involvement of Government in activities better
suited for the private sector; (ii) enable the Government to undertake more effectively and
efficiently the remaining critical public sector functions; and (iii) build government capacity to
provide an appropriate policy framework and to manage this process of functional
rationalization. The ASMP would constitute the primary instrument to support
implementation of this IDS.



3. BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE AND STRATEGY
Lessons from Previous IDA Involvement
3.1   IDA has financed two technical assistance projects in the agricultural sector (Cr.
1206-TA and Cr. 1524-TA). Both projects have been completed and their project completion
reports (PCRs) have been issued. Two of the lessons highlighted by the PCRs are that (i)
institution building and personnel development require long-term assistance and continuity of
implementation and (ii) the success of capacity building projects is enhanced if assistance is
targeted at the strategic functions of the relevant institutions. These two lessons are also
highlighted in a 1990 study by the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department entitled 'Free-
standing Technical Assistance for Institutional Development in Sub-Saharan Africa". Other
important lessons from this study include: the need for a clearly thought-out institutional
development strategy; the need to take the borrower's limited absorptive capacity into
account; and the need for adequate supervision, especially from World Bank Resident
Missions. These lessons have guided the design of the proposed project and its
implementation plan in several ways. First, the project has been designed to focus on
implementing key elements of a long-term institutional development strategy in agriculture
(para.2. 15). Second, the project has been made simple in design, limited to supporting only
three project components, all in one ministry. And third, most of the project supervision
would be done by the Resident Mission staff.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.2   IDA's support to strengthening Lnstitutional capacity in Tanzania's agricultural sector
is critical now for several reasons. Firstly, capacity building is urgently needed to support the
next round of sector reforms. As the recent Country Economic Report (World Bank, 1991)
notes, the reforms supported under the first adjustmnent program for agriculture (TANAA)
were deliberately simple in design, requiring mainly announcements of policy changes to
stimulate private activities. This was intended to be in conformity with the limited
institutional capacity for policy formulation and implementation. The next round of sector
reforms is institutionally demanding, requiring detailed design and intensive monitoring. It
therefore needs to be preceded by institutional strengthening in policy formulation and
implementation. Secondly, the MOA has been spreading itself too thin, undertaking functions
best suited to the private sector; there is a need to rationalize its functions. Thirdly, there is a
need to improve the collection, management and dissemination of agricultural information
which is critical to public and private sector management in a market-driven economy.
Given IDA's leadership in mobilizing development assistance and supporting policy and
institutional reforms in Tanzania, IDA is best placed to support institutional strengthening in
the agricultural sector.



4. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Strategy
4.1    The overall objective of the proposed project is to strengthen institutional capacity to
formulate and implement the Government's agricultural development policies, strategies and
programs. Specific objectives would include fostering institutional capacity to support:
(i) the rationalization and strengthening of government functions in the agricultural
sector;
(ii) the formulation and implementation of agricultural policies; and
(iii) the improvement of the agricultural information systems and services required to
facilitate an effective functioning of the Government and the private sector in a
market-oriented economy.
The strategy to achieve these objectives is contained in the Government's institutional
development objectives and strategy (IDOS) for agriculture. The key elements of this strategy
are: phasing out the provision of services better done by the private sector; supporting the
restructuring and privatization of agricultural parastatals spearheaded by the Presidential
Parastatal Sector Reform Commission (PSRC); revising laws and regulations to provide an
enabling environment for private sector investment in the agricultural sector; developing
management systems and capacity required to improve the allocation and utilization of
budgetary and manpower resources, manage the functional rationalization and restructuring of
MOA and improve the managerial skills of the decision makers in MOA; and strengthening
the agricultural information systems and services that are important to supporting a market-
oriented economy. Details are included in a letter of IDOS addressed to IDA.
4.2    During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government would implement
the program contained in the IDOS. The project objectives are consistent with the
Government's broader policy goals for reform of the public sector through programs of
privatization of parastatals, the civil service reform, and the new approach to planning and
budgeting through the Rolling Plan and Forward Budget which are being supported under the
forthcoming Public Sector Adjustment Credit. The project would provide a key link at the
sectoral level to these initiatives.



The Project                                                                    13
Project Description
4.3   In line with its main objectives, the project has three main components: (i)
rationalization of the government functions in the agricultural sector and the strengthening of
the management systems of MOA; (ii) strengthening institutional capacity to formulate and
implement policies; and (iii) improving agricultural information systems and services.
Detailed Features
4.4    Rationalization of the Functions and Strengthening of the Management Systems
of MOA (US$7.8 million). The project would finance activities related to supporting a
process that would contribute significandy to four main areas: (i) phasing out of about 48
already identified MOA functions related to provision of services better done by the private
sector; (ii) the joint operation by the MOA and the private sector of about 20 functions
already identified; (iii) the privatization of about 80 agricultural parastatals; and (iv)
strengthening MOA's capacity (at headquarters and regional levels) to manage the transition
as well as to perform better the remaining functions through strengthening the planning and
budgeting process, personnel management, management information systems including central
records, and management training.
4.5   Support for parastatal privatization would be in the form of preparing privatization
priorities and options and completing the on-going work, on behalf of PSRC, necessary to
take agricultural parastatals to the point of sale; support for this would include 12 man-months
of TA. Any more involvement of MOA in preparing agricultural parastatals for privatization
would have to be financed by PSRC. Specific activities for financing would include the work
of a task force and task groups to rationalize the MOA functions, a task manager to manage
the rationalization program and 12 staff-months of international TA and 125 staff-months of
local technical services to support the rationalization program.
4.6    Rationalization of functions at regional and district levels would involve support for
seminars, workshops and activities of the rationalization task force. Moving to the new role
of MOA requires a fundamental change in institutional culture and attitudes; hence an
orchestrated campaign is called for to explain the rationale and the process of change. MOA
management also has to undergo change in order to manage effectively the new role. This
component would also support a campaign that would include revision of the MOA pre-
service training curricula to reflect the new role of MOA.
4.7    Managing the transition to a new role for MOA requires improvements in the MOA
management systems and capacity in five areas: (i) planning and budgeting; (ii) personnel
management; (iii) management training; (iv) management information system (MIS); and (v)
accounting and procurement. Planning and budgeting would be improved through support for
the new planning and budgeting approach, the Rolling Plan and Forward Budget, which
emphasizes definition of priority areas and allocation of resources to those areas, away from
the functions that will be phased out. Personnel management would be strengthened in
forecasting staffing requirements and identifying areas of overstaffing; re-deploying and
retraining of personnel made redundant by the functional rationalization program; and



14                                                                  Chapter Four
motivating and promoting career development. The support for management training would
be for senior and middle grade MOA officers in managing the transition to and the new role
of MOA; this would be complemented by support for an improved MIS. Support for
improved procurement and accounting systems is essential to ensure that project and program
implementation is improved and budgeted resources are accounted for. The project would
support 6 staff-months of TA for planning and budgeting, 20 staff-months of TA for
personnel management, 12 staff-months of TA for MIS as well as in-house local specialist
consultants in financing and procurement and in MIS. Additional activities to be financed
include workshops, seminars, study tours, short term training and office equipment including
computers. (See Annex A for details).
4.8    While the approach to phasing out some functions of MOA is clear, specific activities
related to the actual phasing out of each function or for establishing cost recovery mechanisms
cannot be accurately predicted at this stage. These would be identified in the course of
project implementation. An MOA Rationalization Fund of US$2 million would be included in
the project to support these activities. These activities would be identified by the MOA
rationalization task force and presented for approval by the Inter-Ministerial Steering
Committee as part of the annual action program. Prior to implementation of the annual action
program including financing from the MOA Rationalization Fund, MOA and IDA would
exchange views and agree on the program. Inclusion in the annual work program and prior
IDA approval would be a condition of disbursement for all activities supported by the MOA
Rationalization Fund (para. 4.23). Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations.
4.9   Policy Formulaton and Implementation (US$7.1 million). The project would
provide support in two broad areas: (i) policy analysis; and (ii) longer term institutional
strengthening. The work program in the area of policy analysis would include: preparation
of sector policies including short and medium term policies and programs; improved policy
coordination and feedback through support to strengthen the Policy Analysis and Advisory
Committee; improved regulations and incentives to establish an enabling environment for
private sector development; and food security policy. During calendar 1993, policy
formulation would focus on high priority reform areas for possible inclusion in a proposed
Structural Adjustment Credit. Specific items for financing include TA, workshops, seminars,
vehicles and office equipment.
4.10   Support for longer term institutional strengthening would include a comprehensive
staff training program, and improved work environment and facilities. In addition, policy
officers from headquarters will be stationed in each of the 20 regions to improve feedback on
policy implementation, strengthen data collection and improve dissemination of new policies.
Specific items for financing include seminars and workshops, TA, technical services provided
locally through personnel service contracts and in-house local consultants, training, vehicles
and office equipment including computers. (See Annex B).
4.11   Agricultural Information Systens and Services (US$10.8 million). The component
would focus on strengthening, rationalizing and expanding the agricultural sector information
base which is very weak. Priority would be given to supporting the country's capacity to



lhe Project                                                                         15
produce reliable information at the national, regional and district levels, related to crop and
livestock production and productivity, and marketing and trade. Emphasis would be on
strengthening institutional capacity for timely analysis and dissemination of agricultural
information, and anticipating the marketing information requirements to support an efficient
functioning of trading in traditional export crops once they are fully liberalized. Institutional
coordination and harmonization of efforts and outputs would be emphasized as well.
Accordingly, the project would finance activities related to undertaking five tasks as well as
flr longer term institutional strengthening. The five tasks are to: (i) carry out a national
sample census of agriculture (the last one was done in 1971/72) which would yield benchmark
data on the structure of agriculture; (ii) expand the subsequent surveys to provide adequate
data for planning on an annual basis; (iii) carry out a pilot survey in one of the cash crops,
using a different methodology, once the census works are completed (this is important in
exploring alternative methodologies for the collection of data that are less expensive and more
timely); (iv) provide the Crop Monitoring Early Warning System with adequate equipment for
rainfall data collection and also improve data collection capacity at the district level; and (v)
improve the communication equipment for better collection and dissemination of marketing
and trade information by the Marketing Development Bureau of MOA. Specific items for
financing include vehicles, motor cycles, bicycles, equipment, improvement of the MOA
library with support for more reference books and professional journals, TA, personnel field
allowances and training. (See Annex C).
Project Costs and Financing
4.12   Total project costs, including taxes and duties, are US$27.2 million (TShs 9.5 billion)
with a foreign exchange component of about 50 percent. Taxes and duties amount to about
US$0.4 million. The cost estimates are summarized in Table 1, below.
Table 1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Componot            Local   Pomign     Total    Local   Foreign     Total
TSh (M)                     USS (M)
Ralorulkbtion of MOA Function    1,455  1,268   2,723     4.2      3.6        7.8
Poliy FonmuLion and          756      1,743     2,499     2.1      5.0        7.1
inpleneration
Agricuuuml Information Sysatn  2,131  1,643     3,774     6.1      4.7       10.8
Tota BDmlinc Codat           4,342    4,654     8,996    12.4      13.3      25.7
Prae Ckxbwwie4p           I   304      235       5 S39    0.8      0.7        1.5
Total Project Costs          4,646    4,889     9,535    13.2      14.0      27.2
(of which, Taxes and Dutie)                              0.4      _           0.4



16                                                                   Chapter Four
4.13   An exchange rate of US$1 = TShs 350 has been used in the estimates. Cost
estimates are based on March 1993 prices and reflect recent price quotations and appraisal
estimates. Price contingencies are based on an annual international inflation rate of 3.1
percent over the five years of the project. It is assumed that the exchange rates will vary
during the period to adjust for the difference between local and foreign inflation. Physical
contingencies have not been included, since the bulk of the project is supporting training and
technical assistance whose appraisal estimates are expected to remain stable.
4.14   The IDA credit would finance about 90 percent of project costs (US$24.5 million),
net of taxes and duties. GOT would finance the remaining 10 percent. IDA financing
includes a PPF of US$750,000.
Procurement
4.15   The project procurement methods are shown in Table 2. About 34 percent of the
estimated project costs is allocated for TA and training. The provision for vehicles and
equipment accounts for roughly 19 percent. The remaining 47 percent is allocated for
incremental operating expenses, MOA Rationalization Fund, workshops, and seminars. All
procurement of goods and consulting contracts would follow World Bank guidelines. The
World Bank's sample bidding documents for goods and consulting contracts would be used.
4.16   Technical Assistance and Training. The appraisal mission reviewed and classified
consultancy services into two broad categories: (i) simple services that could be undertaken
using skills available in the country but outside the Civil Service establishment; and (ii) more
complex services that need to be undertaken with skills available internationally. Details of
the services for both locally and internationally available skills are provided in Annexes A
through C; a summary is provided in Annex H.
4.17   The category of simple services for which skills are locally available includes project
administration which accounts for 228 out of a total of 341 staff-months. Personnel to
undertake such services would be hired locally on fixed-term contracts ranging from one
month to five years. The hiring of these consultants would follow World Bank guidelines.
The hiring of such personnel would be facilitated by the existence of the Tanzania Association
of Consultants (TACO) which keeps a directory of individual consultants and consultancy
firms residing in or registered in Tanzania and a record of their performance. The Executive
Committee of TACO assured the appraisal mission that, in line with its constitution, TACO
would advise the GOT and donor institutions, when so requested, on the selection of the most
suitable consultants to carry out specific consultancy services in the way of providing GOT a
long list of consultants. TACO has more than one hundred members (individuals and firms)
but also keeps a record of an even higher number; it has in the past received financial support
from the UNDP/World Bank project aimed to build consultancy capacity in sub-Saharan
Africa. The current President of TACO is the President of the Federation of African
Consultants.
4.18 Internationally recruited consultants would also be hired, under the project, following
the World Bank guidelines. The information services of TACO would facilitate foreign firms
or individuals interested in entering a joint-venture with local individuals or firms.



The Project                                                                    17
4.19   There would be about five major packages of consultancy services to be procured
internationally. Details of these packages as well as their procurement timetable are given in
Annex H. Agreement was obtained during negotiations that the technical assistance proposals
would be prepared and the letters of invitation packages (consisting of TORs, and short lists)
for each proposal would be reviewed by IDA before credit effectiveness. In addition, during
negotiations, the GOT provided IDA for review a draft general procurement notice, a draft
standard letter of invitation and draft standard contracts for hiring of consultants as well as
draft terms of reference for technical assistance and studies.
4.20   Training is of five types: (i) on the job training to be carried out in the context of
studies undertaken within MOA; (ii) local training using local institutions; (iii) personnel
service contracts for governnent personnel on leave of absence from the Civil Service; (iv)
study tours; and (v) short and long term training overseas. The GOT has expressed interest
in cooperating with FAO to manage this complex training program as well as the TA for the
agricultural information component; the FAO has been assisting the GOT in both these areas,
with IDA funding, in the past with considerable success. At negotiations, GOT provided
adequate details to support the sole source contract, estimated at about US$6.0 million. The
TA would include a project training officer, and TA for the agricultural census and
subsequent annual surveys, and for the collection and processing of market information.
4.21   Goods. The total requirement for vehicles is estimated at US$2.5 million. They
would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) except for about 12
vehicles urgently required for the agricultural census; the latter would be procured through the
UN Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office or through international shopping in an
aggregate amount not to exceed US$270,000. With respect to procurement of other goods,
contracts estimated at US$50,000 or more would be bid by ICB. Contracts for less than US$
50,000 would be bid by local competitive bidding (LCB), with the aggregate amount not to
exceed US$370,000. Under ICB, domestic manufacturers bidding for goods would be
allowed a margin of preference of 15 percent over the CIF price of competing foreign bidders
or the existing rate of import duty, whichever is lower.
4.22   Procurement Review. All contracts for goods procured under ICB would be subject
to IDA prior review procedures. All other contracts would be subject to IDA post review
procedures. All consultancy contracts, with firms, valued at the equivalent of US$100,000 or
more will be subject to IDA prior review procedures. Prior review procedures would apply
regardless of the value of contracts with respect to terms of reference, single source contracts,
critical assignments and contract amendments valued at more than US$100,000 or that raise
total contract value above US$100,000 equivalent. For individual consultants, simplified
review procedures would apply as per World Bank guidelines. In addition, before the first
contract below US$100,000 is awarded, IDA would still review all stages of consultants'
contract. All post review contracts for goods and consultants would be subject to sample
review of one in five. GOT would also promptly report on contract awards and furnish to
IDA quarterly reports giving updated information on bidding packages and contracting.



18                                                                                 Chapter Four
Table 2: PROCUREMENT METMOD
(US$ '000)
ICB        LCB   Ol hrn            Non-IDA |    Total
1. Good_:
2,500                     300'
1.1                                                         (270)         280         2,300
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~~~[20DJ
2,022        411'
1.2 Equipmat                      (1,820)      (370)                      243         2,433
______      ~~[441                                _ _   _
5,526-
2. Tecllok"l Asdstsce                                     (5,526)         -           5,526
3,925d
3. TrInin g                                               (3,925)                     3,925
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   [~~ ~~1 54J
4.  OKceilaneotm                  _  _  _     _  _ _ _  _   _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _
1,6264
4.1 Wodops and Semmin                                     (1,626)         -            1,626
4.2 MOA RQtorulization Fund                                2,031l
(2,031)         -          2,031
3,902
4.3  wrwmeal Opraing Co=ts                                (6,626)       2,276         8,902
[51J                   _ _ _  _ _
4,522        411       22,310
Totl                              (4,070)      (370)      (20,004)      2,79          27,243
1441       (7061
Note:   Figure in p    _nthee represent the aunts to be rumuad out of the prposed IDA Credit, of which the
figur  in brecke  reprent the amounts to be fuanced out of the PPF Advance under P-782-0-TA of
Decenber 29, 1992. All prcurment would be made in accordance with the provisions of the World Bank
ludelines.
*       Reopreens the portion to be financed by GOT.
As far as posible, the preferrd mdhod of prcurnt would be through the UN-LkPSO.
*       All technicl uiance procument would be in accowance with the World Bank Guidelines: Uns of
Conrkwt by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank u Executing Agency (Washington D.C.,
Aug"ut 1981).
4       As part of the Anual Work Program, MOA would submit detailed annual training and study tour programn
for IDA's review ond appoval.
*       Prcurement under as wel as disbursanent out of the MOA Rationalization Fund would be ubject to prior
review and approval of the Annual Work Prgram by IDA.



The Project                                                                             19
Disbursenents
4.23   The proposed project is expected to be implemented in five years. The disbursement
forecast given in Annex F extends over an eight year period, consistent with the standard
disbursement profile for all agricultural projects in Tanzania. Disbursements of IDA funds
would be made against major categories as shown in Table 3. Incremental operating costs
include incremental salaries, fuel for vehicles and rent for buildings. Vehicles and equipment
category includes their spare parts. IDA's contribution to incremental operating costs would
be on a declining percentage basis to allow Government to build up gradually to its post-
project funding responsibilities. A condition of disbursement for the MOA Rationalization
Fund would be prior IDA approval of proposals within the framework of the annual work
programs (para. 4.8). A condition of disbursement for the activities in the training category
would be prior IDA approval of the relevant comprehensive annual training program.
Disbursements of all expenditures under the project would be made against full documentation
except as outlined below. Reimbursement of eligible expenditures in both local and foreign
currency would be made solely on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs) in respect of
contracts for goods and services valued less than US$50,000 equivalent operating costs and
local training programs. All documentation related to such expenditures would be retained in
a central location by the Project Secretariat, and made available for IDA's review upon
request.
Table 3: MAJOR DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
Amount of               % of Expenditure
Category                  Credit                  to be Firnced
Allocated          (all excluding taxes and duties)
(USS Million)
1. Vehicls and Equipnent                4.0        100% of foreign
90% of local
2. Worishop. and Seminars               1.4        100%
3. Technical Auitance and Studies       4.7        100%
4 Training                              3.4        100%
5. MOA Rationalization Fund             2.0        100%
6. Incremenl Operating Costs            6.0        100% of foreign
100% of local during Yean I and 2
60% of local thereafter
7. Refund of PPF Advance                 0.7       Anount due
8. Unallocated                          2.3
Total                     24.5



20                                                                 Chapter Four
Accountdng and Audits
4.24   A single set of consolidated accounts would be prepared for the project.
Responsibility for preparing the project accounts would rest with the project accountant who
would be appointed for this purpose (see terms of reference for project accountant in Annex
E). The project accountant would be appointed before credit effectiveness and would be
located in the office of the project coordinator. He or she would obtain information from all
MOA Departments implementing the project and incorporate this information in the
consolidated accounts. The accounts would be audited by independent auditors satisfactory to
IDA; agreenent to this effect was obtained during negotiations. A certified copy of the
accounts, together with the auditor's report, would be submitted to IDA within nine months of
the closing of the fiscal year, including a separate opinion on the records and accounts used to
support disbursement against SOEs.
4.25   A foreign exchange Special Account would be established for the project with a
commercial bank through the Bank of Tanzania on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
Upon credit effectiveness, an initial deposit of USS 1.5 million equivalent would be deposited
in the account, representing about four months of IDA disbursements. Operation of the
Special Account would follow the procedures of IDA and the account would be replenished on
the basis of regular monthly applications from MOA documenting expenditures from the
account.



S. ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IEPLEMENTATION
5.1   The existing organizational and management structures of the ministry would be used
to implement the project (Annex I). The project would therefore be implemented under the
overall direction of a Steering Committee chaired by the Principal Secretary (PS) of MOA
and consisting of the four MOA Commissioners and the Director of the Personnel and
Administration Department. Hence, before carrying out any significant change in the
structure of MOA, assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would
first consult with IDA. Because the project is closely linked to broader public reform
programs of the civil service, parastatal privatization and planning and budgeting which are
implemented by outside institutions, these institutions would be represented on the steering
committee. These are the Civil Service Department, the Parastatal Sector Reform
Commission (PSRC), the Planning Commission, the Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS) and
the Ministry of Finance. The committee would therefore be called an Inter-ministerial
Steering Committee (ISC) and would have the responsibility for overall policy guidance,
resource allocation and review for the project's implementation. An MOA Advisory
Technical Committee (ATC) would provide technical guidance as well as take leadership of
the work of the various task forces in the project. The ATC would be chaired by the
Commissioner for Planning and Marketing of MOA and would consist of the Assistant
Commissioners of MOA and a representative from the CBS. The two committees directed
project preparation and this worked well.
5.2 The two committees would be serviced by a Project Secretariat attached to the office
of the Commissioner for Planning and Marketing of MOA and administered by a Project
Coordinator (PC). The PC would be assisted by.a project accountant; a project procurement
officer; a training coordinator who would coordinate all the aspects of training for the project;
a task manager for the rationalization of the MOA functions; and a project administrative
officer (see their terms of reference in Annex E). The PC would serve as the Secretary of the
ISC and the ATC, and would hence organize and take minutes of the meetings of these two
committees. The Project Secretariat would be responsible for the day-to-day administration
of the project including accounting, procurement, disbursement and monitoring. The
Government appointed the PC before negotiations; he participated in the negotiations.
Appointment of the training coordinator, project accountant and the MOA rationalization task
manager are conditions of credit effectiveness.
5.3   The component in support of the rationalization of the functions and strengthening the
management of MOA would be implemented under the direction of the Rationalization Task
Force (RTF) which would set priorities, assign roles and responsibilities and monitor progress
during implementation of the component (see details in Annex A). The RTF would be
assisted by Technical Task Groups (TTGs) and consultants who would prepare detailed plans
for phasing out individual functions of MOA or plans for cost recovery measures. The TTGs
would be established for various sub-sectors including crop services, livestock services,
irrigation, cooperatives, rationalization at regional and district levels, and strengthening
management systems of MOA (for details, see Annex A). The rationalization task manager
would provide full time support to the activities of the RTC and the TTGs and would serve as
the Secretary of the RTF, responsible for organizing and taking minutes of its meetings.
While the rationalization activities would be implemented by the relevant organizational units



22                                                                   Chapter Five
of MOA, the responsibility for coordinating implementation would be with the Project
Preparation and Monitoring Bureau of MOA. The strengthening of the management systems
and capacity of the MOA would be implemented by the following respective organizational
units of MOA: (i) personnel management and the publicity campaign for the new mission of
MOA - Personnel and Administration Department; (ii) management training - Training Unit;
(iii) management information system - Planning and Marketing Division; and (iv) accounting
and procurement strengthening - Finance and Accounting Unit. The ISC, ATC and RTF
have already been established by Government.
5.4   The policy formulation and implementation component and the agricultural
information systems and services component would be implemented by the Planning and
Marketing Division of MOA. The Division would collaborate with the CBS, through a
memorandum of understanding, in the implementation of this component particularly in the
undertaking of an agricultural census and subsequent annual surveys. During project
negotiations, the Government submitted to IDA a signed memorandum of understanding
between MOA and CBS.
5.5   For each component and for the project as a whole, by March 31 of each year
beginning 1994, annual work programs would be produced, endorsed by the ISC, and
reviewed and agreed to by IDA before the beginning of the fiscal year; assurances to this
effect were obtained during negotiations. For the first year of the project, the work programs
(annual action plans) for the rationalization of MOA functions and for policy analysis were
provided to IDA for review already.
5.6   The management of the training program for the project and the hiring of TA for the
agricultural information component would be implemented in cooperation with FAO, in line
with past practices. Local training would be undertaken by local institutions including the
Eastern and Southern Africa Management Institute (ESAMI), Sokoine University of
Agriculture and the University of Dar es Salaam. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that all training opportunities and awards would be based on criteria acceptable to
IDA and selections for overseas training would be reviewed and approved by IDA.
5.7    Given the special nature of on-the-job training and personnel service contracts, they
need to be closely monitored. Hence, agreemrent was obtained during negotiations that the
Government would carry out, jointly with IDA, a review of the experiences with and
effectiveness of on-the-job training and personnel service contracts no later than March 31,
1995.
3.8    Mid-term Review. At the end of the second year of project implementation, a mid-
term review (MTR) would be undertaken jointly by the GOT and IDA. The MTR would
focus on progress made in implementing the various components of the project as specified in
the detailed description of the components in the annexes. Since the main emphasis of the
project is technical assistance and training, the MTR would evaluate the process by which the
TA was recruited and managed, and assess the extent to which national counterparts have
been trained to take over. Similarly, the MTR would evaluate the training program focussing
on the process by which staff for training have been selected, training provided and staff



Organization, Management and Implementation                                  23
redeployed after training. The experience with and effectiveness of on-the-job training and
personnel service contracts would also be evaluated. The criteria for evaluating the
performance of the TA and training programs was discussed and agreed with IDA at
negotiations.
5.9   The MTR would also review the steps taken to implement: (i) the key
recommendations arising from the studies financed under the project; and (ii) action plans for
phasing out MOA functions designated for the private sector and cost recovery measures for
the MOA functions that are to be provided at cost. Agreement was obtained during
negotiations that: (i) the MTR, covering the above scope, would be conducted two years after
credit effectiveness, and in any case no later than June 30 1996; and (ii) three months prior to
the MTR, Government would prepare and furnish to IDA reports as shall be needed to
undertake the review.
5.10   Reporting and Project Monitoring Arrangements. Reports on project
implementation would be prepared by the implementors of the components according to a
format provided by the PC. The PC would consolidate the component reports into a project
report for review and action by the ISC. These reports would be prepared on a quarterly
basis, hence requiring the ISC to meet at least once every quarter. The quarterly reports
would be submitted to IDA for information and any necessary action within two months of the
completion of the quarter each year; the first of such reports would be submitted three months
after credit effectiveness. During negotiations, agreenent was obtained on these project
reporting and monitoring arrangements.






6. BENEFITS, RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY
Benefits
6.1   The project benefits would accrue from four sets of activities. First, the role of
MOA would be refocused on the provision of public goods and an enabling enviromnent for
the private sector. Second, successful implementation of this project would set up MOA as a
pioneer participant in the forthcoming Civil Service reforms which are geared to enhancing
the pay, morale, performance and productivity of the government employees. Third, MOA's
policy formulation and implementation capacity would be strengthened, enabling the
accelerated implementation of key agricultural reforms in export marketing and other
subsectors. And fourth, the agricultural information base, systems and services would be
strengthened, facilitating public sector monitoring and regulation of agricultural markets, and
the planning and management of investments and other economic activities in the private
sector. These activities would contribute to sustaining agricultural growth, improving food
security and increasing foreign exchange earnings.
Risks
6.2    A project risk relates to the Government commitment to implement the IDS and to
effectively utilize technical assistance to strengthen institutional capacity. Government
commitment was tested during Government-IDA joint preparation of the institutional
development strategy and during preparation of the project by Government and local
consultants, and during appraisal; it was found strong at technical and management levels.
The strength of Government commitment was further demonstrated by the Government's
letter of institutional development objectives and strategy addressed to IDA.
Sustainability
6.3   The project would improve MOA's analytical base for policy management and enable
it to concentrate on providing only the critical public goods and creating an enabling
environment for the private sector. This would make MOA become cost-effective and
efficient while improving its effectiveness in promoting private sector development. Both
outcomes would enhance the sustainability of the project benefits described above.
Recurrent Cost Implications on the Budget
6.4    Of the estimated project cost of US$27.2 million, 32 percent or US$8.8 million
represents incremental recurrent costs. Under the proposed financing plan, GOT would
finance US$2.2 million (26 percent) of the incremental recurrent costs. When the tax and
duty elements amounting to US$0.4 million are excluded, the effective GOT funding of the
incremental recurrent costs would be US$1.8 million. Considering the budgetary constraints
of GOT, the proposed disbursement pattern provides for 100 percent financing during the first
two years of the project and 60 percent for the remaining years. Thus, there would be no



26                                                                     Chapter Six
immediate drain on the GOT budget. By the third year of the project, it is reasonably
expected that the savings resulting from proposed rationalization of MOA functions would be
available to finance the proposed 40 percent portion of the incremental recurrent costs. At
current price levels, the average annual incremental recurrent cost of about US$0.6 million
starting from the third year, works out to 0.2 percent of the national recurrent budget and 4.7
percent of MOA's recurrent budget.
6.5    A proximate indicator of the budget burden after project completion is the estimated
incremental recurrent costs in the last year of project implementation as a percentage of the
recurrent budget of 1992/93, all in 1992/93 prices. Such recurrent costs work out to US$1.5
million (comprising primarily US$1.2 million for the expanded and pilot agricultural surveys),
or 0.4 percent and 11.8 percent of the national and MOA's recurrent budgets, respectively.
The inflow of increased savings from MOA rationalization and other project objectives would
finance the incremental recurrent costs. Further, less cost intensive agricultural surveys could
be expected to be in place by then, thus substantially reducing the required volume of
incremental recurrent costs. Moreover, the project's support for establishing an enabling
environment for private sector development would contribute to a growth in agricultural
incomes, and consequently, Government's tax revenue base. Thus, the net project impact on
the government budget would be a positive one over the long term.



7. AGREEMENTS, ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1   The following are conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a)    provision to IDA for review of technical assistance proposals and the letters of
invitation packages (consisting of the TORs and short lists) for each proposal
(para. 4.19).
(b)   appointment of the project training officer, project accountant and the MOA
rationalization task manager (para. 5.2); and
7.2   The following agreements were obtained during negotiations:
(a)   the Government would implement the program contained in the letter of IDOS
(para. 4.2);
(b)   accounts would be maintained for the project as a whole and would be audited
by a firm of independent auditors; and the audited accounts would be
submitted to IDA within nine months of the fiscal year, including a separate
opinion on the records and accounts used to support disbursements against
SOEs (para. 4.24);
(c)   the Government would exchange views with IDA prior to carrying out any
significant changes in the structure of the MOA (para. 5.1);
(d)   an annual work program including: (i) a comprehensive training program
consisting of at least on the job training, study tours and local and
international training, (ii) a program for the rationalization of MOA functions
and (iii) a program for policy analysis, would be provided to IDA by March
31 of each year, together with analysis of the output (results) to the previous
year's program (para. 5.5 and Annex B.1);
(e)   all training opportunities and awards would be based on criteria acceptable to
IDA, and selections for overseas training would be reviewed and approved by
IDA (para. 5.6);
(f)   the Government would carry out jointly with IDA, a review of the experiences
with and effectiveness of on-the-job training and personnel service contracts
no later than March 31, 1995 (para. 5.7).
(g)    a mid-term review would be conducted two years after credit effectiveness and
in any case no later than June 30, 1996; three months prior to the review, the
Government would prepare and furnish to IDA such reports as shall be needed
for review (para. 5.9); and



28                                                                 Chapter Seven
(h)    quarterly project implementation reports would be submitted to IDA for
information and any necessary action, within two months of the completion of
the quarter each year (para. 5. 10);
7.3   The following are conditions of disbursenent:
(a)   disbursement for the activities of phasing out MOA functions using the MOA
Rationalization Fund would be effected only after IDA has approved the
related annual work program (paras. 4.8 and 4.23); and
(b)   disbursement for the activities in the training program would be effected only
after IDA has approved the relevant comprehensive annual training program
(para. 4.23);
Recommendation
7.4    With the above assurances, agreements and conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 17.3 million (US$24.5 million equivalent) to the
Government of The United Republic of Tanzania.



29
ANNEX A. RATIONALIZATION OF MOA FuNCFIoNs
1.    The guiding principle of the component is to rationalize government functions, getting
out of functions better served by the private sector and strengthening the remaining core
functions. The core functions all relate in one way or another to creating an enabling
environment for private sector agricultural production and income growth.
2.    There is a high degree of support and consensus within the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) for moving in this direction, as evidenced during the Agricultural Sector Review, in
the ASMP preparation document, and during the appraisal mission. How to go about the
transition from where they are to where they want to be is not that clear. Support for this
transition process is at the heart of ASMP.
3.    Strengthening four of the principal MOA core functions are covered by other projects
(research and extension) or by other components of ASMP (policy formulation and
implementation, and agricultural information). Consequently, this component will mainly
target strengthening management systems that support the other functions and improving
implementation capacity for all MOA programs.
4.    The general action areas are well defined (e.g., support for MOA's role in parastatal
divestiture, spinning off about 48 functions identified by the preparation team, crafting MOA
rationalization strategy and actions in light of general civil service reform, proposing specific
strategies for public/private cooperation in about 20 functions identified, etc.). In addition,
specific activities within each sub-component and the resource requirements for carrying them
out have been outlined. New opportunities will arise for phasing out public sector
involvement or for public/private cooperation as the project progresses. The implementation
models for phasing out the activities already identified will be applied to the new functions
that will be identified throughout the life of the project.
SUB-COMPONENTS
1. Parastatal Divestiture
5.    Setting priorities, preparing parastatals for privatization, and implementing actual
divestiture of agricultural parastatals are critical elements of rationalization of MOA functions.
However, the overall responsibility belongs to PSRC-MOA has already done most of what it
can in defining options and priorities. These actions therefore do not belong to ASMP, but to
the general parastatal reform effort spearheaded by the Parastatal Sector Reform Commission
(PSRC) except in situations where the PSRC delegates to MOA and provides resources to
prepare the agricultural parastatals for privatization.
6.    Communication between the MOA and PSRC needs to be strengthened and their
complementary roles and responsibilities clarified. MOA/PPMB has done a lot of work to
date, knows the parastatals inside and out and has already had some parastatals privatized, but
its role must change. The in-depth knowledge and the modest experience in undertaking



30                                                                          AnnexA
privatization exercises must be deployed to support PSRC to meet its statutory responsibilities
for implementation of divestiture. MOA can continue to prepare parastatals for privatization
on a case by case basis as delegated to it by PSRC. In addition, there will always be a role
for MOA in determining policy for the transition period as the parastatals are sold off (e.g.,
determining national seeds policy even as TANSEED is divested), and in monitoring status of
agricultural parastatals as part of monitoring sector programs and performance. Strengthening
this role is covered under the ASMP policy component. MOA must get out of micro-
managing parastatals as this role is being taken over by the management and Boards of the
parastatals themselves.
a. Proposed strategy:
7.    Conduct an initial two-day workshop for MOA/PPMB and PSRC for setting up
systematic exchange of information and clarification of the respective roles of each
organization. The products of the workshop would be a clearer understanding of roles and
responsibilities and a draft action plan for systematically deploying PPMB knowledge to assist
PSRC in preparing parastatals for privatization and in privatization itself.
B.    Technical assistance would be required in the form of an agricultural privatization
expert for 12 person-months to support MOA in reviewing the operational and financial status
of agricultural parastatals, prepare studies on divestiture options, and carry out detailed
analyses of parastatals in preparation for their divestiture, as delegated to it. This TA is
necessary as an interim arrangement to support a smooth transition from a situation where
MOA was responsible for preparing and privatizing agricultural parastatals to one in which
PSRC, a new and young organization, builds up capacity to take over that role. The terms of
reference are as follows:
(i)     review the current status of PPMB information on agricultural
parastatals and propose actions to remedy any gaps with
regard to its eventual utilization in divestiture process;
(ii)     advise MOA and PSRC on optimal arrangements for
systematically incorporating MOA information on agricultural
parastatals into divestiture procedures of PSRC;
(iii)     support preparation and privatization efforts for the on-going
work for which the PSRC has delegated divestiture
responsibilities to MOA; and
(iv)     train MOA staff in financial analysis and privatization
strategies in line with the forthcoming procedures and
guidelines for privatization expected to be issued soon along
with the new Public Enterprises Act.
Additional short-term TA will be needed in the form of contracts for preparing
agricultural parastatals for privatization, but this will be financed by PSRC.



The Rationalization of MoA Funcdons                                           31
b. Budget
9.    Implementation of the sub-component will be managed by the Project Preparation and
Monitoring Bureau (PPMB).
1. Start up workshop
Workshop facilitator 7 days x $200                                1,400
Materials, facilities                                             1,000
OJT: 1 task $170 x 20 participants                                3,400
Short-term consultants (1 MOA and 1 PSRC) to be resource persons
for workshops and take responsibility for report on outcomes
and follow up [US$ 1,500 x 21 =                                   3,000
Sub-total                     8,800
2. Technical Assistance
Internat. privat. specialist 12 months x 15,000                   180,000
3. Vehicles to facilitate access to parastatals
Two 4WD pickups 2 x 25,000                                        50,000
4.    Desktop Pcs and software 2 x 5,000                          10,000
Power stab. and printer 2 x 5,000                           10,000
Laptop and printer 1 x 5,000                                5,000
Fax I x 800                                                 800
Photocopier 1 x 6,000                                       6,000
Sub-total                                                  31,800
Total Parastatal Divestiture Support                              270,600
c. Performance Indicators:
10.   The ultimate indicator of this sub-component will be the number of parastatals
divested. Since this will depend on the work of the PSRC and general government policy,
ASMP project performance will be measured by the following:
i. Preparation of clearly specified MOA role and responsibilities vis a vis PSRC for
preparing parastatals for sale, and for systematically incorporating MOA information
into the divestiture process. (Year 1)



32                                                                          AnnexA
ii. Systematic incorporation of MOA data and studies within PSRC activities.
Performance to be evaluated during the mid-term and final project reviews. (Years 3
and 5).
2. Rationalization of MOA Functions (Spinning off MOA services to private sector
delivery)
11.   There is consensus that a number of MOA services should be phased out and passed
on to the private sector (e.g., heifer farms, sale of veterinary drugs, cattle dips, distribution
of agricultural chemicals and inputs, etc.). The concern is that this be undertaken through a
rational process in which minimal disruption to producer takes place-it cannot simply happen
by decree from one day to the next.
12.   Although MOA has the means to phase out a few of the functions without support
from ASMP, the objective of ASMP support is to focus attention, provide a systematic
framework, reward participation, set definite action timetables, and facilitate actions necessary
to bring about the planning and implementation of this transition.
13.   There are two sides to the spinning off coin: getting MOA out and enticing the private
sector to go in. Both are necessary, neither is automatic. All of the various services
represent complex activities in which the actions and their sequencing in phasing out are all
different. For example, privatizing heifer farms must follow a different course than phasing
out MOA delivery of veterinary drugs. Some ideas on how to go about phasing out these
services exist in the MOA, but these ideas must be consolidated and operationalized
systematically through a participatory process like that used in the ASMP project preparation.
Learning from experience as implementation progresses and taking necessary corrective action
is critical and a key aspect of the project by providing financing to support this process.
a. Proposed strategy:
14.   Implementation of the rationalization activities would be undertaken by the relevant
organizational units within MOA. But coordination of implementation would be the
responsibility of the Project Preparation and Monitoring Bureau of MOA. Rationalization
would be directed by a Task Force, assisted by Technical Task Groups.
Rationalization Task Force
15.   A Rationalization Task Force would be created to set priorities, develop action plans,
assign roles and responsibilities, and monitor progress during implementation. Makeup of the
task force would be determined by the Government prior to project implementation, but
should be broad enough to ensure that the activities are fully integrated into the other
components of the project, particularly policy formulation and implementation. The terms of
reference for this task force are as follows:
(i)    Prepare an overall action plan identifying priority services for phasing out
government delivery and establish timetables for action. The 48 functions



The Rationalization of MoA Functions                                                33
identified by the project preparation team will constitute the initial set of
functions from which ten priorities will be selected for attention during the
first year of the project.
(ii)    Assign roles and responsibilities for carrying out tasks identified in the overall
plan, specifying the makeup and operating procedures for Task Groups
covering various sub-sectors including (a) livestock services, (b) crop services,
(c) cooperative development and management, (d) irrigation, and (e)
alternatives for public/private cooperation and cost recovery (discussed in
more detail below). A sixth Task Group will report to the Task Force,
charged with planning and overseeing the rationalization and strengthening of
MOA management systems and capacity.
(iii)   Review and approve proposals prepared by the task groups or individuals
assigned the task of preparing strategies and action plans for phasing out
individual functions (e.g., cattle dips, sale of veterinary drugs, heifer farms,
marketing of agricultural chemicals, etc.).
(iv)   Conduct annual reviews of progress on the overall rationalization plan,
identify constraints, and propose solutions. All 48 functions are to be targeted
during the project.
(v)    Identify and implement a strategy for the continuous identification of new
functions or services that can be passed on to the private sector, or that can be
financed through cost recovery mechanisms or public/private cooperation.
(vi)   Take responsibility for identifying key stakeholders who need to be informed
of MOA rationalization progress and ensure that timely information is
disseminated to them.
The task force would follow a participatory process similar to that used during project
preparation, initiated through an implementation start-up workshop in which the
rationalization objectives would be reviewed, roles and responsibilities would be established,
and the draft overall action plan would be developed.
Technical Task Groups
16.   The task groups would have the responsibility of preparing detailed plans for phasing
out individual services within their technical areas. A need for such task groups has already
been felt for the phasing out or joint operation (with cost recovery arrangements) of livestock
services, crop services, research, irrigation, and cooperatives. For example, the task group
on livestock services would have responsibility for preparing a plan on phasing out
government heifer production. This would include the following:
(i)      preparation of an inventory of all heifer production
installations and activities;



34                                                                          Annx A
(ii)     identification of installations or activities that should be
eliminated immediately and those that should be consolidated
during the transition period;
(iii)    identification of legal, regulatory, and policy changes that
should be carried out (e.g., increase the price of government
heifer sales to the market price, identify constraints to private
sector entry into this activity, etc.);
(iv)     presentation of a strategy and timetable for phasing out heifer
production at the remaining installations;
(v)      determination of operational arrangements for working through
PSRC on the sale of government assets;
(vi)     identification of training needs and propose a training program
for individuals who will take over heifer operations (e.g.,
technical areas and basic business practices).
17.   Each of the functions identified for phasing out would follow a similar model. The
task groups would receive some on-the-job training remuneration, and short-term consultants
(MOA staff on leave of absence or outside individuals) would prepare specific terms of
reference and other inputs for the functional spin off action plans. For example, a task group
on research services would look at cost recovery mechanisms in the context of the Research
Master Plan. The Research Master Plan was designed primarily thinking of donors, to have a
solid, national research program to which individual donors would contribute, rather than a
series of disjointed individual donor-funded projects. The Master Plan does not address
sufficiently the long-term funding needs or financial sustainability of the research system.
The Research Department has prepared a series of proposals on funding arrangements or
other cooperative ventures with the private sector. These have legal and other organizational
implications for MOA that need to be analyzed. Implementation of all of these needs more
work if they are to be realized.
18.   Another notable area is that of the Cooperative System. As the cooperative system
restructures it will become one of the principal private sector components of the agricultural
sector. As such, special attention should be given to finding appropriate operational
modalities for collaboration with government services, financed by the cooperatives as private
entities. Similarly, there are some services currently rendered by MOA to the cooperatives
that should go to the private sector, for example, auditing. The experimentation with
privatization of services or cost recovery mechanisms in this regard could be applied to other
departments of MOA and other ministries.
Radonalklaon Task Manager
19.   A Rationalization Task Manager would be hired for the entire project period to assist
the Project Coordinator in coordinating implementation of the rationalization component.



The Rationalization of MoA Funaions                                               35
However, responsibility for coordination of implementation would be with the Project
Preparation and Monitoring Bureau. The rationalization task manager would provide exclusive
dedication to supporting the activities of the Task Force and the task groups, and coordinate
the activities of short-term consultants. The task manager will have extensive experience in
strategic management and organizational development in agricultural institutions, including
familiarity with project and program management, policy implementation, and divestiture.
The individual should have a strong familiarity with the mission, objectives, and programs of
MOA, and will:
(vii)     provide guidance to the Rationalization Task Force and serve
as the secretary for its deliberations;
(viii)     orient the groups working on rationalization to define a clear
focus and coherent goals, And bring the individual activities
together in a long-term unified approach;
(ix)      coordinate the activities of the various task groups and
individual consultants, according to the action plans approved
by the task force;
(x)      prepare reports and provide for their distribution to all
necessary parties ensuring adequate information flows between
task groups and components of the project;
(xi)      participate in the design and implementation of individual
action plans or related technical studies as determined by the
task force and task groups;
(xii)     develop a training program for MOA staff on topics related to
the rationalization process, and coordinate training activities
for groups or individuals taking over the spun off MOA
functions; and
(xiii)     coordinate the annual rationalization review and planning
workshops as well as preparation for the mid-term and final
project reviews.
Short-erm Technical Assistance
20.   Nine months of periodic short-term international technical assistance by an
institutional development specialist will be needed to provide external guidance and support
for the task manager and the rationalization task force. This individual will review the
strategies adopted, analyze progress and problems, and carry out action training activities in
topics identified by the task force (e.g., strategic management, implementation of
rationalization policies, financial sustainability options, stakeholder analysis, etc.).



36                                                                      Annex A
Fund to fiwance studies and progrva phase out
21.   A detailed review of individual functions for phasing out will be necessary. But due
to lack of perfect foresight and information, the appraisal mission was not in position to
predict the exact nature of the work required for each function. Similarly, the mission could
not predict resources that would be required to support some programs of functional phase
out. Therefore a fund of $2 million has been set aside that would be committed and disbursed
against detailed annual plans of necessary reviews/studies of functions for phasing out or cost
sharing programs.
Study tours
22.   Five study tours would be financed to allow participants to observe successful
experience in phasing out similar government services in agriculture.
b. Budget
1. Implementation start-up workshop
Workshop facilitator 15 days x $ 200                        3,000
Materials, facilities                                       1,000
OJT: 1 task $170 x 30 participants                         5,100
Sub-total              9,100
2. Task Force Activities
OJT: 6 tasks/yr, $170 per task, 20 members, 5 years         102,000
3. Annual Planning and Review Workshops
For each:
Workshop facilitator 15 days x $ 200                        3,000
Materials, facilities                                       1,000
OJT task $170 x 30 participants                            5,100
Sub-total 8350 x 4                                         33,400
4. Task Group work
OJT, 6 tasks/yr, 170 per task, 10 members/Task group,
6 task groups, 5 years                                      306,090
5. Short-term consultants (MOA)
1500/month, 5 mo/task group, 5 years (125)                 187,500
6. Task Manager 60 months x $3,000                                180,000
7. Short-term international TA 9 mo. x 15,000               135,000



lhe Rationalization of MoA Functions                                         37
8.    Desktop Pcs and software 2 x 5,000                   10,000
Power stab. and printer 2 x 5,000                   10,000
Laptop and printer 1 x 5,000                        5,000
Fax I x 800                                         800
Photocopier 1 x 6,000                               6,000
Sub-total                                           31,800
9. 2 4wd vehicles x 25,000                                 50,000
10. Training
4000/year/task group for locally provided short
courses in support of those taking over services           120,000
11. Study tours 5 x 10,000                                 50,000
12.   Fund to support implementation of annual plans       2 million
Total Rationalization Sub-Component                        3,204,890
c. Performance Indicators
Year 1:
i) Establishment of Task Force and Task Groups;
ii) Completion of the general task force action plan including identification of the top
priorities for preparation of phase out plans;
iii) Detailed proposals completed by each sub-committee for phasing out a total of ten
functions and operations initiated in all of them;
iv) A process of identification of new functions to be eliminated or operated jointly
with private sector is in place, and five new functions have been identified in addition
to those in the project preparation report;
v) The report of the second annual planning and review workshop identifies progress,
problems, and proposed solutions.
Year 2: (In addition to iii - v above, repeated each year)
Ten functions of the original list of 48 have been totally phased out.
Civil Service reform group recognizes MOA as leader in redefining role of
government and eliminating functions accordingly.



38                                                                       Anx A
Years 3 - 5:
Fifteen additional functions are completely phased out, or funding through cost
recovery, public/private cooperation is in operation.
3. Implementation of New Mission and Structure
23.   The new mission identified in the Institutional Development Strategy and outlined by
the preparation team represents a major overhaul of MOA and a new philosophy and direction
for the Ministry's operations. It is important that aU levels of the MOA share an appreciation
of the new mission and its implications. In addition, it is necessary that MOA management
systems reflect the new objectives of the Ministry, provide incentives, and reward
performance accordingly.
24.   MOA must take the lead in civil service reform so that i) it can decide for itself along
technical lines where to retrench, ii) the general civil service reform can learn from the MOA
experience and experimentation.
25.   Changing MOA systems to facilitate effective management and provide incentives and
reward performance in accord with the new mission will be a difficult, long-term process. To
a large extent, MOA is dependent on system-wide civil service reforms that may take time to
implement. Experience has shown, however, that meaningful reform can take place through
an incremental process in which changes in one department or agency lead to demand fur
system-wide changes and show the way that should be taken. This is the challenge fur MOA.
26.   Nothing that ASMP does will be incompatible with civil service reform, but will
contribute to the above goals and work in close collaboration with the civil service
department. Even without any change in the civil service, there is a lot that can be done
within MOA to update human resource procedures and improve the allocation and
performance appraisal of its staff.
a. Proposed strategy
28.   The activities carried out under this sub-component will be overseen by the
Rationalization Task Force and managed by its sub-committee on rationalization of MOA
management systems. Funding for the activities of those groups are covered in that sub-
component. The present sub-component covers the additional activities described below.
a.    Undertake an information campaign that targets the internal public of the
Ministry and key external groups-both government resource providers and private
sector clients of MOA services. Members of the MOA rationalization task force will
work with the MOA Training Unit to define a program of information and seminars
to disseminate the new mission of the Ministry, explain why the actions are being
taken (e.g., spinning off activities, strengthening policy formulation and



The Rationalization of MoA Functions                                          39
implementation), and elicit comments and suggestions on how the Ministry can more
effectively carry out its mandate in creating an enabling environment for private sector
agricultural production and income growth.
b.    A local public information consultant will be hired on a part-time basis for six
months to advise the group on public information strategies and to prepare a proposal
for such a campaign for MOA.
c.    The information campaign will be used to initiate a permanent activity to
disseminate progress reports and target influential stakeholders so that they are aware
of MOA actions and results in its endeavor to reform the role of government. This is
a critical function in light of MOA's advocacy role for the sector and essential in
translating positive results into increased revenues for the Ministry. The
rationalization task force will participate in designing this activity, identifying key
stakeholders and the types of information to be disseminated.
d.    The pre-service training curricula for all levels of MOA will be reviewed and
revised in light of the new MOA mission. This work will be overseen by the
rationalization task force and the appropriate task group, and undertaken by the
Training Unit.
e.    Overall coordination of implementation of this component will be with the
Department of Administration and Personnel.
b. Budget
1. Information Campaign
OJT: 3 tasks x $170 x 10 participants                       5,100
Short term consultant Oocal) 3,000 x 6                      18,000
Materials and distribution                                  5,000
Sub-total              28,100
2. Institutionalize stakeholder awareness
OJT: 15 tasks x $170 x 10 participants                      25,500
Short-term consultant (MOA) 1,500 x 5                       7,500
Materials and distribution                                  3,000
Sub-total               36,000
3.    Desktop Pcs and software 5 x 5,000                    25,000
Power stab. and printer 5 x 5,000                     25,000
Fax I x 800                                           800
Photocopier 1 x 6,000                                6,000
Sub-total              56,800
Total                                                       123,900



40                                                                        Annex A
c. Performance indicators
Year 1:
Information campaign completed
Year 2:
Information dissemination to key stakeholders under way
Years 3 - 5:
Information dissemination activities institutionalized
MOA recognized as leader in reformulation of role of government and used as a
model for civil service reform
4. RationaHlzation at the Regional/District Levels
28.   The ultimate beneficiaries of all the reforms outlined in the Project are the agricultural
producers. It is especially important that the new MOA mission and the rationalization of its
functions be fully carried through all the way to the local level.
29.   The preparation team bighlighted the difficulties encountered in application of
marketing policy reforms decided at the top but unevenly implemented throughout the
country. Although the other activities outlined above all have implications at levels below
MOA headquarters, the transition from the old mission to the new will not automatically take
place. Ensuring that the new direction of the Ministry and new agricultural policies achieve
practical implementation at levels close to the farmer is the objective of this sub-component.
b. Proposed strategy
30.   a.    Conduct annual seminars in each of the regions for selected district staff
during the first three years of the Project, under the coordination of the MOA
Training Unit. These participants would then replicate the meeting for the entire
district staff back in their district. The first year's seminar/workshop would discuss
the new MOA mission, ASMP, and implications for district and local level work-
following a similar outline as that discussed in the information campaign above. In
addition, the work-shop would highlight a specific policy area (e.g., the new marketing
policies) for presentation and discussion of local problems related to its
implementation. The workshops will also be used as planning sessions for
implementing the new policies, and eventually would tie to the new planning and
budgeting system.
b.    Preliminary workshops will be held for regional leaders, in which the
objectives, program, and methodology will be presented, which the participants will
then apply (with Training Unit participation) in their districts. An outside facilitator



The Ratonalization of MoA Functions                                              41
will help the Training Unit put on these initial regional workshops. Although the
Project will support district level workshops during the first three years, it is hoped
that they will become permanent activities of the Training Unit. Their continuation
will be an indicator of their perceived utility.
c.    Provide program management training for the 20 RALDOs in addition to the
seminars to increase their capacity to carry out the MOA's programs at the regional
level.
d.    Rationalize staff requirements at the regional and district levels, to be carried
out at according to standardized guidelines to be prepared by a regional rationalization
task force, composed of representatives from (at least) extension, personnel, training,
and Civil Service. This work will be overseen by the Rationalization Task Force and
its appropriate task group. The guidelines would establish criteria for determining
MOA priorities in the regions and districts and corresponding staff requirements.
e.    These findings will be used to process necessary transfers and retirements, and
identify training needs for those who will remain in the district but in need of
additional skills.
c. Budget
1. Preliminary workshops for regional leaders
For each of three annual events:
Workshop facilitator 15 days x $200                           3,000
Materials, facilities                                         2,000
OJT: 1 task $170 x 30 participants                            5,100
Short-term consultants (Training unit and
rationalization task force) to be
resource persons for workshops 1,500 x 2                      3,000
Per diem $40 x 6 days x 30 participants                       7,200
Sub-total 20,300 x 3         60,900
2. Annual regional seminars
For each of three annual events
OJT $170 x 30 organizers                                      5,100
Materials     $500 x 20 districts                              10,000
Short-term consultants for preparation
of material 1,500 x 2                                         3,000
Per diem $40 x 35 partic. x 20 regions                        28,000



42                                                                       AnnexA
Sub-total 46,100 x 3 years     138,300
3. District rationalization task force
OJT 3 tasks/year x 3 years, 25 participants                 38,250
Short-term consultants (MOA) 1,500 x 20 x 3                 90,000
(one for each region x 3 years to put guidelines
and plans together, prepare implementation analysis)
Materials preparation                                       3,000
Sub-total               131,250
4. Program management course
International trainer 15,000 x 1 month                      15,000
Materials and facilities                                    3,000
Training subsidy
25 participants x 12 days x $40                            12,000
Sub-total               30,000
Total                                                       360,450
c. Performance Indicators
i) By the end of the first year all district staff will have been exposed to the new
mission and objectives of MOA and had opportunity to discuss implications within
their districts of policies relating to the new mission.
ii) By the end of the second year, these review and planning workshops should be
conducted primarily by regional staff members with minimal guidance from the
training unit.
iii) By the end of the second year each district will have prepared and be
implementing a staff rationalization programme, based on a standardized methodology
and guidelines.
iv) The annual review and planning workshops will continue to take place after the
third year, even without project support.
S. Developing Management Systems and Capacity
31.   This sub-component will introduce all-round improvements in management systems
and capacity as necessary to ensure (a) efficient utilization of the financial, human and
information technology resources available to the MOA, and (b) effective accountability for
the resources. The specific objectives to be pursued through this component will include: (i)
improving the process as well as results in the allocation and utilization of budgetary
resources and manpower in the MOA; (ii) deepening and sustaining the recent initiative to



The Rationalizalon of MoA Functions                                              43
review and redefine the role and functions, and to reorganize the structures of the ministry;
(iii) enhancing the morale, productivity and performance of personnel in the ministry; and (iv)
generally improving the managerial skills of the decision-makers in the sector, and thereby
introducing a managerial culture that can uphold the vision and strategic perspective
underlying the review and redefinition of the role and functions of the Government in the
sector. Furthermore, in pursuit of these objectives, the project will complement, and facilitate
sector and ministry-wise implementation of on-going macro-level reforms in public sector
manamnL and in particular (i) the Rolling Plan and Forward Budget (RPFB) program that
seeks to improve the systems and processes for resource allocation; and (ii) the Civil Service
Reform Program (CSRP) at the core of which is the policy goal to develop a smaller,
compact, efficient and motivated civil service through improved personnel management and
control, organizational and efficiency improvements, and enhanced and incentive-oriented pay
for Government employees.
32.   The support to MOA through this sub-component will generally fall into the following
five areas:
(i) Planning and Budgeting: The need to improve the system and procedures for
planning and budgeting within MOA, and other ministries, is underpinned in
statements of policy guidelines for the implementation of the Rolling Plan and
Forward Budget (RPFB) program. As stated in the guidelines, the planning and the
allocation of budgetary resources has in the past been on the basis of historical trends
and without due regard to the effects of resource allocation between sector, subsectors
and competing activities. In other words, the ministries have in the past prepared
their budgets without any strategic perspective by simply fixing arithmetical
percentages to incrementally alter prior year's figures. Through the RPFB,
Government officers responsible for planning and budgeting are required to place
greater emphasis on identifying priority areas and allocating resources to those
activities. However, with effect from FY93/94, only heralds the start of a long-term
process of inculcating the need and developing the system and skills for creative
approaches to the planning and budgetary process in Government institutions. Project
support to the MOA in this area will therefore involve availing technical assistance
and logistical facilities for the design and implementation of a planning and budgeting
system that will facilitate:- (a) the systematic and effective screening of programs and
projects to be funded while eliminating those associated with the functions that are
being phased out; (b) identification of opportunities for improving services delivery
systems, cost savings and revenue generation; (c) balancing the allocation of
resources between relatively fixed personnel costs and non-personnel expenditures,
and (d) possibly, articulation of the need for increased budgetary resource allocations
to the sector. The Planning and Marketing Division of MOA would be responsible
for implementation of this sub-component.
(ii) Pesonnel Manageme: With a total workforce of about 30,000, the MOA
accounts for nearly 10 percent of all Government employees. It is the fourth largest
ministry; after the ministries of Education, Home Affairs, (i.e. Police and Prisons)
and Defence. Yet, for example, while the CSRP goal is to retrench some 30 percent
of Government employees (excluding employees in the ministries of Education, Health



44                                                                       Annex A
and Home Affairs) and a hiring freeze was imposed last year, the MOA projects the
need for an additional nearly 4,000 employees (over 10 percent) in extension services
alone. It is therefore against such a background that a project will support the
development of the personnel management function in the MOA. Firstly, the project
will support the ministry in rapidly developing the capacity for reliably defining and
forecasting its manpower requirements, and systematically identifying areas of over-
staffing. Secondly, the project will support the management of redeployment and
retraining of personnel arising from the rationalization of the role and functions of the
MOA. Thirdly, the project will support the ministry in introducing such systems and
procedures as would contribute to improvements in personnel morale and
performance, including job evaluations and enrichment, performance appraisal,
regular review of schemes of service, and job regrading. Also, as suggested in the
CSRP action plan for improving personnel management, the MOA will pilot the
exploration of 'mechanisms and ways for linking manpower rationalization and
incentive schemes so that the results of resources squeeze are shared by the affected'.
The Department of Administration and Personnel of MOA would be responsible for
implementing this sub-component.
(iii) Management Information System: In this element of the sub-component, the aim
will be to ensure that decision-makers at the MOA have timely access to relevant
information through the use of modern information technology (computers). At
present the only area where the ministry has achieved significant progress in the use
of computer-based MIS is in project monitoring and evaluation. Through support to
be provided under this project, computer-based information systems will be introduced
in the areas of personnel management, accounting and finance, and procurement. In
addition to procurement of computers and software systems, the project will provide
technical assistance and extensive training in the design, implementation and
utilization of modern information technologies. Furthermore, in order to ensure an
adequate level of availability and utilization of computers in the ministry, the project
will finance a local maintenance contract for the equipment. The Planning and
Marketing Division of MOA would be responsible for implementing this sub-
component.
(iv)   Management Trainini: To ensure availability of skills to implement and
sustain the developments outlined above, the project will support the training of senior
and middle-grade officers of the MOA in a broad range of managerial skills, including
(a) strategic management, (b) the management of human resources; (c) accounting and
financial management, (d) management of the procurement function, and (e)
communication and inter-personal skills. The Department of Administration and
Personnel would be responsible for implementing this sub-component.
(v)    Accounting and Procurement: Improved accounting and procurement capacity
is critical to the improvement of project implementation and accountability in the
MOA. In order to initiate some improvements in procurement and accounting across
the ministry, one and two seminars in accounting and procurement would be
conducted each year over the 5 year project period. The Finance and Accounts Unit
of MOA would be responsible for implementing this sub-component.



lhe Rationalizaton of MoAl Functions                                          45
Budget
33.   Activities to support under the management systems and capacity sub-component
include 9 vehicles (US$ 0.23 million), office equipment including computers (US$ 0.37
million), technical assistance (USS 0.5 million), in-house consultant and personnel service
contracts (USS 0.43 million), local training (US$ 0.1 million) and recurrent costs to cover
travel allowances, office equipment repair and maintenance, vehicle operating costs and
building rent and repairs (US$ 0.6 million).
Cost Suumary
1. Parastatal Divestiture                                  270,600
2. Rationalization of MOA Functions                         1,133,050
Phase out Fund                                       2,000,000
3. Implementation of New Mission                            123,900
4. Rationalization at District Level                        358,200
5. Management Systems and Capacity                          2,918,000
Total                 5,670,700



46                                                                     AnnexE



47
Annex B. POUCY FORMULATION, PLANNING AND MONITORING CoMwNPr
The Policy EnIronmene
1.    Reform in the agricultural sector, which provides some 60 percent of both GDP and
exports, has been underway since the Economic Recovery Program was initiated in 1986.
Support for agricultural adjustment was provided under the Government's Agricultural Sector
Adjustment program, supported by the World Bank and other donors, and a series of other
initiatives. Agriculture has grown rapidly during the period. The average annual growth
rate in constant price agriculture GDP of 5.0 percent per annum between 1985 and 1991 is
more than twice the average for sub-Saharan Africa.
2.    The initial focus of the recovery program in agriculture was to reduce restrictions to
private sector participation in cereals trade. This first aspect of the adjustment process has
been successful by many measures. As Government control over inter-regional cereal trade
diminished in phases during the late 1980's, the country witnessed a secular decline in the real
price of maize and other cereals in the main consumption markets, an increase in production
(helped by good weather), a rapid decline in cereal imports, and a sharp reduction in the
claims on the financial system (and the Government Budget) for the marketing of maize. On
the other hand, the profitability of the maize crop in the Southwest has declined, causing
hardship in such distant areas as Rukwa and Ruvuma.
3.    Adjustment in other sectors of the agricultural economy has proceeded more slowly.
The real depreciation of the exchange rate has in principle permitted local returns to
traditional export crops to increase. However, with the marketing and processing of
traditional export crops still monopolized by large, mostly insolvent, cooperative unions, the
improved margins have not been passed on to the farmer level. The withdrawal of
Government boards from control of traditional export crop marketing has been gradual and
incomplete. The Boards manage the commodity auctions, and administer such regulations as
exist. The establishment of the marketing boards as monopoly 'agents to the unions
achieved little change. Other entities marketing traditional export crops are not obliged to
have the Board as agent.
4.    The returns to agricultural exports have also been improved with the provision of
rights to 'retain' a gradually increasing share of foreign exchange earnings (and not change
them at the official exchange rate which is 20 percent below the market rate). Exporters of
"non-traditional' crops and livestock products can 'keep" up to 50 percent of their foreign
exchange earnings, for sale at the forex bureaus. Exports of 'traditional' crops continue to
be valued at the official exchange rate. Up to 10 percent 'retention' of earnings has been
recently reintroduced, but few have yet taken advantage of the privilege.
TakT from the Aide Memoiro in the Joint Government of Tanunia/World Bank Agiculture Sector Review,
"Preiimi Findingp nd Recommendations Report of December 9, 1992.



48                                                                        Annex B
5.    Government has gradually withdrawn from the pricing of export crops. As of the
1993/94 season, the (monopoly) unions are free to negotiate with farmers (and their bankers)
on the farmgate price to be paid (at least initially) for cotton, coffee and other crops.
Government had been providing 'indicative' prices to the subsectors, but this was seen as too
disruptive to the negotiating process.
6.    Along with the changes in the structure of the marketing arrangements, the
Government passed a revised Cooperatives Act in 1991. Under this new legislation, all
primary cooperatives, and their associated unions and apex organizations, are due to be re-
organized on more democratic principles. The process of reconstituting these organizations is
lengthy and complex, but will eventually result in cooperatives that are more responsive to
user desires, and hopefully, more proficient players in the market for agricultural produce.
7.    Domestic marketing of livestock continues unfettered by controls. Checks on live
animal exports to neighboring countries are largely ineffective. Government continues to
monopolize the provision of veterinary assistance, drugs and medicines.
8.    Liberalization in the provision of agricultural inputs has progressed, with a gradual
reduction in the subsidy provided on fertilizer (now 40 percent of the panterritorial price in
the regions), and an increase in the use of private stockists for distribution. One privately
owned company is active in the improved seed market, and a joint venture between
Government and another company is expected shortly. Not much progress has been made in
involving the private sector in agrochemicals for cotton and coffee, or in the veterinary drugs
sector.
The Need for Continued Reform
9.    There is general consensus amongst donors and Government on the need for continued
change in the structure of agricultural production, processing and marketing. The financial
bottlenecks facing the traditional exports sector and the inputs supply industry are indicative
of serious structural problems, and demand a change in approach. The Government is unable
to continue to underwrite unsustainable processing and trading practices. The call on
Government resources to finance basic social services, to rehabilitate the country's productive
infrastructure, to reinvigorate the Civil Service and to respond to short term food security
crises leaves little over to subsidize unprofitable production.
10.   There was also consensus on the need to update and formalize the new Agriculture
Development Policy of the Government. The policies for Agriculture and Livestock
development set forth in 1983 have served their purpose, and have been superseded by a
series of new approaches, undertaken as part of the economic adjustment process initiated in
1986. The most comprehensive statements of intent with regard to agricultural development
policy are contained in the 'Letter of Development Policy' agreed to under the TANAA
operation in 1990, and the Policy Framework Paper 1991/92-1993/94 negotiated with the IMF
and the World Bank in 1991. The Govermment is scheduled to table new legislation in April
1993 which would revise the various Acts of Parliament, and other laws, which restrict
competition in the marketing and processing of agricultural produce. The revised legislation



Policy Fornulation, Planning and Monitoring Component                            49
would support the "enabling environment' for private sector development which has been
occurring 'de facto' over the past few years.
11.   It is generally agreed that the approach to the development of the agricultural sector
should be based on the use of competition and market forces to increase the efficiency of
production and marketing activities. The issue is not on whether increased competition
should be encouraged in the various markets supporting the agricultural sector, but rather on
how to move towards increased competition without causing a costly disruption of the
processing and marketing process, while addressing societal concerns of food security,
income distribution, and the development of the indigenous private sector.
12.   It should be noted that, underlying the discussions on movement towards an economy
based increasingly on the private sector, was a sense of uncertainty on "what it takes to bring
the private sector into agriculture, and on how efficient and competitive an "incipient" private
sector would be in new and difficult agricultural product and inputs markets. There was also
uncertainty on how the new "indirect management" techniques implied by Government's new
role as the provider of the "enabling and regulatory environment" in which a market defined
"incentive framework" is created, would actually work out in practice. The proposed "Policy
Formulation, Planning and Monitoring" component of the proposed Agriculture Sector
Management Project is an attempt to reduce these uncertainties, and set the Ministry of
Agriculture on a firmer footing with regard to its new role.
Review of Ministry of Agriculture Functions in Policy Fonnulation, Planning and Monitoring
13.   Prior to the appraisal mission, staff in MOA undertook a detailed review of the
functions and structure of their institution, with a view to identifying areas for reform. Key
observations on the policy and planning functions are noted below. These have served as
guidance in the formulation of the proposed component:
(a) The planning function does not reflect the overall Ministry planning requirement.
It is not geared towards coordinated and integrated sectoral planning and policy
formulation.
14.   The main weaknesses in the policy framework, and its inability to affect agricultural
productivity and output were identified as due to the following:2
(i) a policy framework which inhibited private sector development;
(ii) poor resource allocation priorities;
(iii) a policy which relied on central planning;
(iv) frequent changes of policy and strategy;
URT, MOA, Agriculture Sector Management Project, Project Preparation Team Report, TanzaniA Agro-industrial
Servicea Ltd., March 1993, Fig 4.1



SO                                                                                 Anna B
(v) inadequate capacity to deal with sectoral reforms;
(vi) lack of private sector input into policy formulation;
(vii) uncoordinated subsectoral programs;
(viii) weak monitoring systems; and
(ix) weak evaluation systems.
15.    Policy-making capabilities in the Ministry of Agriculture were diagnosed as weak for
the following reasons:
(i) poor working environment;
(ii) weak and unreliable data base;
(iii) inadequate training;
(iv) misallocation of staff;
(v) the need to respond to too many issues;
(vi) weak coordination and feedback mechanisms, especially with the regions;
(vii) inadequate financial resources and no work incentive systems.
The proposed project was designed to overcome some of these constraints.
Component Description
16.    The objective of the MOA has been defined as: 'To promote and sustain an enabling
environment for growth in agricultural production, trade and investment in order to achieve
the national objectives of (i) increasing rural incomes, (ii) enhancing food security for the
population, (iii) achieving export growth and (iv) conserving the environment." 3
17.    The Policy Management function entails: 'articulating the sector's priorities within
the macro policy formulation process, translating larger policy decisions into sector specific
actions, and monitoring the impact of policy reforms on agriculture." '
'   Joine Govcrnment of TanzaniaWorld Bank Agriculure Sector Review, "Preliminay Findings and
Reco mentions", December 9, 1992, Annex 13, p. 190.
4   URT, MOA, Agriculture Sector Management Project, Project Preparation Team Report, Tanzania Agro-induwtritl
Servioe. Ltd., March 1993, p.16



Policy Formulation, Planning and Monitoring Component                          51
18.   This component will strengthen MOA's capacity to formulate and monitor the
implementation of policies which affect agriculture and rural development in Tanzania. As
mentioned previously economic management is shifting from a situation where Government
participated in and controlled prices, markets and processing activities by fiat, to one where
Government's role is to support the smooth functioning of markets in agricultural products
and inputs. This requires the redefinition of Government's policies with regard to most
agricultural markets, with the exception of the public goods areas (research, general
technology dissemination). To support this process of policy re-definition it is imperative
that Government policy-makers have access to an agency capable of providing reliable, high
quality analytical position papers on the issues under discussion. The Sectoral Planning
Department in the MOA wIll be strengthened in order to provide this service.
1. Strengthening the Sectoral Plandng and Marketing Division
19.   The main feature of this component would be to strengthen the analytical capacity of
the Sectoral Planning Department. The tasks of MOA's Sectoral Planning Department can be
separated into four categories:
policy Analysis This activity is currently of high priority in light of the
Government's need to redefine its role and function across many aspects of
the agricultural economy. Three quarters of the resources in this department
would be allocated to a Work Program defined at the beginning of the year
involving substantial research and interaction with policy makers and the
private sector. An indicative Work Program is presented below. One quarter
of resources would be devoted to responding to ad hoc demands for analysis
and problem solving, inherent in any advisory capacity in MOA. This
function has been carried out to date by the Agriculture and Livestock
Sections, in the Sectoral Planning Section.
*     Planning and Budgeting. Project and Program Preparation and Monitoring
'This category is more routine than the first one. It brings together: (i) the task
of planning MOA activities for the next year (and three years, under the
Rolling Plan), setting priorities for allocation of MOA budgetary resources,
consolidating budget proposals from different departments, and preparing the
budget submission to Parliament; and (ii) the preparation, monitoring and
impact assessment of donor funded projects in the agricultural sector. This
function has been carried out to date by the Project Preparation and
Monitoring Bureau (on project and program assessment) and by the Sectoral
Planning Department.
*     Agricultural Information Management and Dissemination These activities are
associated with the collection of data on agricultural product and factor
markets, rural households and meteorological phenomena, both on a routine
basis, as well as the conducting of ad hoc surveys to support policy studies.
They include the administration of an agricultural census, annual production
surveys, and routine surveys on yields, prices, labor markets, and other basic
information on the agricultural sector. This activity is being appraised as a



52                                                                        Annex B
separate 'agricultural information' component. These functions have been
carried out to date by the agricultural information unit within the Sectoral
Planning Department, in collaboration with the Central Bureau of Statistics.
A full description of this component is provided in the SAR.
Agricultural Market Monitorini and Regulation  Government's withdrawal
from the food market, and its gradual deconfinement of the traditional export
product markets, make it increasingly important that a reliable system for
monitoring and disseminating product prices in different parts of the country
is established. The MDB has been carrying out this function to date. The
function should be expanded to include other crops, as they are deconfined,
and inputs (such as fertilizer and chemicals) as they are deconfined. This unit
should also continuously monitor levels of competition in the different
markets, evaluating the reasons for exercise of monopoly power, and potential
Government interventions in infrastructure or information networks which
could break these positions. This task has been carried out to date by the
Marketing Development Bureau.
20.   Strengthening would be accomplished mainly through a very comprehensive staff
training program (described below) which would link staff development opportunities very
closely with the execution of the Division's Annual Work Program. The project would
provide the additional equipment (computers and vehicles) and office furniture to make
Department staff more productive and creative. The project would also provide a fund for
hiring local or foreign consultants, as needed, to carry out the studies necessary to back up
the formulation of Government policy in a number of key areas: the management of
traditional export marketing, liberalization of the agricultural inputs supply trade, revitalizing
the cotton industry, defining the country's land tenure legislation.
Broadening Private Sector and Regional Participation in Policy Fornulation
21.   In addition to strengthening the capacity of the Government to undertake the above-
mentioned tasks, the component would improve MOA's capacity to include non-Governmental
entities in the discussion of proposed policies and the central and regional levels. To this end,
the activities of the Policy Analysis Advisory Committee (which includes Government
agencies, private sector and NGO's) would be given more prominence and funding. Project
funding would also be provided for local workshops and seminars on key policy issues in the
agricultural sector. Also, high level staff from the Sectoral Planning Section would be
stationed in the interior, one in each region, with the responsibility of coordinating routine
information collection, monitoring agricultural markets, coordinating a regional input into the
formulation of new policies, as well as explaining at regional level the implications of policy
changes decided on at the center.



Policy Formulation, Planning and Monitoring Component                         53
Training
22.   An important aspect of the component will be to train MOA staff in analytical
techniques, and providing them with exposure to examples from other countries of solutions
to the type of sectoral management problems facing Tanzania.  A variety of training
approaches will be used to increase the analytical capabilities of staff. These will include:
*     Study tours for both policy makers and professional staff will permit
Government officials to visit locations where policies similar to those being
considered for Tanzanian agriculture have been tried.
*     On the Job Training of staff, to be carried out in the context of a particular
study undertaken in the Department. Under the supervision of the study team
leader, staff would be assigned to selected studies would be encouraged to
broaden the scope of the analysis, and invest more than the usual time in the
effort. The assignment would normally be slightly more difficult than the
staff person's normal work. No prior experience would be required. More
than the normal level of effort would be required by the staff person, to bring
themselves up to par on the topic. An allowance would be provided for
successful completion of this kind of work;
*     short courses and workshops organized in Tanzania using local consultants and
staff from Dar es Salaam or Sokoine universities;
*     short courses (3-6 months) at local or foreign universities; and
3     longer term degree courses (one to two years) in specialized topics, at
specialized foreign universities.
23.   The key element in the management of the training program will be the Personal
Training Plan. Such a plan will be prepared for each staff member in the Department. The
plan should list the tasks, and training opportunities which it is intended the staff member
should have throughout the year. Each staff member should have a plan with a mix of
routine assignments, study tours, seminars and on the job training programs which reflects the
staff person's ability. The training opportunities should be reflected in a five year Individual
Staff Development Plan, also to be developed The Personal Training Plan will fbllow from
the definition of the Annual Work Program for the Department as a whole. Each staff
member will be responsible for agreeing on a Staff Development Plan and an Personal
Training Plan with the Head of the Department and the internationally recruited Project
Training Officer.
24.   Management of the training program would be a key aspect of the project. An
internationally recruited Project Training Officer (Terms of Reference in Annex E) would be
hired to assist the Project Coordinator in running this aspect of the project. Further details
are provided in the Implementation Section below.



54                                                                       Annex B
25.   It should be recognized that the possibility of receiving training plays a strong role in
the incentive system. For this reason, all aspects of the training program should be used to
build staff capacity and motivation. In providing training opportunities, attention should be
given to the staff person's track record, the ability to profit from the training experience, and
the effect such opportunities will have in building the efficacy of MOA's policy analysis
functions. Assurances would be sought at negotiations that:
(i) all training opportunities and awards would be based on merit; and
(ii) selections for overseas training would be reviewed and approved by IDA.
Poliy Formulation, Planning and Monitoring Work Program
26.   The tasks to be accomplished by the Sectoral Planning Section have been enumerated
previously in general terms. For the system to be effective, each of the studies, or planning
and monitoring activities should be set in an annual work plan, which indicates completion
dates, and provides for staff use and other resource allocations. Such a plan will also be
needed to coordinate the training program needed to bring MOA staff capacity up to levels
needed to be able to execute these tasks. An initial attempt has been made to identify and
budget for these tasks as described below. Such a work plan should be submitted to the Bank
when the departmental budget is prepared, prior to the beginning of the Fiscal Year in July
(see para - below).
Component Cost Estimates
27.   The component is estimated to cost about USS 7 million. Execution would be over 5
years. Funds would be used to purchase vehicles, equipment, including computing equipment
for central and regional staff, office furniture, incremental training costs, local and foreign
consultant services, office supplies and vehicle operating costs. Estimated baseline costs for
this component are provided below.
Implementation and Procurement
28.   The implementation of this component would be the responsibility of the
Commissioner heading the Division of Sectoral Planning and Marketing. This Division brings
together the activities carried out by two Sector Planning units (Agriculture and Livestock),
the Marketing Development Bureau, and the Project Preparation and Monitoring Bureau. The
Division would have a complement of about 80 professional staff. The tasks outlined above
would be assigned to different sections within the Division. Each section would have to
prepare a work program, identifying tasks planned for the year, and the inputs of staff time,
consultants, vehicles and other support needed, per task. The work program would specify
the reports and surveys due to be finalized within the calendar year. It is likely that the tasks
of the 'policy analysis' group will vary the most from year to year. In preparing its work
program, this group should also allow a portion of its resources to remain unallocated to any
particular task, to cover for eventualities. A sample of such an Annual Work Program is
provided below. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that a draft of the annual work
plan, by task, of the Sectoral Planning Section of MOA would be provided to IDA for review



Policy Formuladon, Planning and Monitoring Component                          55
and approval prior to the submission of the annual budget request to the Government. Durin
nagWiations, the work plan for the 1993/94 fiscal year was presented to IDA.
29.   The donor community has substantial interest in the policies on the Government's
reform agenda for the agricultural sector. To improve coordination amongst donors and bring
together relevant studies funded by different donors which focus on the same issues, steps
should be taken during implementation to ensure that the annual policy work program is
discussed with the donor community in the course of its preparation. This will enable them to
adjust their programs and projects to Government priorities, and to indicate whether they
could contribute additional funds or expertise to the effort. Through his mechanism, some
degree of donor/Government coordination on the policy reform front could be achieved.
30.   With regard to the management of the training program and the agricultural
information component, the Government has indicated that it is interested in continuing to
cooperate with the FAO. The FAO has been assisting the Government in both these areas,
with IDA funding, over the past 15 years with considerable success. The Project Training
Officer would then be bired through FAO, and the various aspects of the training program
would also be handled through FAO. In addition, technical assistance for the Agricultural
Census, and additional local and international staff hired to assist in the implementation of the
market information gathering activity would be hired through FAO.
31.   It is expected that the MOA will be restructured during the next few months, to fit its
organization more closely to the changed requirements of a 'hands off' Government role.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that any change in the structure of the Ministry of
Agriculture would be reviewed with IDA prior to its implementation, to ensure that such
structural changes would not affect the achievement of project objectives.



56                                                                        Annex B.1
ANNEX B.1 NOaES ON TIE ON-THEE-JoB-TRAINNG
32.   Under the ASMP project, an important aspect of Staff Development will be the
formulation of a Personal Training Plan (PTP), which would track professional staff training
and promotion prospects on a yearly basis. These personal plans would be accumulated into a
departmental training program. The ASMP would support various aspects of the departmental
training program with funds for: (i) short (1 month), medium (3-6 months) and long term
courses (6-12 months) at local or fbreign institutions; (ii) local and international study tours
and visits; (iii) on the job training; (iv) personnel services contracts, and (v) provision of
improved computers, reference documents, materials and accommodation to staff.
On the Job Training
33.   These funds will be used to support extra-normal work on special studies and projects
undertaken in the policy analysis and planning department. Such tasks will fit into the overall
training program designed for Ministry staff especially in the Planning and Marketing
Division, and would permit staff to broaden and deepen their understanding of specific issues,
selected for in depth study. Staff selected to undertake these tasks would not necessarily be
proficient in the required area or professional discipline. Rather, the task should be designed
to "stretch" their analytical capacity, and broaden their field of experience. Staff chosen for
such assignments could either work individually, or as part of a team of Ministry
professionals, complemented as necessary by outside consultants. The extra effort required
to successfully complete this type of task would be rewarded with an on the job training
honorarium.
34.   At the initiation of the fiscal year, staff would be assigned tasks to be accomplished
during the year. These tasks would be divided into:
*      "routine tasks" to be accomplished for the Ministry, under Ministry pay
schedules; and
*      "special on the job training assignments" to be undertaken as part of the staff-
person's professional growth. Such assignments would require special
commitment, overtime work, and would result in well identified output of
verifiable quality.
35.   The taking of 'special assignments" would be open only to professional staff, within
the GS grades. Tasks will be allocated to staff on the basis of merit, professional capabilities
and GS grade level. In view of the 'special' nature of the assignment, the need for
commitment by staff to overtime work, travel and the required investigation of topics and
areas outside of normal MOA work, an on the job training emolument would be provided.
Such emoluments would be based on the duration and difficulty of the task.
36.   The maximum number of "special assignments" to be undertaken during the fiscal
year would be limited by GS level: the higher the GS level, the larger the number of
assignments which could be expected to be accomplished during the period. A tentative



Policy Formulation, Planning and Monitoring Component                           57
schedule of the maximum numbers of "special assignments", by GS grade, is noted below. A
maximum of 6 "special assignments" can be carried out by one MOA staff member during the
fiscal year.
37.   Each "special assignment" would have the following characteristics:
*     Terms of reference which would include: (a) the objective of the study or
task, (b) a detailed description of the questions to be answered by the study or
task; (c) an indication of the methods to be used in undertaking the study or
task, and answering the questions posed; (d) a brief outline of the report(s)
expected; (e) the dates by which the various reports would be expected; (f) the
staffing requirements needed to accomplish the task; and (g) the minimum
qualifications of the staff required to participate in the task.
*     It should be a part of the Ministry's policy analysis and reform agenda. These
"special assignments", and the staff-weeks required to carry out these taskcs
would be identified at the beginning of the fiscal year, in the details of the
Annual Work Plan. The total number of tasks, including the "special
assignments", would reflect the staff and financial resources available to the
Planning Department at the start of the fiscal year;
*     If more than one staff person is involved in the task, a Ministry professional
should be named Team Leader for the "special assignment";
*     Where possible, stages of completion of the "special assignment" should be
identified, so that remuneration can be provided for stages completed. No
remuneration would be provided for uncompleted or unsatisfactory work.
38.   Successful completion of "special assignments", or stages of such assignments would
be the basis for consideration of Ministry staff for future assignments of more difficulty, for
employment on a Personnel Services Contract, or for receipt of a training fellowship.
Management of the On the Job Training Program.
39.   The Heads of Sections would be responsible for the preparation of the Annual Work
Plan for On the Job Training and presenting it to their respective heads of Departments. The
Heads of Divisions (HODs) would be responsible for approving the on-the-job training. The
project coordinator, with assistance from the project training officer, would be responsible for
aggregating the personal training plans into annual training plans. Assurances were obtained
at negoitions that the Annual Work Plan, and the Annual Training Plan would be submitted
every year to IDA for review and approval.
40.   In view of the complexity of the training program, MOA has indicated that it desires
to appoint the FAO as a "Training Cooperating Agency" to continue in its current role of
administering the training program and associated technical assistance during the project.



58                                                                     Anna B.I
41.   On the basis of the Annual Work Plan for Training, the Training Cooperating Agency
would plan requests for disbursement of funds from IDA.



Policy Fomnundon, Planning and Monitoring Component                           59
ANNEX B.2 PROJECr TRANING OFCER
Terms of Reference
OBJECTIVE: The Government is implementing an Agricultural Sector Management Project
with support from the IDA. A key aspect of this project is the training of
staff in the Ministry of Agriculture in the techniques of 'indirect management"
of the agricultural economy, through incentive structures, regulation and the
provision of public goods. The implementation of the project in the Ministry
of Agriculture will be managed through the office of the Project Coordinator,
attached to the Commissioner for Planning and Marketing of MOA. The
Training Officer will be located in the office of the Project Coordinator, and
will be responsible for ensuring that a coherent training program is put in
place.
POSITION:   Project Training Officer
TASKS:       The Training Officer would be responsible to the Project Coordinator.
Responsibilities would be to:
*     Develop a five year plan for training of MOA staff using resources
allocated for training under the ASMP project, and other training
resources, within the first 3 months of the assignment;
D     Formulate an Annual Training Plan every year. This Training Plan
wll be based very closely on the Annual Work Plan for the MOA and
will endeavor to provide staff with the training opportunities needed
for an efficient implementation of MOA's work program. The annual
plan is to be prepared in collaboration with the Commissioners and the
Project Coordinator;
Assist each of the key staff in MOA to put together a Personal
Training Plan, following agreement on the Annual Training Workplan.
This personal training plan would be drafted in outline for the 5 years
of the Project. Each year, an Annual Personal Training Plan would
be defined, indicating, for each staff, the mix of study tours, short,
medium and long courses, on the job training and personnel services
contract opportunities which would be made available during the year.
Manage the various elements of the training plan on a day to day
basis. This will imply monitoring training schedules, work schedules,
study deadlines in order to achieve an effective implementation of the
Work Plan, while improving staff capabilities. Management of the
Training Work Plan will entail very close coordination with the Heads
of Departments and the Project Coordinator.



60                                                                     Anex B.2
*     In collaboration with the Training Cooperating Agency, manage the
training budget from both local and international sources allocated to
the Training Work Plan, once it has been approved by the Ministry of
Finance (ocal) and IDA (foreign). Budgetary matters would be
channeled through the Project Accountant, and the Training
Cooperating Agency.
*     Prepare an annual report on achievements through the Training
Program, including a listing of reports produced and training courses
attended. This should be tallied with the targets formulated for the
year in the Annual Training Workplan.
*     Train a Tanzanian to take over the task after three years.
QUALIFICATIONS:
Masters Degree in economics, with additional training or experience in management
of training and personnel development programs. He/she should have at least five
years of experience in policy analysis.
DURATION: Three years.



Policy Formulation, Planning and Monitoring Component                                                       61
ANNEX B3 MOA PLANNING & PoucY FORMULAnON DEPARThIrF
WORK PROGRAM AND STAFIG ALLOCAToN
Cowapbli          Staffn
POLICY AGENDA                                PeWiod             Data              (in Stalfwedka)
Preparatio Sector Policies
National Agricultural PoGicy
Drafting and Review                 0uc               6/94              225
Worksopa/Se/S ino                    2                 4/94
Medium Term Agricultur Development Progrm
Drfting and Review                       owe                1/94              230                1/94
Workhops/Seminas                     2                 7194
Agricultur St-ategy Paper for Rolling Plan
Drfting nd Review                    Yealy             2/94              30
Workshop/Semino                      2                 12193             20
Preparation of Bench Mark Sector Report  An1a               10/94             40
Prparation of Annual Sector Repogt       Once               12/93             60
improved Policy Coordination nd Feedback
-    Strengthen PAAC
Seminarn                             Qartarly                            45
Regional Review of Agriculture Policy
Monitoring nd Semina                 Anul                                 195
Improve Enabling Environment for Private Sectot Developtnt.
- Amend Acts Still Affecting Private
Sector Participation in Agricultum
Drfting and Review                   Once              6/94               120
- Formalize lAnd Tenume Reguations
and Pa Umbrella Lnd Law
Conwultations and Survey             Once              6/94               ISO
DRfting and Review                   Once              12/94              ISO
- Review Rengelands Tenur and Use Problems
Consultations nd Sutveys             Once                                 120
Dm"ting. Review, Wokshop             Onc                                 55
- Effects of Change in Price ad Exchange Rat Regime
to Improve Production Inceives for Cub Crepe
on Governent Budget and Import Cpcity
Drafing and Review                   Onc               12/93             40
- Effects of price changes on agricultural productbo
and employment                         Once              3/94              40
- Review of Rural Fmnncial Market
Surveys                              Once              6/94              40
Drafting and Review                  Once              12/94             20
- Frilizer: Establish Metbods for Improving
Subsidy Payment to Private Sector
Dfting nd Review                    one                12/93             45
- Review Auction System for
Traditionl Crops
Drafting and Review                  one               6/94              40
- Restructure LoA  Tax Sysm   to Minize
Production Disincentives
Survey$                              Once              6/94              40
Drafting nd Review                   onc               12/94             40
- Provide Spatial Priorities nd Estabih Priortie
for Constuction of Public Rural Infiucture
Surveys                              Onc               6/94              40
Drfting and Review                   Onc               6194               40
- Fuinlize National Seed Policy
Drafting and Review                  once              12/94              40
- Coopeative: Review  ffect of retuctuing on
marketn services and izput pply          onc                6/94              100
Food Security Policy and Stregic Grin Resrv
- Update Food Security Policy
Drfting nd Review                    One               12/94              40
- Desin Operating Rule for Stratgic Grin Res
Drafting end Review                  One               12/94              40
- Formuate Reepoare to Ealy Waning Sysem Indicato
Drafting and Review                  Once              12/94              40



62                                                                                                    Anna B.3
Compbi             Sta'filn
POIJCY AGENDA                                  Periodicity        Dal                on Safee&s)
al Review of Agrculua Markets
- Cobee Secr Review                        Annual             12/93              6
- Foodcrops Sector Review                  Anma               12/93              6
- Con Sector Review                        Annua              12t93              6
- Caew Sector Rew                          Annual             12/93              6
- Pyrothnzm Seacw  Review                  Annual             12/93              6
- TobaccooSector Review                    Annual             12/93              6
- Livestock Marketin Review                Anmal              12/93              12
- Oer crops                                Annual             12/93              40
Otber Market Reviews and Studies               Once/Coninuous   6/94                 289
Prepare Clear Policy Guidelines
10
- Revie  Exisn Plicy Guidelis              Annual             6/94               10
- Egabrid Policy Coamanicam    Mechanism   Annual             6/94               30
Execution of Plning, Monitoing, BudgeXt Tass
Esablih Secorl Moniorimg Systm for Piu  and Progans
- Perfrmane Stadad and Indicatd       Annual             12M93              45
- Reportin System. a  Fora            Anal               12/93              40
E:abidh Peniodic Evauaton SyeM  for Prject and Progm
- Reporting Systems and Formets       Anal               6/94               45
- Peiodic A_eames of Policy Impact   Annua               6/94       18        0
Planning, Monioring Nad Budgeting
- Seting of PlaninW ad Budget
Priorties                           Annal               1/94               45
- Prfetion of Budget Cei              Annual             1/94               45
- Sig Planni  ad Budgetg Prorite  Anad                   1/94               45
- Condatiod of Dept. Budget A PAn  Annual                3/94               100
- Prpaation of Budge Docume_          Annual             6/94               20
Esablia Systm  and Crte  for Montoin  Sector
Performane an Operatn the Symm                 Onc/Anmal          4/94               I5
Miscelaneous                               Annual             6/94               41
TOTAL STAFF WEKS                               3,171
TOTAL STAFF EQUIVALENT                         70
It       U       i 8bff Week. Om ShIf Po. h 45 fmf webs ahbh for .qAL
1h ,emhie i hi ,    _aehaId   sicree. Tub Idome Woka*dr mt wmk o.f d ml'.



Polky Forlation, Planning and Monitoring Component                                    63
Annex B.4 Staffing of the Pnnng and Polcy Fonnulation Departmet
Agriculture Sector Management Project
Staffng of the Planning and Policy Formulation Department
Sector     Sector
Planning   Planning                      Monthly     Monthly    Monthly
PPMB  Livestock Agriculture   MDB       Total      Salary        Bill       Bill
Grade Level   (Staff)    (Staff)    (Staff)  (Staff)   (Staff)     Tsh         Tsh        USS
GS       2                                     1        1        6,660       6,660         19
3      12         6          11       5       34        7,675     260,950        746
4       7         3          12       2       24        8,905     213,720        611
S       1         2           4       2        9       10,125      91,125        260
6                  1                            1      11,370      11,370         32
7                             1       3        4       12,555      50,220        143
8        1         1                           2       13,925      27,850         80
9       1                     1       2        4       15,410      61,640        176
22        13         29      15       79                  723,535       2,067
Average Monthly Salary             9,159         26
-Estimates of Potential Costs of the
MOA Planning Department Training and Personal Services Contract Scheme
Gade        Staff per                        OJT                Yearly     Monthly Yearly OJT    S Year
Grade      OJT                Rate            OJTraining  OJTraining   Training       Bill
(Planning)    tasks            per task             p/ Person    p/ Person      Bill
USS                  USS          Tsh        USS      USS
GS      2        1         3                  85                  255        7,438        255
3      34         3                  85                  255        7,438      8,670
4      24         4                  85                  340        9,917      8,160
5       9         5                  85                  425       12,396      3,825
6       1          5                 85                  425       12,396        425
7       4         6                  85                  510       14,875      2,040
8       2         6                  85                  510       14,875      1,020
9       4         6                  85                  S10       14,875      2,040
79                                                                    26,435   132,175
lAverage Cost of Monthly O.J.Training          9,760         28
|USSExchan        1       350



64                                                                                                Annex B.5
Annex B.5 Polcy Fonnuladon and Impimentadon Component
TANZANIA
Agiculab  Socor Managet Proet
Policy Formulation wad bTnplementation Conponwt
Units   Cos    %             An"al Quditi  (Unit)                Annual Amounts (USS 000)         Total by
Activity                     USS    For       Yrl Yr2 Yr3 Yr4 Yr5 Tol            Yrl  Yr2   Yr3   Yr4   Yr5   Tot   Section
POUCY AGENDA
Prepration Sector Policies
National Agricurik Policy
Workshop                  day    250       0%       4                         4       1.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       1.0
Facilitator               day    1u0       0%       4                         4       0.6   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.6         1.6
Medium Term Agriculture Development Program
Wokshops                          250      0%       2                   2    4        0.5   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.5       1.0
Consultlant (c)           p/mo   5000      0%       4                   4    S       20.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  20.0    40.0
Conultants (for)          p/mo  15000   100%        5                   5   10       75.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  75.0   150.0   191.0
Resource Allocation Priorities
Undatake Ad Hoc Surveys to Support
Studies and Prop-am
Consulants (boc)          p/mo   5000      0%       5    5    5    5    5   25       25.0  25.0  25.0  25.0  25.0   125.0
Conultat (for)            p/mo  15000   100%        5    5    5    5    5   25       75.0  75.0  75.0  75.0  75.0  375.0   500.0
Improved Policy Coordination and Feedback
- Strhen PAAC
Allowances (per pason)   p/day      57     0%     100  100  100  100  100  500        5.7   5.7   5.7   5.7   5.7    28.5
Venue and MataiaLs       p/nitg    300              4    4    4    4    4   20        1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2    6.0    34.5
Station Planning Ag. Economists in RALDO
4WD Pickups              ea      18000    95%      20             10         30     360.0   0.0   0.0  130.0   0.0  540.0
aptops + Printen + Softwre es    5000    95%       20             10         30     100.0   0.0   0.0  50.0   0.0   150.0
Office AcconmL a-n Fun(Re as      1000      0      20                        20      20.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   20.0
Fan                      ea        100   0.95      20             10         30       2.0   0.0   0.0   1.0   0.0    3.0   713.0
Improve Enabling Envinonment for Private Sector Development.
Amend Acts Stitl Affecting Privae
Sector Participation in Agriculture
Consultants (oc)          p/mo   5000      0%       5    5    5                      25.0  25.0  25.0   0.0   0.0   75.0    75.0
- Formalize Land Tenure Reguations
and Pas Umnbrells land Law
Consultants (loc)         p/mo   5000      0%       3    3                    6      15.0  15.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   30.0
Consulta (for)            p/mo  15000   100%        2    2                    4      30.0  30.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   60.0    90.0
- Advocate Changes in Price and Exhange Rate Reime
to lmprove Production Incentives for Cash Crope
Consultt (oc)             p/no   5000      0%       3    3                    6      15.0  15.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   30.0
Consultants (for)         p/no  15000   100%        2    2                    4      30.0  30.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   60.0    90.0
- Restructuring of the Cotton Secor
Conultants (toc)          pmo   5000       0%       4    4    4              12      20.0  20.0  20.0   0.0   0.0   60.0
Conulants (for)           p/mo  15000   100%        2    2    2               6      30.0  30.0  30.0   0.0   0.0   90.0   150.0
- Restuue and Privsiz Inps Supply Systm
Consulants (oc)           p/mo   5000      0%            3    3               6       0.0  15.0  15.0   0.0   0.0   30.0
Consultants (for)         p/mo  15000   100%             2   2                4       0.0  30.0  30.0   0.0   0.0   60.0    90.0
- CanyOutOthPolicyReformadftuocuruing Raview  2/
Food Security Policy and Strategic Grin R_ser
Updat Food Security Policy
Set and Monitor Operating Ruls for Statgic Grin Reserv
Formulate Respone to Ealy Waning System Indiator
Consultan (oc)            p/mo   5000      0%       3    3    3               9      15.0  15.0  15.0   0.0   0.0   45.0
Consulta (for)            p/mo  15000   100%        3    3    3               9      45.0  45.0  45.0   0.0   0.0  135.0   180.0



Policy Formudation, Planning and Monftoring Component                                                      65
TANZANIA
Apiculb  Sector M M        Projot
Policv Formulation rnd Impilmentation Conponent
Units  Co      %             Aual1 QuAiti. (Uuit)               Anmu   Almrta (USS 000)         Total by
Activity                     USS    For       Yr I Yr2 Yr3 Yr4 Yr5 Totl    Yr I  Yr2  Yr3   Yr4  YrS   Toal Scction
INSTFlUllONAL STRENOTHENING 4/
Ensure Staff Adequately Trained
Asses Training Needs
Consultants (oc)          p/mo   5000     0%       5                         5      25.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   25.0    250
- Take Stock of Loc and Foreign Trining Facilities
Consultants (oc)          p/mo   5000     0%       2                         2      10.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    10.0
Consultants (for)         p/mo  15000   100%       2                         2      30.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   30.0    40.0
- Semina, Workshops, Training
Study Tours (2 wks)      p/per   10000   100%      5    5                   10      50.0  50.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  100.0
Short Cour  (3.6 months)  p/per  22000   100%     20   10  10  10           50    440.0 220.0 220.0 220.0   0.0  1,100.0
Long Counes (I yr)      p/per  40000   100%       10  10    5               25    400.0 400.0 200.0   0.0   0.0  1,000.0
Seminan wLocal Instit. (2 wk p/per  500   0%      75  75   75   75   75  375        37.5  37.5  37.5  37.5  37.5   127.5  2,317.5
Improve Work Environment and Facilities
4WD Station Waoew        ea     25000    95%       5              3          3     125.0   0.0   0.0  75.0   0.0  200.0
Desktop PCs (HQ) + Software es   5000    95%      12              6         13      60.0   0.0   0.0  30.0   0.0   90.0
power stab. + Printer (HQ)   ea  5000    95%       6              3          9      30.0   0.0   0.0  15.0   0.0   45.0
Laptops + Printer + Softwar  e&  5000    95%      10              5         15      50.0   0.0   0.0  25.0   0.0   75.0
ofrice AsconnL and Fumt.(H  ea   1000     0%      10                        10      10.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    10.0
Air Conditionrm (HQ)     ea      1000   95%        5              3          S       5.0   0.0   0.0   3.0   0.0      3.0
Fax                     es        3OO    95%       1                         1       0.S   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0      0.3
Telephone Exchange       ea      2000    95%       1                         1       2.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0      2.0
Telex                    as      3000    95%       1                         1       3.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    3.0
hotocopien (Heavy Duty)   es     6000    95%       4              2          6      24.0   0.0   0.0  12.0   0.0   36.0
Photocopiers (Small)    ea       3000    95%       2              1          3       6.0   0.0   0.0   3.0   0.0    9.0
Standby GOenerator      ea        000    95%       1                         1       3.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0      3.0
Binding Machine         ea       4000    95%       2                         2       3.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0      3.0   494.3
Adequate Staff Incentives Provided
Study to Drw Up Incentive Schem
Consultant (Ic)         p/mo    5000      0%       I                         1       5.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0      5.0
Short Term On the Job Trining Schem for Staff
On the Job Training Pro 4an2
Esifated I 3 tas/yr  I/ phisk    170    0%    240 240 240 240 240 1200            40.3  40.3  40.3  40.3  40.3  204.0
Review Staffing Allocation
Consultant (loc)        p/mo   5000      0%       I                                5.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       5.0   214.0
RECURRENT COSTS
Office Supplies           p/mnach   500    50%      23  23   23   23  23  140         14.0  14.0  14.0  14.0  14.0   70.0
Vehicles                  p/veh    3500    90%      25   25   25  25  25  125         37.5  37.5   7.5  37.5  37.5   437.5
Computer/Copier Mtce Contrad p/nmch   300    50%    23   23  23   23  23  140          3.4   S.4   3.4   3.4   3.4   42.0
TravelPerdierns 21        p/per    1700     0%      S0  30   30  30   30  400    136.0 136.0 136.0  136.0 136.0  630.0  1,229.5
TOTAL COMPONENT BASELINE COST                                                                                                   6,505.9
NOTES TO THE TABLES
I/ Noe that this is an averVa   S 30 HL staff
2/ 10 days/month @ Tsh 5000/day



66                                                                   Annex B.5



Agricultural lIformaton Systems and Services                                  67
Annex C AGRICULTURAL INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND SERVICES
PROJECT COMPONENT DESCRIPON
Introduction
This component will focus on strengthening, rationalizing and expanding the
agricultural Sector information used by the Government institutions and private sectors
in the Agricultural Sector. Priority areas of financing would be some tasks aiming to
improve the country's capacity to produce reliable information at the national,
regional and district level, about the following topics: (a) Area under crops,
production and yield; (b) Livestock numbers; and (c) Marketing and trade information
The project would also finance some items/activities which aim to enhance
institutional capacity for the timely analysis and dissemination of the information
produced, as well as some external assistance to identify additional information
requirements which will increase in the context of the on-going liberalization process
and to develop adequate procedures to collect and provide it as needed.
Tasks
2.    The five specific tasks to finance would be to:
(a)   carry out a national sample census of agriculture (the last one was
done in 1971/1972). This will yield bench mark data on the structure
of agriculture;
(b)   improve and expand the subsequent surveys, so as to provide adequate
data for planning on an annual basis.
(c)   carry out a pilot survey in one of the main crops using a different and
more cost-effective methodology. This will provide an evaluation (as
well as experience) of cheaper and more timely procedures for data
collection.
(d)   improve the crop monitoring and early warning unit (CMEWU)
capacity for rainfall data collection and agricultural data collection (the
latter at the district level, in a monthly basis).
(e)   enhance the Marketing Development Bureau (MDB) capacity for
better collection and dissemination of marketing and trade information.



68                                                                                 Annex C
3.                    National Sample Census of Agriculture:
Specific activities to finance would include:
(a)    Procurement of equipment and transport
(b)    Printing of questionnaires, instruction manuals and publicity
material.
(c)    Three stages of training for the census staff, namely:
(i)    general instruction on census procedures, for
Headquarters, regional and district staff; and for the
enumerators;
(ii)   training of field staff for area measurements (minor or
'Vuli" season);
(iii)   training of field staff for area measurement and crop
cutting (Major or "Masika" season).
(d)    Distribution of equipments, questionnaires, instruction manuals
and publicity material
(e)    Listing of "Ten-Cell Leaders' (Balozi) and households
(f)    Interviews and measurements for Vuli season
(g)    Interviews and measurements for Masika season
(h)    Data entry and verification
(i)    Data editing and data processing
G)     Preparation and printing of the census reports
(k)    External consultancy in data processing
O)     External consultancy in report writing and preparation
(m)    Professional training (long term courses, short term courses,
study tours, seminars, in-service training).
It is important to note that, although training is mentioned as
if it were a 'census" activity, it will continue to be relevant
even after the census.



Agricultural Information Systems and Services                                    69
4.                  Annual Surveys:
Activities to finance in support of the annual surveys include:
(a)    Replacement of field equipment for enumerators, supervisors
and Headquarter supervisors (20% of the basic field equipment
each year).
(b)    Replacement of 15% of the office equipment/machinery and
transport in year 4.
(c)    Three stages of training for the survey staff, as described for
census staff. However, the training for the annual surveys
will be about 3 weeks courses in contrast to about 8 week
courses for the census.
(d)    Printing and distribution of questionnaires, instruction manuals
and publicity material.
(e)   Interviews and measurement for Vuli and Masika season
(f)    Data entry and verification
(g)    Data editing and data processing
(h)    Short term external consultancy in questionnaire design (only
year 2 of the project)
(i)    Short term external consultancy in data processing (only year
2 of the project)
0j)    Preparation and printing of the survey reports
5.                  Pilot Sun=
The following activities would be supported to undertake a pilot
survey:
(a)    Design of listing forms for the growers of the pilot survey
crop which must include the following information:
(i)    Farm/Farmer identification
(ii)    Area under and/or number of the crop trees



70                                                                          AnnxC
(iii)   Location of the farmers and the farm holdings (year 2)
(iv)   Complete listing of growers of the crop to be surveyed
(year 2).
Regions in which coffee production is minimal could be excluded. Because of the
importance of listing farmers to the success of the survey, IDA and the Government
would have to agree on the detailed steps and timing of the listing of coffee growers
according to the above conditions before the funds are released to fund the annual
agricultural survey in the third year.
(b)    Table and questionnaire design (year 3)
(c)    Sample design (year 3)
(d)    Field enumeration (year 3)
(e)    Data entry and verification (year 3)
(f)    Data editing and data processing (year 3)
(g)    Preparation and printing of the pilot survey report (year 3)
(h)    Evaluation of the results (year 3)
(i)    Three month external consultancy in sampling design and
questionnaire design (year 2/3, after the listing operation is completed)
(j)    Three months external consultancy in data processing (year 3)
(k)    One month external consultancy in sampling, for evaluation of the
accuracy and precision of the survey's results (year 3, after the data
processing is completed)
6.           Improving CMEWU's Capacity:
Support would be for two activities: (a) agrometeorological data collection;
and (b) agricultural crop data.
Agro-Meteorological Data Collection would cover:
(i)    Annual replacement of rain gauges and measuring cylinders
(ii)    Annual inspection and training of 250 rainfall stations
(iii)   Procurement of equipment (computers) and transport



Agricultural Information Systems and Services                                   71
(iv)   Consultancy in Agro-meteorology
(v)    Professional training
(vi)  Incentives for volunteers
Agricultural Crop Data would cover:
(i)    Training for data collectors
(ii)   Supporting field visits
(iii)   Procurement of equipment (computers) and transport
(iv)   Incentives for data collectors
(v)    Professional training
(vi)   Consultancy in agricultural statistics
7.           ImDroving the Marketing DeveloDnment Bureau's (MDB) Capacity:
The aim is to expand and improve capacity to monitor agricultural markets as
liberalization progresses. The project would support, one year external
consultancy in marketing and trade in a market-oriented economy (year 3),
once the liberalization process has further expanded and the new framework is
more clearly settled. Improving the communication facilities, which is
common to all the sub-component's of the agricultural information component,
including improvement of marketing and price information, would be done
through installation of radio systems. The project would support their
purchase as follows:
(a)    One unit at the CBS Headquarters in Dar es Salaam;
(b)    One unit at the CMEWU Headquarters in Dar es Salaam;
(c)    One unit at the MBD Headquarters in Dar es Salaam; and
(d)    Twenty units (one for each region) at the RALDO's offices;



72                                                                        Anex C
WAYS TO UTILIZE REMOTE SENSING FACILITIES
FROM HARARE (ZIMBABWE)
8.    There is unanimity among the consulted institutions about the use of remote sensing
for collecting agricultural crop data: Remote sensing is not usable for satisfying their
current needs. There is a remote sensing unit installed at the Institute of Resource
Assessments in Dar es Salaam. There is also an FAO-funded regional project in
remote sensing based in Harare. The only agency which is using information from
these sources is the CMEWU, which receives information about rainfall. This
information, although is considered useful for historical and documentation purposes,
does not fulfill the CMEWU's needs of forecasting production, essentially because of:
(a) Lack of timeliness; and
(b) Inadequate coverage.
It is believed that the remote sensing technology will evolve and will therefore be able
to bring more usable data. However, computerized rainfall stations are also evolving
and becoming progressively cheaper and, therefore, the advantages of using remote
sensing for rainfall data collection in a near future are not clear and are unlikely to
materialize.
MOA - CBS MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
(ELEMENTS TO BE INCLUDED)
9.    MOA and CBS would agree that the national sample census of agriculture and
subsequent annual surveys will be carried out jointly by both institutions. The agreement
should last at least 5 years (project's life).    Both institutions should agree also to establish
mechanisms of coordination and of pooling their resources for undertaking the census and the
surveys. The coordination will include:
(a)    continuation with the current technical committee, whose composition would
be explicitly included in the memo. The committee will be the Technical
Authority for the census and survey works and will be co-headed by one
professional from the MOA and another professional from Central Bureau of
Statistics (CBS);
(b)   the allocation of part of the present staff and material resources from both
institutions to the census and survey works; and
(c)   the allocation of all the project-funded resources for the census and survey
works.
COST RECOVERY MECHANISMS
10.   This point focuses essentially on the possibilities of selling publications and/or
services to cover some costs of the services. In the present context, these possibilities
are almost non-existent. Firstly, the information that is currently being produced is



Agricultural Information Systems and Services                                   73
basically government-oriented. Secondly, the institutions involved in the production
of agricultural information are lacking the capacity to produce and publish reliable
data on a regular basis (as a matter of fact, to improve such capacity is the core of
this component. As the quality and the timeliness of the data improve, prospects for
cost recovery charges would also improve. This is especially true for the MDB's
market information bulletins and, to a lesser degree, the CMEWU publications. A
marketing strategy has to be worked out to ensure that selling data does not chock off
demand for data.
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AGAINST WICH TO MEASURE
PROGRESS OVER THE 5 YEARS
(a) Agricultural Census:
(i) Listing of Balozi and household is completed;
(ii) Field work for vuli season is completed;
(iii) Field work for masika season is completed;
(iv) Preliminary report is completed; and
(v) Final report is completed.
As means of verification, for the items a,b and c the mechanism would be the
inspection of the material produced. In other words, once each of the first three
operations is reported as completed, the lists and/or questionnaires should be made
accessible to the World Bank's supervision missions for the project.
For the items d and e, copies of the reports would be sent to IDA.
(b) Annual Surveys:
(i) Field work for vuli and masika season is completed; and
(ii) Reports are completed.
Means of verification for item (a) would be the same as of items (b) and (c) of the
census field work. Meanwhile the release of the report would be a mean of
verification by itself.
{c) Pilot Surve
(i) Listing of coffee growers is completed;
(ii) Field enumeration is completed; and
(iii) Survey report is completed.
Means of verification for items (i) and (ii) would be again the inspection of the
farmers listing and the completed questionnaires. For item (iii), a copy of the report
should be sent to IDA.



74                                                                        Anne C
(d) Iproving CMEWU's Capacity:
(i) Replacement of equipment takes place;
(ii) Inspections and training are carried out; and
(iii) CMEWU's monthly and quarterly bulletins are published timely.
Verification would be by way of CMEWU's providing detailed annual plans for items
(i) and (ii). Once such plans are approved, the corresponding activities would be
made available, upon request, to World Bank supervision missions. The release of
the bulletins would be considered a mean of verification by itself.
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANCIES
O)    CONSULTANCY IN DATA PROCESSING (CENSUS)
DESIGNATION*    Data Processing Expert
OUALIFICATIONS: The incumbent should have a University degree in computer/statistics
and at least five years of hands-on experience in processing data from agricultural
census/surveys. Must be fluent in English, experience of working in an African country is
desirable.
DUTIES:      To collaborate with the CBS-MOA Technical Committee in the selection of
computer equipments and software.
-     To design, develop and test (fine tuning) the data entry system for the census.
This includes writing the computer program(s).
-     To conduct the operation of the data entry system.
-     Supervision of the data entry works, including quality control
-     To write, test and operate the computer program(s) to be used for data
tabulation
-     To train the local staff in the use and installation of all the software used in
the census
-     To review, in close collaboration with the local staff, the data editing
specifications and the data tabulation plan
-     to write exhaustive documentation for all the above
-     To submit progress and final reports upon request



Agricultural Information Systems and Services                                     75
APPROXIMATE PERIOD OF CONSULTANCY
First Consultancy:    December 1993 - February 1994 (3 months)
Second Consultancy: October 1994 - December 1994 (3 months)
Third Consultancy:   October 1995 - March 1996 (6 months)
DUTY STATION:    Dar es Salaam
(ii)    CONSULTANCY IN CENSUS REPORT PREPARATION
DESIGNATION:         Agricultural Census Expert
OUALIFICATIONS: The incumbent should have a University degree in Statistics and at
least five years in senior position in planning, organization and conduct of agricultural census
in developing countries. Must have experience of drafting census reports. Must be fluent in
English.
DUTIES
-     To analyze the census data
-      to prepare and write the final report of the national agricultural census.
-      to train local counterparts in both data analysis and data reporting
-      to produce reports as and when required.
APPROXIMATE PERIOD OF CONSULTANCY
August - October 1995 (3 months)
DUTY STATION:    Dar es Salaam
Ciii) CONSULTANCY IN SAMPLING DESIGN AND QUESTIONNAIRE DESIGN
(PILOT SURVEYS)
DESIGNATION*         Statistics Expert
OUALIFICATION:   The incumbent should have a University degree in Statistics and at
least ten years experience in the design of rural surveys in developing countries. Must be
fluent in English.



76                                                                       Annex C
DUTIES:    In collaboration with the senior local staff, the incumbent will set the target
degree of precision/accuracy for the survey's estimates.
-     To design the survey questionnaire
-     to design the sample. Tbis include the identification of the farmholdings to be
enumerated
-     To test the sample against the listing of farmers/farms; and
-     To write exhaustive documentation for all the above, including quantitative analysis to
be carried out to get the final estimates and their precision
-     To produce reports upon request
APPROXMATE PERIOD OF CONSULTANC
March - May 1995 (3 months)
DUTY STATION:   Dar es Salaam
*lv) CONSULTANCY IN DATA PROCESSING (PILOT SURVEY)
DESIGNAION:         Data Processing Expert
OUALIFICATIONS: Same as the Census Data Processing Expert
DUnTIES
-     To design, develop and test the data entry system for the survey. This includes
writing the computer program(s)
-     To conduct the operation of the data entry system
-     Supervise of the data entry works, including quality control
-     To write, test and operate the computer program(s) for data editing
-     To write, test and operate the computer program(s) to be used to calculate the survey
estimates
-     to write, test and operate the computer program(s) to be used to calculate the
precision of the survey estimates
-     To produce reports upon request



Agricultural Information Systems and Services                                    77
APPROXMATE PERIOD OF CONSULTANCY
August - November 1996 (3 months)
DUTY STATIO:    Dar es Salaam
(v)    CONSULTANCY IN SAMPLING/STATISTICS (PILOT SURVEY)
DESIGNATION         Statistics Expert
OUALIFICATIONS:
Same as Consultancy for Pilot Survey
DUTIES:
To supervise the pilot survey results
On the light of the evaluation, to propose plans and to make recommendations for the
following years
-     To produce reports upon request
APPROXIMATE PERIOD OF CONSULTANCY
One month, November 1996. It is highly desirable that this consultancy should take place
during the last month of the consultancy for the Pilot Survey to enable overlap. This would
enable both consultants to work in close collaboration, which would be useful.
DUTY STATION:    Dar es Salaam
(vi) AGROMETEOROLOGICAL CONSULTANCY (CMEWU)
DESIGNATION:        Agrometeorological Expert
OUALIFICATION:   The incumbent should have a University degree in Agrometeorology,
as well as at least five years experience in senior position in Agrometeorological institutions.
Must be fluent in English. Working experience as a consultant in developing countries is
highly desirable.
DUTIES
Under the overall guidance and supervision of the FAO Food Security Adviser, the consultant
would:



78                                                                        Annex C
-     Assure that all computer systems remain operative and that staff are properly using
the programs installed.
-     Ensure that the program to convert rainfall and crop data to yield forecasts is working
satisfactorily - and train staff in recalibrating the model against the annual survey
results of the previous season.
-     Monitor and provide assistance in the preparation of two early forecasts of crop yield,
for the food crops monitored by CMEWU.
-     Review the progress made by the unit in using remote sensing data provided by the
FAO regional project based in Harare; and provide support and training as required.
-     Ensure that the rainfall data submitted by rainfall reporters is in order, by checking
the methods of collecting and submitting the data, and make recommendations for
improvement.
-     Assess the need and identify opportunities for overseas training requirements.
-     Carry out on-the-job training in all areas relating to the rainfall data collection and
processing techniques being utilized.
-     Contribute to the improvement of the analysis and presentation of the food security
situation, including the Food Security Bulletins.
-     Prepare reports upon request
In addition, in the final year of consultancy, the incumbent would:
-     Review the network of rainfall stations used by the CMEWU) and make
recommendations for its future improvement.
-     Identify future technical assistance requirements.
APPROXIMATE PERIOD OF CONSULTANCY
April - July 1994 (4 months)
April - May 1995 (2 months)
June 1996    (1 month)
DUTY STATION:   Dar es Salaam
(vii) AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS CONSULTANCY (CMEWU)
DESIGNATION*        Agricultural Statistician



Agricultural Informaton Systems and Services                                     79
OUALIFICATIONS: The incumbent should have a University degree in Agricultural
Statistics and at least five years experience in senior position in an Agricultural
Early Warning Agency. Must be fluent in English. Working experience in an African
country is desirable.
DUTIES
Under the overall guidance of the FAO Food Security Advisor, this consultant will:
-     Conduct a thorough analysis of the data requirements of the CMEWU.
-     Review and assess the current methods used by the CMEWU to gather crop area data
from the field.
-     On the basis of the above assessment, propose a system to gather reliable nationwide
crop area data which can be fully maintained by the CMEWU, either on its own or in
collaboration with other government agencies.
-     Prepare, organize and conduct training for field level staff.
-     Supervise data collection activities and develop a system for computer processing and
analysis.
-     Collaborate with all the relevant agencies in producing final estimates of area, yields
and production forecasts for each staple food crop, based on the data obtained.
-     Assess the need and identify opportunities for overseas training requirements.
-     Carry of on-the-job training in all areas related to the data collection and processing
techniques being used.
-     contribute to the improvement of the analysis and presentation of the food security
situation, including the Food Security Bulletins.
-     Assess, in retrospect, the quality of the crop area data generated during the previous
season.
-     Produce reports upon request.
In addition, in the last year of consultancy, the consultant will:
Review and assess the methods utilized by the CMEWU.
On the basis of the above assessment, he will make recommendations for
improvement in future years.



80                                                                        Annex C
APPROXIMATE PERIOD OF CONSULTANCY
January - August 1994 (8 months)
April - July 1995 (4 months)
April - July 1996 (4 months)
DUTY STATION:    Dar es Salaam
(viii) CONSULTANCY IN MARKETING AND TRADE (MDB)
DESIGNATION:        Marketing and Trade Expert
OUALIFICATIONS: The incumbent should have at least a masters degree in economics,
with specialization or experience in agricultural marketing. He should have at least five years
of working experience in government agencies dealing with agricultural marketing/trade
monitoring and regulation in developing countries. Familiarity with African environments
would be highly desirable.
DUTES:
Although the marketing and prices of traditional export crops are still controlled, it is
expected that they will be liberalized in the near future. The liberalization will lead to:
The need of monitoring prices and marketing conditions for a series of products and
input which still remain under official dominion.
The request for more precise and timely information, coming from a strengthened
private sector.
The need of a thorough analysis of the marketing and trade information, in order to
ensure, through regulations, fair and transparent conditions for the liberalized market
of agricultural commodities this will unavoidably change the role and needs of MBD
in such a manner that it is now impossible to establish precisely the terms of reference
for external assistance in the upcoming years.
Therefore, it is proposed that a one year external consultancy be budgeted for and the
terms of reference would include the following:
Assess of the MBD's performance and needs.
On the basis of the assessment, make recommendations for improvement in the future.
To identify the needs of recruiting additional staff to accomplish the new role of
MDB.



Agrlcultural liformatdon Systems and Services                                      81
-     To identify the needs/opportunities of training.
-     To identify the needs of technical assistance.
-     To produce reports upon request.
APPROXIMATE PERIOD OF CONSULTANCY
May 1995 - April 1996 (12 months)
DUTY STATION:    Dar es Salaam



82                                                                                                AnnexD
ANNEX D.1 SELECTED PROJECr CosT TABLES
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Sumnary
TSH                                USS                            X Total
------------------------------    ---------------------------   % Foreign           Base
Local   Foreign      Total        LocaL  Foreign    TotaL       Exchange      Costs
A . MOA RATIONALIZATION
1. PARASTATAL DIVESTITURE           32291    108129    140420            92       309       401            77         2
2. FUNCTIONS RATIONALIZATION       526981    617991   1144972           1506     1766      3271            54         13
3. NEW MISSIONS & MGT SYS           83776      34104    117880           239       97       337            29          1
4. REG/DIST. RATIONALIZATION       115027       1575    116602          329         4       333             1          1
5. STRENGTH. MGT. SYSTEMS          696990    506310   1203300           1991     1447      3438            42         13
Sub-TotaL                             1455065   1268109   2723175           4157     3623      7780            47         30
B . POLICY
1. POLICY AGENDA                   303765    588945    892710           868      1683      2551            66        10
2. INST. STRENGTHENING             452903   1153806   1606710           1294     3297      4591            72         18
Sub-TotaL                              756668   1742751   2499420           2162     4979      7141            70         28
C . AGL. INFO. SYSTEM
1. AGRICULTURAL CENSUS             606217    826318   1432536          1732      2361      4093            58        16
2. AGRICULTURAL SURVEY            1436367    639627   2075993          4104      1828      5931            31        23
3. EARLY WARNING - CROP DATA        62492      70332    132825           179      201       379            53          1
4. EARLY WARNING - RAIN DATA        25497    106977    132475             73      306       378            81          1
S-ub-Total                            2130574   1643255   3773829           6087     4695    10782             44         42
Total BASELINE COSTS                  4342308   4654116   8996424          12407    13297    25704             52        100
PhysicaL Contingencies                   0          0          0            0        0         0             0         0
Price Contingencies                 303349    235144    538493            867      672      1539            44          6
Total PROJECTS COSTS                  4645657   4889260   9534917          13273    13969    27243             51        106
st- -=======-=s:lssu=s:==rs=zz        z==============zz==wzt===Xz  =zss=.zz=uusxwzfl..=
.................... ...........................................0  _  .5/20/199   11:12_________________________________
Values Scaled by 1000.0 - 5/20J1993 11:12



UNITED REPUSLIC OF TANZANIA                                                                                    t
AGRIOJLTURAL SECTOR MANAGENENT MROJECT                                                                              t
Summary Accounts by Year                                                                                      t
Totals Including Contingencies                                   Totals Including Contingencies
TSH                                                               USS
93/94     94/95     95/96     96/97     97/96     Total        93/94     94/95     95/96     96/97     97/98     Totat
1~~~~~~~~~~~~.s ,NS04N  CO=sggggSTXUS                             . sg ... .......Sa.    ....a..... a s s......................... Swn ........... s ssx.sY$Y==  ...................  =^  Ss=sYg................=.. 
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. VEHICLES L EQJIPHENT            1165865      9161     23046   623399       10040   1831511         3331        26        66      1781        29      5233
B. WORKSHOPS & SEMINARS             152353    135859    119971     81681     79173    569038          435       388        343       233       226      1626 
C. TECH. ASSISTANCE (INT'L)         394522    296819   283352      75955     84334   1134982          1127      848       810        217       241      3243
D. TECH. ASSISTANCE (LOCAL)         183079    172996    167027   139096    136982    799182            523      494        477       397       391      2283       23 
E. TRAINING (INT'L)                 38124    337561    234993    152690    28111   1141779            1109      965       671        436        80      3262                   ft
F. TRAINING (LOCAL)                  85302     47125     33473     32563     33573    232036          244        135       96        93         96       663
G. RATIONALIZATICN FUND             710850         0         0         0         0    710850         2031         0          0         0         0      2031
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             3080095    999822    861863   1105385    372213   6419378         8800       2857      2462      3158      1063     18341
...~~~~-               --- ---  -- --                         .......... _.a =st8Y=..s=s-sas ......             ..........................................=.- .....----.-...... s.-------............-.-- 
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. PERSONNEL COSTS                  334263    265191    273412    281888    290626   1445381          955        758      781        805       830      4130
B. VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS          192285    160136    166422    170218    175495    864555          549       458       475       486        501      2470
C. OFFICE SUPPLIES                  150132    120340    124070    127917    131882   654341           429       344       354       365       377       1870
0. BLDG. RENT A MAINTENACE           28434     29315     30224     31161     32127    151262           81        84        86         89        92       432
Total RECUIRRENT COSTS              705113    574962    594129    611184    630130   3115539         2015       1643     1698       1746      1800      8902 
- ------ssszsgS     tS-- SZZ--Xt----tSf-f======S==..                 ...=5=                   =2===== ...  .....
Total PROJECT COSTS                3785209   1574804   1455992   1716568   1002344   9534917        10815      4499      4160      4904      2864      27243
____________________________..... = z...             ...                       ......    X z .z....             .........a...=..... = = =.......................________________________.________......................................................... _________-___-__________
VaLues Scated by 1000.0  5/20/1993  11:15                                                                                                                         fl
00



ANNEx E TEMS OF REFERENCE FOR KEY POSITIONS AND CONSULTANTS5
Project Coordinator
DURATION:           Initially for a period of three years, with an option for two years
extension
QUALIFICATIONS: A Tanzanian national with a post-graduate degree in economics,
business management or related field; five years experience as an
administrator of various programs or projects in the government or
parastatal organizations; wide experience in implementation of
development programs preferably in agriculture and in dealing with
donor agencies; and experience in collaborating with international
organizations. Should possess leadership qualities and ability to deal
with people at both technical and management levels.
KEY FUNCTIONS: 1. Supervise the work of the project accountant, training coordinator
and MOA rationalization task manage.
2. Review and ensure that annual work plans and budgets, proposed
by the component managers, are consolidated and presented for
approval by the inter-ministerial steering committee.
3. Ensure that quarterly progress reports including expenditure
statements are prepared and submitted to the ISC for approval.
4. Convene and take minutes of the ISC and the MOA Advisory
Technical Committee meetings to regularly review project progress
including identification of implementation problems and suggesting
solutions.
5. Ensure timely release of project funds for each component.
6. Expedite procurement of equipment, supplies and services and see
that the component implementors get them on time.
7. Arrange annual audits of expenditures of each component and the
project as a whole.
8. Assist the ISC in arranging for mid-term review of the project and
the project completion report.
'Othrs ar included in Annexes A to C.



Terms of Reference for Key Positions and Consultancies                         85
9. Ensure that project management and operational guidelines, as
approved by the ISC are followed in implementing the components.
10. Establish procedures and criteria for monitoring and evaluation of
progress, and analysis of the impact of project components and the
project as a whole.
11. Ensure that reporting requirements by donors including annual
work programs, and quarterly progress reports and related minutes of
the ISC meetings are met.
Project Accountant
Terms of Reference
DURATION:           Initially for a period of three years, with an option for a two years
extension
QUALIFICATION:  A Tanzanian professionally qualified in finance, management
accounting and/or cost accounting, from a recognized institution.
Should be computer literate.
EXPERIENCE:         Post qualification experience of minimum of 10 years of which at least
5 years should be at a senior management level, either in government
or parastatal organization. Past experience on an internationally aided
project would be an advantage.
KEY FUNCTIONS:  Financial management: Supervise all financial activities for the
project, including reports to donors and govermnent, and maintenance
of statutory records in accordance with government regulations and
donor requirements. Coordinate with designated auditors, for annual
audit in accordance with donor requirements.
Annual work program and budgets: Interact with the implementors
of project components, the project training officer and the MOA
rationalization task manager for preparation of annual work programs,
budgets and allocation of funds.
Accounting and disbursement: Coordinate with the donors for
release of funds, supervise direct disbursements and operations of
special accounts, develop and maintain project accounting records.
Expenditure Monitoring: Establish a record of actual disbursement
matched with provisions made in the project documents under each



86                                                                       Annex E
major category of expenditure, and compile data showing current and
cumulative actual expenditure and commitments, under each category
and project component.
Systems and Procedures: Design and implement a computerized
management information system for monitoring and reporting project
expenditure information to different levels of management and to the
international funding agencies.
Training: Train and develop fellow Tanzanian staff on the above
activities to maintain project benefits after funding terminates.
Project Trainine OMcer
Terms of Reference
OBJECTIVE: The Government is implementing an Agricultural Sector Management Project
with support from the IDA. A key aspect of this project is the training of
staff in the Ministry of Agriculture in the techniques of 'indirect management'
of the agricultural economy, through incentive structures, regulation and the
provision of public goods. The implementation of the project in the Ministry
of Agriculture will be managed through the office of the Project Coordinator,
attached to the office of the Commissioner for Planning and Marketing. The
Project Training Officer will be located in the office of the Project
Coordinator, and will be responsible for ensuring that a coherent training
program is put in place for the staff.
QUALFICATIONS:
Masters degree in economics, with additional training or experience in
management of training and personnel development programs. He/she should
have at least five years of experience in policy analysis.
DURATION: Three years.
KEY TASKS: The Project Training Officer would be responsible to the Project Coordinator.
Responsibilities would be to:
1.    Develop a five year plan for training of MOA staff in the Sectoral
Planning Department, using resources allocated for training under the ASMP
project, and other training resources, within the first 3 months of the
assignment;



Terms of Reference for Key Positions and Consultancies                         87
2.    Formulate an Annual Training Plan every year. This Training Plan
will be based very closely on the Annual Work Plan for the Department, and
will endeavor to provide staff with the training opportunities needed for an
efficient implementation of the Department's work program. The annual plan
is to be prepared in collaboration with the Commissioner for Sectoral Planning
and the Project Coordinator;
3.    Assist the key staff in the MOA to put together a Personal Training
Plan, following agreement on the Annual Training Workplan. These Personal
Training Plans would have to be sanctioned by the unit chief, and the Head of
the Sector Planning Department. This personal training plan would be drafted
in outline for the 5 years of the Project. Each year, an Annual Personal
Training Plan would be defined, indicating, for each staff, the mix of study
tours, short, medium and long courses, on the job training and personnel
services contract opportunities which would be made available during the
year.
4.    Manage the various elements of the training plan on a day to day
basis. This will imply monitoring training schedules, work schedules, study
deadlines in order to achieve an effective implementation of the Departmental
Work Plan, while improving staff capabilities. Management of the Training
Work Plan will entail very close coordination with the Heads of Departments,
and the Project Coordinator.
5.    In collaboration with the Training Cooperating Agency, manage the
training budget from both local and international sources allocated to the
Training Work Plan, once it has been approved by the Ministry of Finance
(ocal) and IDA (foreign). Budgetary matters would be channeled through the
Project Accountant, and the Training Cooperating Agency.
6.    Prepare an annual report on achievements through the Training
Program, including a listing of reports produced and training courses
attended. This should be tallied with the targets formulated for the year in the
Annual Training Workplan.
7.    Train a Tanzanian to take over the task after three years.
MOA Functional Rationalization Task Managfer
Terms of Reference
DURATION:           Initially for a period of three years, with an option for two years
extension.



88                                                                        Annex E
QUALIFICATION:  Post graduate degree in economics, business management or related
fields, with background knowledge or work experience in agriculture.
EXPERIENCE:         A Tanzanian national with at least 10 years experience in strategic
management and organizational development in agricultural institutions
including familiarity with project and program management, policy
implementation and divestiture. Strong familiarity with the mission,
objectives and programs of MOA. Should have leadership qualities
and should be a team player.
KEY FUNCTIONS:
1.    Provide guidance to the Rationalization Task Force and serve
as the secretary for its deliberations;
2.    Orient the groups working on rationalization to define a clear
focus and coherent goals, and bring the individual activities together in
a long-term unified approach;
3.    Coordinate the activities of the various task groups and
individual consultants, according to the action plans approved by the
task force;
4.    Prepare reports and provide for their distribution to all
necessary parties ensuring adequate information flows between task
groups and components of the project;
5.    Participate in the design and implementation of individual
action plans or related technical studies as determined by the task
force and task groups;
6.    Develop a training program for MOA staff on topics related to
the rationalization process, and coordinate training activities for
groups or individuals taking over the spun off MOA functions; and
7.    Coordinate the annual rationalization review and planning
workshops as well as preparation for the mid-term and final project
reviews.



TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
EatFinati d Sc  edule of Credit Diabursenat by IDA Fiwal Year Semeger 1/
(US$ Million) 
IDA FY    Estimated      Estimated   Cum. Diab.  Standard   Cum. Diab.
and    Disbursmemet  Cumulativc   a a % of Diaburwemt according to
Semnester     2/       Diaburwemat IDACredit  Profde 3/  Std. Profile                          Disbursement Profiles
26
93-l1           0.50          0.50        2%           0%       : -2
94- I           2.40          2.90       12%           3%        0.75        24
94-U            2.57          5.47       22%           6%        1.49         22
95- I           2.24         7.71        31%          14%        3.48        20
95-I1           2.24          9.95       40%          22%        5.47    _    C
96-1            2.48         12.43       50%          30%        7.46
96-11           2.00         14.43       58%          38%        9.45         14
97- I           2.97         17.40       70%          50%       12.44 g       12 -
97-li           2.00         19.40       78%          58%       14.42         10 _
98-1            1.29        20.69        83%          70%       17.41         a                                                                 0,.O
98-H            1.20         21.89       88%          78%       19.40         6 -                                                               t
99- 1           0.79        22.68        91%          K6%      21.39          4 -
99-l            0.70         23.38       94%          90%       22.38         2-                                                                to
00-1            0.70         24.08       97%          94%       23.38         e          '
00-U            0.49         24.57       99%          98%       24.37                 e+-.   9S-    9e    07-i    e-4   as-4   00-i   01-i
VA PY md S.msstw
01-1            0.30         24.87      100%         100%       24.87                        o  E,U@w.   + *.b  Ife
1/ IDA Credit Effectivauesm, Complctiou and Closng Dat& re asaumed to be Sept. 30, 1993. Doc. 31, 1998 and June 30, 1999.
2/ IDA FY 93 Semeater U and FY 94 S_ter I include eatimated diA _rstmet of USS 0.75 million - PPF advace.
3/ Source: Central Operations Deparown  Standard Diuburwmem  Profile for Tanzania - All Sectan.



90                                                                          Annex G
ANNEx G GENERAL SUPERVISION PLAN
General Plan
1.    The initial thrust of supervision would be to assist the government with start up
logistics, including a project launch, and subsequently to progress to cover various activities
of the project as indicated in the project implementation plan. The intensity of project
supervision would have three major peaks: the first year of project start-up; preparation and
undertaking of the mid-term review; and preparation of the project completion report. The
assistance from the World Bank in project supervision would be from two sources: the World
Bank Resident mission which would focus on trouble shooting and day to day facilitation of
project implementation particularly in the first year of the project; and regular World Bank
supervision missions from headquarters which would take place every six months. In
addition, the World Bank would review and act on procurement and disbursement requests as
well as review and comment on progress and audit reports as they come up.
Borrowers Contribution to Supervision
2.    The Project Secretariat would act as the central link between the Government and IDA
staff. On a quarterly basis, the Secretariat would provide IDA with a summary report of
project progress, together with minutes of the interministerial steering committee review of
the report. On an annual basis, the Secretariat would provide IDA with yearly work plans for
each of the project component. The plan would include a summary of p -nject progress to
date (that would include use of funds statement, physical output and indicators of development
impact), the forthcoming year's objectives, inputs to achieve them including a budget to
finance them, and expected outputs. The report should clearly discuss the particular
difficulties or problems that are impacting on implementation and the proposed measures to
address them.
3.    Prior to each field mission by IDA, the Secretariat would set up a timetable of key
meetings, as discussed between the project coordinator and the mission leader. The
Secretariat would be responsible for notifying all component implementors and managers of
the dates of the missions, and for ensuring the availability of component implementors for
discussion with the IDA missions.
4.    The Secretariat would be responsible, with the IDA task manager, for the organization
and conduct of the midterm review. The Secretariat would be responsible for organizing staff
and consultants to undertake all preparatory work and documentation required for the review,
as well as for organizing the presentation of the Government's mid-term report by the inter-
ministerial steering commnittee for discussions with IDA.
5.    The Secretariat would also co-ordinate Government's contribution to the project
completion report that would review the project's performance and the respective
contributions to it by Government and IDA.



Superision Plan                                                                91
IDA Supervision Input into Key Activities
Approximate  Activity Requirements       Expected Skills     Staff Input
Dates                                                        Staff Weeks
(Month/Year)
8/93         Project launch workshop    Procurement                 8
Disbursement
Institution Building
Policy
1/94         Supervision Mission        Procurement                 10
(review start-up, set-up of    Institutional Development
organizational arrangements  Policy
for coordination, implement  Agric. Statistician
ation, accounting, M&E)    Business development
7/94         Supervision Mission        Institution Building        10
Policy
Financial Analyst
Agriculturalist
Agric. Statistician
1/95         Supervision Mission        Institution Building       8
Policy
Econometrician
Procurement
7/95         Supervision Mission        Financial Analyst           8
Policy
Agric. Statistician
Institution Building
1/96         Mid-term Review            Privatization               12
Policy
Agricultural Statistician
Procurement
Research/extension
Institution Building
7/96         Supervision Mission        Institutional Development   8



92                                                                     Annex G
Policy
MIS
Financial analyst
1/97        Supervision Mission        Institutional Development    8
Policy
Erconometrician
Procurement
7/97         Supervision Mission       Institutional Development    8
Policy
MIS
Financial analyst
1/98        Supervision Mission        Institutional Development    8
Policy
Agric. Statistician
Procurement
7/98         Supervision Mission       Institutional Development    8
Policy
MIS
Financial Analyst
1/99        Supervision Mission        Institutional Development    8
Policy
Agric. Statistician
Procurement
7/99         Supervision/PCR Mission    Institutional Development    10
Policy
Agric. Statistician
Financial Analyst



Procurement Schedule                                                           93
ANNEX H PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE AND OrlTER PROCUREMENT TABLES
Table H.1 Technical Assistance
(Staff-months)
Components  Foreign        Local Total
Rationalization 57         250   307
Policy       100           91    191
Information   48           0     48
Total        205           341   546
Table H.2: Volume of Local Technical Assistance
(Staff-months)
Rationalization Component               250
Policy Component                        91
Agric. Information Component            0
Total:                                  341
Of Which:
Long term TA
Project coordinator               60
Project accountant                60
MOA Rationalization Task Manager  60
MIS specialist                    48
Total long term TA                228
Short term TA                            113
TOTAL                                   341
1/    Loc TA is ooed at US$ 3000 per month compared to intemational TA costed at USS 15,000 per month.



94                                                                        Annex H
Table H.3 International TA Packages to be Procured Through Firms 1/
(Staff-months)
1.    Rationalization Component
Package A
Privatization Specalist           12
Functional Rationalization Expert    14
Package B
Planning and Budgeting expert     15
Personnel Management expert       4
MIS expert                        12
2.    Policy Component
Package A
Ad hoc surveys                    25
Exchange rate regime              4
Cotton Sub-sector review          6
Inputs supply review              4
Package B
Land tenure regime                4
Medium term policy                10
Food security                     9
Policy training review            2
3.    Agric. Information Component Package
Data processing expert            12
Census reporting expert           3
Pilot survey expert              6
Sampling expert                   3
Market information expert         12
Training coordinator              36
Early warning system statistician  8
Early warning system meteorologist  4
TOTAL                                   205
1/    Subject to confurmation by GOT at negotiations



Procurement Schedule                                                                             95
Table H.4 International TA Implementation Schedule
TA Packages                     Credit Effectiveness   Year 1    Year 2     Year 3      Year 4      Year 5
1. Rationalization:
Package A
Hiring
Execution
Package B
Hiring
Execution
2. Policy:
PackaZL A
Hiring
Execution
Packafe B
Hiring
Execution
3. Agric. Information
Package:
Hiring
Execution                                                            ._.



96                                                                                                    Ane 
ANNEX L.1ORGANIZATION OF TIIE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Present MUisbtry of Agrcltr
|   MINSTER      |
|Finance and                    Internl Audit   ||Nationid Food 
R =ch  l          l   ~~~~~Agriculture and  | I    Pls ming md      I            o p           IIAdMbiniion and I
Divism                    Livadook Divison          Marketing Divisio         Dcelo=entDivuialPlDvi
l                  t~~~~~~Cuii<r W            Coaitioner                C;_;           _one        Dirco
| Crop R_wcil |             ExtScrvSica                  Livedtock So"t     | _     nouti  and Audit   _        r_r 1lSeaixn
sectio                 Sctione                    Pl Aianningsecioner|1A   PMMO
LiFdo RSywc                 Criop Devlopment             Agricultur DeelpetoCopiv R e vela ot              Adm i bnning Swnd
ReSetion            _         Section           _     BruSetion           _        Seetos                 Triul  eoi
Assistnt Ctmmniow           Amidat Comniiioner          Anita CowAninionwr         Anidat CAoiniioner               PM
Fwming StSerLivestoc PlanlPoteoti                      MwIigDcvlp                COOeadreDevelopt          M"          unn  n
Rewa Section                         Sootion                  Bw    SainsectionTiin   wo
l  AidntCanisir           I ~~AisdnCmminisAim  oniioner                           AnistACmint ionw
Supr                                     1 +vi  Pla Prtoo



Organizational Charts of MoA  and the Relevant Departments                                                  97
ANNEX 1.2 ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Organizational Structure Proposed by MOA
Ministry of Agriculture
|MINISTER
Deputy Miniser      
Plipyl SeAnay
|v CiL                      Secto PAunitg|          Security
Rewch and T     imma  Budg t
Rewarbh                 ExterAian & Technical             Pbnning                    CoqPCmtive            A      uiiolnl snd
Divis                   Swic_ Diviion             a nd Marketing Divisoll ,        Division           Huma Resoume Divuion
Cr Sdop Rm                  A    Crop Exon io0                  Policy Analysh|isec  hS  i i  Cs                     epwr Tr&iug|
Fwming Symm         ~~~~Livestock Exuion    |     Statistics and Fwrm     Coeli  Dlpe  n||
Special Prop_    LivesXock Coutrl                            Mig_                       Cooptie           _    Human Resoume
Service                     M                         Rmidcten                      laig
q    zimgaion                                              Coopertive
Inspection                        _
|Zonal Directonrs                     RAWDO 



98                                                                   Annex J
ANNEX J SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECr FILE
1. Guidelines for preparations of the Rolling Plan and Forward Budget.
2. Institutional development strategy paper.
3. Civil service reform strategy.
4. Policy guidelines for parastatal privatization.
5. ASMP Project Preparation Report.
6. Detailed Project Costs.
7. Project implementation manual.
8. Preliminary findings of the Joint Government-World Bank Agricultural Sector Review
9. Tanzania Association of Consultants, The Constitution.
10. Tanzania Association of Consultants, Directory of Members, September 1990.
11. Functional Review of the Organization and Manpower establishment of the Ministry
of Agriculture, Livestock Development and Cooperatives, submitted by Tanzania Agro-
Industrial Services Ltd., October 21, 1991.



____________________                                 ~~IBRD     1982
KEYA
MLAEBA  UKtRE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~tN*NA \
z                                                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INVIAN
J                                                                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~QCJIA
BURUNDI                                                                                                            S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R SH                                                                  4
M-&l.                                                               N.~~~.IG
s-,                                                                                                                        OZA.S.OUI~~~~~~~TNZ NI
~~~~~A~~~~                                     S  AH               m  ~                
S I N   G  I ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    oil        >NEVA                                                              
I    Aa R    A                                                                                           S-
ZAIRE ~ ~ ~ ~     ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~ ~ ~ ~                              ZMIU
'A.                                                                                                                            40                                NOVEMBER 196t8R  N 
b.                                               N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



