CREDIT NUMBER 2389 MAU
Development Credit Agreement
(Water Supply Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATIOT
Dat,ed                /8  , 1992


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2389 MAU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated N&4A/0              , 1992, between ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated
May 1, 1992 from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve an adjustment of the
Borrower's  water   supply, electricity   and  sanitation  sector
(hereinafter referred to as the "Program"), declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting the
Aseociation to assist in the financing of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
WHEREAS (B) the Project will be carried out by Socift-
Nationale d'Eau et d'Electricite (SONELEC) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to SONELEC the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this
Agreement;
WHEREAS (C) the Borrower intends to obtain loans or grants
from the French Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration for the realization
of the studies mentioned in Part A, Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
and
WHEREAS (D) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
SONELEC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General   Conditions  Applicable  to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of  the   Association,  dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.


﻿Section 1.02. Unles  the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to fhis Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Performance Contract" means the agreement entered into
between the Borrower and SONELEC pursuant to Section 3.02 (c) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes any schedules to the Performance Contract and any
new performance contract;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and SONELEC, of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(c)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"  means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated April 23, 1992 and May 15,
1992 between the Borrower and the Association;
(d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(e)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SONELEC pursuant to Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreemenc; and
(f)   "Environmental Management Plan" means the Plan in
Schedule 5.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seven million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 7,700,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to thii Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.


﻿-4-
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
October 1, 2002 and ending April 1, 2032. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on April 1, 2012 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.


﻿-5-
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. SONELEC is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause SONELEC to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of SONELEC
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SONELEC to perform
such obligations, and 3hall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3
to 0his Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall rsl1end, excluding any
exchange risk, the proceeds of the Credit to SONELEC under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and SONELEC, under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association, which shall include an annual interest
rate of 4 percent on the disburned and outstanding amount of the


﻿-6-
loan, and a repayment period of twenty years including a grace
period of five years.
(b)   The Borrower shall see to it that SONELEC will be
directed by officers whose competence and experience are compatible
with their functions.
(c)   The Borrower shall enter into a performance contract
with SONELEC, covering a three-year period, with effect from
June 12, 1992, on terms and conditions which shall be satisfactory
to the Association, including, but not limited to, provisions to the
effect that:
(i)   SONELEC shall be authorized, without further
recourse to, or action on the part of the
Borrower, to implement, with effect from
January 1, 1993, and every six months thereafter,
an increase in water and electricity tariffs at
the rate of seven and a half percent semi-
annually, in order to achieve a rate of return on
net revalued fixed assets in operation (including
interest and financial charges) of not less than
0 percent in 1992, not less than 1 percent in
1993, not less than 2 percent in 1994 and not
less than 3 percent in 1995; provided, however,
that such rate of increase shall be further
increased, at the request of SONELEC, whenever it
is established, upon a review of the basis on
which each such tariff increase has been
calculated and in accordance with an agreed
formula,   that   the   proposed   increase  is
insufficient to enable SONELEC to achieve the
required rate of return;
(ii)     SONELEC shall adjust the number of its staff
progressively in such a way as to - attain a
minimum ratio of active water and electricity
meters per agent of: 68 as of December 31, 1992
and 78 as of December 31, 1993, and 89 as of
December 31, 1994, and 95 as of the termination
date of the Performance Contract;
(iii)     the Borrower shall, with effect from July 1,
1992: (A) repossess the sewerage network assets
operated by SONELEC, and assume the debt service


﻿-7-
obligations relating thereto; and (B) authorize
SONELEC to impose a sewerage surcharge to those
of its customers who are connected to the
sewerage system, and reimburse SONELEC for the
balance of the cost of maintaining and operating
the sewerage network on behalf of the Borrower;
(iv)  SONELEC shall receive adequate compensation in
respect of all services that it is required to
provide, or obligations that it is required to
assume, by the Borrower, which are beyond the
scope of its normal attributions under its
Charter;
(v)  the radio and television license fees will not,
with effect from July 1, 1992, be added to the
water and electricity bill;
(vi)  interim billing statements will be introduced on
an alternate monthly basis, with effect from
January 1, 1994, in order to supplement the
bimonthly billing cycle;
(vii)  SONELEC   and,  to  the   extent  necessary  or
appropriate, the Borrower shall take steps in
order to achieve or to maintain, as the case may
be, an average collection period not exceeding 60
days, in the case of its private customers, and
not exceeding 90 days, in the case of customers
belonging to the public administration;
(viii)  SONELEC will maintain a debt-equity ratio of not
more than 60 percent;
(ix)  the Borrower will make arrangements to ensure
that SONELEC has ready and sufficient access to
foreign exchange to be able to meet ivs financial
obligations to its suppliers and other creditors;
(x)  the Borrower shall: (A) make adequate budgetary
allocations in its annual budget to cover all its
financial commitments under the Performance
Contract, including but not limited to its
liability for water and electricity consumption
for the forthcoming fiscal year, based on its


﻿-8-
actual consumption for the preceding fiscal year,
as adjusted to take account of projected
increases in tariffs and consumption; and (B)
transfer the amount so allocated to SONELEC's
account in six equal bimonthly installments,
beginning during the first bimonthly period of
the fiscal year, the difference between the
amount so allocated and the amount actually
billed being due and payable to SONELEC or, as
the case may be, to the Borrower, during the
first billing period immediately following the
end of the said fiscal year;
(xi)   SONELEC  shall   establish,  not   later  than
January 1, 1993, an analytical accounting system
that   differentiates   amongst    its   water,
electricity and sewerage activities;
(xii)  the Borrower shall have a study conducted, not
less than six months prior to the termination
date of the Performance Contract, in order to
determine the appropriate level and structure of
water and electricity tariffs required ior the
period following termination of the Performance
Contract;
(xiii)  the Borrower and SONELEC shall, prior to the
termination date of the Performance Contract,
conclude a new performance contract, based on
similar terms and conditions, to take effect
immediately  after  the   existing  Performance
Contract.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Performance Contract in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
the Performance Contract, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,


﻿-9-
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out
by SONELEC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause SONELEC to maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause SONELEC to:
(i)   have  its   records,  accounts   and  financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements), including
those for the Special Account, if any, for each
fiscal   year  audited,   in   accordance  with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year:
(A)   certified   copies   of   its   financial
statements for such year as so audited; and
(B)   the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the
Association    shall    have    reasonably
requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿- 10 -
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause SONELEC to:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at   least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account or payment out of the Special
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable  the  Association's  representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure that the said accounts and records shall
be audited on a semi-annual basis by said
auditors, who shall prepare audit reports
accordingly and furnish them to the Association,
not later than three (3) months after the end of
such semi-annual audit period, along with an
opinion  as   to  whether   the  statements  of
expenditure   submitted  during   such  period,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   SONELEC shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or the Performance Contract.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that SONELEC will


﻿- 11 -
be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement, the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Performance Contract.
(C)   The Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Performance
Contract.
(d)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Borrower
will be able to perform its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or the Performance Contract.
(e)   The Decree (No. 75-170 of May 1975) establishing SONELEC
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to affect materially and adversely the ability of SONELEC to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement, the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Performance Contract.
(f)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of SONELEC or for the suspension of its operations.
(g)   Upon the termination date of the Performance Contract,
the Borrower and SONELEC shall have failed to conclude a new
performance contract acceptable to the Association.
(h)   A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a), (c) or (g) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (b), (d), (e), (f) or
(h) of Section 5,01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been signed on behalf
of the Borrower and SONELEC;
(b)   the Performance Contract has been duly ratified by the
Borrower and declared effective in accordance with the applicable
laws and procedures of the Borrower;
(c)   the Borrower has settled the balance of all arrears due
and payable to SONELEC as of December 31, 1991;
(d)   the Borrower or SONELEC has recruited an independent
auditor, acceptable to the Association, to audit SONELEC's accounts
in accordance with the requirements of Section 4.01 of the Project
Agreement; and
(e)   bidding documents, acceptable to the Association,
pertaining to Part B (3) of the Project, have been drawn up.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified, as the case may be, by SONELEC, and is legally binding
upon SONELEC in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Performance
Contract have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
SONELEC, and are legally binding upon the Borrower and SONELEC in
accordance with their respective terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Planning of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan
B.P. 238
Nouakchott
Mauritanie
Cable address:               Telex:
MEF                       5540 MTN
Nouakchott
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
By                   roo// Af/omw
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /.4/ ,5&V=AAWu IV/.      .  & eVX
Regional ce%resident
Africa


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceads of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Eauivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works and            3,000,000       100%
pipe construction
(2) Supply of                  2,600,000       100%
materials and
equipment
(3) Studies,                   1,100,000       100%
technical
assistance and
training
(4) Refunding of                 370,000       Amounts due
Project                                   pursuant to
Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                    of this Agreement
(5) Unallocated                  630,000
TOTAL                     7,700,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) achieve financial
discipline and accomplish self-sufficiency of the urban water supply
sub-sector, leading to sustained sector development, (b) improve
sector management by strengthening the planning and appraisal
calpabilities of SONELEC, its financial and administrative depart-
ments, and its operating and maintenance procedures, (c) improve
wal;er service levels and alleviate poverty in Nouakchott, by
providing an adequate quantity of safe water to the population at an
affordable price, and (d) foster efficient groundwater management,
and protect, in order to extend its finite life, the presently
exploited source of water for Nouakchott.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Groundwater Management
1.    Monitoring of salt water intrusion in the existing Idini
wellfield of the Trarza aquifer.
2.    Elaboration  of a   groundwater  management  plan  for  the
exploitation of the new Tenadi wellfield, further -ay from the
advancing saline front, and development of a long-term water supply
plan for Nouakchott.
Part B:     Rehabilitation and Extension of Distribution Network
1.    Implementation of a leak detection and repair program.
2.    Rehabilitation of existing distribution network.
13.    Extension of distribution    system  to  northern  part  of
Nouakchott, and construction of standpipes.
Part C:     Studies and Audits
1.    Completion of studies required for the preparation of further
parts of the investment program of SONELEC.


﻿- 17 -
2.    Audits, revaluation of assets and social studies.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall: (a) make the Environmental Assessment
report pertaining to the Project available at some public place for
consultation by affected groups and other interested parties, and
(b) implement, or cause SONELEC to implement, the actions required
to reduce the potentially significant adverse environmental impact
of the Project, as agreed upon with the Association and described in
the Environmental Management Plan relating thereto.
2.    (a)   Not later than October 31, 1992 and, thereafter, not
later than October 31 of each subsequent year during the imple-
mentation period of the Project, the Borrower and the Association
shall undertake, in conjunction with SONELEC, a joint annual review
of the Project, during which they shall: (i) exchange views
generally on all matters relating to the progress of the Project and
the performance by the Borrower and SONELEC of their respective
obligations under this Agreement or, as the case may be, the Project
Agreement, and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Per-
formance Contract, and (ii) review, in particular, (A) the adequacy
of budgetary allocations made by the Borrower to meet its financial
commitments under the Performance Contract for the current and
forthcoming fiscal years, and the extent to which such allocations
have been so applied during the current fiscal year; (B) SONELEC's
proposed recurrent and capital budgets for the forthcoming fiscal
year, having regard, in particular, to SONELEC's commitment to
continue to finance not less than 15 percent of its investment
program from its own internally generated funds; (C) the status of
implementation of the Environmental Management Plan referred to in
paragraph 1 (b) of this Schedule; and (D) any proposed modification
of the provisions of the Performance Contract, including, upon the
conclusion of a new performance contract, the proposed tariffs and
other terms and conditions thereof.
(b)   Not later than one month prior to each such review, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, a
report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
on the progress and status of the Project, and giving details, in
particular, of the specific issues due to be addressed during such
review.


﻿- 19
(c)   Following each such review, the Borrower undertakes to
act promptly and diligently, in order to take, or assist SONELEC in
taking, any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any
shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to
implement, or assist SONELEC in implementing, such other measures as
may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the
objectives of the Project.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounat
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agrcament; and
(c)   the  term  "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $100,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 21 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Arti-
cle V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the       Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 22 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refuzMd to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Environmental Management Plan
The Borrower, SONELEC and the Association agree on the
following plan to which Section I (b) of Schedule III to this
Agreement refers:
1.    Long-Term Planning and Monitoring
(a)   A plan to supply Nouakchott with sufficient potable
water once the Trarza aquifer is exhausted should be prepared and
submitted to the Association within two years of the completion of
the hydrogeological investigation of the Tenadi wellfield that is
proposed in Part I of the Project.
(b)   Given the importance of the Trarza aquifer to the water
resources of Mauritania, a detailed plan stating the responsibili-
ties of the Directorate of Hydraulics and SONELEC in the monitoring
of the aquifer shall be prepared by July 1, 1992.
(c)   Terms of Reference for the monitoring of the Idini and
Tenadi wellfields (including geochemistry and water table movement)
and its estimated annual cost, prepared jointly by SONELEC and the
Ministere d'Hydraulique, shall be completed before September 1,
1992.
(d)   A detailed groundwater protection plan for the Trarza
aquifer, including an outline of the agencies responsible for
enforcing the plan, shall be prepared by the MinistAre d'Hydraulique
and SONELEC by January 1, 1993.
(e)   A detailed training and staffing plan to address the
water resource and environmental human resource needs identified in
the environmental impact report shall be prepared by the Ministry of
Hydraulics and Energy by January 1, 1993.
(f)   As a preliminary step to creating other centers of
economic development and to minimizing rural migration to
Nouakchott, the finalization of feasibility studies for the water
supply of the secondary centers of Kaedi, Rosso, and Mederdra, shall
be completed by December 31, 1992. A summary of the action taken to
date on the November, 1991 report prepared for these centers by INPG
Consultants shall be included also.


﻿- 24 -
2.    Public Review
The Environmental Impact Report prepared by SONELEC will be
made available to the public for review at the offices of SONELEC,
the MinistAre d'Hydraulique, and at each of the nine municipal
district offices in Nouakchott within 6 weeks of the finalization of
the report.
3.    Distribution System Improvements
(a)   The design report prepared by SAFEGE for the future
water supply of Nouakchott shall be finalized by December 31, 1992.
The final report shall indicate in detail which works will be
realized in each phase of the project, and how these activities will
address the servicing needs for the expected future growth of the
city. The report shall also indicate the plans for, and control of,
urbanization at the wellfield and along the pipeline corridor.
(b)   To better assure the quality of the water being sold to
consumers from the public standpipes, a survey of the repairs
required at these fountains and a plan for their repairs should be
completed by October 15, 1992. Other measures that the Government of
Mauritania and SONELEC believe shall be carried opt to improve the
quality of water distributed should also be included in this report.
(c)   A plan to implement a system to chlorinate water at the
Idini wellfield and at the elevated reservoir in Nouakchott shall be
completed by December 31, 1992.
4.    Wastewater Disposal
(a)   A detailed plan for the implementation of the public
health education and wastewater studies referred to in the
environmental impact report carried out by SONELEC shall be
completed by December 31, 1992 with the participation of the
technical department and the implicated institutions. A public
education component promoting water conservation as well as
safewater storage and transport practices shall also be included as
part of this plan.
(b)   A public health information program to inform the public
of the potential health dangers presented by consuming vegetables
grown in the gardens adjacent to the wastewater treatment plant, and
recommended treatment techniques to carry out before eating them,
shall begin no later than September 1, 1992.


﻿- 25 -
(c)   A  study to develop pre-application treatment and
operating guidelines for the utilization of residual water for
irrigation in Nouakchott should be completed by June 30, 1992. Any
cost and design changes required at the Nouakchott wastewater
treatment plant to allow the wastewater to be safely used for
irrigation, or the identification of an alternative wastewater
disposal option shall be included in this report. As an alternative
a change in cultivation has to be devised focussing on cultures
thriving on wastewater stemming from a conventional water treatment
plant without a public health hazard. A detailed plan for the
disposal of the sludge produced from the treatment plant, and for
the maintenance of the sewer collection system shall also be
included in this study.
5.    Construction Activities
Guidelines acceptable to the Association detailing how the
potential direct and indirect environmental impacts associated with
specific construction phases of the project can be mitigated shall
be included as part of all construction contract documents.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


