Docunm_I of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Reust N.. 5552
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1356-ZA)
MarcA 27, 1985
.
Education and Manpower Development Division
Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office
Thks dIe_mm    is a re       k       d       ued biy recipt        thpezf.mce.f



FOR OFFAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
GLOSSARY
DTEVT    Department of Technical Education and Vocational Training
EHC      Evelyn Hone College of Applied Arts and Commerce
ESC      Educational Services Center
FIs      Farm Institutes
FTCs     Farmer Training Centers
MHE      Ministry of Higher Education
MOE      Ministry of General Education
MPTW     Ministry of Power, Transport and Works
NRA      National Housing Authority
NORAD    Norwegian Agency for International Development
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
TTIs     Trade Training Institutes
First Education Project, Loan 592-ZA (April, 1969)
Second Education Project, Loan 645-ZA (November, 1969)
Third Education Project, Loan 900-ZA (June, 1973)
Fourth Education Project, Loan 1356-ZA (January, 1977)
Fifth Education Project, Credit 1251-ZA (June, 1982)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ZAMBIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1356-ZA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CODNTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ........................                                    (i)
KEY PROJECT DATA ....(*............   ii)
HIGHLIGHTS                         ...... (vi)
I.    SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......... . .... ** ....... ... ... ...    1
Project Objectives and Content .....     ......................    1
Project Implementation . .......... ......... ......... ..... .    1
Project Operating Outcome .. .......    ........................    2
Recommendations ..........................................   4
Lessons Learned ................       ,.,                     4
II.   INTRODUCTION      .    .... 4.....                   ......   4
III. PROJECT BACKGROUND .5
Socio-Economic Setting......                      ......       5
The Education Sector                 .....                     5
Project Identification and Processing.                         6
Project Objectives and Strategy     ....      .                6
Project Content .............. .............                   7
Amendment to the Project.                      .      ...   7
IV. PROJECr IMPLEMENTATION.                                         8
Loan Effectiveness....                                         8
Project Management....                                         8
Physical Implementati-on....                                   9
V.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .....     .........................  12
Project Costs ............................................  12
Contingencies    ................   ...........................  13
Financing of the Project .............. ..    .................  14
Area and Cost per Student Place ..........................  14
Disbursements           ............ 14



Page No.
VI.   PROJECT OPERATING OUTCOMES .................       .....0..   14
Educational Services Ceuter *.............................   14
Busiuess Education .................                  ..-.w  15
Evelyn Hone Co lege of Applied Arts and Commerce *.....  16
Trades Training Institutes .... .. ....................    17
Farm Institutes and Farn Trainaing Centers .....   ...........  17
Special Studies ....... ..l.a... **********.***t.*****.*000   18
VII.  BANK PERFORMANCE ....... .*.  .........* . .* ..... ...   19
VIII. CONCLUSIONS ........ ........... . .        .      .......... .. .. ...S**   19
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Implementation Schedule, Comparing Planned with Actual
Annex 2  - Provision of Technical Assistance
Annex 3  -  Compliance with Loan Conditions
Annex 4  - Project Cost by Components
Annex 5  -  Project Cost by Categories
Annex 6  - Total Project Cost of Physical Facilities
Annex 7  -  Summary of Civil Works, Cost of FI's and FTC's
Annex 8  -  (a)  Places, Units and Areas of Physical Facilities
(b) Summary of Construction Areas
(c) Summary of Costs of Sectors
Annex 9  -  Summary of Training Programs for FIs and FTCs
- Residential Courses -
Annex 10 -  Summary of Train-ing Programs for FIs and FTCs
- Non-residential Courses -



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1356-ZA)
PREFACE
This is a project completion report (PCR) on the Fourth Education
Project in Zambia, for which Loan 1356-ZA was signed on January 17, 1977, for
US$13.3 million equivalent. The loan was closed March 31, 1983 and an undis-
bursed balance of US$4,718,059 was cancelled.
This report was prepared by Bank Group Staff following a mission to
Zambia in May 1983. The valuable assistance provided by the Government of
Zambia, in particular the Project Implementation Unit staff, toward the pre-
paration of this report is gratefully acknowledged.
Following a review of the PCR by OED staff, it was decided not to
audit the project and the PCR was sent for comment to the Borrower in
December 1984. No comments have been received.



(ii)
ZAMBIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN 1356-ZA
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal
Item                         Estimate             Actual
Total project cost (US$million)               23.17 1/             17.63
Cost underrun (Z in US$ terms)             -                     24
Loan amount (US$ million)                 13.30                13.30
Amount disbursed (US$ million)              -                  8.58
Cancelled (US$ million)                    -                   4.72
Date physical components completed           9/30/82             3/31/83
Proportion completed by above date             98%                1OOZ
Proportion of time overrun                                          92
Institutional performance                                       Satisfactory
1/ Including NORAD US$2.12 m equivalent.
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original
Item                     Plan                        Actual
First Mentioned in Timetable          -                           07/01/75
Governmentts Application              -                           10/07/75
Negotiations                       11/15/76                       11/15/76
Board Approval                     12/21/76                       12/23/76
Loan Agreement Date                   -                           01/17177
Effectiveness Date                 04/18/77                       03/08/77
Closing Date                       03/31/83                       03/31/83
Borrower                                         Republic of Zambia
Executing Agency                                 Project Implementation Unit
Ministry of Power,
Transportation and Works
Fiscal Year of Borrower                          January - December
Follow-on Project                                Fifth Education Project
Credit Number                                 Credit 1251-ZA
Amount                                        SDR 22.2 million
(US$25.0 million)



MISSION DATA
Sent    Month/   No. of      No. of   ',ic-    Date of
Mission        by      Year      weeks    Persons    Weeks    Report
Identification   Bank        7/75    2.0   1(E)             2.0  08/11/75
Preparation                   9/75    2.0   3(AG,GE,A)       6.0  10/15/75
Appraisal                10-11/75    3.1   4(A,GE,AG,E)  12.4  12/01/76
Supervision  1/  Bank    5-6/77       3.8   3(A,GE,E)      11.4  07/14/77
Supervision  2/          11-12/77    2.6   3(A,TE,AG)        7.8  02/15/78
Supervision  3/              5/78    2.4   3(A,TE,E)         7.2  06/20/78
Supervision  4/   -        1-2/79    2.4   2(A,TE)           4.8  03/13/79
Supervision  5/              9/79    1.4   3(A,TE,E)        4.2  10/30/79
Supervision  6/              3/80    1.7   3(A,AG,TE)        5.1  04/15/80
Supervision  7/             10/80    2.0   3(A,AG,TE)       6.0  11/25/80
Supervision  8/              3/81    2.4   4(A,GE,TE,E)   9.6  04/29/81
Supervision  91          10-11/81    1.6   2(A,E)           3.2  12/24/81
Supervision 10/           9-10/82    2.1   3(A,TE,E)        6.3  11/18/82
Completion/ 11/           4-5/83      1.7   3(A,TE,E)        5.1     -
TOTAL                            31.2                  91.1
Number of supervision missions = 10
Maximum interval between missions = 45 weeks (10 months)
Minimum internal between missions = 19 weeks  (5 months)
LEGEND:  A  = Architect
E  = Economist
AG = Agricultural Educator
CE = General Educator
TE = Technical Educator



(iv)
Missioal Data Footnotes
1/ Combined with supervision of projects under Education Projects I, II
and III, and the education component of Loan 1057-ZA (the Lusaka
Squatters Upgrading and Site and Services Project), as well as
identification of a Fifth Education Project. CP II, EAIDB also
participated in the mission.
2/ Combined with supervision of the above mentioned projects, as well
as preparation of a Fifth Education Project. CP II, EAIDB also
participated in the mission. The Ministry of Rural Development
proposed changes in the program of the FIs and FTCs. The proposal, in
essence, to concentrate the upgrading of FI's and FTC's in the Northern
and North Western provinces and to provide adequate water supply to all
project institutions, was reviewed during the mission.
31 Combined with supervision of Education Projects I, II and III, and Loan
1057-ZA.
4/ Combined with supervision of the above under "1/ mentioned projects.
5/ Combined with supervision of the above under '1/ mentioned projects.
6/ Combined with supervision of projects under Education III and Loan
1057-ZA, and discussions concerning a proposed Fifth Education Project.
7/ Combined with supervision of the Education III and discussions
regarding a proposed Fifth Education Project.
8/ Combined with supervision of the Education III and appraisal of a
Proposed Fifth Education Project.
9/ Combined with supervision of Educat-ion III.
I0/ Combined with supervision of Education III and V.
11/ Combined with superv-sion of Education V and data collecting for the
completion report of Education III.



(v)
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency                 Kwacha (K)
Appraisal year average           (1976): US$1.00 - K .77
Intervening years average        (1977): US$1.00 - K .78
(1978)  US$1.00 - K .82
(1979)  US$1.00 - K .77
(1980)  US$1.00 - K .80
(1981)  US$1.00 - K .80
(1982)  US$1.00 - K .83
(1983)  US$1.00 - K1.23
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
FY:       1977   1978    1979   1980   1981    1982       1983
(a) Estimated at    0    0.35    2.35   6.10   10.00   12.25   13.30
Appraisal
(b) Actual Dis-     0    0.10    0.82   4.60    6.45    7.32    8.58 1/
bursement
(c) b Z of a         -      29      35      75      65      59      65
1/  Final disbursement US$8,581,941.05; amount cancelled on
October 19, 1983:  US$4,718,058.95.
ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS (US$)
Original               Actual
Category                  Allocation           Disbursement
1.  Civil works                         3,450,000            4,506,724
2.  Construction materials               1,800,000              258,324
3.  Furniture3equipment
and vehicles (including
transportation to site)             2,220,000            3,044,748
4. Technical assistance
and fellowships                     2,400,000                80,377
5.  Architectural and Engineering
services, Studies and Project
administration                         730,000              691,768
6. Unallocated                           2,700,000                 -
Total                              13,300,0W_            8,581,941
Cancelled                                                4,718,059



(vi)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 1356-ZA)
HIGHLIGHTS
A Loan of US$13.3 million equivalent to assist in the financing
of the Fourth Education Project in Zambia was approved on December 23, 1976
and signed on January 17, 1977. The project was completed and closed on
March 31, 1983 as scheduled and US$4.7 million was cancelled. Total
project cost amounted to US$17.6 million, about 24 percent below the
original estimate of US$23.2 million (para. 5.01). Although the project
was closed as originally scheduled, an additional six months was granted in
order to finalize the accounts and submit withdrawal applications. The
project was amended in June 1978 and changes in the agricultural education
component were introduced (para. 3.07) to comply with a new Government
strategy for developing farmer training.
The experience of implementing this project points out the
importance of the following:
(1) The need to continuously assess Government policy with regard
to training and related ability to implement such policy in particular in
terms of providing capital and recurrent funds. The Farmer Training
Centers (FTCs) and Farm Institutes (FIs) met with little success because of
frequent changes of training policy and a lack of adequate operating
(recurrent) funds during the implementation period (para. 6.08).
(2) The need to closely monitor institutions' administration and
their communication with relevant ministries. The constant turnover of
administrative staff at the Evelyn Hone College of Applied Arts and
Commerce (EHC) resulted in a break-down in communications between various
Government agencies and the purpose and use of technical assistance
specialists and fellowships remained unclear to its administration (para.
6.06).
(3) The advantage of using competent and committed project
administration staff. The successful completion of physical facilities
includ4ng construction, provision of furniture and equipment was possible
thanks to an experienced Project Implementation Unit (PIU) assisted by
professionals in various fields provided through a NORAD grant. The swift
implementation of these components contracted with competitive prices
contributed to the substantial saving of project funds (para. 4.04).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA - FOURTR EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1356-ZA)
SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Project Objectives and Content
1.01      The principal objective of the Fourth Education Project was to
provide assistance to the Government in establishing an administrative
structure to consolidate previous educational achievements; to improve
training for agricultural staff and farmers for rural development; and to
increase the supply of middle and advanced level commercial and business
trained personnel. Included in the project were provisions of technical
assistance (specialist servlces and fellowships) for staff development in
business education and agricultural education and extension. The project
also included specialized studies consisting of a completion and evaluation
study and a survey of the construction industry.
1.02      An amendment to the agreement in June 1978 provided that
assistance to the FTCs and Fla be concentrated solely in the Northern and
Northwestern provinces and including adequate water supply to those project
institutions and those supported under the Third Education Project (Loan
900-ZA), a new FI at Kasama and a change of functions between the Zambezi
Fl and the Chafukuma FTC.
Project Implementation
1.03      The project which was signed on January 17, 1977, became
effective in March 1977 about one month prior to the termination date set
forth in the legal agreement (para. 4.01). It was implemented under the
direction of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established under the
Ministry of Power, Transport and Works (MPTW).  The PIU was fully
operational from the beginning since it was also responsible for the
implementation of most components in the Third Education Project (para.
4.02). The PIU carried out its functions smoothly to completion.
Management and monitoring of the software inputs such as training and
curriculum development, however, suffered due probably to the lack of an
educator on the PIU staff (para. 4.03). Parts of the agreed technical
assistance provided under the project was not utilized (para. 4.15). At
the request of the Government, the project was amended in June 1978 to
comply with a new strategy for developing farmer training (para. 3.07).
The project closed as originally scheduled on March 31, 1983. However, an
additional six months was granted to finalize accounts and to submit
withdrawal applications. Disbursements were completed on October 19, 1983
leaving an undisbursed balance of US$4,718,059 in the Loan Account.
Effective on that date the balance was cancelled (para. 5.08).



-2-
Project Operating Outcome
1.04      The Phase II component of the Educational Services Center 1/
(ESC) (para. 6.01) was to further consolldate the educational services
facilities by adding: (a) an Examinatlon Section lcluding a Standards and
Certification Division for the Department of Technical Education and
Vocational Training (DTEVT); (b) a Research, Evaluatlon and Guldance
Section; and (c) an expansion of the Printing and Documentation Unit. Work
on Phase II was completed in August 1980. In September of 1982 the
Government established a new Ministry of Higher Education (MEE) which was
assigned responsibility basically for higher and technical education. This
resulted in the transfer to the MHE of the Standards and Certification
Division, Printing and Documentation, Zambia Library Service and the
Curriculum Development Center. Consequently, MHE took over a section of
the second floor of the ESC constructed under Phase II. The Standards and
Certification Division of the DTEVT which has developed between 80 to 90
programs moved back to DTEVT headquarters. The Research and Evaluation
Unit remained the responsibility of the Ministry of General Education (HOE)
and in 1983 administered about 170,000 primary examinations and 110,000 at
the secondary level. At appraisal, it was estimated that by 1985 about
202,000 primary school students and about 57,000 secondary students would
be tested. Obviously, the increase in the number of secondary students was
not envisaged at appraisal due to a latter change in Government policy. In
general, the Center suffers from lack of adequate recurrent funds. For
example, the education magazine Orbit which is part of the ESC, received
K120,000 in FY82 and only K35,000 in FY83. Thus only two editions of the
magazine instead of six were printed. Interriews with personnel assigned
to the Center registered an overall complaint about the lack of
transportation (although vehicles were provided under the project and
delivered in 1980). However, the lack of maintenance and of funds to
purchase petrol has exacerbated this situation. The Coordinating Committee
for the ESC which was to ensure cooperation among the different educational
services was never effective nor was a Chief Education Officer appointed to
manage the coordination of the Center. In conclusion, the Center now being
adequately staffed and equipped has great potential to improve its services
once the financial constraints have been overcome.
1.05      The expansion of the boarding capacity and improvement for the
teaching of accounting and related subjects at the Evelyn Hone College of
Applied Arts and Co=zerce (EHC) (para. 6.06) was carried out successfully
and the number of business students increased from 225 in 1977 to 450 in
1983. During the implementation of the project, the Government requested
and the Bank Group agreed to enlarge the dining hall and install a water
tower. These changes were basically within the scope of the project
description and no amendment to the Loan Agreement was required. Funds for
the technical assistance component were not utilized due to the high cost
of expatriate teachers, the Government preferring to obtain them on a local
1/ Phase I was the initial step taken towards consolidation and improvement
of the service units of the Ministry of Education and carried out under
the Third Education Project.



-3-
hire basis (para. 4.16). The fellowship program was not carried out as
Government failed to identify qualified students for fellowship training.
Consequently, the funds for both programs were cancelled.
1.06      The provision of furniture and _nstruct_onal equipment at five
ex-isting Trade TrainIng Institutes (para. 6.07) proved successful and the
new commercial and secretarial courses report an average of about 25
students enrolled per class with a reported 5Z p.a. dropout rate. These
graduates have begun to fill the gap in the growing demand for secretarial
manpower.
1.07      The Farm Inst-tnces and Farmer Training Centers (para. 6.08)
prov-ided additional student and boarding places and differed from the
appraisal report in terms of location and provision of boreholes, water
reservoirs, and water reticuLation due to an Amendment in the Loan
Agreement in June 1978. An evaluation study concerning farmer train-ng and
extension activities f-inanced under the Third Education Project concluded
that while farmer training and extension activities had some influence in
improving agricultural production, the overall impact has been minimal due
to, inter alia, the inadequate training of the instructors for FIs and FTC,
and of the agr-icultural extension staff members. Consequently, in order to
counteract this shortcoming, a technical assistance component under the
Min-istry of Rural Development was included. However, this technical
assistance was financed through bilateral assistance from the Government of
the Netherlands. The assistance did not prove effective as the team
members could not agree among themselves nor communicate effectively w-th
other Zambian counterparts. The team spent most of i-ts time prepar-ing
manuals for cou-odi-ty demonstrators and about which no consensus could be
reached. The provision of phys-cal facilities was successful.  However,
continued lack of sufficient operating funds to carry out the programs at
the institutes and centers resulted in a reduced training program. The
Government assurance that it would endeavor to achi'eve an equal
participation rate for women was not achieved (para. 6.09).
1.08      The survey of the construction i'ndustry (para 6.11) from the
outset met wi-th difficulty particularly from the private sector. Funds
were not allocated in the Government's budget and consequently the study
was never carried out. The completion and evaluation report (para 6.12) on
the project likewise was not undertaken by the Government.
1.09      The overall assessment of the project (paras. 8.01 and 8.02)
indicates that the educational objectives fell below what were originally
envisioned. In particular, the agricultural training has not met
expectations due to changes of policy by the Government; the failure of
the techn-ical assistance team to develop the programs as originally
envisaged, and most critical the lack of adequate operating funds to fully
utilize the facilities. Government's reluctance to use funds provided for
technical assistance specialists has also affected the outcome of the
project.  It is difficult to evaluate the impact on EHC since specialists
were obtained in a reduced rumber. The college is however operating at
full capacity and its graduates are in high demand both in the publi-c and
private sector. In general, the short term outcome of the educational and
train-ing objectives of the project can be considered moderately



-4-
successful with the exception of the agricultural training component. It
is too early to judge the long term effects of the project which may be
highly dependent on the Government's ability to provide adequate recurrent
funds. Implementation of the physical aspects of the project were
effectively and efficiently carried out and can be considered to be highly
successful.
Recommendations
1.10      Future Bank Group missions should continue to monitor the
educational objectives of this project.
1.11      The use of technical assistance should have Government's firm
commitment prior to inclusion in future projects and experience indicates a
need for better coordination and understanding of the requirement within
Government.
Lessons Learned
1.12      Government's commitment in regard to:  (a) the carrying out of
the staff development program at ERC was lacking, since the Government did
not wish to use the funds provided for the hiring of the technical
assistance specialists; and (b) provision oa adequate operating funds for
the FTCs and FIs has also had a negative effect on the educational
objectives of the project. Although difficult to predict Lu advance, the
Government's commitment to the use of (a) high cost expatriate technical
assistance (para. 4.15) and (b) to provide adequate operatiug (recurrent)
funds should be carefully assessed during the project preparation cycle for
future projects (para. 6.09).
1.13      Supervision missions may also have been too narrowly focused and
did not concentrate sufficiently on educational objectives, in particular
the agricultural component which was noted to be a risk (para. 7.02).
1.14      To improve coordination and supervision of the software
components of the project it may be better to relocate the PIU within the
MOE (para. 4.03).
II. INTRODUCTION
2.01      This completion report i-s based on the findings of a mission by
Ms. R. Brandenburg (economist) and Messrs. J. Segerstrom (technical
educator) and C. Hammerschmidt (architect, consultant) which visited Zambia
i.n May 1983. The mis^ion reviewed the physical execution of the project
as compared with appraisal estimaLes and analyzed the project vis-a-vis its
educational objectives.
2.02      This report is based on:  (a) information obtained from
background files in Washington, particularly supervision and progress
reports; studies and data obtai-ned from the Project Implementat-ion Unit



-5-
(PIU) and departments and ministries of the Government of the Republic of
Zambia, the Government of the Netherlands, and the Norwegian Agency for
International Development (NORAD); (b) visits to various project
institutimons; and (c) discussions with staff of the PIU and other
Government officials, principals, staff and students of project
institutions and Bank Group staff familiar with the project.
III. PROJECr BACKGROUND
Socio-Economic Setting
3.01      At the time of appraisal in March, 1976, the Government of Zambia
was facing a situation whereby -t was failing to contain the growth of
recurrent expenditures and had failed to maintain adequate foreign exchange
reserves when copper prices were high. Duri-ng 1975, low copper prices led
to a drastic drop in Zambia's foreign exchange earnings and low profits in
the mining i'ndustry caused reduced tax revenues. With-in this context, the
Government announced a rural reconstructi'on program with specific measures
aimed at the improvement of agricultural output i'n both the short and long
term.  The Bank Group agricultural sector survey recommended the following:
(a)  an increased allocation of infrastructure investment and provision of
supporting services to rural growth centers; (b) a greater allocation than
an the past or ski-lled manpower to the planning and execution of rural
developmeat projects and a regional decentralization of these functions;
and (c) an improved efficiency of the marketing organization. The
Goverrment decision to increase producers' prices for major agricultural
commodities indicated that acti-on was being taken to stimulate an increase
in farm output and reduce income differentials.  Thus, farmers' training
would have to play an important role with-in the context of this strategy.
3.02      At the same time, the Government planned to rationalize and
improve manufacturi'ng and commerce in order to increase thei'r contribution
to output and employment. A shift from capital intensive to labor
intensive techniques and a general improvemenc in management and
organization of both parastatal and private companies was needed to
increase the competitiveness of Zambia in industry and reduce the high
degree of subsidy and protection.  Government felt that improved training
an business and accounring, inter alia, was required to meet these
objectives.  It was within thbis framework that the Fourth EducatEon Project
was prepared.  Consequently, during the execution of the Project, Zambia's
economy was in protracted econom-i-c depression.  Between 1977 and 1980 real
GDP declined an average of 2.5% p.a. to its lowest level since 1971.
The Education Sector
3.03      At Independence in 1964, Zambi-a was one of the African countries
least prepared i'n educational terms.  Very few Zambbians had completed
higher or secondary education or participated in skills training.  As a
result, Zambia relied almost entirely upon expatriates for preparation and



-6-
execut4ion of development programs. It was therefore apparent that national
development could be gained only by placing major emphasis on education and
training which consequently received priority in the various development
plans during the 1964-76 period. In 1975 the Government prepared a draft
education reform which was rublished in 1978 and was to be implemented in
phases starting at the beginning of the Third National Development Plan
(1979-1983). The Plan aimed at modifying the existing education
structure into three stag4s: a basic education cycle, covering the first
nine years of school; a second stage, cuvering the present three-year
senior secondary cycle; and a third stage consisting of the present higher
education cycle. Also provisions were to be made for continuing education,
including adult literacy and other types of non-formal education.
Implementation of the Plan has been delayed In large part due to the
inability of the Government to provide adequate recurrent and capital funds
to carry out its objectives. A study supported under the Fifth Education
Project (Credit 1251-ZA) is currently underway which is reviewing in
particular the fiscal implications of the proposed educational reform. The
Bank Group has played a major role in expanding the education system in
Zambia, including institution building. Five Bank Group-assisted projects
have helped Zambia's primary, secondary and commercial, agricultural and
technical education.
Project Identification and Processing
3.04      The project was identified during a Bank Group economic mission
which visited Zambia in June 1975. A Government request for Bank Group
assistance was received in October 1975.  Bank Group missions in November
1975 and March 1976 assIsted the Government in preparing the project and
appraised it . The project was negotiated in November 1976 in Washington,
D. C. and a Loan of US$13.3 million was approved by the Bank's Board of
Directors on December 23, 1976 and signed on January 17, 1977.
Project Objectives and Strategy
3.05      During the decade after Independence, priority was given to
quantitative expansion of the formal school system at all levels.
Nonformal education and the development of efficient adainistrative and
educational support servi-ces received relati'vely little attention even
though their institutional framework was set up. In the meantime the
educational system had grown into dimensions which made it necessary to
consolidate and strengthen its administrative and support services before
other important targets were approached. Also, the training of
agricultural personnel and farmers required urgent up-grading to allow the
implementation of programs for increased agricultural output and
productivity and training of accountants, bookkeepers and middle-level
administrators was of high priority. Therefore, as an interim 4nvestment
program the Fourth Educat-ion Project was designed to provide Zambia with an
administrative structure to consolidate the educational achievements, to
improve training for agricultural staff and farmers for rural development,
and to increase the supply of middle and advanced level commercial and
busi-ness know-how, atypically scarce, and consequently, in strong demand in
the modern sectors of the Zambian economy.



-7-
Project Content
3.06      Specifically, the project included:
(a)  improvement of education admiinistration, examination system
research and curriculum development through the
construction, furnishing and equipping of Phase II of the
Educati'onal Services Center (ESC) (Phase I was a component
of the Third Education project, Loan 900-ZA));
Estimated expenditure US$3.57 mlllion, actual US$3.15
million.
(b)  expansion and improvement in business education through: (i)
the expansion of the boarding capacity of the Evelyn Hone
College of Applied Arts and Commerce (EHC);  and (ii)
provision of equipment and furniture for the Business and
Secretarial Studies Department at EHC and for five Trades
Training Institutes (TTIs);
Estimated expenditure US$2.26 million, actual US$2.07
million.
(c)  improvement in the training of agricultural staff and
farmers through provisions for and/or replacement as
required of teaching facilities and boarding facilities for
women, utility servi'ces, staff housing, instructional
equipment and transport in eight existing Farm Institutes
(FIs) and about 20 existing Farmer Training Centers (FTCs);
Estimated expenditure US$9.24 million, actual US$8.01
million.
(d)  technical assistance consisting of 25 man-years of
specialist services and 40 man-years of fellowships for
staff development at the EHC and 13 man-years of specialist
services and 8 man-years of fellowships in agricultural
education and extension; 36 man-years of specialists'
services for the PIU (to be provided by NORAD on a grant
basis); and
Estimated expenditure US$5.55 million, actual USS2.44
million.
(e)  specialized studies consisting of: (i) a survey of the
construction industry; and (ii) completion and evaluation
studies of the proposed project.
Estimated expenditure US$0.5 million, actual nil.
Amendment to the Project
3.07      The Government, in September 1977, requested an amendment to the
supplemental letter to the Loan Agreement in regard to the FIs and the
FTCs. Thi-s amendment was requested ±n order to comply with a revised
comprehensive strategy for developing farmer training as a result of
studies undertaken on behalf of the Government after Loan effectiveness.
The amendment included the following:



-8-
(a) provision of adequate water supply to all PTCs and FHs;
(b)  upgrading of all institutions in the Northwestern Provlnce;
(c)  upgrading of two FTCs and the reconstruction of a FI in the
Northern Province; and
(d)  reconstruction of Kaoma FTC in the Western Prov±nce.
After carefull assessment including a special mission to review the
request, the Bank Group, by letter dated June 12, 1978, agreed to the
requested amendment (paras. 4.07 and 6.08).
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Loan Effectivecess
4.01      The Loan agreement was signed January 17, 1977 and became
effective March 8, 1977 about one month prior to April 18, 1977 termination
date as set forth i-n the Loan Agreement. The early effectiveness was
basically due to a well established PIU and the desire of the MOE to
expedite implementation of the project.
Project Management
4.02      The project was executed by the PIU which was responsible to
the Ministry of Power, Transport and Works (MPTW). The PIU was under the
overall direction of the Permanent Secretary of the MPTW. It was fully
operational from the start of the Project, being at the time responsible
for imp'ementation of certain components 2/ financed under the Third
Education Project. To better cope with the combined workload, a project
architect 3/ was added to the staff of the PIU in September 1977, thus
relieving the assistant project director 4/ of the architectural duties
which he carried in addition to hi's management duties.  In early 1978
additional office space was also secured, together with necessary vehicles
for use during implementation.
4.03      Throughout implementation, i'n phase with the volume of work, the
PIU was adequately staffed with managers, accountants, architects,
engineers, and supporting staff and i'ts performance was good. Furthermore,
2/ Components covering medical, agricultural, and general education.
3/ Provided by NORAD, as were all key staff of the PIU except the director,
who was a Zambian.
4/ The Project Di-rector, served half time, being also Director of the
Buildings Branch, MPTW.



9-
implementation took place under difficult circumstances such as budget
shortfalls, late release of counterpart funds, and disturbances along the
border with Zimbabwe which interfered with construction activities.
However, the PIU's rapport with the Ministry of Finance allowed it
flexibility in managing temporary shortages of funds, and its relationship
with con!r-ctors, including timely payments of monthly claims, resulted in
very compecitive bids in particular for civil works.  Management and
monitoring of the software inputs such as training and curriculum
development, however, suffered due probably to the absence of an educator
on the PIU staff.  In this respect, the PIU was under the IPTW and perhaps
if it were under the HIOE, greater coordination regarding the software
aspects of the project would have occurred. This possible shift to MOE is
presently under consideration by the Government. Training of local PIU
staff was also limited. One staff member, the project secretary, went on
an overseas fellowship In accounting and business administraticn and after
receiving addi'tional on-the-job training by NORAD staff, he has recently
been appointed to the position of financial controller. Mlore recently the
NORAD provided procurement officer has also been replaced by a Zambian.
4.04      NORAD assistance has greatly contributed to the rapid and smooth
implementation of the Project and included, with the exception of the
director, the key staff, including supervisory engineers.  Several key PIU
staff, including engineers who served in Zambia under NORAD grants during
implementation of the First (Loan 592-ZA), and Third Education projects,
returned and served again in executing th-is Project. NORAD's provision on
a grant basis of about US$2.12 million equivalent of technical assistance
represented some 36 man-years of specialist services (para 4.15).
Physical implementation
4.05      Professional Services.  Firms of consulting architects,
engineers, and quantity surveyors were appointed at the outset to carry out
designs, preparation of bidding and contract documents, and supervision of
construction. All of the consulting firms provided very efficient services
normally ahead of schedule, although the designs of the FIs and FTCs by the
National Housing Authority (NHA) were delayed due to the shortage of staff
architects. However, the ten and eight months delays respecti'vely in
starting construction of the FIs and FTCs were mainly due to changes
proposed by the Government (Ministry of Rural Development) during the first
year of project implementation. By contrast, designs, and bidding and
contract documents for engineering works including boreholes for water
supply, water reservoirs, and water reticulation schemes for the FIs and
FTCs were prepared ahead of the agreed schedule.
4.06      The ESC, at the request of the MOE, was increased in floor area
by about 25%, and the student hostels at EHC, at the request of the
Department of Technical Education and Vocational Training (DTEVT), were
increased in total floor area by about 34%. The Bank Group approved the
designs (including increased floor areas), with the understandi-ng that
costs would be closely monitored so that they would not exceed the original
estimates. This close monitoring coupled with economical designs and a
highly competitive construction industry resulted in costs substantially
lower than the appraisal estimates when including escimated contingencies.



- 10 -
4.07      By mid-1977 the NHA had completed its survey of all the FIs and
FTCs facilities for which the Project would provide additional facilities
and/or replacements. Concurrently, and assisted by these surveys the
Hinistry of Rural Development formulated and the NHA assisted, with
planning of the physical facilities and proposed changes in the Fl and FTC
project component. As a result of chese detailed surveys, modifications
were proposed and approved by the Bank Group on June 12, 1978 (para 3.07).
4.08      The design of all facilities provided under the Project are
economical and appropriate for the functions the individual buildings
serve. The design of the student hostels of the EHC is innovative,
provides a pleasant environment, not only of sleeping accommodation, but
also areas where students gather outside normal class hours. The design
and clustering of the modest buildings of the FIs and FTCs form a
functional environment conducive to training and in scale and proportion
with village life. All project buildings are structurally sound, and
should require a minimum of maintenance.
4.09      Civil Works.  Tenders for civil works were obtained through ICB
and were carried out in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Tenders for
the ESC were highly competitive and the contract was awarded in August
1978. The student hostels at EHC were tendered in February 1978 with bids
submitted in March 1978, and the contract awarded in August 1978. The
contract sums were both withi-n cost estimates. Tenders for additional
facilities at the ESC (a strongroom for examination papers and a small
canteen) were called in July 1981 and the contract was awarded in January
1982. Tenders for the expansion of the dining area and kitchen, the water
tower, and rehabilitation of the roofs over the gymnasium and the assembly
hall at EHC were called in July 1982 and the contract awarded i'n October
1982. Construction of the two institutions progressed on schedule during
the early stages of the construction period, but construction slowed down
towards completion. The contractual construction period was extended by
nine months for the ESC and by 15 months for the hostels due to a
combination of factors such as: (a) shortages and erratic supply of local
buildi'ng materials such as bricks; (b) delays in delivery of imported
bu4ilding materials; and (c) inclement weather conditions, all factors which
were deemed to be beyond the control of the contractors.
4.10      Tenders and contract awards for boreholes, water reservoirs/water
towers, and water reticulation were executed as soon as the changes
regarding the programs of the FIs and FTCs were agreed between the Bank
Group and the Government.  The boreholes were completed within the
contractual completi-on periods, whereas complet-ion of the water reservoirs
and reticulation were delayed. However, all the reservoirs were eventually
and gradually tested and commissioned over a period covering the first
semester of 1980, and the rtticulation systems were gradually completed
during the first nine months of 1980.  The delays were caused by similar
problems of shortages of materials encountered at the construction of the
ESC and the EHC hostels but compounded by difficulties of transportation of
materials to sites scattered throughout Zambia; guerilla activities at
times along the borders in western and southern Zambia; and problems wi-th
laborers unfamiliar with tolerances as required for the preparation of
foundations and the mounting of steel structures for the water tanks.



- 11 -
4.11      Tenders and contract awards for the construction of buildings and
services for the two FIs (Chafukuma and Kasama) and the six FTCs (Kabompo,
Kasempa, Mpika, Mporokoso, Mwinilunga, and Zambezi) were executed by the
end of the third quarter of 1979. The construction periods varied from 11
to 14 months, and delays were modest.
4.12      Annex 1 is an implementation schedule which compares the planned
progam with actual. As indicated, the bulk of the construction program was
completed ahead of the original schedule.
4.13      Furniture and Equipment.  Without delay, invitations to tenders
were advertised following agreed ICB procedures. However, due to
insufficient provision of counterpart funds in the Government's 1977
budget, tendering was rescheduled as follows: office and printing
equipment in July 1978; vehicles in July and December 1978; audio-visual
and home economics equipment, and furniture in November 1978.
Pre-registration of suppliers resulted in a list of about 165 foreign firms
and 35 local firms, some of which represented foreign firms.
4.14      Procurement of furniture and equipment followed in general the
revised schedule mentioned above and contracts were awarded. Furniture and
equipment were delivered to the PIU warehouse in Lusaka and installed in
the various institutions in phase with completion of construction. Small
4tems of equipment which did not attract bids under ICB were procured
following competitive bidding advertised locally. Equipment procurement
was delayed in some cases. For example, vehicles for the ESC were
delivered in October-November 1980, a delay of about 18 months, and
vehicles for the FIs and PTCs were delivered in November-December 1980, a
delay of about four months. The delays were due, inter alia, to extensive
transport problems. For example, with the destruction of the Kazungula
Pontoon Bridge, vehicles were stranded in Botswana and were eventually sent
by railway through Zimbabwe to Lusaka. The quality of furniture procured
is satisfactory and should require little maintenance. Equipment obtained
is generally of a good quality and appropriate for its intended use.
4.15      Technical Assistance.  Technical assistance (specialists,
fellowships and studies) included in the project were estimated at USS6.05
million (including US$2.12 million financed by NORAD) or about 26% of the
*         cost of the Project, including contingencies.  The technical assistance to
the PIU 5/ was provided as planned by NORAD. One fellowship was provided
for the PIU secretary who attended an overseas course in accounting and
business administration and he eventually took up duties as Finance
Controller of the PIU. At an early stage of implementation, the Government
decided to recruit technical assistance for the EHC with ODA 6/ financing
51 Some local support assistance was financed under category 5 of the Loan
Agreement through the PIU.
6/ The British Overseas Development Ministry provided two experts.



- 12 -
and in August-September 1977 the Government recruited eight well qualified
experts of Ugandan and Indian nationality. However, about one-half of the
planned specialists were not recruited and those posts were never filled.
Technical assistance for the agricultural education program under the
Ministry of Rural Development was implemented with bilateral technical
assistance from the Government of the Netherlands, comprising five
specialists. This assistance did not, however, prove to be effective, as
the team could not agree among themselves on a suitable training program
nor communicate effectively with their Zambian counterparts (para. 6.10).
4.1b      Annex 2 sets out the provision of technical assistance estimated
at appraisal and the actual services provided during implementation. As
for specialists services 61 man-years were used against 74 envisaged at
appraisal and only 8 man-years of fellowships abroad were utilized against
48 planned.
4.17      Special Studies.  The survey of the construction industry (para.
6.11) and the completion and evaluation study (para. 6.12) were never
carried out and allocated funds were cancelled.
4.18      Covenants.  Covenants regarding the employment of technical
assistance specialists and for completion and evaluation studies were not
met (Section 3.06 and 3.09 of Loan Agreement). All other covenants were
basically satisfied (Annex 3).
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Costs
5.01      At completion, the cost of the Project in US$ terms as
implemented was US$17.63 million equivalent, about 24% lower than the
US$23.17 million (including contingencies) estimated at appraisal.  This
includes the NORAD grant for its technical assistance to the PIU estimatedl
at about US$2.12 million equivalent.  Savings have resulted basically
because parts of technical assistance and special studies were not carried
out (total of about US$ 3.16 million) and by the lower combined cost r'f the
physical tacilities resulting in a savings of US$1.93 million.  Total
savings in the project are US$5.54 million.  A highly competitive
construction industry, non-use of the allocation for technical assistance,
combined with efficient implementation basically contributed to the overall
savings in the project.
5.02      The ESC and the EHC were constructed with increased areas and the
scope of work at each institution was enlarged during implementation
(strongroom and canteen at ESC, and an extension of dining and kitchen
facilities and repair of the roofs of the gymnasium and assembly hall at
EHC). In each case the PIl consulted the Bank Group and the increase in



- 13 -
areas were agreed on prior to start of work. The final cost of the
physical facilities of each of these two institutions was 12Z and 10X
respectively lower than the appraisal estimate including contingencies, and
the final cost of the Fl's and FTC's was also 10% ] wer than anticipated at
appraisal when including estimated contingencies.
5.03      The costs of the various component and categories included in the
Project as estimated at appraisal taking into account the change in the
content of the Project as reflected in the June 1978 amendment and the
actual costs are shown in Annexes 4, 5 and 6; and the distribution of costs
between buildings and site development for the FI's and FTC's is shown in
Annex 7. The cost of civil works is lower than anticipated, due In part to
highly competitive bidding by the contractors which in part reflected the
good management and prompt payment of bills by the PIU. The cost of
equipment increased substantially due in some measure to the need for more
equipment being required for the provision of water and electricity
services for the FI's and FTC's, and also due to an increase in the number
of vehicles for the PIU to cover, inter alia, transportation of furniture
and equipment to sites. The large increase in the cost of project
administration was caused by additional work in supervising more sites than
anticipatld at appraisal.
Contingencies
5.04      For physical contingencies about 8X was added to the base cost
and a total of 47% of the base cost plus physical contingencies was
included for price contingencies with the highest percentage affecting
civil works.  As it turned out, the price contingency allowance was too
generous.  New building construction slowed down during the implementation
period and the industry became highly competitive which contributed to
saving in the c,st of the project.
5.05      The following table attempts to make a comparison betweer. these
estimates and the actual increase in consumer price indexes.
Appraisal Estimate (%)       Actual, Increase in
FY                Civil Works             Consumer Price (Z)  a/
1976                    20                          16
1977                    18                          17
1978-79                 15                          12
1980-82                 10                          11
a/ Source: Country Economic Memorandum, April 16, 1984 -
No price index for civil works is available.



- 14 -
Financing of the Project
5.06      Financing of the Project as originally conceived was estimated at
57% for the Bank, 9% by NORAD, and 34% by the Government. The final cost
resulted in the Bank Group financing 49%; NORAD 12%; and the Government
39%. These figures also reflect the decline in the value of the Kwacha
vis-a-vis the US Dollar during the implementation period.
Area and Cost per Student Place
5.07      Facilities included in the Project comprises additions to
existing facilities except for the ERC hostels and the Kasama Farm
Institute. Unit areas and unit costs for these new institutions are shown
in Annex 8. The project unit areas and unit costs are reasonable, in
particular considering the rural setting of some of the institutions
included in the project.
Disbursements
5.08      Disbursements lagged throughout the implementation period
due to the delays in particular in starting construction of the two FIs and
the six FTCs and to the prolonged construction period of the EHC. The low
disbursement also reflects the 35% savings, including funds for part of the
technical assistance and special studies which were never carried out. The
Loan was closed March 31, 1983 as originally scheduled with a total of US$
8.58 million (65% of Loan amount) disbursed. The remaining balance of USS
4.72 million was cancelled on October 19, 1983.
VI. PROJECT OPERATING OUTCOMES
Educational Services Center
6.01      Under the Third Education Project provision was made for the
establishment under the MOE of an Educational Services Center which
combined facilities tor the Ministry's Correspondence Course Unit, Audio                 X
Visual Services Library, the Zambia Library Service and the Instructional
Resources Center to be integrated into one building thus providing
economies in use of space, transport and equipment. Phase II supported in
the Fourth Education Project added to the ESC an Examination Section
including a Standards and Certification Division for the DTEVT, a Research,
Evaluation and Guidance Section and an expansion to the Printing and
Documentation Unit.
6.02      The objective of the ESC was to integrate all the above entities
in one central facility and effect a coordinated unit. The physical
facili'ties were completed and the relevant MOE units moved into the
building. A special "strong" room for storage of examination papers was
added duri'ng project implementation to ensure security of the examination



-15 -
papers. The Standards and Certification Division of the DTEVT is
functioning smoothly and the unit has developed some 80 to 90 programs
(with the creation of the Ministry of Higher Education this unit was moved
back to the DTEVT headquarters). However, the usual complaint was
registered with respect to transport which according to discussions with
personnel of ESC claimed was no longer functioning due to lack of adequate
raaintenance and petrol.
6.03      The printing shop, which was provided in Phase I of the ESC and
expanded under Phase II supported by this project is well equipped and
staffed but underutilized due to the shortages of recurrent funds.
The budget for the printshop falls under the MOE's DTEVT and the latter
does not consider the operation of the Center's printshop of high
priority. The printshop only receives funds if the DTEVT has surplus funds
from its regular ongoing activities. Another serious problem is the
ineffectiveness of the coordinating committee for the ESC which was to
ensure cooperation among the different educational services. A Chief
Education Officer still has not been appointed. Despite the lack of
coordination however, individual units have basically carried out their
respective responsibilities.
6.04      The Research Evaluation and Guidance Division's main function is
to supervise and monitor the implementation of new or revised curricula and
evaluate outcomes of instruction in addition to administering aptitude and
ability tests for all primary and secondary school students. Currently,
the division is staffed by a division head, psychologists, and three other
research officers. In 1982, the division was in charge of the
administration of 170,000 primary and 110,000 secondary school
examinations. At appraisal it was estimated that by 1985 this division
would be responsible for about 202,000 primary and 57,000 secondary school
examinations.  The number of secondary examinations to be administered was
underestimated due to a change in lower secondary school enrollment policy
in the late 1970s. The division is functioning well but could use some
additional trained staff.
Business Education
6.05      This project component was designed to expand the supply of
Zambian business and accounting manpower by: (a) increasing the boarding
capacity of the EHC by 250 places and providing the college with required
instructional equipment and furniture; (b) assisting in the training of
Zambian teachers for the college's business and secretarial studies
department; and (c) assisting in establishing of commercial and secretarial
courses in five Trades Training Institutes through the provision of
instructional equipment. During the implementation of the project, minor
modifications were made to the physical facilities at Government request
including an enlargement of the dining hall and installation of a water
tower at the EHC.



- 16 -
6.06      Evelyn Hone College of Applied Arts and Commerce.  At appraisal
the boarding capacity at EHC was 640 places and the project provided for an
addition of 250 places. 7/ The total enrollment was then 950 (although
the college campus had a7capacity of 1,200 student places). As a result of
the project the Business Studies Department at the College expanded from
225 to a record total of 450 and reached its objective as regards
enrollment as indicated below:
Business Studies Program
Year                                  Number of Students (1982)
1977                                         225
1978                                         241
1979                                         252
1980                                         369
1981                                         384
Additionally, the total student numerical strength of the business studies
department is the most significant in the College.
Department                                        Number of Students
Business Studies                                        449
Printing Section                                         26
Secretarial                                             162
Paramedical                                             224
Academic Sciences and Maths                              42
Art                                                       17
Music                                                    15
Communications                                           60
Hotel and Catering                                      119
Total                              1,114
The addition to the kitchen and dining-room facility permitted an increased
catering capacity of from about 600 to around 800 students (in two
shifts).  Unlike other departments of EHC where Zambianization had reached
about 50% at the time of appraisal, the staff of the business studies
department were composed entirely of expatriates hired under technical
assistance contracts from the UK, other African countries and South Asia.
The project included 25 man-years of technical assistance specialists and
40 man-years of fellowships for studies abroad to implement a staff
development plan prepared by the DTEVT. The Government submitted a staff
development plan to the Bank Group as agreed; however, no effective
follow-up measures were taken. The technical assistance funds were noc
utilized because the Government did not wish to pay the high costs involved
7,/ Some boarding places were allocated to students in other departments.



- 17 -
and preferred to try and obtain ass-Istance on a grant basis or through
direct Government recruitment on local hire terms. With respect to the
fellowship program, discussions with some personnel at EHC revealed they
were unable to identify and recruit suitable candidates due to the lack of
qualified secondary school leavers and the limited interest of certificate
holders i'n business studIes or accountancy to pursue a teaching career.
Currently, the staff of 29 lecturers iLs largely expatriate with only 5
ZambLans in place.  The failure to follow through on the technical
assistance and fellowship program can be traced in part to the lack of
coordination between the ERC and the DTEVT and the constant turnover in
staff involved 'in the administration of the technical assistance program.
The provision of physical facilities including equipment was very
successful. Enrollment targets have been met, but the program to train
Zambians to replace expatriates has been less successful (paras. 8.01 and
8.02).
6.07      Trades TrainIng Instirtutes.  The project supported commercial and
secretarial courses through the provis-ion of furnixture and instructional
equipment at five of the e'ght existing Trades Training Institutes.  These
locations were chosen as a result of being identified as areas of growing
demand for commercial and secretarial manpower. Students enter after form
Form III to the certIf-icate course and after Form IV for the diploma
course. The courses offered at each institution are typing and shorthand.
The teaching staff is reported to be sufficient at each institute with only
one institute reporting less than a full teachi-ng complement. The
enrollment at the TTLs in 1983 was reported to be the following:
Livingston, 72 (transferred from Nkumb±), Kabwe, 60; Znanshya, 60;
Lukashya, 60; and Nkumbi, 40 and the drop out rate is about 5Z p.a.
Students receive free room, board, tuition and a stipend of K15 or K20 per
month depending if they are Form III or Form V graduates.  A placement
service for the graduates is operating and ass-ists graduates to find
employment i'n both the private and/or public sector. Information on the
success of job placements was unavailable however, the courses are filled
(with an average number of students of 24 per class). This component can
be cons-dered to be successful in meeting its educational objectives
(paras. 8.01 and 8.02).
Farm Institutes and Farmers Training Centers
6.08      The project assisted in the improvement in the training of
agricultural staff and farmers through the provision and/or replacement of
teaching facilities and boarding facilit-ies for women, staff housing,
instructional equipment and transport (vehicles) in eight ex2sti'ng Fls and
20 FTCs located solely in the Northern and Northwestern provinces.  Water
supply was provided to all project institutions including those supported
under the Third Education Project. Technical assistance and fellowships
were also provided. The facilities provided at the institutions are very
adequate but are not utilized to capacity nor efficiently run as indicated
below.



- 18 -
6.09      Visits to five FTCs and two FIs indicated that the boarding
fac41ities were generally underutilized due to a lack of sufficient funds
to operate the training centers. Budgetary allocations did not increase
over time as the new facilities were made available. The operating budget
for the FIs and FTCs is reported to be actually on a delayed month to month
basis, which makes program planning unrealistic.  Also the Ministry of
Rural Development tended to emphasize tralning for farmers on the farms
themselves thus reducing the enrollment in the FIs. Annexes 9 and 10 give
a comparison of planned versus actual participation in training courses
including female participation.
6.10      Regarding the training program for thTs component, there was a
m±sunderstanding with respect to the objectives of the technical assistance
program from the beginrnig. The misunderstanding appeared to have
originated at the time the Dutch Government agreed to Implement the
technical assistance program of the component in lieu of an agricultural
traini'ng project planned under a bilateral agreement. The failure to
formalize the agreement between the two Governments exacerbated the
confusion. Furthermore, the Dutch team worked in isolation and was not
properly i-nstructed on its responsibility for fulfillment of the objectives
of the technical assisstance program as appraised.  The team suffered from
lack of i-nternal cooperation and coordination as well as with the local
authori-ties. The team began working in the Central Province with a pi-lot
project to improve the training of extension workers.  After completing
that project, the team was to cover other provinces. The team spent most
of its time preparing manuals for the commodity demonstrators (field
extension workers) about which no consensus could be reached and did little
in conducti'ng training programs or improving training methods.  The manuals
were finally produced, reviewed, ed-ited and printed. However, there has
been no feedback with respect to their usefulness.
Special Studies
6.11      Survey of the Construction Industry.  The project included
ass-stance to carry out a survey of the construction i'ndustry. From t'he
outset the proposed survey appeared to have split opinions 4n Government
and the pri'vate sector as to the value of such an exercise.  The buildi'ngs
branch of the MPTW ostensibly was of the opinion that a survey would have
been beneficial particularly in identifying remed-ies to the problem of
dwindling producti'on of local buildi'ng materials. The private construction
industry reacted with open and firm opposition to the survey in terms of
its participation.  This situation resulted *in a  dead lock.  Furthermore
funds were never included i'n the Government's budget allocation and no
consensus could be reached with respect to the ultimate status of the
report. Consequently, the study was never carried out and the allocated
funds cancelled.
6.12      Complet-ion and Evaluation Report.  Despite many discussions with
Government concerning evaluation studies of project components, a report
per se, was never prepared and the funds allocated for the report were
cancelled. The PIU did provide consi-derable data and cooperated fully in



- 19 -
every respect with the Bank Group completion mission and produced on a
periodic basis, progress reports which provided good information on the
physical implementation aspeccs of the project and were used in the
preparation of the project completion report.
VII. BANK PERFORMANCE
7.01      The project was appraised nine years ago at a time when more
emphasis was put on physical facilities than on educational software in
most Bank education projects. Consequently, the technical assistance
component directed towards implementing the educational objectives might
not have been as well designed as the one for the physical implementation
of the project.
/.02      The project was supervised by ten Bank Group missions.  The
mission for completion of the Fourth Project was combined with the
completion mission for the Third Project and also dealt with superv±sion of
the Fifth Project, spend-ing a total time of 1.7 weeks in the field.  The
intervals between missions were between five and eight months with the
max-mum of about ten and the minimum, five months. The missions averaged
2-2 weeks in the field with a minimum of 1.4 and a maximum of 3.8 weeks.
Supervision of the project was combined with Bank Group review of other
education projects under preparation. 3r execution.  Architects partic±pated
in 10 missions  agricultural educators in 3, economists in 6 and technical
educators in 9 missions. Bank Group staff supervising the project
maintained a good relationship with Government officials which was
important for the implementation of the project and laid the way for a
successive project which i's currently being implemented. These missions
continuously pointed out to the Government the necessity of timely
provision of recurrent funding.  Supervision by Bank Group staff is
considered adequate except for the low participation by an agriculture
educator i-n the missions, which contributed to a somewhat narrow focussing
on the physical implementation of the project.  NORAD was kept fully
informed of the status of the project through periodic reports prepared by
the PIU and sent concurrently to the Bank Group and NORAD.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS
8.01      With regard to the outcome of the project, most of the components
(with the exception of provisions of technical assistance specialists and
fellowsh4p.s) were completed satisfactorily adding new student/board'ng
places to existing and new institutions resulting in increased student
enrollment particularly in business education. The EHC has expanded the
supply of business and accountancy manpower and the trades tra-ining
institutes ass-isted i'n the establishment of needed commercial and



- 20 -
secretarial courses. The extension to the ESC has contributed to the
improved administration and conducting of examinat!ons at alI levels of
education and in the equalization of educational opportunities through the
centralization and standardization of examinations. As the Center is
relatively new and to date no overall coordinator has been appointed
certain organizational and coordinating aspects of its operatIons need
improvement.  In addition, the Government established a new Ministry of
Higher Education to cater to university and technical education and some
space was allocated to this new Ministry in the ESC. However, discussions
with Government offic-ials revealed that no significant negative impact on
educational objectives of the ESC would result from this move. The least
successful component is the agricultural education component, where about
one third of the capacity is underutilized as a result of shortage of
operating (recurrent) funds although curricula, syllabi, and time tables
appeared to be professionally prepared and the institutions adequately
staffed. This lack of success can also be attributed to a change of
Government's agricultural policy and a decreasing commitment on the part of
the Government to th-is type of trai'ning.  The technical assistance
component which was to provide the preparation of teaching manuals (para.
6.10) was not successful. The team was withdrawn due to, inter alia, the
low morale of the team members who were unable to complete the work on time
to the required standards. Consequently, short term consultants were used
to finalize the work. Under the Dutch program however, six Zambians were
awarded fellowships and are in the process of completing their agricultural
training in Europe. The staff appraisal report notes that the risks of the
Fourth Education Project relate basi'cally to the Farmer Training Centers,
their program or-ientac ion and attendance of farmers.  In order to minimlze
this risk, the technical assistance component was included. The technical
assi-stance component as it turned out did little to minimize the risks.
8.02      The overall assessment of the project i'ndicates that the
educational objectives fell below what were originally envisioned. In
particular, the agri'cultural tra-ini'ng has not met expectations due to the
lack of commitment and changes of policy by the Government; the failure of
the technical assistance team to develop the programs as originally
envisaged; and most critical the lack of adequate recurrent funds to fully
utilize the facilit-ies.  Some project components have been successful but a
general problem which has affected most components has been the lack of
suffi-c-i-ent recurrent funds to carry out the programs as envisaged.
Government's reluctance to use funds provided for technical assistance
specialists has also affected the outcome of the project.  It is difficult
to evaluate the impact on EHC since specialists were obtained i'n a reduced
number. The college is however operating almost at full capacity and i-ts
graduates are in high demand both in the public and private sector.  In
general, the short term outcome of the educational and training objectives
of the project can be cons-idered moderately successful. It i-s too early to
judge the long term effects of the project which may be highly dependent on
the Government's ability to provide adequate recurrent funds.
Implementati'on of the physical aspects of the project were effectively and
efficiently carr-ied out and can be considered to be highly successful.



- -l
Ii h                                                          3 o                                                    o
t°o                                                                                                           I      {
_ . . . .. . . . S ffi
j g ^ . . ;^i. . !iX, § @
Xj      !                         '"                 | |       "-   22Xt§2                        O.E@e]   St E
dj i                                                 i    23 Rtl                                  eSe  ] W
f dl _ * .. ,,. _ , su bb sh i8aj §} }
|| }    r                      : :.                 Ro         b |   1 o | | ^ 1   °         -   i | Z @ }   %
E   i "                      " "                   O          " "   o O @" " " °o  ° O     t   § ^ S 31   l -t .
2       t                             .                     |          "N    "||""N     oo  I                           | £ 
^  0     §   _    -                                                                    O       o    ...             as  ]
l I rw ., qg gggggX Z°° | g W aI i
                  *                  .' .''                   X       "  '}   '"''''  ^X   j          E        s   Sj' $
* ., ,. h ._ - - " . .......... _ . . . __ _'_ ' ' '- ""r  .                                 0            e}  a
l __ _ ,-,, ,,,,,,,,. e W0 l!gS
i1 I . 0 i 0 ! ; i 11. .'',,,i1,i! S ' j
4 _ , ; 4, J to ¢ s 4 x ^ o ,, , n :;: | " __ _ s_
n l e t <



- 22 -
ALNEI 2
PROVISION OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Appraisal       Actual
Estimate      Provision
(Nan-years)   (Man-years)
(a) Evelyn Hone College
Specialists:
Financial Accountancy Speciallsts               10      1
Management Accountancy Specialists               5      1      13
Auditing Accountancy Specialists                10      ]
Total Specialists (a)                             25             13
Fellowships:
Accountancy/ Bookkeeping
Banking
Insurance                            I
Advertising                          1          40             0
Kanagement
Business Administration              ]
Personnel Administration             I
Total Fellowships (a)                             40              0
(b) Ministry of Rural Development
Specialists:
Agricultural Educator                            3             3
Extension Educator                               4             3
Rural Home Economics Educator                    3             3
Audio-Visual and Teaching Aids Specialist        3             3
Total Specialists (b)                             13             12
Fellowships                                        8             6
Total Fellowships (b)                              8             6
(c) Project Implementation Unit
Specialists:
Assistant Director                               6             6
Project Architect                                4             4
Procurement Specialist                           4             4
Financial Controller                             4             4                        *
Construction Supervisors                        18            18
Total Specialists (c)                             36             36
Fellowships
Accountant Studies                               0             2
Total Fellowships (c)                              0              2
Grand-Total Specialists  (a-c)                  74             61
Grand-Total Fellowships  (a-c)                  48              8



ZAMBIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT - LOAN 1356-ZA
COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN CONDITIONS
A. Schedule of Obligations to be met by Borrower
(Covenants of the Loan Agreement)
Section of
Covenants                          Loan Agreement            To be Completed by                    Status
1.  Appointment of Architectural/Engineering             3.02 (a)         Within six months of date of           Complied with
Consultants.                                                          Loan.
2.  Appointment of Assistant Project Director.           3.02 (b)          By NORAD.                             Complied with
3.  Submission of an updated staff develop-              3.06              Included in a plan to be              Partial and satis-
ment plan for the EHC including plan for                              submitted within six months            factory compliance.
appointment of Technical Assistance Spe-                              of date of Loan.
cialists and Fellows for EHC.                                                                                                   w
4.  Appointment of Technical Assistance Spe-             3.07              To be employed within nine            Complled with
cialists for MRD.                                                     months of date of Loan.
5.  Submission of a detailed plan for the                3.08              Within 18 months after the            Complied with
retraining of the agricultural teaching                               date of Loan Agreement.
and extension staff of DAMRD.
6.  Submission of a completion and evaluation            3.09              Three months after comple-            Not complied with
studies report.                                                       tion of project.
7.  Submission of audit reports for project              4.02              Annually.                             Complied with
administration expenditures.
.                   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ZAMBIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN 1356-ZA
PROJECT O05T BY COMPONENTS IN KWACHA AND US DOLLARS IN MILLIONS (INCLUDING CONTINGEBUCIES)
DIFFERENCE
APPRAISAL ESTLMATE 1                     ACTUAL COST                      IN Z
K       USS         X of Total       K        US$      X of Actui          K      US$
1.  Civil Works, Furniture!
Eq%lpment and Vehicles
1.  Educational Service Center         2.86      3.57        15       15     2.62      3.15       18      18      - 8      -12
2.  Evelyn Hone College                 1.69     2.10         9        9      1.58     1.88       11       11      - 6     -10
3.  Farm Institutes                     1.66     2.07         9        9     2.14      2.53       14      14       +29     +22
4.  Farmer Training Centers             5.77     7.17        31       31     3.01      3.54       20      20       -48     -51
5.  Fl, FTC Services                     -        -           -              1.61      1.94       11      11         -       -
6.  Trades, Training Institutes         0.13     0.16         1        1     0.15      0.19        1       1       +15     +19
Sub-total I                    12.10    15.07         65      65    11.11    13.23        75       75      - 8      -12
II.  Professional Services                   1.21      1.50         7       7     0.98      1.15        7        7      -19      -23
III.  Technical Assistance                    2.76      3.43        15      15      0.2 7    0.32        2        2      -90      -90
IV.  Special Studies                         0.40      0.50        2        2       -        -          -        -        -
V.  Project Administration                  0.45      0.56        2        2      0.68     0.81        4        4      +51      +45
Total (I-V)                    16.92    21.05 2/    91        91    13.04    15.51 2/   88         88      -23      -26
VII.  NORAD 3/                                1.70      2.12         9       9      1.70     2,12       12       12         0       0
Total Project Cost (I-VII)   18.62    23.17          100     100    14.74    17.63       100      100      -21      -Z4
1/ September 1976 prices
2/ Includes taxes
3/ Technical assistance
Note: Due to roundings, figures may not add-up.



ZAHBIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT - LOAN 1356-ZA
PROJECr COST BY CATECORIES IN KWACHA AND US DOLLARS IN MILLIONS (INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES)
DIFFERENCE
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE 1/                         ACTUAL COST                  IN X
CATEGORIES                          K         US$        x of Total        K       US$        Z of Actual      K        US$
1. Civil Works
(a) Site Development                   2.87      3.57        15    15         2.38    2.79         16     16      - 17    - 22
(b) Buildings
(i) Academic & Communal          3.54      4.41        19    19         3.52    4.13        24     24       -  I    -  6
(ii) Boarding                     2.75      3.42        15    15         2.28    2.68        15      15      - 17    - 22
(iii) Staff Housing                0.71      0.88         4     4         0.47    0.55         3       3      - 34    - 37
Sub-total (b)             7.00     8.71        38    38         6.27    7.36         42     42       - 10    - 15
Sub-total 1                               9.87    12.28        53    53         8.65   10.15         58     58       - 12    - 17
2.  Furniture                                 0.69      0.86         4     4         0.50    0.63         3       3      - 28    - 27
3.  Equipment and Vehicles                    1.54      1.92        B      8         1.96    2.45        13      14      + 27    + 28
4.  Professional Services                     1.21      1.50         7     7         0.98    1.15         7       7      - 19    - 23
5.  Technical Assistance                      2.76      3.43       15    15          0.27    0,32         2      2       - 90    - 90    L
6.  Special Studies                           0.40      0.50         2     2          -       -           -       -        -        -
7.  Project Administration                    0.45      0.56        2      2         0.68    0.81         5      4       + 51    + 45
Total (1-7)                              16.92    21.05 2/    91    91         13.04   15.51 I/    88       88       - 23    - 26
8.  NORAD 3/                                  1.70      2.12        0      9         1.70    2.12        12      12         0        0
Total Project CoBt (1-8)                 18.62    23.17       100   100        14.74   17.63        100    100       - 21    - 24
Source of Funds
IBRD Loan                                10.69    13.30        57    57         7.14    8.58         48     49      - 33    - 35
Government of Zambia                      6.23      7.75       34    34         5.90    6.93         40     39       -  5    - 11
NORAD                                     1.70     2.12         9      9         1.70    2.12        12     12          0        0
Totai                                    18.62    23,17       100   100        14.74   17.63        100    100       - 21    - 24
U'
1/  September 1976 prices
2/  Includes taxes
3/ Technical assistance
Note: Due to roundings, figures may not add-up.



£003IA - P043 1KV OICAT3IO 11ZOJICT LOAN 1314-00
TOTAL PkJOEZCDSwT or PYIEICAL FACILITILI11-1)50434H AltO US DOLLAII Ii OWI
--             -                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CIVIL 44000                                 FlmT)33U04                                                   iwI,iNe                                         TOTAL DIVAIC3.L IACOL3IUI
ITUIt                ra"ILl  1TEM                                                                 Dl0320  I'                                                  D311,31                                                     037F. IN                                                   DIMF. II
MO.             00A0 AND LOCATION                   APPRAISAL II              ACTIUAL                3            APPRAISAL             ACTUAL                                   AIPPRAISAL           ACTUAL                                 APPRAISAL.            ACTAL
A   0US          A          LII       K        JI                LIII       A I!                1          RH        .5.      UII       £L         US3       ..       us         £     A  usll        -         yjl         L AI
At1       Education inVItes  Center             I
Ph... II                 I  lilo       2,211~~~~~~.sl  IbI6      VO        1        0      lo        2          1          41       .0                     0       24       II$        I124     V  22       24     2,302      3,147    3.40   12.101    - 14  - i9
tonro.Canteen                        *                     34            Io     -                                                                                                                       -             -               -         330        247          
Total  A  '  2.134    2.113    ~ ~           J~!jj      42    - 24        202      213        223       341        '  '   ~~           ~         111        11        9242AnLI3 9134              3.3422_    .14       tOil    LJJ3 -"33
cia..... tunniuec I  qulpcctj   oIl4    1,414             ;It        101.    - 42       Wt      122       III       210        114       -I 21         22      03       322        1          III    -3          34    1,40?      2.099        914      3.334    - 41   -41
.aIe, t-.n.  and arysnaziuc                          -             ii        ni                -                             0         10                                       .        4           3                                      -         4AA        241      -      -
I    TtotaIlss                               I.411     1        I1 I 1k.2       .42     -I         IS       la?      III        140)      14        * tO       ViLI      jij       WJ       130         31       42 II3LI          3.437    2.009        .1 84     .1219   -  I  - 20
Totol A and 3                            l"m        4.4         2.I942 Sj t.t        --a        33I   1 20m      430        21        42  LI                .2        21        nI       90        3.1           4    V-21      4.114i    1.644      Aml        1.02      ..  Ja.i
C        AasujuaiAdta 3t
3. Cauua)                                    I         20I!Si                         *l       Il          2       2           2        3          3          21        29       IV        44         11      .1,2     VII 4       303       403       9124     3.015   V371  4332
1.  Is. "                                    I.,           ~         111        133        34     .4           i       33         3          9        03           322      24       II       104          i        3,         0       43        49       330         .1        ltVi  
Tataf i                                  Ie-       123      1.922       1.242    013  1 'li          Li        La         39        41        I ii      1.1        AA       131.      30          i4    .' a ' *                                            2fj  i  Idl 3123  VIII6
I..... I,a3,i3n cester (FTC) at:
4.  Uahu~~~~~~~~o                    301       311~~~~~5   34          4,04    021     31         I)        II        34         39       *1           it  39    4        2I        0          21     V 43      V4 2A 33              2II       331 3      Od      j 4121 AI
1.  laseqa            ill        124        442         221   V 19   * 20          32        ii         II        33       4 32       * Ii        34       Il       33          24     V 10      V 11        304       143I        Vii      1202     4  14   V  09
se 910                                         ItO        243         Ill         113    V  4 02              4        I          3         3                 34            4         I       324                V1        *12         33        3.          30       22 *33  * K6
to    Poaroho.o                                  203        W1         412         224    Viol?      91        a        3          3         3           2          4        3         ?        2          28        120                "'Ill33   412        47011     Ino   VIlo   V ,
ii.  InalnIlonga                        lI~~~~~~~~ft  100      94 2        409    .100      soI       Ii        341       3~9        24a      n 446     n10         I,,        1       22           I  12 Vs 5        II       301ol      301       104        I33   V 94  V 8
Jol        lAtIb) /1                                  24         W2          242   2     40        0   *  4          3       34         33         33      I-            -9       14        Is       22          31     V7 1        30       374        464       240        441       3    
Total  FTC                             Ib.y431     a.01         too1     I2.34     * It   0i          LO I     JA-0        Lb       33         *         LII9        ii      L         131         343l    1.4       Ii       3.191    3I229    laN          3.42        E 
73 and  TC Ita.=  deleted                4.144      $.I11       ____        -i___                        J       339         -                               .:.        I      ILI                         -                    4.gig    61.13         -                   -      -
C        Fl cod F7C SerVicea
Vt.  raenl.-                                                    II          22       -       -         -        -          ---                                                          I           0 -   -                                 -        23         254      -      -
waOter leIttcot.ctot                                                   Sol90       942                                                                                                        U31         451?                                            31.38      3,940
-Ina   le-d...                                                  O's1       .4        -       -         -        -          -         .           -         -                            3           9  In-                                  -      3.40?     1 .931          
Toto   C                                 4.324      11219       1.20       4.499    -t l0a3             243      111        13±        31          II       - 61t     L 73     821       93        1.343     *  9     A3         .31       923       414         ,ltj1j
tradelel a"'nIVI lntiiutn6                    .                                           -       .        3         24         33        32          :t -I             la        IIi      M.          ILI    V  3         2X3       i I       314        in3        331S    a1±4
lo Al. A   . C cnd 0                        .41      11.21.       3.410     111,111   -  I2       12      492      lS01       4          24 .563     32      - 32    3.14      1.930   11.941       3,441   I   2s4     V ST   32,30,  31.04  1  33.303   33.310 I-  a      3
it   PieniVos ly TIC. Cha lohulist
Ct  sits oweak, a tlstd at K 314 ce 4.20 vi b.311n0.j  -o.I.. iided.
4/  Iatlss:ad at the ttce c  ecapacl



ZAMBIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT - LOAN 135b-ZA
SUMMARY OF CIVIL WORKS COSTS OF Fl AND FTC IN KWACHA IN 000'S
Total                         Total        Boreholes
Item                                                      Water          Water         Site          Site                          Civil     Water Reserv.
No.  NAME OF INSTITUTION               Boreholes      Reservoirs   Reticulation    Works         Development      Buildings      Works      Water Retic.
For 8 Sites                          64              -
For 18 Sites                          -             240             -              -             -               -            _
For 10 Sites                                         -             807             -             -               -            -
C -     Farm Institutes                                       20             96            65            181             654          835
3.    Chafukuma                             a               20             80            -             108              -           108
4.    Keembe                                8               20            130            87           245              873        1,118
5.    Kasama                                16              60            306           152           534            1.527       2.061
Total FP
C -     Farmer Training Centers
(FTC)
6.    Kabompo                               -               12             96           37             145             370          515
7.    Kasempa                               8               12             82           31             133             314          447
8.    Katete                                 -              12             60           -               72              -            72
9.    Hbereshi-                                             12             95           -              107              -           107
10.    Hibenge                               -               12             91           -              103              -           103
II.    Mkushi                                8               12             80           -             100               -           100
12.    Mpika                                 8               12             31           21             72              210          282
13.    Mpongwe                               -               12             76           -              88               -            88
14.    Mporokoso                             -               12             81           48            141              486          627
15.    Mukalaikwa                            8               12            100           -              120              -           120
16.    Mutaba                                -               12             80           -              92               -            92
17,    Mwinilunga                                            12             65           44             121             441          562
18.    Nangwushi1                            -               12             50           -              72               -            62
19.    Serenje                               8               12             95           -             115               -           115
20.    Zambezi                                -              12             64           25             101             246          347
21.    Z1ungwi                                8              -              -                             8              -             8
Total FTC                          48             180          1,146           206          1,580           2,067        3,647
Total Fl and FTC                     64             240          1,452           358          2,114           3,594        5,708
Site works as a percentage of building cost * 58.82X



ZAMBIA - VOURTI EDUCATION PROJECT - LOAN 1356-ZA
PLACEg. UNITS AND AREAS OF PHYSICAL FACILITIES
ADDITIONAL                      ADDITIONAL                       ADDITIONAL                  GROSS AREA IN SQ. H
STUDENT PLACES   D1FF. IN   BOARDING PLACES   DtFr. IN    STUDENT PLACES   DIFF. IN  OF NEW CDNSTRUCTION  DI"?. IN
PROJECT ITEM                                       _          X       _                                                                                           2
NAME AND LOCATIoN                      APPKAISAL   ACTUAL               APPRAISAL   ACTUAL               APPRAISAL   ACTUAL              APPRAISAL   ACTUAL
A - EDUCATIONAL SERVICES CENTER, LUSAKA:
1.  Phase 11                                          -                    _           _          _         _          _           _         _        3,200       4,025      + 25
Strongroom, Canteen                               _          _         _                                                                           -            510
Total A                                          _           _                                                                                   3.200        4.535      + 41
B - EVELYN HONE COLLEGE
2.  Hostel                                                                           1,21,20     ,200       a                                         2,668       3.575      t 34
Exc. Kilchen Dining 11                            _          _         _          _                                                                -            680
Gymnaslum, Water Tover 1 /                                             -                          -          -         -                          -            670
Total B                                                             _           1,200       1,200      0                                         2.668        4.925      + 85
C - AGKIlCULTURAL EDUCATION
- Farm Institutes (FL) at:
3.  Chafukuma                                         40         40        0            40         40       0          1           1         0        1,276       1,340      +  5
4.  Xeembe 2/                                         -          -          -          -          -         -           -          -         -          -           -           _
S.  Kasama                                            bO         80        0            80         80       0          7           7         0        2,263       2,395      t  6
Total Fl                                    |   120         120        0          120         120      0                      8         0        3.539        3.735      4  6
- Farmer Training Centers (FTc) at:
6.  Kabompo                                           _     -          -         -          -          -          -                -         0          561          585     + A
7.  Kasempa                                                                               -  -         -                                     -          -           --
.  Katlte 2/                                          -          -          -          -          -                                                     _           _           _
9.  MbereshL 2/                                                   _         _          _    
10.  KLbige 2/                                         -          -         -           -          -         _          _          _          _          _           _           _
11.  Hkushi 27/                                        -          -         -           -          -         _          _           _         _          .           _ 
12.  Hpika                                             -          -         -             S          S       0          1           1         0          56i         500      -11
13.  Mpongve 2/                                                        -           -         -                     -          -          -         -           -                 -
14.  Mporokoso                                          8          B        0             8          a       0          1           1         0          692         5SO      -16
13.  flukalalkwa 2/                                                    -           -         -                     -          -          -         -           -                 -
16.  Hutaba 2/                                                    -                -         -                     -          -          -         -                 -           -
17.  Hwinilunga                                        20         20        0            20         20       0          1           1         0          852         775      _  9
18.  Nangweshi 2/                                                      -           -         -                     -          -          -         -           -           -
19.  Serenje 2/                                       _          _         _           _                          -                -         -          -           -           -
20.  Zambezi 7/                                        _          _          _          _          _         -          -           -         -          460          210     - 54
2Ua. Hungwi 4/7                                        -          -          -          _                    -          -           -         -          -           -           -
Total FTC                                         28         28        0           36          36      0           2          2         0        3,676        3,105        16
D - ThADE TESTING INSTITUTES 5/ k7TI) at;
21.  Kabwe                                             _-                                                                                                            - _
22.  Luanshya                                          _          _          _          _          _         .          - _                               -          -                 t
23.  Lukashya                                          -          _          _          _          _         _          - _         _         _                      -           -     u
24.  Hana                                              _          _          _          _          _         _                     - _  _     _          _
25.  Nkumbl                                            _          _          _          _          _         _                      - _  _    _
Total A + n + C                                  148        148        0        1,356      1,356       0          10         10         0       13,103       16,300      + 24
1/  Additional faciLities included during impleuentation.
2/  Watur supply faciltILes only.
3/  Formerly at Fl.
P/ Provision of boreholes only, itea added during implementation.
I Prov4sion of furniture and inLtructlional equipment only.



-29  -
ANNEX 8 (b)
Page 2 of 3
ZAMBIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION AREA
Item            Name of                   Gross Area of Uew Construction
No.          Institution                         in Square Meters
Academic,  Hostel/   Staff
Communal   Boarding  Housing  Total
1.      ESC. Phase II                  4,025         -         -      4,025
Strongroom and Canteen           510        -          -        510
Sub-total 1               4535                           4,535
2.      Evelyn Hone College Hostel       -        3,575        -       3,575
Ext. of Kitchen and
Dining; Gymnasium                670        680        -      1,350
Sub-total 2                 670     4,255         _      4,925
3.      Chafukuma                        750        475       115      1,340
5.      Kasama                           870        850       675      2,395
6.      Kabompo                          470         -        115        585
7.      Kasempa                          455                   -         455
12.      Mpika                            410         -         90        500
14.      Mporokoso                        290        195        95        580
17.      Mwinilunga                       495        165       115        775
20.      Zambezi                          210         -         -         210
Totals FI and FTC         3,950     1,658      1,205     6,840
Total                     9,155     5,940      1,205    16,300
in percentages            56.2%     36.4%       7.4%     100%



_30 _
ANNEX 8 (c)
Page 3 of 3
ZAMBIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
CIVIL WORXS
SUMMARY OF COST OF SECTORS
Item                                         Cost in Kwacha in 000's
No.           Institutions             Slte Works    Buildings    Total
1.     Educational Services Center        148          1,480       1,628
2.     Evelyn Hone College                120           L,194      1,314
3-2a.   Fl and FTC                       2,114          3,594       5,708
Totals                        2,382          6,268      8,650
Building
Sector                   -              Cost        -
Academic and Communal 56.2%         -            3,523         -
Boarding 36.4Z                      -            2,281        -
Housing 7.4%                        -              464         -
Total 100%                       -            6,268         -



SUMMARY OF TRAINING PROGRAMS FOR FIs AND FTCs
NORTHERN PROVINCE
(Residental Courses
PROPOSED PROGRAM                                    ACTUAL PROGRAM
CENTER
Courses    Proposed    Proposed   Proposed    Courses           Actual       Actual      Actual
Planned   Trutg. Days    Intake   Stud. Days         Held    Trng. Days   Intake   Stud. Days
MUNGWI F.I.             24          181          649         4522          29          190         665          4133
MPOROKOSO F.T.C.          9          90          108         1080           9           90         108          1080
ISOKA F.T.C.            18          135          360         3300          12           95         230         1855
MPIKA F.T.C.             17         145          392         3620           8           45         148           836
CHINSALI F.T.C.         30          150          544         2920          14           70         201         1005
GRAND TOT'AL            98          701         2053        15442          72          490        1352         8909
'.0



SUMMARY OF TRAINING PROGRAMS FOR FIs AND FTCs
NORTHERN PROVINCE
(Non-Residential Courses)
CENTER         Courses    Proposed    Proposed   Proposed    Courses           Actual      Actual      Actual        Male    Female
Planned   Trng. Days    Intake   Stud. Days         Held    Trng. Days   Intake   Stud. Days   Farmers   Farmers
MUNGWI F.I.             12          51          470         2470          12          45         396          1884         365        31
MPOROKOSO F.T.C.         4          40          160         1600           4           40         160         1600          96        64
ISOKA F.T.C.             3          30          120         1200          -            -          -            -           -         _
MPIKA F.T.C.             2          20           80          800           2           10         120          600          67        53
CHINSALI F.T.C.          6          30          240         1200          3            15        228          1140         140       88
G
GRAND TOTAL             27         171         1070         7270         21          110         904         5224         668       236 
}   _                                                                       u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



