Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23880
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-23047; COFN-03580; PPFB-P2150; SCL-39080; SCL-39090)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$30.5 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
MAURITUS
FOR A
PORT DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION PROJECT
June 5, 2002
AYFTR
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = Mauritian Rupees
Rs.1 = US$ 0.033
US$ 1 = Rs. 30.3
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  -June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BPML         Business Parks of Mauritius Ltd
BPMLFS       BPML-Freeport Services
CHCL         Cargo Handling Corporation Ltd
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
GOM          Government of Mauritius
HRD          Human Resources Development
IT           Information Technology
MCT          Mauritius Container Terminal
MPA          Mauritius Ports Authority
MMA          Mauritius Marine Authority
MFA          Mauritius Freeport Authority
PSEC         Port Safety and Environment Committee
PUC          Port Users Council
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
SCL          Single Currency Loan
SP           Social Plan
VRS          Voluntary Retirement Scheme
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:  Hafez M.H. Ghanem
Sector Manager/Director:  Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Marc Juhel



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MAURITIUS
PORT DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 14
6. Sustainability                                                                      15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     18
9. Partner Comments                                                                    19
10. Additional Information                                                            31
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   32
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  35
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  49
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  51
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      52
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  53
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P00 1926                                      Project Name: PORT DEV. & ENV PROT
Team Leader: Marc H. Juhel                                TL Unit: TUDTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 6, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: PORT DEV. & ENV PROT                           LIC/TF Number: TF-23047;
COFN-03580;
PPFB-P2150;
SCL-39080;
SCL-39090
Country/Department: MAURITIUS                                            Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: BB - Public Sector Management Adjustment; ME -
Economic Management; TP - Ports & Waterways;
VV - Environment Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   05/28/1993                             Effective:                    03/04/1996
Appraisal:  12/15/1994                                MTR:                       03/26/1997
Approval:  06/20/1995                              Closing: 12/31/2001          12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  Government of Mauritius; Mauritius Ports Authority/Mauritius Freeport
Authority; Mauritius Ports Authority
Other Partners:  European Investment Bank (EIB); Japan Export-Import Bank (Jexim);
Government of Luxembourg
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                        E.V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Hafez M. H. Ghanem                         Andrew P. Rogerson
Sector Manager:      Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard                Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Team Leader at ICR:  Marc H. Juhel                              Alain F. Ballereau
ICR Primary Author:  Marc H. Juhel; Sati Achath
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objective of the project was to enhance Mauritius' transport and trade competitiveness
in the maritime sector in an environmentally sound manner. To this end, the project aimed to
help:(i) increase port productivity, efficiency and capacity to meet the demand of port users and
operators at competitive rates through extension of facilities, mechanization and improved
management of Mauritius Port Authority (MPA), formerly Mauritius Marine Authority (MMA),
Cargo Handling Corporation (CHC) and Mauritius Freeport Authority (MFA); (ii) re-define the
role of MPA as a landlord port authority working through a system of competitive concession
contracts with performance indicators for port operations; (iii) support the development of MFA
to promote Mauritius as an attractive tax-free base for regional entrepot trade; and (iv)
accompany port development with sound environmental protection, including control of marine
pollution, and port operations and vessels' safety enhancement.
The objective of the project was clear, important, and realistic. It was also consistent with the
Bank's 1994 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which focused on helping Mauritius achieve and
sustain a higher level of economic performance based on increased competitiveness and
diversification of production and exports, including the development of skills-intensive and
service-based activities. Among other things, this required improving the efficiency and
competitiveness of key infrastructure, such as the port in an environmentally sound manner. The
Bank's involvement through this project aimed to contribute to achieve that goal. This economic
competitiveness objective was also a main thrust of the following 1997 CAS, so by spanning two
CAS periods, the project appears to be part of a continuous and consistent effort to adapt the
Mauritian economy to the new global challenges it has to face. The project also aimed to
supplement the Bank's existing programs such as the economic and sector work (Mauritius -
Technology Strategy for Competitiveness, Report No. 12518-MAU, September 1994) and
lending (Technical Assistance to Enhance Competitiveness Project, LN. 37360-MU). By
supporting and guiding the modernization and extension of the port, and achieve the appropriate
blend of institutional reform, capacity extension, and financial engineering, the project
strengthened Mauritius' drive to reach a higher level of performance. In addition, the
environmental component of the project was significant for its demonstration value for other
countries in the area of marine pollution and vessel safety control.
The project envisioned several benefits to Mauritius, which included: (a) developing international
and regional entrepot trade by improving the competitiveness of the country's transport and trade;
(b) lowering transport costs through reduced ship and cargo waiting time; (c) better land use, in
particular for prime areas reclaimed from the sea; (d) better response to the needs of private
investors and operators by strengthening the regulatory roles and organization of MPA and
MFA; (e) substantial and positive social impact by providing more efficient and reliable conditions
for Mauritian trade; and helping indirectly to generate new business in the intemational trading
sector; and (f) reduced environmental risks through less polluted port water, better handling of
hazardous cargo, and improved ship safety control.
The project took into account lessons leamed from previous Bank-assisted projects in the
environmental and transport sectors in Mauritius, which showed that the success of Mauritius'
-2 -



implementation performance stemmed mainly from (i) good institutional capacity; (ii) strong
ownership as a result of involving institutions at the outset; and (iii) strong follow-up, once
decisions were made. These lessons also demonstrated that whenever the focus of new operations
were directed toward more complex institutional goals, and required the cooperation of various
interest groups, there were slower pace of project preparation, delays in start-up and slower
disbursement. In order to enhance project ownership and commitment of all stakeholders, the
project was prepared in close cooperation with the Government of Mauritius (GOM), MPA/CHC
and MFA, and in consultation with relevant private sector and trade union representatives. The
project also focused specifically on strengthening MPA and MFA, increased transparency and
efficiency in port operations through structural changes and expanded private sector involvement.
The project also benefited from cofinancing from the Japan Export-Import Bank (Jexim), which
granted an equivalent amount to the Bank loan to MPA for the new container terminal, from the
European Investment Bank (EIB), which granted a loan to MPA to finance ship-to-shore
container handling equipment for the new terminal, and from the Government of Luxembourg
which offered a grant to MFA for the building of new warehouses.
The project also recognized and took into account the following three risk factors which could
affect project implementation, viz:
*     the possibility of partial implementation of the institutional changes, especially the labor
redundancies at MPA and CHC. This risk was minimized through the use of client consultation
and beneficiary participation. All the interested parties, including the government, MPA, CHC,
port users and labor unions participated in the planning of the institutional studies, as well as in
the review of conclusions prior to their adoption by GOM.
*     the effect of annual cyclonic stonns on the operations of the new terminal. This risk was
mitigated by analyzing the possibilities of weather-related loss and building the appropriate level
of precaution into the design of the berth to enable it to withstand waves of even exceptional
storms. In addition, provisions were made to have gantry cranes secured to the ground, and yard
equipment moved to safe shelters during such storms.
*     the interest rate risk, especially for MPA, associated with a LIBOR-based Single Currency
Loan (SCL). While assessing this risk, it was estimated that the benefits of the reduced currency
risk from SCL which Mauritius was eligible for, outweighed the interest rate risk.
The project was responsive to the needs of the Borrower. It was timely and appropriate for
boosting the image of Port Louis as a hub port in the Southern Indian Ocean for non-captive
cargo, particularly in light of globalization and increased competition from the region. With
increased productivity, competitive tariff and higher quality of service resulting from the project, it
was expected to elevate Mauritius to a level where it would be in a better position to face the
future with more confidence and competence.
The project was also moderately complex and reasonably demanding on the Borrower because it
involved significant sector reforms and changes in social plans. Implementing Voluntary
- 3-



Retirement Scheme (VRS) and declaring staff redundancies under the Social Plan (SP) was
expensive as well as burdensome to both MPA and CHCL. Likewise, productivity parameters and
their monitoring by the Bank and MPA were demanding to the CHCL. In addition, since CHCL
was not fully conversant with terminal management, its staff had to be trained especially on
container terminal operations. However, even though Mauritius had never before undertaken a
project of this magnitude, in terms of resources both implementing agencies were well geared. But
in terms of time, it was demanding for the management of MPA and CHCL, technicians,
engineers and contractors. In addition, it was a challenging task to get the commitment of all
stakeholders to develop the new facility at Mer Rouge.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of the following three components. The components were reasonably
related to achieving the objectives. The implementing agencies, MPA and MFA, had sufficient
administrative and financial capacity for successful implementation. Since this was a second port
project in Mauritius, MPA staff had had previous experience in project management.
(A). Port Development (MPA) Component.
This included: (i) Institutional strengthening to make MPA a more commercially-oriented
landlord port authority, with sole legal authority over port operations, standards, and land
use, fostering streamlined port handling operations through concession contracts with
port operators, including CHCL. Consequently, it implied that henceforth CHCL would
buy or lease cargo handling equipment put at its disposal by MPA and would open its
capital to private investors including an experienced container terminal operator. (ii)
Improvement in the management and operations of MPA and CHCL through the
implementation of their corporate plans, including organizational restructuring to achieve
inter alia, cost containment and rational marketing and pricing. (iii) Construction of a
new three berth container and oil terminal, and procurement of related equipment
including two gantry cranes for container handling; fire-fighting and computer equipment;
a passenger terminal building and an intemal road network for new port areas; civil works
and pipelines to relocate oil and gas storage; and (iv) supervision contracts for civil
works; and specialized short-term assistance to develop and implement actions needed to
strengthen the institutional set-up, management and operations of MPA and training.
(B). Freeport Development (MFA) Component.
This included: (i) a study on the modalities for liberalization of the national regime
governing air transport licensing, to allow for chartering of cargo planes to permit sea-air
links, to facilitate sea-air transshipment activities to take into account, reciprocity in
international air traffic agreements; (ii) implementation of a targeted trade development
strategy through the execution of MFA's corporate plan to strengthen its organization and
operations as well as rationalize its marketing and pricing; (iii) site preparation of 15
- 4 -



hectares of land at Mer Rouge including the construction of roads and office and customs
buildings; and (iv) supervision contracts for civil works, and specialized short-term
assistance to develop and implement actions needed to strengthen management, operations
and training at MFA.
(C). Environment Protection Component.
This included: (i) A study to define the requirements and to design facilities for collection
and disposal of land and ship-based oily waste, and to draft regulations required to
enforce safety in port operations and control vessels' sea- worthiness. (ii) Construction of
facilities for collection and pre-treatment of oily waste. (iii) supervision of contracts for
civil works and equipment and training to fight oil spills and control vessels'
sea-worthiness.
3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Since the project design predates the existence of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG), there is
no official assessment of the project's quality at entry. Nevertheless, the ICR finds the quality at
entry to be satisfactory As mentioned earlier, the project objectives were consistent with the CAS
and the government priorities and met the critical needs of the transport sector. Since the
implementing agencies had the required administrative, financial, and technical capacity, the
quality of project design was generally adequate to meet the project's overriding objective.
During preparation of the project, major risk factors and lessons learned from other earlier
projects in Mauritius were considered and incorporated into the project design.
The project design also included a noteworthy innovation to standard Bank financing
arrangements in Africa. By allowing a better exchange rate risk management, the single currency,
US dollar-based loan offered significant value to MPA, which earns most of its revenue in US
dollars; the SCL's long tern, 15-year maturity spread better the annual financing costs for MPA,
compared to its short-term and higher-cost alternative option. The same terms were secured for
the project's co-financing arrangements with JEXIM and EIB. In addition, the private sector
equity financing of equipment reduced reliance on debt financing. Such financing sources included
Mauritius' emerging stock market, thus furthering the capital market-strengthening objective.
As mentioned in Section 7.1 under Bank Performance, the project design adopted a participatory
approach by involving port unions in project preparation as well as in the sector reform process.
Likewise, the project design also included regular consultations with the private sector.
In hindsight it might appear that the Bank took some risk by not formally linking disbursement
with sector reform, in the event that the government did not fully implement the sector reform.
However, the Bank decided to finance the container terminal without any conditionality in light
of: (i) the substantial commitment from the government to proceed with the sector reformn as per
the Bank's agreement with the Letter of Government Policy; (ii) the climate of trust and
- 5 -



confidence built upon past credentials of Mauritius as a country which keeps up its commitments;
and (iii) the fact that this being an IBRD project, the Borrower had the choice of not accepting
the Bank's conditionalities.
In retrospect, it also became apparent that MPA lacked sufficient support to deal with the legal
matters on sector reforms as well as on project implementation. Since it had to rely on the State
Law Offices for legal advice, there were delays in taking timely decisions. On the other hand,
having a legal expert on board to look into legal issues would have been very useful during critical
periods of project implementation. However, legal advice was provided under project-financed
technical assistance, in particular for the drafting of the new Ports Act and of the related
regulations. Also, the HRD Plan could have been incorporated as part of the project right from
the outset, which would have enabled MPA to look in detail on issues such as quality and capacity
of resources, and capacity-building skills. Instead, the HRD Plan came into existence only after
the Ports Act of 1998. Likewise, implementation of the Social Plan could have been one of the
components of the project, so that it would have been financially less strenuous for both MPA and
CHCL. It should be remembered, however, that when the project was negotiated in 1995, the
possibility for the Bank to finance labor redundancy packages through investment lending
operations had not been approved yet.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Highly satisfactory. The project succeeded in achieving its project objective. Among other things,
achievement of the project included completing the sector reform, and enhancing port
productivity substantially, which in turn generated many economic benefits. The major outcome
and achievements of the project are as follows:
Sector reform: The new Ports Act was approved by the National Assembly on May 26,
1998 and became effective on August 1, 1998. Consequently, the Mauritius Marine Authority
(MMA) was renamed the Mauritius Ports Authority (MPA) and became the Landlord Port
Authority, whereas the CHCL formally became a full-fledged operator. Complementing the new
Law, Port Regulations comprising port operations, safety, hazardous cargos, licensing, finance,
and environment protection came into effect soon after, and a Port Users Council (PUC) was
established as a permanent consultative forum.
The new Freeport Act which was passed on 17th July 2001 along with Freeport
Regulations, defined the new role of MFA as a regulator and promoter. With the enactment of
Freeport Transfer of Undertaking Act on the same date, MFA's assets were transferred to
Business Parks of Mauritius Ltd (BPML). Subsequent to these Acts, BPML established a
subsidiary under the name BPML-Freeport Services to provide logistical support services such as
warehousing, open storage yard, and office space to Freeport operators.
Productivity. Since the start of operations on the Mauritius Container Terminal (MCT) on
January 15, 1999, operational performance improved significantly throughout the year 2000, with
September 2000 reaching 19.4 moves per gross crane hour, the best result so far, repeated in
- 6 -



August and October 2001.    Average productivity per ship working hour also increased
substantially reaching 28.7 in 2001, compared to 21.9 in 1999. The following table displays
detailed monthly results of MCT operations:
Month        No. of   No. of     Moves per    Moves per    Moves per Ship
Ships    Moves     Gross Crane  Ship Working  Hour at Berth
Hour        Hour (*)         (*)
1999 TOTAL/       386     108,043
A VERA GE                              14.4          21.9           17.7
2000 TOTAL/        429     127,521
A VERA GE                                17.8         28.3          20.0
% 2000/1999       + 11%    + 18%
+24%         +29%           + 13%
January 2001        38      9,773        18.0         28.0           24.6
February 2001       37      8,823        18.9         28.5           17.1
March 2001          45      11,777       16.9         25.8           18.1
April 2001          40      11,731       18.5         30.9           28.0
May 2001            43      11,746       17.3         28.0           20.3
June 2001           42      10,967       18.2         29.3           20.9
July 2001           44      12,019       19.1         30.6           22.1
August 2001         40      10,907       19.4         31.9           22.4
September 2001      43      10,729       18.6         26.7           19.1
October 2001        49      13,650       19.4         28.3           21.8
November 2001       42      11,248       19.1         31.1           21.4
December 2001       45      11,639       17.7         25.1           18.9
2001 TOTAL/        508     134,809
A VERA GE                                18.4         28.7           21.2
% 2001/2000     +18.4%     +5.7%
_____ _____ _  ___ __  __ _____ +3.4%      +1.4%          +6.0%
(*) for large ships having been handled with two gantry cranes simultaneously for at least part of the call.
These results show that ship productivity is on the rise, in particular for those vessels that can be
operated with more than one crane. In fact, a closer analysis focussing only on those ships which
can be operated with two or more cranes during the whole call, which is representative of the
quality of service which can now be offered to the most demanding ships, shows ship productivity
coming close to, and sometimes going beyond, 40 moves per hour, which is today the
international standard required for competitive service. Mauritius is therefore now in a position to
offer this quality of service to the most demanding ships which can be operated with two or more
cranes during the whole call.
In order to consolidate and improve these operational results, CHCL management is in the
process of securing an agreement with all the four unions regarding staggered meal time with the
objective of eliminating the loss of productivity stemming from the meal break. Furthermore,
agreement was also reached on working systematically with two gantry cranes during the third
shift. These changes are expected to help strengthen significantly the commercial performance of
- 7 -



the MCT and its credibility among shipping operators.
Traffic: At the end of the calendar year 2001, the global traffic at Port Louis reached 4.81
million tons, providing a 7.62% increase rate in comparison with the previous year traffic of 4.46
millions tons. This was 1% above the SAR's estimated global traffic of 4.77 million tons for
2001. For reference, the1995 traffic stood at 3.42 million tons.
Containers: During calendar year 2001, Port Louis handled 161,634 TEUs, providing a
2.7% increase in comparison with 157,420 TEUs in the calendar year 2000. This was 19% above
SAR's estimate of 136,290 TEUs for 2001. For reference, thel995 traffic stood at 92,882 TEUs.
Concession contract between MPA and CHCL: The concession contract for existing
terminals, which became effective since June 1 st, 1997, was a key event in the port modernization
which was the result of nine months of discussion between CHCL, MPA and the Unions, and was
quoted as "..a new era in the history of the port". The concession introduced new working hours
in the port, enhanced flexibility to carry out operations, and a clear commitment from MPA and
CHCL staff and management to achieve measurable minimum productivity targets.
Concession contract for the MCT: The concession contract between MPA and CHCL for
the operation of the MCT was signed on January 9, 1999 for five years, and became fully
operational in January 15, 1999.
CHCL Institutional Evolution and Corporate Strategy: Complying with the spirit of the
1998 Ports Act on separating public landlord functions from commercial activities, the GOM
decided to formally withdraw MPA's 40% shareholding from CHCL, thereby providing an
opportunity for CHCL to enter into a strategic partnership with an international container
operator. The involvement of such an operator would benefit Mauritius in terms of gaining
shipping lines' better patronage in a competitive environment, and also for meeting CHCL's need
to increase its container handling capacity, starting with new container gantry cranes and
additional yard equipment, and higher investment and purchasing power. Furthermore, this
opening of CHCL's capital could then be pursued in making it possible for domestic investors, as
well as CHCL staff, to become shareholders of the company. This process is now underway (see
para.6.2).
Human Resources Development (HRD) Plan: On the basis of the recommendations of
the HRD consultant, a new salary structure for the MPA staff was implemented with effect from
July I, 2000, which has resulted in creating a motivated and better contented work force. A salary
raise in the range of 12-16% was given to 85% of the employees and about 20% to the senior and
middle-level management. A third shift was also introduced for the marine/operational department
with effect from October 15, 2001. In addition, following the consultant report, MPA is also
envisioning to introduce a Performance Management System (PMS) with effect from January 1,
2003 with the objective of gaining more efficiency.
Training Center: With the support of a grant from the European Union (Euros 400,000),
a full-fledged Port and Maritime Training Center was established in June 2001, for both public
- 8 -



and private sector staff. The Training Center has started the first phase of implementation by
equipping it with appropriate equipment, and recruiting the training consultant. The first training
courses started in February 2002. The Training Center is planned to be expanded to cater for
broader national and regional training needs. In addition, in line with the govemment policy to
transform Mauritius as a cyber island, and the need of MPA to set in place a port computer
system, MPA has also set up a Computer Training Center, which started delivering courses since
June 2001 to port employees and children living near the port area. At project closing, the
Computer Training Center had given training to 90 MPA staff and to about 120 children as part
of the social program.
Port Safety Management Plan: MPA set up in November 2000, a Port Safety and
Environment Committee (PSEC) under the chairmanship of the Deputy Director-General of the
MPA and consisted of many related organizations including Mauritius Police Force, Fire Services,
Department of Environment, Municipal Council of Port Louis, and CHCL. Since its inception,
the Committee met about 15 times and sub-committees were established to fulfill its objectives.
For the safety of port operations, and also for the harmonious development of both the port and
the city of Port Louis, a Port Safety Management Plan was put into place. A Port Safety Seminar
was organized on July 9-11, 2001, by PSEC, with Bank participation, which provided the
opportunity to raise awareness on the critical importance of safety for port operations.
Freeport Regulation and Operations: MFA withdrew from Freeport commercial
operations, and under a new institutional scheme, MFA was split into two, fully independent
entities: (i) a Freeport regulatory agency, only in charge of issuing Freeport licenses and of
regulating Freeport operations; and (ii) an operating company, transferred to Business Parks of
Mauritius Ltd (BPML), a company incorporated under the 1984 Companies Act, with a mandate
to develop and implement business and industrial parks in Mauritius, and in the region as
opportunities arise. In order to manage the assets transferred from MFA to BPML, the latter
established a new subsidiary called BPML Freeport Services (BPMLFS), which was incorporated
on November 19th, 2001. Thirty-eight former MFA staff were transferred to BPMLFS, thereby
reducing MFA staffing to eight.
This was a significant outcome which will help secure long-term involvement of industrial
operators to boost Mauritius as a regional logistics platform and effectively play a critical
facilitation role in attracting investments into the Freeport.
LPG storage: MPA consolidated the conclusions of the consultant studies, into a series of
recommendations submitted to the Government. The main thrust of these recommendations was
to relocate, in the short-term, the existing above-ground storage to Mer Rouge, on the area
dedicated to oil products.
Oil Products Storage at Mer Rouge: Class A products storage will be relocated on the
dedicated area on Mer Rouge. Storage capacity extension in the port will be undertaken on this
area only. To the extent that available space permits, some Class B and C products would also be
similarly relocated. To facilitate oil products handling at this location, MPA is planning the
construction of a dedicated oil jetty, which will also improve the overall operational safety of the
-9-



facility. This jetty is scheduled to be completed by end-2003.
Social Aspects of Sector Reform: The project facilitated implementing sector reform
through an effective Social Plan. Even though the reform process involved staff reduction to the
extent of 119 in MPA and 430 in CHCL, there was no social unrest or any disruption in the port
operations because of the collaboration of the unions, secured through the following fundamental
guarantees granted by both MPA and CHCL management: (a) a social plan for all redundant
employees; (b) new conditions of service not less favorable than the ones previously enjoyed by
the affected staff; (c) participation of the unions in the decision-making process for reform; and
(d) for CHCL unions, a firm commnitmnent that, were CHCL to meet the agreed performance
targets on container handling on the existing terminal, the concession contract for the MCT would
be awarded to CHCL.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Mauritius Ports Authority
Mauritius Container Terminal (MCT). Construction of MCT (Terminal III) adjacent to
the existing harbor of Port Louis was completed in July 1998. The major infrastructure works
undertaken included the reclamation of an area with about 570,000 cubic meter of coral sand, the
construction of a 560 m long quay, and installation of container crane rail track. Three units of
Rail Mounted Quay Cranes (RMQC) were commissioned on September 30, 1998.
Connection of the new oil berth to existing storage tanks: MPA pre-financed the pipelines
connecting the new oil berth to the existing storage facilities. Accordingly MPA signed a contract
for the laying of pipelines at the oil berth and the white oil pipeline from the berth to the existing
pipelines. The main works were completed by November 1999, and the final connection to the
existing white oil pipeline was implemented in April 2000, following the decision to finalize the
allocation of the new storage areas among the oil companies. At the Borrower's request, the
Bank is still assisting MPA in negotiating a final agreement with the oil industry on this issue, so
as to reach a sustainable long term agreement on oil products handling and storage in Port Louis,
consistent with the overall safety policy now being implemented in the port area. Negotiations to
this effect took place in London in March 2002.
Port Master Plan Update: MPA reviewed the 1996 Port Master Plan with a view to
updating it to the 2025 horizon. MPA sees this exercise as an opportunity to rethink the role of
the port authority as a main player in promoting economic development by better integrating port
and urban development strategies.
Wave Data Report. The Consultants submitted their 12-month wave data report in June
1998. The study confirmed earlier estimates of potential disruption of MCT operations due to
swells, coming out with an estimate of up to 18 days a year. Experience so far shows disruption
time limited to 10 days or less per year.
Development of Vieux Grand Port at Mahebourg: The study concluded that strong
- 10 -



negative environmental impact, added to weak potential economic returns, leads to give up on
developing alternative port facilities at Mahebourg.
Transshipment study: The transshipment study, which aimed at assessing the potential
market for Mauritius to provide regional container operation services, was not done during the
project implementation period, mainly because of difficulties with mobilizing the financing initially
proposed by the European Union. Commercial developments having taking place since the
commissioning of the MCT in January 1999 led MPA, MFA and CHCL to rethink the scope of
the study which will now be turned into a marketing instrument.
Training: Training for both CHCL and selected MPA staff was organized with support
from the International Labour Organization. (ILO), using the Portworker Development Training
Package. About 950 trainees followed the course during the implementation period. An
additional session was also organized for the benefit of the private sector.
Cargo Handling Corporation
MCT Information Technology (IT) System: CHCL selected the operating software to be
implemented on the MCT. Customizing was being carried out at project closure and the system is
expected to be effective by June-July 2002.
MPA/CHCL tariff study: The study was completed and reviewed by MPA, CHCL and
the Bank. Overall, the proposed amendments to the existing tariff reflected the costs of the new
investments and the consequences of the new organization, their distribution between MPA and
CHCL being devised in order to ensure the competitive position of Port Louis in the short run,
with a view to develop transshipment activities on a regional basis, while guaranteeing full
infrastructure cost recovery and a sound financial situation for both MPA and CHCL. The new
tariffs became effective on January 1st, 2000.
Mauritius Freeport Authority
A Freeport Workshop was held on July 5-6, 2001, with Bank participation, which was
quite successful in allowing all stakeholders in Freeport operations to voice their concerns and
expectations as to the provisions of the new draft Freeport Bill. Further to the workshop, the new
Freeport Bill was approved by Parliament on July 17, 2001, incorporating most of the
recommendations coming out of the workshop. According to the new bill, MFA's mandate is now
concentrated around the public regulation of Freeport activities. This institutional evolution now
sets the stage for the new development phase of the Freeport, enhancing its chances of success
and the long term sustainability of its operations.
Environment Protection Component.
The study to define the requirements and to design facilities for collection and disposal of land and
ship-based oily waste was conducted. A private company has completed the construction of
facilities for collection and pre-treatment of oily waste.
- 11 -



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Results show the gross EIRR standing at 21%. Based on the SAR assumption that 75% only of
the benefits would accrue to the Mauritian economy, the project EIRR would stand at 17%,
against 19% in the SAR. In fact, increased competition on container shipping services coming
from the global carriers now serving Port Louis on a regular basis, which is a significant change
compared to the prevailing conditions at the time of project appraisal, would definitely warrant a
corresponding increase in the proportion of benefits likely to accrue to the national economy, be it
through lower freight rates or in the way of new adding-value services being developed in the
wake of the agreements reached with the global carriers. Maersk Logistics, for instance, the
logistics services provider subsidiary of Maersk-Sealand, has already set up a branch in the Port
Louis Freeport to market additional logistics services to domestic and regional shippers. Based
on these considerations, an 80% share of benefits for the Mauritian economy seems reasonable,
which would put the ex-post Project EIRR at 18%.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Mauritius Ports Authority
1.1 Financial Performance
From 1995 to 2000, MPA experienced a rapid expansion of its asset base, matched by
improvement in its operating performance, funded by external borrowing. While this strategy did
involve some financial risk, the materialization of additional traffic, resulting from improved
handling performance and enhanced facilities, combined with the application of a revised tariff
policy have fully justified this approach.
MPA Asset Growth. MPA assets have grown by 80 percent between 1995 and 2000, to reach a
total of RS3.6 billion (US$138 million equivalent), primarily due to a RS1.5 billion increase in net
fixed assets. The increase in non-current assets between 1994 and 2000 was almost three time
more than projected in the SAR.
Operating Performance. The operating performance of MPA, as measured by its operating
margin (excluding depreciation Including depreciation in operating expenses the Operating
Margin has increased from 3% in 1995 to 32% in 2000.) has constantly improved over the period
from a low of 42% in 1995 to 68% in 2000, a result consistent with the best case scenario in the
SAR. Net operating income more than trebled over the period to RS380 million. The large
investments by MPA and improved performance by CHC resulted in a sharp increase in traffic,
which combined with the tariff adjustment in early 2000, contributed to raise the revenue from
RS246 million in 1995 to RS560 in 2000. This result exceeds the SAR best case scenario.
Profitability. The large increase in financial charges between 1995 and 2000 from RS28 million
to RS 125 million (or 22% of revenues) has reduced the impact of improved operating
performance on net income. Nonetheless profitability measured by the return on assets has
increased to 2.6% in 2000, demonstrating the ability of MPA to draw profits from its new
investments and exceeding the minimum objective of 2% established in the SAR.
- 12 -



1.2 Financial Intemal Rate of Return
Although no financial intemal rate of return assessment for MPA was provided at appraisal, an
ex-post FIRR calculation is presented in Table 8. The following elements were taken into
account:
(a)   on the revenue side, total revenue flows include: (i) the increase in berthing fee levied at
the MCT (US$ 18 per TEU); (ii) the fixed part of the concession fee, made of a flat fee for the
lease of the land, a flat fee for the use of the quay cranes, and the maintenance and insurance costs
of the quay cranes, for a total amount of US$5,623,571; and (iii) the variable part of the
concession fee, based on the number of TEUs handled annually and on the number of ship/hours
alongside berths. To err on the conservative side, the average ship service time, estimated to be
14 hours in 2001 as noted above (Table 4), has been progressively brought down to 8 hours to
account for increased productivity throughout the period, therefore limiting the corresponding
amount to be paid to MPA. Note that it was agreed that in order to ease the financial burden on
CHCL during the first years of operation, the total concession fee be frozen to US$6,757,000
annually until January 2003;
(b)   on the cost side, the total investment cost of the MCT and the related maintenance
expenses, as they appear in the economic analysis, are factored in accordingly.
Based on these assumptions, the Financial Internal Rate of Return for MPA comes out at 15%.
Mauritius Freeport Authority.
The Government intended to develop MFA over the five years of project implementation and to
progressively ensure that it would become self-sustainable, recover the full costs of its business
and yield a reasonable return on its investment. MFA's assets have grown twenty times since
1995, fuelled by large capital grants in particular from the Govemment (RS204 million). The
fixed assets are now worth about US$12.6 million and include warehouses, buildings and a large
area under development. MFA management has been successful in attracting local private
investors, and is now also succeeding in attracting foreign investors albeit after a slow start. The
new Freeport Act 2001 will definitely enhance the freeport's attractiveness in this regard.
MFA has managed to significantly improve its operating performance since 1995, starting from a
negative operating margin of 240% to reach a small yet positive operating margin of 9% in 2000.
Accordingly MFA reached the goal of covering its operational costs through revenue generation
by 2000, as projected during project preparation.
Worth noting is the fact that with the enactment of new Freeport Act and Transfer of Undertaking
Act on the same date, MFA's assets were transferred to Business Parks of Mauritius Ltd
(BPML). MFA was split into two, fully independent entities: (i) a Freeport regulatory agency,
only in charge of issuing Freeport licenses and of regulating Freeport operations; and (ii) an
operating company, transferred to Business Parks of Mauritius Ltd (BPML), a company
incorporated under the 1984 Companies Act, with a mandate to develop and implement business
- 13 -



and industrial parks in Mauritius, and in the region as opportunities arise. In order to manage the
assets transferred from MFA to BPML, the latter established a new subsidiary called BPML
Freeport Services (BPMLFS), which was incorporated on November 19th, 2001. Accordingly,
the present financial assessment considers only the situation of MFA up to June 30, 2001,
before the new Freeport Act was implemented.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Satisfactory. The project resulted in profound institutional development impact. The change in the
role of MPA to become a regulator and landlord of the port, and that of CHCL as a full-fledged
port operator consequent to the enactment of the Ports Act of 1998 have substantially
transformed the port operation scenario in Mauritius. The concession contract awarded to CHCL
and its monitoring by MPA has given a modem outlook and new approach to ports management.
It has also resulted in significantly increasing productivity in port operations.
Furthermore, the Government's decision to withdraw MPA's 40% shareholding from CHCL and
to seek a Strategic Partner (with international container operating experience) for CHCL's
operations is expected to add to the favorable institutional impact on port operations in
consolidating the results achieved so far throughout the reform process, thereby further enhancing
the already strong sustainability prospects of the institutional and operational transformation
having taken place throughout the project.
With the transformation of MPA as a landlord of the port, MPA has started getting substantial
rental revenue (approximately $700,000 per year) directly from land lessees, including private
operators, bulk sugar terminal operators, central electricity board, oil industry, and Mauritius
Chemical Fertilizer Industry (MCFI). Sale of yard-handling equipment to CHCL in line with the
provisions of the Ports Act, and royalty payment for the facilities of MCT are also additional
sources of income for MPA.
The Social Plan implemented under the project was instrumental in reducing staff at MPA and
CHCL and improving their operational efficiency. It also facilitated in giving enhanced role for
trade unions in decision-making processes. Frequent meetings between management and unions
have helped foster a spirit of mutual understanding while addressing important issues related to
port activities.
Another major institutional development has been the inception of Port Users Council (PUC)
consisting of shipping agents, operators, port and customs authorities, as a forum to raise
strategic development issues such as master planning, promotion of the logistics platform, tariff
policy, and regional competitiveness. It is playing a major role in pushing for the resolution of
critical problems for the whole port and maritime community. The PUC has established several
committees such as Marketing Committee, Rice Committee, and Cruise Committee to review
important operational issues. Following an amendment to the composition of MPA's Board, the
PUC Chairman is now a full member of the Board. This has enhanced the role and importance of
the PUC in the strategic management of the port.
Implementation of the higher salary structure for the MPA staff in July 2000 and the third shift
- 14 -



for the marine/operational department with effect from October 15, 2001 are expected to improve
the efficiency and productivity of the port operations.
Courses offered by the Training Center, especially on safety, cargo handling, performance
parameters were instrumental in achieving the targets in terms of productivity as set up by the
Bank. Computer training courses given by the Center will be useful in improving the efficiency of
the MPA and private sector employees.
The project has facilitated improving Freeport activities with the concept of integrated logistics
platform which includes warehousing, office space, container parks, and service plots of land for
private development. By strengthening Freeport facilities, it is expected that Mauritius would be
able to attract more foreign investors.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Series of cyclones disturbed civil construction and port operations. Cyclone Daniella which hit
Mauritius on December 9, 1996, caused considerable damages to the effect of MRs. 143 millions
and a delay of four months in project implementation. As a result of the Cyclone Davina which
hit in March 1999, the MCT was not operational for a few days because of the swell entering the
port area. Following the tropical depression that passed close to Mauritius in January 2001,
heavy flooding occurred on the MCT, disrupting operations for a couple of days. In addition,
inclement weather during annual cyclone season was disrupting port operations as well as
implementation activities for a few days during most of the project period.
Because of the damage caused by the cyclones, particularly the Cyclone Daniella, the contractor
had to get the compensation from the insurer which did not cover all the costs. The contractor
subsequently presented a list of claims to MPA. After an amicable settlement, MPA agreed to pay
a little more than $1 million, which was a reasonable outcome given the fact that the contractor's
original claims were more than double this amount.
Fluctuations in foreign exchange was detrimental to the financial standing of the MPA. MPA
consistently suffered substantial foreign exchange loss since 1996 because of the appreciation of
US Dollar vis a vis Mauritian Rs, and because of the difficulty to buy US Dollars on the local
market to hedge against exchange rate variations. In FY 2001 alone MPA lost approximately
US$5 million on this account. In addition, fluctuations in the LIBOR rate, which went up to 6.5%
in mid-2000, also had an adverse financial impact on implementing agencies.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Continuity in the commitment of the government despite change of administrations was a
favorable factor which contributed to successful project implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Works Completion Report. Despite numerous requests from MPA, the consulting
- 15-



engineer for the civil works of MCT, did not deliver an acceptable Works Completion Report
together with all associated maps, detailed layouts and as-built drawings. At project closing, MPA
was in the process of taking necessary legal action to get the consulting engineer to comply with
the contractual commitments.
Structural Disorders on the MCT's Working Areas. MPA had a technical audit carried
out by an independent expert team to assess the surface disorders appeared at one end of the
MCT's Working Areas, establish the reasons for the disorders, and propose the remedial
measures to be implemented to correct them and prevent them from occurring again. The audit
report noted that insufficient attention might have been paid to soils compressibility both at the
design and construction stage. Important settlements, localized on the areas where the thickness
of the compressible layer is maximum, were responsible for the structural disorders noted at the
surface of the terminal. MPA would soon be doing the remedial works required to restore the
terminal to normal operational conditions by the time CHCL's Strategic Partner comes on board
by end-2002.
Delay in disbursements. Disbursements were delayed in the initial stages of project
implementation due to relative lack of experience with Bank procedures. However, after attending
the training course on disbursement procedures conducted by the Bank in Washington, D.C. in
April 1998, it became easier for MPA, CHCL, and MFA staff to avoid bottlenecks and
implementation subsequently became smooth.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total cost of the project was US$ 64.4 million compared with the SAR estimate of US$100.2
mnillion. The difference is mainly due to competitive bids received in respect of civil works and
quay cranes contract; appreciation of US Dollar vis a vis French Franc under civil works contract
for the MCT; and reduced scope of work for the oil berth. Upon the Ministry of Finance's
request, the undisbursed amount of $1.4 million was cancelled from the Loan 3908-MAS on
December 14, 2001, and the undisbursed amount of $8.0 million was cancelled from the Loan
3909-MAS in two stages, $7.0 million on July 1, 1999 and $1.0 million as of August 1, 2001.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is highly likely considering that the government has taken the
steps to carry forward the institutional framework reforms and also handled well the social aspects
of the sector reforns. In addition, the government's decision to go ahead with the finding of a
Strategic Partner has enhanced credibility for future operations. With the good-will and the
technical know-how that comes along with the Strategic Partner, the image of Mauritius as an
intemational player would be further strengthened and the probability of attracting transshipment
cargo would be higher.
Increased productivity achieved during implementation period is likely to be sustained, in
particular because of the dymanic and continuous use of monitoring indicators on port
operations. In addition to the authorities monitoring the operations, clients are equally given the
- 16 -



opportunity to monitor them. Members of the PUC are given the Monitoring Indicators every
month, vessel by vessel, which would also enable them to monitor their own vessels. Since the
basis for improved productivity, quality and efficiency of port operations are already clearly laid
out, it would be easier to sustain the project outcome.
MPA's implementing the Corporate Plan 2002-2004 would also go a long way in carrying
forward the results of the sector reform program, thereby strengthening the long term
sustainability of the reform's achievements. In addition, MPA's updated Port Master Plan
covering up to the 2025 horizon would be useful in improving the sustainability by redefining the
role of the port authority as a main player in promoting economic development by better
integrating port and urban development strategies.
The sustainability of the Training Center is likely. EU has expressed its willingness to continue
financing the Center for another year or two, in addition to the first grant of 400,000 Euros. PUC
has also suggested two options for financing, either as a direct contribution from all stakeholders
in the port community or by directly putting some toll on cargo for this purpose.
Sustainability of Freeport activities is highly likely. The institutional evolution of MFA as
regulator and the creation of BPML as a provider of Freeport services are expected to set the
stage for the new development phase of the Freeport activities, which are likely to enhance the
chances of success and the long term sustainability of its Freeport operations.
With a regular source of revenue from rental income, storage of container fee and other service
charges, BPML is expected to be financially self-reliant. Likewise, MFA is also expected to be
self-reliant with the license fee received from Freeport traders.
The government is also envisioning to create Freeport facility at the international airport in order
to establish a link between sea and air cargo. The synergy created between sea and air cargo
would be beneficial for increased trade.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
At project closing, the government's search for Strategic Partners for CHCL was in progress. It is
expected that the new Strategic Partner would be in place by December 2002.
Two issues to be sorted out during transition period are related to increasing productivity and
reducing labor cost. CHCL is in the process of negotiating with the trade unions for introducing
flexible shift which would improve productivity. It is expected that flexi- shift would be in place
by June 2002.
MPA has also expressed interest in seeking the Bank support in an advisory capacity for the next
two years to overlook the continuing plans, such as in the selection of Strategic Partner,
preparation of corporate strategy, review of Port Master Plan, implementation of PMS, capacity
building in training, installation fully integrated IT system, and the launching of ISO Total Quality
Management Plan. The Bank responded positively to this request in agreeing with the
Government to include Transport as one of the priority sectors to benefit from Bank's technical
support under the umbrella of the first PERL now consolidating Bank assistance to Mauritius,
- 17 -



which was approved by the Board on May 7, 2002.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank was proactive in initiating the dialogue with the government for the sector
reform. Project preparation was well organized and satisfactory. The Bank, which had a
harmonious team with a good skill mix, brought in the state of the art expertise into project
design, and was very clear in developing strategies. During the project appraisal, the Bank
assessed the project's risks and benefits. The Bank had a consistently good working relationship
with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal.
The Bank adopted a participatory approach in designing the project. For instance, this was one of
the first Bank projects which recognized trade union leaders as part of the negotiation team. The
Bank had formally invited, with the government concurrence, the President of the Port Louis
Harbor and Dock Workers Union to join in the negotiations conducted in Bank's headquarters in
Washington, D.C. in 1995. The Bank also held regular consultations with the private sector,
which led to the setting up of PUC for reviewing issues of common interest and participating in
the long-term development of the port.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. Over the six years of project implementation, there were 17 supervision missions,
with an average of three missions per year. The Bank's client relationship was very cordial and
productive. Supervision teams included the Bank's transportation specialist, port operations
specialist, transportation economist, financial analyst, environment specialist, and disbursement
officers.
The Bank took a dynamic role in the supervision of the project implementation. Aide-Memoires
were regularly prepared and transmitted, which alerted the government to problems with project
execution and suggested remedies in a timely manner, in conformity with Bank procedures. The
Form 590s and PSRs realistically rated the performance of the project both in terms of
achievement of development objectives and project implementation. Whenever delays in
implementation occurred, the Bank was able to define concrete steps and a timetable for putting
the program back on track.
Extemal consultants were used for specific aspects of project components. Bank staff worked
closely with the government and the implementing agencies and provided them with extensive
assistance, in terms of providing suggestions for drafting the laws and regulations, reviewing legal
drafts, and giving technical comments.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal
and implementation.
- 18 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. During the preparation stage, the Borrower displayed an adequate level of
commitment to the objectives of the project. The government officials and staff of the
implementing agency worked closely with the Bank's project team on a continual basis, with full
cooperation and enthusiasm.
7.S Government implementation performance:
Highly Satisfactory. Despite change in administrations, the government consistently maintained its
commitment throughout the implementation, and the thrust of sector reform was not challenged in
any way. The government was very resilient and robust and had a good agreement with the Bank
on macroeconomic policy unlike other African countries. It had established good project
implementation units and the day to day implementation of the project was very smooth.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Highly Satisfactory. The project which was carried out by MPA and MFA, consisted of highly
qualified people with professional capacity. The implementing units of these institutions were very
well organized and effective in dealing with procurement, disbursement, progress reports, and in
maintaining proper records of the project. Appropriate levels of review and approval were in
place, expenditures were duly authorized before they were incurred and documentation was
maintained properly for an adequate period of time for the purpose of review. In addition,
complete transparency from the implementing agencies helped create a working environment
conducive to enhancing good industrial relations.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Highly Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was highly satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
*     The success of the project was mainly attributable to consistency in political will, clear
government commitment, and a strong level of government ownership on the project, irrespective
of change in administrations. Because of its success, this project is looked upon as role model in
the implementation of other projects in Mauritius.
*     Participatory approach and broad consultation process were helpful in diffusing social
risks and clearing misunderstandings during project preparation, negotiations and implementation,
especially with the trade unions. For a project of this nature where many types of stakeholders
were involved, the Master Plan Study participative management and a good Project Steering
Committee were very useful.
*     Continuity of the task manager from the beginning of project implementation for four
years enabled the Bank to build a strong relationship with the government, trade unions, and all
other stakeholders.
- 19 -



*      Well documented monitoring indicators were very useful for measuring operational
performance and productivity during implementation period. Monitoring indicators and closer
supervision have likely helped in reaching increased productivity in port operations. In addition,
port users also have benefited, especially in terms of faster settlement of claims.
*      The project was instrumental in creating a new vision for port management and social
aspects. The concept of VRS introduced by MPA is now being replicated by other organizations
in Mauritius, as in the case of sugar sector.
*      The exchange risk issue faced by MPA exposed the limitations of the existing financial
market arrangements, which to a large extent were beyond MPA's control. It also conveys the
message that the Government possibly should think of other financial instruments to provide more
institutional ability to hedge against foreign exchange risks. This is an issue which could also be
investigated under the upcoming PERL umbrella. In parallel, the Bank should consider
introducing some mechanism/formula to limit client's exposure on foreign exchange as a
percentage of its revenue.
*     Even though the contractor remains in all cases responsible for its design, a
Bank-managed cross-checking process is seen as an added protection against design flaws, in
particular in the case of key/critical designs on sensitive infrastructure projects. Even though it is
not considered feasible to set up within the Bank a systematic mechanism for this purpose,
seeking a second opinion in sensitive cases could be a way to mitigate potential technical risks in
future projects.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
A.     Mauritius Ports Authority
1.    Introduction
Following the request formulated by the Government of Mauritius in September 1992, a World
bank Mission visited Mauritius in April 1993 with main objective to identify port extension
projects which could be jointly financed by the Bank and Government and whose goal would aim
pirnarily at supporting:-
The growth of the economic activities of the country and the Freeport Development and
The development of Port Louis as a hub port in the Southern Indian ocean region.
The main findings and recommnendations of the Mission were:-
The Port was not operating on a 24 hour basis which lead to under utilisation of heavy capital
investment.
The tariff structure prevailing did not encourage a faster ship rotation while at quay.
- 20 -



The proposed construction of the Container Terminal at Mer Rouge to be considered only after a
thorough review and updating of the Port Master Plan. This was to ensure that the
new development was compatible with the planned land use and was not in conflict with
any of the development schemes including the freeport development.
The protection of the environment to be a prior consideration in Port development including safety.
Major policy reforms were required and these should be based on increased in demand
generated by a more competitive port policy and excellent service which may stimulate
transhipment activity and turn Port Louis Harbout into a hub.
2.     Port Development and Environmental Protection Project
The main objectives of the Port Development and Environmental Protection Project were to:
(i)   Increase port productivity, efficiency and capacity to meet the demand of port users and operators
at competitive rates through extension of facilities, mechanisation and improved management of Mauritius
Ports Authority, Cargo Handling Corporation Ltd and Mauritius Freeport Authority.
(ii)   Re-define the role of MPA as a landlord port authority working through a system of competitive
concession contracts with performance indicators for port operations.
(iii)  Support development of MFA
(iv)   Accomplish port development with sound environmental protection.
2.2    Implementation
In order to achieve the above objectives, the Port Development and Environmental protection
Project had to be implemented which composed three components, namely Port Development.
Freeport Development and Environment protection. The Ports Authority was responsible for the
Port Development and the Environmental Protection component, whereas the Mauritius Freeport
Authority led the freeport development component.
2.3    Port Development
The Port Development Components of their project and the budget estimate were:-
(i) Construction of a Container Terminal including procurement of quay cranes - US$ 78.5 M
(ii) Construction of Roads and Services at Mer Rouge - US$ 5.0 M
(iii) Construction of a Passenger Terminal Building - US$ 0.7 M
(iv) Relocation of oil handling storage facilities - US $ 2.7 M
(v) Institutional Strengthening - US $ 2.4 M
The total budget allocated for the port development components was US $ 89.3 M.
3.     Project Implementation
- 21 -



3.1    Container Terminal
The new container terminal has been constructed adjacent to the existing harbour of Port Louis.
The major infrastructure works undertaken comprise the reclamation of an area with about
570,000m3 of dredged coral sand, the construction of a 560 m long quay, the installation of
container crane rail track supported on 1016 mm diameter steel tubular piles, casting of 560 m
long by 37 m wide quay apron, the laying of concrete blocks over an area of 78,500 m2, together
with 59,300 m2 asphalt concrete and provision for electricity, lighting, fresh water and surface
water drainage. Building works include gate houses for access control to the Terminal and a
substation to house electrical switch gear and transforrners.
Construction works started in February 1996 and were completed in July 1998. The facility went
into commercial operation in January 1999.
The progress of works was severely affected by the passage of Cyclones Daniella in December
1996 and Anacelle in February 1997.
3.2    Contract MH35/2 - Procurement of Container Handling Crane for the New Container
Terminal at Mer Rouge
For the efficient loading and unloading of ships at the container terminal, the Port Authority
decided to procure three post-panamax container handling gantry cranes.
The Contract was awarded to Hanjung - Korea Heavy Industries & Construction Co. Ltd. in
January 1997 and the three Quay Cranes were commissioned in September 1998.
3.3    Contract MH35/7 - Container Terminal Buildings at Mer Rouge
The contract for the construction of the Terninal Buildings, Custom Verification Centre and
Workshop/Stores Buildings was awarded to Gamma Civic Ltd. in December 1999. The project
was completed in December 2000.
3.4   Contract MH41 - Infrastructure Development of Mer Rouge Area
The project comprised the construction of 30,000 m2 of flexible pavements and associated drains,
culverts, shoulders and footpaths. The ancillary works for the road network are the road lighting,
new gatehouse and services networks such as electricity, water, telephone and wide area network
for the future port facilities. The Works also include for the supply and installation of
miscellaneous road equipment and furniture such as road signs, carriage way markings, cat's
eyes, handrails, guardrails etc.
The contract was awarded to Besix/Gamma Civic Joint Venture in May 1998 and was completed
in June 1999.
3.5    Passenger Terminal Building
The scope of works and the project proposal was split into two components as follows:-
(i)    Renovation of part of existing Shed E, to accommodate the Passenger Terminal Building
- 22 -



with a floor space of about I 000m2.
(ii)  Improvement and upgrading of the road network in the Peninsular area
including construction of a dedicated new access drive to the Passenger Terninal and
associated services.
The contract for the Passenger Terminal Building was awarded to Messrs PADCO in August 2001
and is expected to be completed by mid April 2002.
The contract for the Road Works was awarded to Trio Development in August 2001 and is
expected to be completed in April 2002.
4.     Port Performance
4.1   Introduction
The Authority signed a Concession Contract with CHCL for Terminals I and II in April 1997 and
established inter-alia the container handling performance parameters to be achieved by CHCL
which were as follows:-
(i) 8 Teus/gross gang hour for standard full container vessels; and
(ii) 13 Teus/gross gang hour for modem full container vessels.
It was clearly pointed out that the level of performance of CHCL would be one of the most
important detenring factors for the appointment of the operation of the New Container Terminal.
4.2    Analysis of Performance Period June 1996 - Dec. 1998
Modern Full Container Vessels
The Operator exceeded the targeted productivity of 13 Teus per gross gang hour in June 1998.
Standard Full Container Vessels
The targeted performance of 8.5 Teus/gross gang hour was reached in May 1998.
4.3   Analysis of Performance Period Jan. 99 - Dec. 2001
The average monthly productivity has shown marked improvement - from 10.4 ECM/gross CR
hour at the start of operations in Jan. 99 to +19 ECM/gross CR hour, at present. The crane
production progress are considered as satisfactory but do not meet the objective of the shipping
lines which are more interested in ship's productivity which determines ship turn round and hence
the total cost of vessel's call.
Presently standing at around 28 moves, the number of moves per ship hour at berth should reach
40+ moves per ship hour which is the acceptable level of productivity for a full container ship
operating at a modern container terminal. There is an urgent need to provide more efficient
working practices in particular staggered meal break and the use of the 3 RMQC's during the third
shift.
- 23 -



5.0    Financial Aspect of Project
5.1    Proiect Costs and Financing
At time of appraisal, the port component of the Port Development and Environment Protection
Project was estimated to cost some US$ 89.3 M as highlighted in the table below:-
Port Component                Appraisal   Actual/Latest
_____                                             Estimate      Estimate
CONTAINER TERMINAL
A. Quays (560m)                                  31.5              27.2
B. Earthworks                                    2.5                2.8
C. Yard Paving                                     6.4           4.5
D. Buildings                                       1.1                2.3
E. Services (Water, Electricity, Telephone)        6.6               4.2
F. Firefighting Equipment                          2.2
G. Oil Discharge Equipment                         0.7
H. Panamax Ship-to-Shore Gantry Cranes (2)         13.0        16.0 (3)
I.  Yard Equipments                                9.2
J. Spare Parts                                     2.6                0.8
K   Computer System, Office & Workshop Equipment   1.2
L. Technical Assistance                           1.2               1.0
M. Training                                        0.3                0.1
ROAD & SERVICES
A. Mer Rouge Road Network                        3.3                2.5
B. Security & Services                            1.5
C. Engineering                                     0.2                0.2
OIL STORAGE RELOCATION
A. Pipelines                                     2.6                0.8
B. Engineering                                   0.1
PASSENGER TERMINAL
A. Buildings                                     0.7                1.1
B. Engineering                                   0.0                0.1
- 24 -



INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Mauritius Ports Authority (MPA)
Training                                     2.0           0.1
Technical Assistance                         0.4           0.7
TOTAL                                       89.3              64.4
However the actual costs linked to the implementation of the Project reached only some USD 64.4
M. This overall saving in cost has been achieved through the competitive international bid that has
been secured for the civil works for the container terninal and also due to the fact that some
projects such as the oil storage relocation projects have not been implemented in full.
The significant reduction in loan financing was brought about by a multiple of factors involving
amongst others, the substantial appreciation of the US dollar vis a vis the French franc during the
loan period resulting in a beneficial effect on the draw down of the loan for the civil works contract
which was largely denominated in French Franc.
Secondly the local currency component of the contract for civil works was higher than what was
anticipated.Lastly, various other sub projects such as the container terninal buildings and road
network did not qualify under the loan financing, given that their foreign currency component was
negligible.Accordingly a total amount of USD 15.8 M was cancelled from the joint World
Bank/Jexim loan financing during the loan period in an effort not to pay unnecessary commitment
fees and not to tie down loan capital unnecessarily.
5.2    Financial Performance
Some salient points regarding the Authority's financial performance have been tabled
below:-
Prior to implementation of Project
RS'M
F/Year            1994 1995 1996 1997 1998
Operating Revenue  236.8 246.0 252.5 318.6 439.3
Operating Expenses  246.0 266.8 264.1 318.5 360.0
Operating Surplus (Loss)
(9.2) (20.8) (11.6) (0.1) 79.3
Operating Ratio (%)  54.9  57.9  56.4  50.4 54.5
Return on Net Assets (%)
(0.7) (1.7) (0.95) 0.01 5.0
Debt/Equity Ratio
0.30:1 0.31:1 0.35:1 0.71:1 0.98:1
Traffic ('000 Tons)
3,383  3,430  3,588  3,690
4,001
- 25 -



Post implementation of Project
RS'M
F/Year                1999 2000* 2001
WB
Operating Revenue        516.1 559.6 735.7
Operating Expenses       493.6 504.0 519.9
Operating Surplus (Loss)  35.5 55.6   215.8
Operating Ratio (%)      39.2  32.3   23.1   40
Return on Net Assets (%)  1.09  4.95  5.86   2
Debt/Equity Ratio             1.32:1  1.05:1  0.68:1
1.5:1
Traffic ('000 Tons)    4,184  4,323   4,675
*New Tariffs/Payment of Concession Fees implemented as from 14 January 2002
As it will be noted the financial performance has improved with the successful
implementation of the project including its corollary implications such as payment of
concession fees by the operator for the lease of facilities and the new tarrification system
in place, reflecting the new system of container handling at Port Louis. The loan
covenants attached to the World Bank loan pertaining to the operating ratio, gearing ratio
and return on net assets are largely being respected.
5.3    Forex
An interesting feature surrounding the World Bank & Jexim US dollar loan financing, is with
regards to the evolution of the rate of exchange of the dollar versus the Mauritian rupee. as
explained below:
Movement of dollar rate over the last 5 years
Date            Rate of         Percentage
Exchange-Prevai   increase for the
ling             year
01.07.1996         20.218
30.06.1997         20.990           3.82%}
30.06.1998         24.420           16.34%}
30.06.1999         25.389           3.97%)
30.06.2000         26.264           3.45%}
30.06.2001         29.383          11.88%}
Average increase over last five years
39.46/5 = 7.890/o or 8% (approx.)
- 26 -



Movement of US$ over the last 5 years
30.000
29.000
28.000
27.000
q 26.000
' 25.000                                                  -  Rate of Exchange- revailing
24.000
22.000
20.000
0        0                 0        0    
-       _0     
o                     0        0~~~c  4
w                              CD~~~~~~~~~.
Year end
From the above, it can be gathered that the dollar has appreciated by an average annual rate of 8%
over the financial years 1996-2001 with peaks of 16.34% and 11.88% for FY1997/98 and
2000/2001 respectively. This substantial appreciation of the dollar has caused the Authority to
realise considerable losses associated to foreign exchange fluctuations over the years as follows: -
(MRs.'M)
Flnancial Year 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001
Foreign Exchange
(Losses)/Gain   (41.0) (13.2) (81.9) (53.0) (45.0) (148.7)  _
Foreiien Exchan-fe Ris
Given that the interest rates attached to both the World Bank and Jexinm financing are floating
rates, linked to the LIBOR, the Authority is suffering from both transaction risk and translation
risk.
The LIBOR, which reached as high a figure as 6.47% p.a. in July 2000 plummeted to 2.16% p.a in
November 200e1.
The above trend of the LEBOR clearly exposes the Authority to tranaction risk.
- 27 -



5.3    Possible financial strateeies to mitieate Fore.x losses
In an effort to address the problem of foreign exchange losses, the Authority has in the past
substituted its costly foreign borrowings by local borrowings, through the issue of tax free secured
debentures thereby limiting its exposure to translation risk. Additionally, the MPA has also
resorted to the operation of dollar based accounts with the regular purchases of dollars and their
locking up in fixed deposits with maturity dates matching the maturing dates of foreign liabilities.
In a further effort to redress the onerous issue of forex losses, the Authority intends to implement
the following financial strategies:-
(a) early part redemption of the IBRD and JExim loans for a total amount of US$10.0 M over '02;
(b) financing future port development projects though the Authority's own surplus funds.
6.     Lessons Learnt
6.1    Financial Aspects:  During the loan period, the Authority has been exposed to a
considerable amount of transaction and translation risk resulting in substantial foreign exchange losses.
The Authority would have to be careful in the future when resorting to loan financing and ensure that
its interests are fully safeguarded.
6.2    Planning of the Container Terminal: The World Bank originally recommended that only a two
berths quay be constructed at the Terminal. The MPA maintained the need for a third berth, which was
approved by the World Bank on the condition that the third berth be designed to enable unloading of
petroleum tankers. Accordingly a berth of 560m was constructed which was designed for three average
vessel of 160 m long. At present the Port is already accommodating third generation vessels of 275 m long,
and most of the time the 3 berths terminal is accommodation only 2 ships. With the present ship arrival
pattern and the requirement of major shipping lines to obtain priority berthing on arrival, additional length
of quay is required. The MPA is now proceeding with the extension of the terminal which will be
commissioned in 2004/2005.
6.3    DesiFgn:Though a mathematical wave model study was carried out which confirned that the
quay would be exposed to 8 m high wave, the consultants maintained the quay level at only 2.6 m
above Chart Datum. A higher level of the quay deck would have reduced the risk of flooding at the
terminal during passage of cyclones.Furthermore, some settlement has been observed behind the quay
deck which is mainly due to a poor design of the interface between the fixed quay structure and the
flexible pavement.
6.4    Operation at the Terminal:  The terminal layout was designed for RTG operation with
RTG running beams constructed. However, it was subsequently decided to operate the terminal using
forklift truck and Reach Stackers which require a much larger area.The Port Authority is now
proceeding with the construction of additional paved area which would enable the operator to continue
with FLT/RS operation up to around 2005.
6.5    Consultants Performance:The consultants on the Container Termiinal Project has been unable
to submit a complete set of as-made drawings and a completion report. Furthermore, the
overall performance of the consultants mainly in respect of advice tendered and decisions taken on
several issues were not to satisfaction of the Client.
- 28 -



6.6    Finalisation of Claim: The assessment of the claim submitted by the contractor on the
Container Tenninal project in respect to the passage of Cyclones Daniella, Anacelle and the Forex issue
and the discussion held in finalisation of the claim was an enriching experience.
6.7    Participation of the Union:  The participation of the union in the development programnme
has been the key towards the successful implementation of the project including the Port Sector Reform.
B.     Mauritius Freeport Authority
INFRASTRUCTURAL DEVELOPMENT OF FREEPORT ZONE #6
t      BACKGROUND
On 12th August 1997, the Mauritius Freeport Authority invited tenders from fifteen intemational
construction firms in accordance with Intemational Competitive Bidding procedures of the World Bank.
These fifteen fimis were prequalified following a prequalification exercise carried out at the beginning of
the year. The whole prequalification exercise was done in full compliance with the guidelines of the World
Bank (funding agency for the project) and the list of prequalified contractors was approved by both the
Central Tender Board and the World Bank.
The works to be carried out under the Infrastructural Development of Freeport Zone #6 are divided in two
separate lots.
Lot 1 consists in the site preparation and development of approximately 7 hectares and includes the
construction of flexible and rigid pavements, engineering services (electricity, water, telephone, waste water
disposal, surface water drainage, ducts for data communications, etc.), security fencing and foundations
and industrial floors of 15 000 m2 for three warehouses.
Lot 2 consists of the construction of an administration building of an approximate area of 4000m2, and
including all the services.
On 17th December 1997, the Central Tender Board approved MFA's recommendations:
1.     Grinaker Construction Co. Ltd. be awarded the contract for Lot 1 for the tender amount of Rs 165
455 772.75; and
2.     Beijing Chang Cheng/Sotravic Ltee Joint Venture be awarded the contract for Lot 2 for the tender
amount of Rs 78 343 519.50.
On 5th January 1998, World Bank gave its no objection to the award of both contracts.
EXECUTION OF CONTRACT FOR LOT I- CIVIL WORKS
Contract Agreement
The Letter of Award was sent on 26th January 1998 and the Contractor's acceptance was received on 27th
January 1998.
The Order to Commence Works was issued on 20th February 1998 after receipt of the Performance
Security and the Insurance Policy. The Contractual Start Date is 20th February 1998 and the Completion
- 29 -



Date shall be 21st December 1998, i.e. duration of works 305 calendar days.
The Contract Agreement between MFA and Grinaker Construction Ltd. was signed on 27th February
1998.
Progress of works
The works have been completed in February 1999 and the Practical Completion Certificate has been issued
on 8th March 1999. The defects liability certificate was issued on 12th February 2000.
EXECUTION OF CONTRACT FOR LOT 2 - ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
Contract Agreement
The Letter of Award was sent on 27th January 1998 and the Contractor's acceptance was received on 29th
January 1998.
The Order to Commence Works was issued on 20th February 1998 after receipt of the Performance
Security and the Insurance Policy. The Contractual Start Date is 20th February 1998 and the Completion
Date shall be 21st December 1998, i.e. duration of works 305 calendar days.
The Contract Agreement between MFA and Beijing Chang Cheng/Sotravic Ltee Joint Venture was signed
on 3rd March 1998.
A first extension of time of three (3) weeks without costs was granted to the Main Contractor and the
Completion Date was revised to 12th January 1999.
A second extension of time was granted to the Main Contractor owing to the construction of a fourth floor,
which took the Completion Date to end September 1999.
Progress of works
The construction of the building has been completed in October 1999 and the Practical Completion
Certificate has been issued on 7th October 1999. The defects liability certificate was issued in October
2000.
2      STATUS OF LOAN ACCOUNT ON PROJECT COMPLETION
The total sum earmarked for the Part B of the project was USD 6M out of which USD 5.587M has been
disbursed.
3      DESIGN AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT
The consultancy services were financed by the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxemburg and were
procured through a restricted (to Luxemburg based consultancy firms) bidding exercise carried out in
Luxemburg.
The conceptual and detailed design, and project management for the project was awarded to Luxconsult
S.A and the project team organization structure is depicted below:
- 30 -



The consultants' performance during the execution of the contract was satisfactory owing to the following:
*      Luxconsult S.A. has a local subsidiary, Luxconsult (Mauritius) Ltd, who has extensive knowledge
of site conditions, fully versed with local regulations and has undertaken a number of infrastructural
development projects in the country.
*      The other sub-consultants are local firms, again, who are familiar with local constraints and
conditions.
4      WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE
The broad perspectives (i.e. the project development in relation to the Staff Appraisal report, the progress
of disbursements) adopted by the World Bank during the supervision missions were highly valued as they
kept the project in focus, bearing in mind that MFA was at that time deeply involved in construction works.
As regards the Bank's response to application for direct payment to contractors, both MFA and the
contractors have noted a remarkable response time. It is worth mentioning that at the start of the project, a
review mission took place in Washington in April 98 when officers of MFA had the opportunity to meet the
disbursement officer in charge of this project when the procedures, documentation and other related matters
were clarified. It was an enriching exercise that proved its worth during the course of the project when not
a single application for disbursement was rejected.
5      PROCUREMENT
On the issue of procurement of works, while the Staff Appraisal report indicates that the Freeport
component would be procured under National Competitive Bidding, the actual procurement took place
through Intemational Competitive Bidding upon instructions of the Bank.
The ICB prequalification exercise took longer and costed more because of publication in UN Development
Business and one other foreign publication. The net effect was a delay in the procurement of the works.
6      LESSONS LEARNED DURING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
The following lessons were learned during the design and construction:
I.     Clear and precise requirements from the Client are required to ensure satisfactory project
development, especially as regards the Client-Consultant relationship during the design stages.
2.     The presence of a knowledgeable Client's representative to ensure that the technical aspects of the
project are captured and retained by the Client, especially for further development and maintenance
purposes.
3.     The monitoring of specialist subcontractors is crucial during the construction works because of 1)
coordination between trades 2) specifications of equipment that are mostly imported and have long lead
times.
4.     Avoid over-reliance on consultants for technical and cost-effective solutions - for example, during
the construction of the warehouses and the administration building the contractors proposed alternative
foundations design that were more economical and faster to construct. Similarly for the warehouse
flooring, where the contractor proposed a floor using steel fibres instead of traditional steel mesh
reinforcement.
(b) Cofinanciers:
- 31 -



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Summarized Timetable of Key Steps of the Port Sector Reform Process and Project Implementation
Dates                                            Key Steps
June 5, 1992                                        Freeport Act
April 28, 1995                     Port Reform Policy Statement by the Government of
Mauritius
May 30, 1995                       Approval of the World Bank Port Development and
Environment Protection Project
April 4, 1997                    CHC and Unions sign the Agreement on the CHC Social
Plan
April 30, 1997                   MMA/CHC Concession Agreement on existing terminals
September 17, 1997                             Launch of MMA Social Plan
May 26, 1998                            New Ports Act approved by Parliament
August 1, 1998                             New Ports Act becomes effective
January 9, 1999                   MPA/CHC Concession Contract for the New Container
Termnal
January 15, 1999                     Start of Operations at the New Container Terminal
June 11, 2001                    Decision by the Govermnent to seek a Strategic Partner
for CHCL
July 17, 2001                          New Freeport Act approved by Parliament
December 31, 2001                   Closing Date of the World Bank Port Development and
Environment Protection Project
May 7, 2002                        Board Presentation of the First Public Expenditure
Reform Loan (PERL) to the Republic of Mauritius
- 32 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
F           M         "     ,S          R      B      2      X      |'aActuaULatest Estm . M           X l
I. MPA Financial Indicators
1994 95   96  97   98   99  '00 '01     1994 95   96  97  98    99  '00 '01
Salaries, wages, benefit & maintenance                     (20%)     (10%)                          (20%)    (16.7%)
Working Ratio ()                         55     50         45        40          63.1 57.9 56.4 50.4 41.8 39.3 32.4 23.2
Tariffs (-^)                                       +15%           +8%                     +15%           +10%
Debt/Equity                              1.5:1 1.5:1 1.5:1 1.5:11.5:11.5:1       0.30:1 0.31:1 0.35:1 0.71:1 0.98:1 1.32:1
'00  '01                              '00   '01
1.5:1 1.5:1                           1.05:1  0.68:1
Retum on net assets(-)                                              2%    2%    .7%  1.7%.9%   0.01%  5.0% 1.0% 1.1%.2%
II. MFA Financial Indicators
Warehouse rental                           7 Mau. Rs/ft2/mth                     8 Mau. RsM2/mth at Ex Flour shed
9 Mau. Rs/ft2/mth at Airport Warehouse
Land price                               250,000 Mau.Rs/Arpent (revised from     $4,200 per hectare per annum
time to time to market value)
Office                                     15 Mau. Rslft2/mth                    35 Mau. Rsh/ft2mth at the Trade and
Marketing Centre
15 Mau. Rs/ft2mth at Airport Freeport Zone
Ill. Cargo Handling Rates
12/94 12/95  12/96 12/97   12/98
Gross TEUs per gang per hour
(Class A&B vessels)                                                                 6.19  5.71  7.38  7.67    7.50
IV. Equipment Availability (%)
1994    1996  1998     2000                    1999    2000     2001
Cargo Handling Equipment                   45%     60%    70%     75%                     90%      90%     90%
Mobile quay cranes                        55%     60%    70%      80%                     90%      90%     90%
Ship-to-shore Gantry cranes                            >95%      >95%                      90%      95%    97%
V. New Container Terminal                  Dec.99   June'00   Dec.'00 Dec.'01      Dec.99   June'00   Dec.'00 Dec.'01
Handling rates forcontainervessels (moves      18       20       22      >22          17.1    18      19.4     21.2
per hour/crane)
Handling rates for full container vessels             40                                     25       38
(moves per ship/per hour at berth)
(*) Costs/Revenues      (**) Average (***) Not less than
Output Indicators:
71 .X ridIca    Aa%                ;      F^d                                         tuaUatst'Estmaite i ;. 
Not applicable
End of project
- 33 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Pect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
A. Port Component
Container Terminal                                78.50          58.90            75
Roads and Services                                 5.00           2.70            54
Oil Storage Relocation                             2.70           0.80          29.6
Passenger Terminal                                 0.70           1.20          171.4
Institutional Strengthening                         1.40          0.80          57.1
B. Freeport Component
Mer Rouge (Port)                                   7.90           5.58          70.6
Technical Assistance                               0.90
C. Environment Component
Marine Environment                                  1.60
Vessels Saftey                                     0.40
Total Baseline Cost                                99.10         69.98
Physical ConUngencies                             10.00
Price Contingencies                               11.00
Total Project Costs           120.10          69.98
Interest during construction  7.00
Front-end fee
Total Financing Required           127.10          69.98
Project Costs b Procurement Arran ements (Ap raisal Estimate US$ million equivalent)
1. Worics                   56.30         5.50        0.00         2.60        64.40
(24.40)      (25)(0.00)                 (0.00)      (26.90)
2. Goods                    19.40         0.00         0.00        10.30       29.70
(1.50)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (1.50)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00         3.40        0.20         3.60
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.10)       (0.10)      (1.20)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         2.30        0.30         2.60
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.90)       (0.1 0)      (1.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                    75.70         5.50         5.70         13.40       100.30
34 -



(25.90)   1    (2.50)        (2.00)    I   (0.20)    1   (30.60)
ProJect Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuaULatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                       44.28          6.70          0.00          0.00         50.98
(15.05)        (0.00)        (0.00         (.00)        (15.05)
2. Goods                       16.80          0.00          0.00          0.00         16.80
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                     1.70          0.30          0.00          0.00          2.00
(0.40)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.40)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.20          0.00          0.20
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00         (0.00)        (0.00)     _  (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       62.78          7.00          0.20          0.00         69.98
(15.45)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (15.45)
'1 Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Flnancing by Component (In US$ million equlvalent)
A. Port Component
container Terminal      20.90     10.60     4.0       15.10     15.20    28.70    722    143.4  6.
Equipment
Roads & Services         1.50     2.00      1.50                2.70               0.0   135.0   0.0
Oil Storage Relocation                      2.70                0.80                             0.0
Passenger Terminal                 0.70                         1.10                     157.1
Institutional Strengthening  1.00  0.40     1.00      0.35      0.10      0.35    35.0   25.0   35.0
B. Freeport Component
Mer Rouge (Port)         6.60      1.30                                            0.0    0.0
TA
C. Environment
Component
Marine Environment       0.30     0.60      0.70                                   0.0    0.0    0.0
Vessels Safety           0.20      0.30                                            0.0    0.0
- 35 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 3a. Economic Analysis
1. Evolution of Port Traffic
Maritime traffic in Port Louis between 1995 and 2001 followed the general trend forecasted in the
SAR, as the Table 1 below shows. Variations appeared at the commodity level, but overall the
growth rate as predicted was vindicated. Of particular interest is the fact that the shift from
conventional general cargo to containers did materialize at a higher pace than expected, leading to
a significantly lower volume of general cargo by the end of the period, and to a corresponding
higher level of container traffic, as displayed in Table 2.
- 36 -



This faster growth of container traffic, while leading to an intensive utilization of the Mauritius
Container Terminal, also resulted in the fact that it quickly became difficult to accommodate oil
tankers on one of the MCT berths alongside container ships, as had been foreseen in the SAR.
This was the result of the increasing number of vessels calls at the MCT on one hand, and on the
other hand on calls from much larger container vessels, often limiting in practical terms to two the
number of vessels which could be simultaneously accommodated at the terninal. This
development is actually a testimony to the success of the MCT, since attracting major container
carriers was part of the objective of making Port Louis a logistics platform of regional
significance. So regular calls by global carriers like Maerks, Evergreen and Mitsui, operating
large full containerships of 3,000 TEUs and above, signaled the fact that the MCT was indeed on
track in offering cost-effective services of international standard.
The next step on this route was actually reached in March 2002, when Maersk, the number one
world container carrier, entered into a contractual agreement with MPA and CHCL for setting up
in Port Louis the transshipment hub of two of its regional international services, the SAFARI and
SAMBA lines. This kind of agreement of course carries with it the commitment by the Port
Authority, MPA, to grant access to the termiinal within pre-determined time windows with little
variations allowed, bearing in mind the tight scheduling of these calls. Which means a ceiling on
the maximum tolerable berth occupancy rate in order to keep ship waiting times as low as possible
(see below). The benefits of such arrangements are clear for both the carrier, which can rely on a
guaranteed service time in port, and for the port, which can offer the regular services of
world-class global lines to domestic and regional customers. The Freeport, in particular, stands to
gain from this kind of arrangements, its developers and operators considering reliability and
coverage of international shipping services as an important asset in attracting new investments.
The immediate consequence of these developments, however, was the impossibility of making use
of the MCT for oil tankers. As a result, MPA decided to go ahead with the construction of a
dedicated oil jetty separated from the terminal, which is now due to be commissioned in 2004. In
economic terms, as far as the Project is concerned, this means that the expected benefits of oil
import cost reduction did not materialize, but this got compensated by the higher than expected
benefits on the reduction in global turnaround times of more expensive containerships.
- 37 -



Table 1 - Port Traffic Comparisons: SAR Forecasts vs. Actual Traffic 1995-2001 (tons)
Items            1995         1996        1997       1998        1999       2000        2001
BULK CARGO
Imports
Petroleum Products       688,600      746,400    790,400     815,500    855,500     908,000    944,300
673,851      758,848    858,397    873,632     925,713    935,157     963,729
Bitumen                   23,500       24,500     25,000      25,000     25,000      25,000     25,000
17,187       13,767     12,861      9,727       7,378      9,881       6,346
Cement                   605,000      632,000    661,000     697,000    737,o000    768,500    799,200
532,495      589,172    590,459     617,419    624,211    631,460     646,953
Coal                      65,000       72,500     85,000     113,000    132,000     154,000    160,000
66,362       38,193     27,782     113,026    134,409     299,274    307,816
Edible Oil                21,000       21,800     22,800      23,800     24,600      26,600     27,600
22,602       31,794     27,414      26,700     29,450      29,026     30,000
Fertilizer                55,000       56,000     57,500      59,200     60,000      60,000     60,000
47,065       49,700     55,489      50,665     37,531      61,335     67,793
Liquid Ammonia            20,200       20,500     21,100      21,700     22,400      23,000     23,900
19,905      18,550      22,837     27,097      18,700      18,996     25,500
Maize                     48,000       51.500     55.000      58.000     61,000      64.000     66.500
56,296       53,670     47,968      53,106     56,706      71,123     69,711
Soya Bean Meal            12,000       13,000     14,000      15,700     16,500      17,400     18,000
17,759      11,389      25,037      19,638     24,982     30,502      29,296
Tallow                     4,500        4,500      4,500       4,500      4,500       4,500      4,500
3,435        5,522      4,109       4,080      4,629       3,391      2,432
Wheat                    125,000      132,500    137,500     142,500    147,500     150,000    150,000
130,431      95,128     119,899     122,379    139,400     150,263    118,126
Exports
Sugar                    520,000      532,500    537,500     540,000    540,000     540,000    540,000
460,531      540,160    496,836     536,864    465,500     355,880    532,249
Molasses                 132,500      137,500    142,500     145,000    145,000     145,000     145,000
116,741      97,963     112,043     153,284    107,234      88,711    151,440
Fertilizer                     0           0           0          0           0          0           0
4,125           0       4,225       5,650      2,500       4,831      4,479
Bunker Pipe-Line          60,000       65,000     71,000      75,000     77,500      80,000     83,000
52,296       57,735     51,923      86,295     81,523     124,671    144,748
Bunker Barges             25,000       25,000     25,000      25,000     25,000      25,000     25,000
31,511       32,186      9,296      37,845     51,098      68,530      55,144
GENERAL CARGO
Imports                   267,50       281,75     293,25c     310,50     327,55      343,25   357,000
206,801      263,31     223,62,     201,70     203,113     178,05   144,254
Exports                     6,00         9,25      13,50c      17,90s      19,70      21,25    22,100
59           58        1,16E      1,34        1,67         81     1,887
Transit                       238         11]          48        429        1,361        11,      72
CONTAINERIZED
CARGO
Imports                   547,00o      570,006    600,006     637,00     675,00      714,00o  745,000
581,72       642,85     691,067     743,161    770,28      837,23   893,714
Exports                   275,00       290,00     323,00c     346,00     370, 00     389,00   405,000
303,17       343,32     342,986     352,55     379,96      432,721  463,393
Transit                    11,707       10,731     11,58C      15,395     63,14       41,54    41,473
INTER-ISLAND
Import                      6,55         6,85       7,20(       7,55        7,95       8,40     8,750
1,031       1,1 1        794        1,22        73         1,133    1,666
Export                     43,60        44,80      46,256      47,65      49,05       50,55    52,550
__________ _ 11,542  11,525  14,759  14,429    12,28       15,063   13,493
FISH
- 38 -



Local Market              24,50       27,30(    36,00i     36,90      37,90(     38,80(  40,300
27,00       25,936     26,894     25,40     25,23(     32,65S  44,836
Transit                   23,85       25,70t    27,001     28,50      29,90(     31,50(  32,400
______  26,12  31,196  40,35E    46,47      38,84^     47,30(  46,524
GRAND TOTAL           3,599,300   3,790,850  3,996,000  4,192,900  4,390,750  4,587,750  4,771,250
3,422,535 ,33,724,482  3,819,956  4,139,S44  4,207,603  4,469,675  4,810,204
Table 2 - Containerized Traffic Forecast Comparison: SAR Forecasts vs. Actual Traffic
1995-2001 (TEUs)
Category          1995    |   1996       1997       1998       1999       2000       2001
Import
Full                    46,780      49,560     52,340     55,120     57,900     60,795     62,920
42,912      48,440     53,637     60,563     63,423    68,019     71,234
Empty                    5,200       5,150      5,100      5,050      5,000      5,000      5,000
3,648       4,431      5,384      7,422     6,178      9,245      8,193
Total Imports           51,980      54,710     57,440     60,170     62,900     65,795     67,920
46,560      52,871     59,021     67,985     69,601    77,264     79,427
Export
Full                     25,186      26,866     28,540     30,220     31,90      33,500  34,670
22,363      24,91      26,42C     28,262     30,48(    35,000   37,002
Empty                    24,68       26,26      2 7,84     29,420     31,00      32,556  33,700
22,89!      26,71      30,473     38,694     38,10     41,741   41,331
Total Exports            49,866      53,12      56,380     59,64      62,900     66,050  68,370
45,251      51,629     56,893     66,956     68,587     76,741  78,333
Transhipment               1,06       1,151      1,042      1,476      6,081      3,415      3,874
TOTAL TEUs             101,840     107,830    113,820    119,810    125,800    131,845    136,290
92,882     105,651    116,956    136,417    144,269    157,420    161,634
- 39 -



2. Container Handling Costs and Productivity
The comprehensive Tariff Study carried out under the Project led to an adjustment of both MPA
and CHCL tariffs, consequence in part of the new contractual relationship established between the
two through the MCT Concession Contract, and of the realignment of tariffs with service costs.
The tariff study also helped determine the amount of the concession fee to be paid by CHCL to
MPA.
Although there was an increase in Rupees denominated tariffs, in US Dollar terms the total cost of
container handling actually varied little, while ship productivity more than doubled. MPA
increased its berthing fee while CHCL actually reduced its overall charging level per TEU. The
new tariff effective since January 2000 is now expressed in US Dollars.
Table 3 provides a summary of the changes in cost per TEU before and after the implementation
of the new tariff schedule for both MPA and CHCL.
Table 3 - Handling and Berthing Charges for Containers
US$/TEU
Tariffs            Without MCT (until 2000)     With MCT (since 2000)
MPA - Quay Fees                         32                         50
CHCL - Handling Charge                 136                         116
Total Charges                          168                         166
Table 4 shows the extent of productivity improvement brought about by the new operational
conditions at the MCT.
Table 4 - Productivity of Container Handling Operations
Without MCT (1998)         With MCT (2001)
Moves/Gang Hour                             8.2                      18.4
Moves/Ship Hour at Berth                    16                      28.7
Working Hours/Total Hours                  12/24                    18/24
Average Moves per Call                     300                       300
Average Ship Service Time (hours)          37.5                     14.0
3. Ship Turnaround Time
The main source of economic benefits from the project was to be found in global reduction of ship
turnaround time. Total ship turnaround time is made of ship waiting time for berth, ship service
time at berth, and time for berthing and departure maneuvers.
Table 4 above shows how improvement in handling productivity led to more than halve the
- 40 -



average ship service time compared to the situation prevailing before the MCT became
operational. Table 5 displays the series of average ship waiting time statistics between 1998, last
year before the commissioning of the MCT, and 2002 (the MCT started operations on January 15,
1999).
Table 5 - Evolution of Ship Waiting Time
1998       1999       2000      2001     2002 (est.)
Number of Ships                 350        386        429        508        550
Average Waiting Time (hours)    18.0        2.7       1.6        1.1        0.9
Total Waiting Time (hours)      6,300      1,043      687        559        495
It is actually estimated that average waiting time will further decrease to about 0.7 hour with the
regular and more precise advance scheduling of calls required by the agreements now negotiated
between MPA and its main clients.
When assessing the economic value of the total ship turnaround time reduction, it is necessary to
take into consideration the changing structure of the fleet of container vessels now calling at Port
Louis. As already mentioned, a growing number of large containerships are now using the
terninal on a regular basis, and this trend is likely to continue as more contractual agreements are
signed between MPA and major global carriers. And the daily running costs of such large modem
containerships (above 2,500 TEUs or 3,000 TEUs) can reach as high as US$35,000 or
US$40,000 per day. Consequently, based on the 2001 vessels calls statistics, Table 6 below
proposes the weighed average daily running cost corresponding to the present MCT fleet
structure. The market trend can only pushes this average amount higher over time.
Table 6 - Distribution of the Fleet of Container Vessels Calling at Port Louis
Ship Category                  % 2001         Daily Running Cost (US$)
Cellular Ship < 1,000 TEUs                   25                   12,000
1000 TEUs < Cellular Ship < 2,000 TEUs       31                   16,000
Cellular Ship > 2,000 TEUs                   11                   35,000
Non-Cellular Ship < 1,000 TEUs               27                   11,000
Non-Cellular Ship > 1,000 TEUs               6                    12,000
Weighed Average Daily Running Cost                                15,500
4. Economic Internal Rate of Return
The Table 7 below presents the EIRR calculation. Assumptions on future container traffic and
vessels calls were made based on the recently updated (2002) MPA Port Master Plan 2002-2025,
using the Low Case Scenario to keep with a conservative approach.
Results show the gross EIRR standing at 21%. Based on the SAR assumption that 75% only of
the benefits would accrue to the Mauritian economy, the project EIRR would stand at 17%,
-41 -



against 19% in the SAR. In fact, increased competition on container shipping services coming
from the global carriers now serving Port Louis on a regular basis, which is a significant change
compared to the prevailing conditions at the time of project appraisal, would definitely warrant a
corresponding increase in the proportion of benefits likely to accrue to the national economy, be it
through lower freight rates or in the way of new adding-value services being developed in the
wake of the agreements reached with the global carriers. Maersk Logistics, for instance, the
logistics services provider subsidiary of Maersk-Sealand, has already set up a branch in the Port
Louis Freeport to market additional logistics services to domestic and regional shippers. Based
on these considerations, an 80% share of benefits for the Mauritian economy seems reasonable,
which would put the ex-post Project EIRR at 18%.
Table 7 - Internal Rate of Return Calculation
Year  Year# #Ships Waiting Time Waiting Time Reduction In  Reduction In  Total Reduction
w/o MCT      w. MCT    Waiting Time  Service Time Tumaround Costs
(days)      (days)
1996     1
1997    2
1998     3      350         263
1999    4       386         347          43 $   4,711,613 $  4,270,929 $    8,982,542
2000     5      429         386          29 $   5,541,250 $  4,746,706 $    10,287,956
2001     6      508         457          23 $   6,725,708 $  5,620,808 $    12,346,517
2002     7      550         495          21 $   7,352,813 $  6,085,521  $   13,438,333
2003     8      578         520          22 $   7,720,453 $  6,389,797 $    14,110,250
2004     9      606         591          18 $   8,889,710 $  6,709,287 $    15,598,997
2005    10      637         621          19 $   9,334,196 $  7,044,751  $   16,378,947
2006    11      669         652          19 $   9,800,905 $  7,396,989 $    17,197,894
2007    12      702         684          20 $ 10,290,951  $  7,766,838 $    18,057,789
2008    13      737         719          21 $ 10,805,498 $   8,155,180 $    18,960,678
2009    14      774         813          23 $ 12,245,438 $   8,562,939 $    20,808,377
2010    15      813         853          24 $ 12,857,710 $   8,991,086 $    21,848,796
2011    16      853         896          25 $ 13,500,595 $   9,440,640 $    22,941,236
2012    17      896         941          26 $ 14,175,625 $   9,912,672 $    24,088,297
2013    18      941         988          27 $ 14,884,406 $ 10,408,306 $     25,292,712
2014    19      988        1111          29 $ 16,776,852 $ 10,928,721  $    27,705,573
2015    20     1037        1167          30 $ 17,615,695 $ 11,475,157 $     29,090,852
2016    21     1089        1225          32 $ 18,496,480 $ 12,048,915 $     30,545,395
2017    22     1143        1286          33 $ 19,421,304 $ 12,651,361  $    32,072,664
2018    23     1201        1351          35 $ 20,392,369 $ 13,283,929 $     33,676,298
2019    24     1261        1418          37 $ 21,411,987 $ 13,948,125 $     35,360,113
2020    25     1324        1489          39 $ 22,482,587 $ 14,645,531  $    37,128,118
Running Cost (US: 15500
- 42 -



Containers   Reduction   Capital  TA and  Maintenance Maintenance   Total
(TEUs)     Handling     Costs   Training   Infra    Equipment    Benefits
Charges
105,651              -14000000  -250000
116,956              -22000000  -250000
136,417              -18700000
144,269                                    -300000     480000 $ 8,982,542
157,420 $     314,840                      -300000     480000 $ 10,602,796
161,634 $     323,268                      -300000     480000 $ 12,669,785
171,332 $     342,664                      -300000     480000 $ 13,780,997
181,612 $     363,224                      -300000     480000 $ 14,473,474
192,509 $     385,017                      -300000     480000 $ 15,984,014
204,059 $     408,118                      -300000     480000 $ 16,787,065
216,303 $     432,606                      -300000     480000 $ 17,630,500
229,281  $    458,562                      -300000     480000 $ 18,516,351
243,038 $     486,076                      -300000     480000 $ 19,446,754
257,620 $     515,240                      -300000     480000 $ 21,323,617
273,077 $     546,154                      -300000     480000 $ 22,394,950
289,462 $     578,924                      -300000     480000 $ 23,520,159
306,830 $     613,659                      -300000     480000 $ 24,701,957
325,239 $     650,479                      -300000     480000 $ 25,943,191
344,754 $     689,507                      -300000     480000 $ 28,395,081
365,439 $     730,878                      -300000     480000 $ 29,821,730
387,365 $     774,731                      -300000     480000 $ 31,320,125
410,607 $     821,214  5000000             -300000     480000 $ 32,893,879
435,244 $     870,487                      -300000     480000 $ 34,546,785
461,358 $     922,717                      -300000     -480000 $ 36,282,829
489,040 $     978,079                      -300000    -480000 $ 38,106,198
-43-



ERR =           21%          17%         18%
Total Costs  TOTAL     TOTAL       TOTAL
NET        NET         NET
75% National 80% National
-14250000 -14250000   -14250000   -14250000
-22250000 -22250000   -22250000   -22250000
-18700000 -18700000   -18700000   -18700000
-780000 8202541.7  5956906.25  6406033.333
-780000 9822796.3 7172097.188     7702237
-780000  11889785   8722338.5 9355827.733
-780000  13000997  9555748.06  10244797.93
-780000  13693474 10075105.44  10798779.14
-780000  15204014 11208010.68  12007211.39
-780000  16007065 11810298.84   12649652.1
-780000  16850500  12442874.67  13324399.65
-780000  17736351  13107262.95  14033080.48
-780000  18666754 13805065.31  14777402.99
-780000  20543617  15212712.76  16278893.61
-780000  21614950  16016212.7 17135960.22
-780000  22740159  16860119.5  18036127.46
-780000  23921957  17746467.4  18981565.22
-780000  25163191  18677393.21  19974552.76
-780000  27615081  20516310.69 21936064.74
-780000  29041730 21586297.53 23077384.03
-780000  30540125 22710093.99 24276100.26
4220000  37113879 28890409.17 30535103.12
-780000  33766785 25130088.74 26857427.99
-780000  35502829 26432121.83 28246263.29
-780000  37326198  27799648.3 29704958.18
Annex 3b. Financial Analysis
Mauritius Ports Authority (MPA)
1.1   Financial Performance
From 1995 to 2000, MPA experienced a rapid expansion of its asset base, matched by
improvement in its operating performance, funded by external borrowing. While this strategy did
involve some financial risk, the materialization of additional traffic, resulting from improved
handling performance and enhanced facilities, combined with the application of a revised tariff
policy have fully justified this approach. MPA has become more aware of currency risk and
related currency management through the project. It experienced a cumulative currency loss of
RS237 million over the period. MPA started to define strategies to reduce its currency exposure.
MPA financial statements, prepared in accordance with Mauritius Accounting Standards have
-44 -



been audited from 1995 till 2000 by Bacha and Bacha, a Member of AGN International Ltd, and
received an except for opinion from auditors with two exceptions [No provision were made for a
compensation receivable (transfer of 45.5 hectares of land reclaimed by MPA to MFA) and for a claim from a
contractor].
Balance Sheet
in RSO33 for the years ended June 30
B&sed on Ahbui*)AcwouSnlg Secndrds
1995       1996       1997       1998      1999       208t1
Assets
Net Fixed Assets                             1,194,032  1213,993   1620,146  1,543,282  2,783,327  2,718,952
Irrestments                                    47,475     50,475     60,975     50,975     82,975     62,975
Capital Works in Progress                     401,880    502,469    501,070  1p020,782    109,746    122.607
Loan Receivable                                17,726     22,845     22,968     23,705     25,198     27,102
Total Non-Currant Assets                     1,661,113  1,7tM,782  2,215,159  2,648,7U  3,801,246  2,931,646
Current Asssi
Stockirnrientory                               39204      34221      34,761     37,186     54,059     50,176
Receivables                                    83046     167,350    109,055    117,260    121,957    199,542
Cash at bank and in,hand                      258,010    209298     396 370    290,329    444,159    494,573
Due 'from Govermment of Mauritius              12,7       142        114428     11;428     11,428
Total CurmntAsset                             423,038    412,297    550,614    456,2Q3    632,403    744,291
Total Aeet:                                  2.84,151   2,2,079    2,755,773  3,104,947  3,633,649  3,675,937
Equlty and LIabilItdes
Current LlibilWtes                            132,327    145,840    250,295   301,315    257,061    360231
Long Tern LIabIlltIes                         420,347    529,714    954,556  1,343961   19I3,322   1,696240
Total LiabilMes                               552,674    675,554  1 04,851   1,645,276  2,150,383  2P56.471
Equity
Govemment Capital Account                      48,059     48,059     48P59      48,059     48,059     48059
CapitalRes;erve                               401,376    401,376    401,376    401,376    401,376    401,376
Reserve Funds                                 314,000    314,000    324200     243,014    263,014    461,014
Retained Surplus                                  820     :-4,132    10,065                 3,595      2.400
Revaluation Reserve                            767222     767222    767,2      767,222.   767 222    7065617
Total Equlty                                 1,531,477  1 ,26,525  1,550922   1,459,671  1,483,266  '.6t19,4
Total EquIty and LIabUlIes                   2,834,151  2,202.079  2,755,773  3,154,947  3,63,649   3,675,937
1995       1996       1997       1998       1999       2800
UOUIDITY
Currant Assets / Current Uabilities               2.8        2.5        2.0        1.4        2.1        1.9
Quick Assets / Current Uibilities                 2.2        1.4        1.6        1.0        1.7        1.4
OPERATING PERFORMANCE
Operating Margin (Vdo Depreciation)              42%        44%        50%        58%        61%        68%
Operating Margin (incl. Depreciation)             3%         4%        12%        31%        25%        32%
PROFITA31IUTY
Retum'on;Assets                                  1.0%     -0.2%       0.9%        1.3%      0.6%       2.6%
RECE,VABLES
Days ofAccounts Receivable                        123        227        i25        '97         86        i30
CURRENT UABILITIES
Days'of currant liabhitiss                        339        373        568        598       '481        726
DEIT,'FINANCIAL LEVERAGE
Interest Coverage                                29.4        2.7        4.1        4.5        2 9        3.0
Total Debt/Equity                                35%        44%        78%       113%       145%       127%
-45 -



MPA Asset Growth. MPA assets have grown by 80 percent between 1995 and 2000, to reach a
total of RS3.6 billion (US$138 million equivalent), primarily due to a RS1.5 billion increase in net
fixed assets. The increase in non-current assets between 1994 and 2000 was almost three time
more than projected in the SAR. This rapid expansion has been funded through a large increase in
the long-term debt of MPA, from RS420 million in 1995 to a peak of RS 1.8 billion in 1999
(against a maximum projected at RS 1.4 billion in the SAR). These investments enabled in
particular the purchase of multipurpose tugs, the construction of the new Container Terminal and
provision of container cranes, the construction of a Rice Handling facility, and the extension of
quays and infrastructure development of the Mer Rouge Area.
Operating Performance. The operating performance of MPA, as measured by its operating
margin (excluding depreciation [Including depreciation in operating expenses the Operating Margin has
increased from 3% in 1995 to 32% in 2000]) has constantly improved over the period from a low of
42% in 1995 to 68% in 2000, a result consistent with the best case scenario in the SAR. Net
operating income more than trebled over the period to RS380 million. The large investments by
MPA and improved performance by CHC resulted in a sharp increase in traffic, which combined
with the tariff adjustment in early 2000, contributed to raise the revenue from RS246 million in
1995 to RS560 in 2000. This result exceeds the SAR best case scenario. Operating revenue in
2001 raised by a further 31 percent. In comparison direct operating cost increased by a mere
RS41 million between 1995 and 2000. MPA experienced however a large increase in
depreciation cost by RS 103 million over the period (more than doubling as a result of asset
growth). MPA also experienced a significant annual increase of 6% in staff cost, despite a sizable
severance program in 1998 (RS122 million).
Profitability. The large increase in financial charges between 1995 and 2000 from RS28 million
to RS 125 million (or 22% of revenues) has reduced the impact of improved operating
performance on net income. Nonetheless profitability measured by the return on assets has
increased to 2.6% in 2000, demonstrating the ability of MPA to draw profits from its new
investments and exceeding the minimum objective of 2% established in the SAR. Preliminary
2001 figures indicate further improvement in profitability compared to 2000 with soaring revenue
(31%) and stable expenditures (3%).
-46 -



Income and expenditure account
in RSD00 for the years ended June 30
Based on llbu    s Aeeoun*ng Sbndads
1995        1996        1997       1998        1999        2090
Operating Revenue
Vessel Dues                                       89,03       96,328     114,655     154,657    194,161     181,567
Traffic Dues                                      73,075      73,031      99,126     124,193    138,174     120,058
Container Dues                                    83,916      83;189     104,801    160,410     178,777     175,618
Concession Fee                                                                                    5,000      82,370
Total Operatinq Revenue                          245,994     252,546     318,582    439260      516,112     559,613
Operating Expenses
Salares, Wages and Benefits                       73,498      77,638      87,997    102,063      99,356     104X86S
Operation/Maintenance of Equipt                   46,514      42,702      42,685     151,970     55,408      52,491
Administratwe expenses                            16.698      16,073      24,270      24,991     44,983      20,690
Other Op. Expenses                                 5,905       6,153       5,888      4,806       3,045       3,033
Total Operating Expenses                         142,615     142,566     160,840     183,830    202,792     181,079
Net Operating Income                             103,379    109,980     157,742     255,430     313,320    378,534
Other Expenses
Depreciation                                      95,620     100,358     118,864     120,559    182,496     198,003
Financial charges                                 28,571      21,149      38,782      55,587    108,348     124,949
Loss (gain) on exchange                            3,513      41,061      13,245      81,960     S3,057      45,028
Total Other Expenses                             127,704     162,568     170,891     258,106    343,901     367,980
Non Operating Income                              44,965      47,636      37,546      43,411     54,176      85,838
Net Income before Exceptional Items               20,640      (4,952)    24,397      40,735      23,59       96,392
Exceptional Item                                                                   (121,986)                 39,811
Net Income                                        20,640      (4,952M    24,397      (1,25i1)    23,59i     136.283
Debt and Financial Coverage. The ratio of total-debt to equity increased from a low of 36% in
1995 to a high of 145% in 1999 (against a maximum covenanted at 150%), with a low interest
coverage ratio of only 2.9 in 1999 and a current ratio of only 1.4 in 1998. Since then, this financial
exposure has progressively been reduced through principal repayment. The level of cash flow
from operation (in excess of RS200 million a year since 1997) provides a fair level of comfort
regarding the port capacity to service its debt.
Foreign Exchange Impact. The appreciation of the US dollar (about 8 percent a year) versus
the Mauritian Rupee led to a sharp foreign exchange loss of RS238 million over the 1995-2000
period, equivalent to 6.5% of MPA asset and exceeding the cumulative net income of MPA.
MPA also experienced an interest rate risk linked to the variable rate selected for the World Bank
and Jexim financing. To address both this transaction and translation risk, MPA intends to
improve the matching of its expenditures and sources of funds, through local borrowing in
particular. MPA may repay some of its loans in advance. MPA will also increasingly self-finance
future port developments.
- 47 -



Cash flow statement
for the year ended June 30
Basd on Ailfurius Accounting Standard*
1995     1996      1997     1998      1999     2Z0
NetCa   h fiuOperatngActies                       161,271   59893    255.073  217,028  208.105   267.8S0
Cash flows from invesding acthves
Net acquisition offixed assets                    06,112) CM2 1357) (524X139) (2,001) (511,904) (107,622)
DisposaV(Acquisition) of investments              (29,468)  (3pO0)   (10 _-M)           (25,0)    20,000
Net CAs froni Invsing Activities                 (235,580) (223,857) (534,939) f562pO1) F536,904)  (87 2
Cash flows from financing activites
DMvidend paid                                                                 (10.000)
Long Term Borrowings (Net of Repayment)            21,049   90,372   465,661  245,749   482,139  (131 218)
Increase/decrease in Loans Given                     642    (5,120)     (123)    (737)   (1,492)  (1,904)
Net Cash from Finandng ActMhtes                    21,691   85,252   465,53   235,012   480,647  (133,122)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents  (52,618)  (78,712)  186,072  (109,961)  151.848  47,136
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents                    4,920     1,982    3,278
Cash and cash equivalent on July 1 (FY-1)                   288,010  209298    395,370  290,329   444,159
Cash and cash equivalente as of June 30 (FY)      29,010    209,298  395,370  290,329   44,159   494,573
1.2 Financial Internal Rate of Return
Although no financial internal rate of return assessment for MPA was provided at appraisal, an
ex-post FIRR calculation is presented in Table 8. The following elements were taken into
account:
(a)      on the revenue side, total revenue flows include: (i) the increase in berthing fee levied at
the MCT (US$18 per TEU); (ii) the fixed part of the concession fee, made of a flat fee for the
lease of the land, a flat fee for the use of the quay cranes, and the maintenance and insurance costs
of the quay cranes, for a total amount of US$5,623,57 1; and (iii) the variable part of the
concession fee, based on the number of TEUs handled annually and on the number of ship/hours
alongside berths. To err on the conservative side, the average ship service time, estimated to be
14 hours in 2001 as noted above (Table 4), has been progressively brought down to 8 hours to
account for increased productivity throughout the period, therefore limiting the corresponding
amount to be paid to MPA. Note that it was agreed that in order to ease the financial burden on
CHCL during the first years of operation, the total concession fee be frozen to US$6,757,000
annually until January 2003;
(b)      on the cost side, the total investment cost of the MCT and the related maintenance
expenses, as they appear in the economic analysis, are factored in accordingly.
Based on these assumptions, the Financial Internal Rate of Return for MPA comes out at 15%.
Table 8 - Financial Internal Rate of Return Calculation
-48 -



Year    Year #   # Ships Containers  Berthing   Concession Concession Concession
(TEUs)   Fees Increase   Fee         Fee        Fee
Fixed Part  Variable Part  Total
1996      1                105,651
1997      2                116,956
1998      3         350    136,417
1999      4         386    144,269              $ 5,623,571  $ 1,255,414 $ 6,757,000
2000      5         429    157,420 $   2,833,560 $ 5,623,571  $ 1,435,686 $ 6,757,000
2001      6         508    161,634 $   2,909,412 $ 5,623,571  $ 1,567,412 $ 6,757,000
2002      7         550    171,332 $   3,083,977 $ 5,623,571  $ 1,712,020 $ 6,757,000
2003      8         578    181,612 $   3,269,015 $ 5,623,571  $ 1,752,450 $ 7,376,021
2004      9          606   192,509 $   3,465,156 $ 5,623,571  $ 1,889,483 $ 7,513,054
2005      10        637    204,059 $   3,673,066 $ 5,623,571  $ 2,034,458 $ 7,658,029
2006      11         669   216,303 $   3,893,450 $ 5,623,571  $ 2,079,536 $ 7,703,107
2007      12         702   229,281 $   4,127,057 $ 5,623,571  $ 2,236,393 $ 7,859,964
2008      13         737   243,038 $   4,374,680 $ 5,623,571  $ 2,402,390 $ 8,025,961
2009      14         774   257,620 $   4,637,161  $ 5,623,571  $ 2,452,691  $ 8,076,262
2010      15         813   273,077 $' 4,915,390 $ 5,623,571  $ 2,632,338 $ 8,255,909
2011      16         853   289,462 $   5,210,314 $ 5,623,571  $ 2,822,512 $ 8,446,083
2012      17         896   306,830 $   5,522,933 $ 5,623,571  $ 3,023,834 $ 8,647,405
2013      18         941   325,239 $   5,854,309 $ 5,623,571  $ 3,236,959 $ 8,860,530
2014      19         988   344,754 $   6,205,567 $ 5,623,571  $ 3,462,580 $ 9,086,151
2015      20        1037   365,439 $   6,577,901  $ 5,623,571  $ 3,701,435 $ 9,325,006
2016      21        1089   387,365 $   6,972,575 $ 5,623,571  $ 3,954,300 $ 9,577,871
2017      22        1143   410,607 $   7,390,930 $ 5,623,571  $ 4,222,002 $ 9,845,573
2018      23        1201   435,244 $   7,834,385 $ 5,623,571  $ 4,505,413 $ 10,128,984
2019      24        1261   461,358 $   8,304,449 $ 5,623,571  $ 4,805,458 $ 10,429,029
2020      25        1324   489,040 $   8,802,715 $ 5,623,571  $ 5,123,117 $ 10,746,688
- 49 -



FIRR=               15%
Total      Capital   Maintenance Maintenance   Total       TOTAL
Revenues      Costs       Infra    Equipment     Costs        NET
$ (14,000,000)                     $(14,000,000) $(14,000,000)
$ (22,000,000)                     $ (22,000,000) $ (22,000,000)
$ (18,700,000)                     $(18,700,000) $(18,700,000)
$ 6,757,000             $  (300,000) $ (480,000) $  (780,000) $ 5,977,000
$ 9,590,560             $  (300,000) $ (480,000) $  (780,000) $ 8,810,560
$ 9,666,412             $  (300,000) $ (480,000) $  (780,000) $ 8,886,412
$ 9,840,977             $  (300,000) $ (480,000) $  (780,000) $ 9,060,977
$10,645,036             $  (300,000) $ (480,000) $  (780,000) $ 9,865,036
$10,978,211             $  (300,000) $ (480,000) $  (780,000) $ 10,198,211
$11,331,095             $  (300,000) $ (480,000) $  (780,000) $ 10,551,095
$11,596,556             $  (300,000) $ (480,000) $  (780,000) $ 10,816,556
$11,987,020             $  (300,000) $ (480,000) $  (780,000) $ 11,207,020
$12,400,641             $  (300,000) $ (480,000) $  (780,000) $ 11,620,641
$12,713,423             $  (300,000) $ (480,000) $  (780,000) $ 11,933,423
$ 13,171,299            $  (300,000) $ (480,000) $  (780,000) $ 12,391,299
$13,656,397             $  (300,000) $ (480,000) $  (780,000) $ 12,876,397
$14,170,338             $  (300,000) $ (480,000) $  (780,000) $ 13,390,338
$ 14,714,838            $  (300,000) $ (480,000) $  (780,000) $ 13,934,838
$15,291,719             $  (300,000) $ (480,000) $  (780,000) $ 14,511,719
$ 15,902,907            $  (300,000) $ (480,000) $  (780,000) $ 15,122,907
$ 16,550,447            $  (300,000) $ (480,000) $  (780,000) $ 15,770,447
$17,236,503 $ 5,000,000 $  (300,000) $ (480,000) $ 4,220,000 $ 21,456,503
$ 17,963,369            $  (300,000) $ (480,000) $  (780,000) $ 17,183,369
$18,733,477             $  (300,000) $ (480,000) $  (780,000) $ 17,953,477
$19,549,403             $  (300,000) $ (480,000) $  (780,000) $ 18,769,403
Mauritius Freeport Authority (MFA) Financial Analysis
As per the original project objective, MFA expanded rapidly between 1995 and 2000, fuelled by
large grants, and significant imnprovements in its financial performance. The generation of
additional revenue based on the new assets MFA manages will be critical in ensuring that MFA
can cover its debt and provide a reasonable return on investment in particular to the Government
of Mauritius.
MFA financial statements, prepared in accordance with Mauritius Accounting Standards have
been audited from 1996 till 2000 by KPMG and received unqualified opinions from the auditors.
- 50 -



MFA Asset Growth
The Government intended to develop MFA over the five years of project implementation and to
progressively ensure that it would become self-sustainable, recover the full costs of its business
and yield a reasonable return on its investment MFA's assets have grown twenty times since
1995, fuelled by large capital grants in particular from the Government (RS204 million). The
fixed assets are now worth about US$12.6 million (see balance sheet below) and include
warehouses, buildings and a large area under development. MFA management has been
successful in attracting local private investors, and is now also succeeding in attracting foreign
investors albeit after a slow start. The new Freeport Act 2001 will definitely enhance the
freeport's attractiveness in this regard.
The new Freeport Act which was passed on 17th July 2001 along with Freeport Regulations,
defined the new role of MFA as a regulator and promoter. With the enactment of Freeport
Transfer of Undertaking Act on the same date, MFA's assets were transferred to Business Parks
of Mauritius Ltd (BPML). MFA was split into two, fully independent entities: (i) a Freeport
regulatory agency, only in charge of issuing Freeport licenses and of regulating Freeport
operations; and (ii) an operating company, transferred to Business Parks of Mauritius Ltd
(BPML), a company incorporated under the 1984 Companies Act, with a mandate to develop and
implement business and industrial parks in Mauritius, and in the region as opportunities arise. In
order to manage the assets transferred from MFA to BPML, the latter established a new
subsidiary called BPML Freeport Services (BPMLFS), which was incorporated on November
19th, 2001. Thirty-eight former MFA staff were transferred to BPMLFS, thereby reducing MFA
staffing to eight. Accordingly, the present financial assessment considers only the situation
of MFA up to June 30, 2001, before the new Freeport Act was implemented.
The Mauritius Port Authority (MPA) has made major reclamation works in the Port Area at the
location called Mer Rouge. Out of the total area reclaimed, an aggregate area of 45.5 hectares of
land has been allocated to MFA by the Government. No provision has been made in the financial
statements of MPA for any compensation receivable on the land excised. This would only be
accounted in the MPA Financial statements in the year if compensation is received or if a contract
or undertaking for payment of compensation is agreed. The Government has not indicated its
willingness to compensate for the land.



Balance Sheet
in RS for the years ended June 30
Based on Mew*ius Accounfng Sbndbrds
1995          1996         1997          1998         1899          2000
Hon-Current Assets
Tangible                              18,913,354   52,440,511    58,018,426  136,684,652   333,400,908  382,764,810
Investment                                                                        10000         10,000       10o
Total Non-CurrentAssets               18,913.354   52,440,511    58,018,426  136,694,552   333,410,908  382,774,810
Current Assets
Stock                                     1,650        11,132      114,478       56,754        103,774      141,234
Receivables                            1,984,589    2.60205       3,474,934   29.864,937     6,198,882    10,849,265
Cash at bank and in hand             27j112,278    34,741.262    41 p66.758    2,532,579    21.562,329   54,037,141
Total CurrentAmsts                    29,0980517   37,254,399    44,646,170   32,453,370    27,864.985    66,027,641
TotalAssets                          48,011,871    89,694,910   102,664,596  169,147,9Z    361,275,893  447,1112,451
Equity and Liabilities
Current LiabiliMes                    2,707,462     4,474,044    7,595,021    12,103,796   34,980,710    27,407,149
Long Terrn LiabilitIes                                                        41,150,158  178,125,709   215,189,793
Total LIabilitles                     2,707,462     4,474,044    7,695,021    53,253,954  213,106,419   242,596,942
Equity and Grants
General fund                         456304,409    85.220,866    9J874,532     5.643,686   (6,900 586    (13,261,8?7)
Capital grants                                                   85,195,043  110,250,282   154,087,987   204,500372
Grants from EDF                                                                                      -    13,179,517
Grants from Luxembourg                                                                         982,067      687,447
Total Equity and Grants               45X304,409   85,220, 58    95,069,575   115,893,     148,169,474   205,205,509
Total Equity and Liabilidtes          48,011,871   890694,910   1102,664,596  169,147,922  361,275,893   47,82,451
1995          1996         1997          1998          1999         2000
UQUIDITY
Current Assets t Currert Liabilities       10.7           8 3           5.9          2 7           0.8           2.4
Quick Assets / Current Usbilities          10.0           7 8           5 4          0 2           0 6           2 0
OPERATING PERFORMANCE
Operating Margin                         -240%         -126%         -102%          -62%         -48%            9%
Operating Ratio                            3.40          2.26          2.02         1.82          1.48          0 91
PROFITABILUTY
Retum on Net Fixed Assets               128 0%          1 9%          5 3%         -3 1%         -3.8%        -1 7%
RECEIVABLES
Days of Accounts Receivable                 211           115          103           669           104          104
CURRENT LLABILTIES
Days of current liabilities                  85           91           111           149           395          289
DEBT, FINANCLAL LEVERAGE
Interest Coverage                           -6.6         -3 9        -216 9          -8.9          -1.7          0 3
Total Debt:Equity                           6%            5%            8%          46%          144%          118%
Liquidity. MFA experienced a brief period financial strain in 1998 with an excessively low quick
ratio of 0.2 (quick assets/current liabilities), but this was alleviated through the receipt of both
new grants and long-term borrowing. Both the current and quick ratios where back above 2.0 in
2000, indicating that MFA has now sufficient liquidity to pay for its current liabilities. After the
strong imbalance of 1998, the number of days of accounts receivable improved significantly in
1999 and 2000 underlining the better collection performance of the freeport.
- 52 -



Income and expenditure account
in RS for the years ended June 30
Based on Meur*Ius A ccoufh.g Sanders
1995        1996        1997          1998         1999       201
Operating Revenue
Licence fees                                      1 ,61Z,901  1 ,955.00   3P030,000    4,504,000    4,885,000   5,620,526
Rent ofwarehouse                                  1,372,200  2,646,B16    4,917.411    6,579,245   10,138,871  2i,073,422
,Rent ofeland                                                2,436559     2,62,436     2,975.,75    3,384,212   3,223 257
Sundry receipts                                    172,880     300,597     649,399       399,212
Sales of declaration forms                         370,775    68BSR6      1,061p00     I.536,175    3;397,225   5p25,725
Total Operating Revenue                          3,433,756   7,90Bcft    12,320,246   16,293,507   21,303,308  37,942,940
Operating Expenses
Administrative expenses                          6,468,833  10,191,410   12,528,348   17,645,345   21 095,447  25,638,526
Marketing expenses                               3,11,1,43   4,601,960    8P90,809     8.123,313    5,632,862    948,490
Freeport operating expenses                      2,095.988   3,174,922    4;244,800    3,916,169    5,561,281   3.011.451
ToJtl Operating Expenses                         11,67S5.959  17868W292  24,863,967   29,684,827   32,289.590  34,598,467
HetOperating Income                             (8.2422E3) (9.959,306) (12.543.711)  (13,391,320) (10,486,282)  3,344,473
Grants
Revenue/Govemment Grant                         32.00p00     6.1.00       5,200,000    3,000g0      4p00,000    5,200,00
Arnortisation of capital grants                              7P054,3      5.154,5S9    6546,698    18,917,602  20,131 ,23
Capital grants receied towards mark'eting expenses                        8p90,809     8,123,313
Total Grants                                    32800P00W   12.354,993   1B,445,468   17,670,011   22,917,602  25,331,253
Other Income
Gain on disposal of motor vehicles                                                       678,155
Interest receivable                               1,Q97,730  1,1D797      2,40 491    133.983       285,367   1,261833
ota      er Income                                1'        7      9      2   4        2    ,             367   1
Other Expenses
Financial charges                                                            57,837     1,506,708   6,250,517  13,303,494
DeprecialionF                                     1,245,141,  2,553.034   5,154,659    6,546,698   10.725,846  17,221,S08
Loss on exchange                                                                       2,68,269     8,284,590   5,763,B04
Total Other Expenses                              1245,141   2 831(34     5,212,496    10721,675  25,240,953  36,288,W6
Net Earmings for the year transferred to General Func,24 210208  971,450  3,094,177   (4,230,84) (12,544 j) (E,361 247)
Operating Performance. MFA has managed to significantly improve its operating performance
since 1995, starting from a negative operating margin of 240% to reach a small yet positive
operating margin of 9% in 2000. Accordingly MFA reached the goal of covering its
operational costs through revenue generation by 2000, as projected during project
preparation.
Operating income represents amounts invoiced by MFA in respect to Freeport licenses, rental of
warehouses and land, and sales of declaration forms, as shown in the income statement.
Operating income has increased sharply from Rs3.4 million in 1995 to Rs38 million in 2000,
exceeding the revenue forecasted in the SAR (estimated at Rs26 million by 2000) but reflecting
the large increase in assets managed by MFA. In relationship to the value of assets under MFA
management, the generated revenues have not increased sufficiently in 1999 and 2000 as shown
by the relatively low ratio of operating income/asset of 0.1. This indicates that the freeport will
need to attract more business to justify the large investments MFA undertook over the past five
years. Operating expenses increased three times within that period to reach RS34 million (more
than the projected RS20 million in the SAR).
Profitability. The marginally positive operating margin combined with increasing interest
payments (about 30 percent of operating income) contributed to keep MFA non-profitable over
the past three years, despite some significant grant [grants received in respect to capital
- 53 -



expenditures are credited to a capital gain account and amortized over the expected useful life of
the assets towards which the grants have been received; grants in respect of revenue and
marketing expenditure are released to the income statement in line with the expenses incurred
during the year] contributions. Grants represented a total of RS 129 million over the 1995-2000
period, versus actual operating income of RslOO million. The increase in financial charges
representing in 2000 about 30% of operating income and 3.5 times the net operating income,
requires particularly close follow-up. This is now an issue for BPMLFS, which owns former
MFA assets since November 19th, 2001.
Debt and Financial Coverage. The ratio of debt-to-equity increased from zero in 1995 to 1 8%
in 2000. This ratio can be borne by MFA at present, but since MFA's operating cash flow is
currently negative, MFA would have depended on additional funding (loan/grant) to repay the
principal of its debt. Since all liabilities pertaining to former MFA assets have now been
transferred to BPMLFS, including the liabilities attached to the World Bank loan, BPMLFS
operations will have to generate enough cash-flow to face repayment charges in the future. But
freeport traffic expansion, which started to grow more significantly in 2001, will in all likelihood
be furither strengthened by the new conditions created by the new Freeport Act, making it realistic
to expect both MFA and BPMLFS to be in a position to balance their accounts in the years ahead.
- 54 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stagge of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
...(   2 Econbmists, 1 EMS, etc.) ."   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identificaffon/Preparation
June/93                     2    1 Transport Economist, 1 Port
Engineer
November/93                 2    1 Transport Economist, I Port
Engineer
February/94                 2    1 Transport Economist, I Port
Engineer
Appraisal/Negotiation
December/94                 5    1 Transport Economist, I
Port Engineer, I Legal
Counsel, I Procurement
Specialist, I Financial
Analyst
Supervision
March/96                     2   1 Transport Economist, I           S             S
Port Engineer
October/96                   3   1 Transport Economist, I Port      S            S
Engineer, I Financial Analyst
March/97                     3   1 Technical Manager, I Port        S             S
Engineer, I Financial Analyst
June/97                      1   I Port Engineer                    S             S
November/97                  2   1 Transport Economist, I Port      S             S
Engineer
June/98                      3   1 Transport Economist, I Port      S             S
Engineer, I Consultant
October/98                   I   1 Port Specialist                  S             S
February/99                  2   2 Port Specialists                 S             S
April/99                     4   1 Port Specialist, 2 Financial     S             S
Management Specialists, I
Disbursement Analyst
July/99                      I   I Port Specialist                  S             S
October/99                   I   I Port Specialist                  S             S
March/00                     I   I Port Specialist                  S             S
June/00                      I   I Port Specialist                  S             S
December/00                  I   I Port Specialist                  S             S
February/01                  5   2 Port Specialists, I Financial    S             S
Analyst, 2 Disbursement Officers
July/01                      I   1 Port Specialist                  S             S
ICR
January/02                  2     1 Port Specialist, 1
Consultant
- 55 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks            US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              83.9                      287.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                   32.1                      124.3
Supervision                            71.58                      346.3
ICR                                     4.79                       58.9
Total                                 192.37                      816.5
- 56 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Lu Macro policies                       O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
G Sector Policies                       O H   *SUOM      O N   O NA
L Physical                              O H   * SU O M   O N   O NA
LI Financial                            O H   *SUOM      O N   O NA
LI Institutional Development            0 H   O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
r Environmental                         O H   OSUOM      O N   O NA
Social
LI Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM       O N  * NA
n Gender                          O H  OSUOM       O N  * NA
El Other (Please specify)         OH   OSUOM       ON   * NA
3I Private sector development           * H   O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
CJ Public sector management             0 H   O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
LI Other (Please spec6fy)               O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
- 57 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
OI Lending                                         OHS OS       Ou   OHU
[I] Supervision                                    OHS OS       OU      OHU
L Overall                                          OHS OS       OU    OHU
6.2 Borrower performance                           Rating
LI Preparation                                     OHS OS       OU    O HU
LI Government implementation performance           O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
OI Implementation agency performance               OHS OS       O U   O HU
O Overall                                          OHS OS       0 U   O HU
- 58 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports
2. Project Progress Reports
3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project
4. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated April 26, 2002
5. Staff Appraisal Report for Republic of Mauritius: Port Development and Environment Protection
Project dated May 30, 1995 (Report No. 13980-MAS)
-59 -



- 60 -



MAP SECTION






M A U R I T I U S
J .                                                                                       PORT DEVELOPMENT AND
I,      M                     ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION PROJECT
PORT LOUIS
5'  I\/  X  BIRD SANCTUARY OF                   F |El PROP05ED PORT FACILITIES
F U,S i  \   C O NT A I N E R  \   TE R R E   R O U G E        _     P R O P O S E D   R O A D S
. , )pt+.//\PORT EXPANSION                                      < . - -J ------ PROPOSED PIPELINE EXTENSION
G    x o |EXISTING STRUCTURES
0                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING ROADS
20 H.                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~how  on his map do not-iply, onthe porn of The World Bank Grop,
nyjIdgm to  thn  _leg   su  o  .n  t y.. .-nrtanyonrement
FREEPORT                                 a   ptn-   f suh bo dari
20,              -    -  -.R L  20   00   -
PIANT                                    %\                                      O f                     ' /       CEMEINDIAN  d-0d
Cs 'S (CiCA< ; E                                                        ' E                      ;<- ;OCEAN
(    0                          \  2 5          5                                   MET R                                     o 5   t O n s .
RELATED                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Centre de FIocq 0 ~
ORos H,II
I TER sNrl = ') > '' {kv '                                    7---INELOUNAIES        2
EX[F NG   GAb 4kN[,. 8\                N   ,
Ce'                                                   tstALAWINDNSTAN
lIt  ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~      ~       a511NG,OLsAND                     k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  Csha1anga~TAZAIA  I0-
I ~~~~~~'                                    Sa~MLA IINtD IANs
0-  - 250        SOOM~~~~~~ENERAL-
n  I        -         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IrU
PASSENC.S                                                           -- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES 
BE sN4s  J                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4,0'  so  J






57'30'      /
MAURITIUS                                        /           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BIRD SANCTUARY 
M A U R I TIU S                                                                  -/f /  \ 9FTERRE ROUGE U  X
PORT DEVELOPMENT AND                                                         /
ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION PROJECT                                         MERROUGE
PORT LOUIS
EXISTING FACILITIES                                    " -     o                                           1     OD
 9   SELECTED EXISTING STRUCTURES                      ,                                                        BOIS
-     EXISTING MAIN ROADS
57.30.    57=--A. S74
20-00         -              20'00.                                                                        00
INDIAN                 re dOr                                                                           000
OCEAN     ,           .t9                                                  it,.^.          > 
0    5 MIIES          0                        -ECLAIME '                                               e(
Prt Louis,,
Centre de FlacqO  \~ 
RoeHill                  o-46
20,15'     o0
IAM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
-203        od               20,30
>fTANZANIA,          50                                                                                    0
COMOROS
Nnsr~o  M~Rs INDIAN                                                                                                  FR
OCEAN
MOZAMB QUE                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADELAIDE
20, <Ba        MADAGSCAR   MAURIlnus
( ~~r-  ~ 0     250   500    750   1 000' METERS
J                              ~~~~~~~~~~~The b-udar-e, coor, -ean,aon   and an  oh- o ar-t-
---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES  201                                                        5h-m an thia -op da -at -ply, anthe p.at f Th. W-rld Rank G-op,
/ BELL VI LLAGE               -,ay Idgmn-t orthe legalvw ttof any territoy, r any encromn
-o   0'          5so1                                                                                - ccptanc  a -suh b-udarie        0'






IMAGING
Report No.:        23880
Type:     lCR



