Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13980-MAS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
PORT DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION PROJECT
MAY 30, 1995
Infrastructure Division
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                    Mauritius Rupee (Mau. Rs.)
US$1                                          Mau. Rs. 17.8 (February 1995)
Mau. Rs. 18.0 Average 1994
Mau. Rs. 17.6 Average 1993
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                               British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                                                      3.28 feet
1 square meter (sq. m)                                    10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)                                                 0.62 mile
I metric ton (t)                                         2,204 pounds (Ibs)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1-June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACF                    Accelerated Cofinancing Facility from Japan ExIm Bank
CAD                    Civil Aviation Department
CEB                    Central Electric Board
CHC                    Cargo Handling Corporation
DS                     Directorate of Shipping
EIB                    European Investment Bank
ETFS                   Electronic Trade Facilitation System
EU                     European Union
GEF                    Global Environment Facility
GOM                    Government of Mauritius
ICB                    International Competitive Bidding
JExIm                  Export-Import Bank of Japan
LIBOR                  London Inter Bank Offered Rate
MARPOL                 International Convention for Prevention of Ship Pollution
MEPD                   Ministry of Economic Planning and Development
MEQL                   Ministry of Environment and Quality of Life
MFA                    Mauritius Freeport Authority
MIEC                   Ministry of Internal and External Communication
MMA                    Mauritius Marine Authority
MOF                    Ministry of Finance
MOW                    Ministry of Works
MTS                    Ministry of Trade and Shipping
NCB                    National Competitive Bidding
NGO                    Non-Governmental Organization
OPRC                   Oil Pollution Preparedness Response and Cooperation Convention
SCL                    Single Currency Loan
TEU                    Twenty foot Equivalent Unit (for containers)



TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...........................................i
I. THE ECONOMY AND THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ...................................I
A.    Introduction ........ , .,.,.,.1
B.    The Macro-Economic Context and the Transport System .I
C.    Transport Sector Management Objectives and Issues                     2
D.    Previous Bank-Assisted Projects in the Environment and Transport
Sectors and Lessons Leamed                     .3
E.    Rationale for Bank's Involvement in the Sector          .4
II. THE PORT AND FREEPORT SUB-SECTORS .......................................5
A.    The Port                                                              5
Capacity and Shipping Activities               .5
MMA and CHC- Organization, Management, and Staffing Issues        6
Port Operations and Issues                  .7
Port Finances, Tariffs and Issues              .8
B. The Freeport                                .9
Organization, Operations and Issues ......................... , . 9
Finances .................., . .    .     ...               .     9
C.  Port Environmental Issues                        .9
D.    Port Development Plan and Participation of Stakeholders              10
m. THE PROJECT .................                                           12
A.  Objectives .................                                           12
B.    Project Description ................. 12
This proposed project was appraised in January 1995 by a World Bank mission
consisting of Alain F. Ballereau, Task Manager and Principal Transport Economist, Aubert
Zohore, Financial Analyst (AF3IN), Michel Audige, Port Operation Specialist (AFTES), Jan
Post, Senior Ecologist (ENVLW), and Pierre Yourougou, Senior Financial Policy Analyst
(FRSFP). Mr. Hans Peters (TWUTD) was the project's Lead Adviser. Manorama Gotur
assisted with editing the reports (AF3DR). Br6nagh Murphy and Marie Therese Melkonian
(AF3IN) also provided assistance in processing this report. Mr. Andrew Rogerson (AF3DR)
and Ms. Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard (AF3 IN) are the Department Director and the Managing
Division Chief, respectively.



C.    Cost Estimates ......................................,. 13
D. Financing Plan .14
E.    Implementation .....................................                 15
F. Procurement .17
G. Disbursement .18
H.  Environmental and Social Impact .19
I.    Supervision, Monitoring, Reporting and Auditing .20
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION .21
A. Forecast Traffic Demand .21
B.    Operations Without and With the Project .22
C.  Costs and Benefits Analysis .23
D.    Overall Economic Evaluation, Sensitivity and Risks .23
E.  Economic Assessment of MFA .24
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .25
The Mauritius Marine Authority (MMA) .25
A.    Past and Present Financial Performance .25
B.    Future Financial Strategy and Projections .26
C.  Financial Objectives and Covenants .28
D. Sensitivity Analysis .29
Mauritius Freeport Authority (MFA) .29
A.  Recent Financial Results .29
B. Financial Projections .30
C. Sensitivity Analysis .30
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS .31
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED & RECOMMENDATION .32
ANNEXES.
1.    Government Port Sector Reform Policy Statement .34
2.    Summary of Environmental Impact Assessment .47
3.    Supervision Plan and Outline of Semi-Annual Progress Reports        48
4.  Project Monitoring Indicators .54
5. Tables and Charts .57
6. Project File .85



TABLES.
1.        Port-Louis Historical Traffic per Category (Tons) FY87 - FY94 ..........                             ....... 57
2.        Port-Louis Containerized Traffic (TEUs) FY87 - FY94 ............................... 58
3.        Port-Louis Global Traffic Forecast ..............................................                         59
4.        Port-Louis Containerized Traffic Forecast ..............................................                     60
5.        Comparison of Handling Costs and Tariffs for Main Cargoes ............                            .......... 61
6.1       Dry Cargo Tariffs Comparison .............................................. 62
6.2       MMA  Tariffs Structure ..............................................                                     63
7.1       MMA  Income Statements .............................................. 64
7.2       MMA  Balance Sheets .............................................. 64
7.3       MMA  Funds Flow  Statements ..............................................                                64
7.4         MMA  Sensitivity Analysis ................................. , .,.,.,,,.65
7.5       MMA  Assumptions for Financial Projections                                  ................................ 66
8.1    MFA Statement of Income ................................                                                     67
8.2    MFA Cash Flow Statement ................................ 67
8.3       MFA  Assumptions for Financial Projections ................................                               68
9.1  Detailed Project Cost Estimates .,                                                                             69
9.2   Project Costs by Categories ...................... .                                    ................. 70
9.3       Estimated Project Expenditures by Years ........................................                          71
9.4    Estimated Cumulative Disbursement Schedule & Detailed Financing Plan.. 72
10.       Operational Parameters Used for Economic Evaluation ............................... 73
11.   Annual Port-days per Type of Cargo & Daily
Average Ship Costs (1998 and 1999) .74
12.   Annual Port-days per Type of Cargo & Daily
Average Ship Costs (2000 and 2005) ...........................................                           75
13.       Economic Rate of Retum  Calculation ...........................................                           76
14.       Economic Rate of Return Calculation &  Sensitivity Analysis .............                         .......... 77
15.       Risk Analysis ........................................... 78
CEIARTS.
1.   MMA - Existing Organizational Structure .79
2.   MIEA - Proposed Organizational Structure .79
3.  Project Implementation Schedule .80
4.   CHC - Existing Organizational Structure .84
MAPS.
IBRD 26794: Port-Louis New Container and Oil Terminal .86
IBRD 26863: Port-Louis Harbor General Layout .87






Loan and Project Summay                                                        i
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers:            Republic of Mauritius and Mauritius Marine Authority (MMA).
Guarantor:            Republic of Mauritius for the loan to MMA.
Beneficiaries:        Mauritius Marine Authority (MMA), Mauritius Freeport Authority
(MFA) and Directorate of Shipping (DS) of the Ministry of Trade
and Shipping.
Poverty Category:     Not applicable.
Amount and Terms:   US$30.5 million, consisting of:
(a) US$23.4 million Single Currency Loan (SCL) to MMA, for civil
works and related supervision contracts, and specialized short-term
technical assistance for institutional strengthening, at the Bank's
LIBOR-based variable lending rate, repayable over 15 years, with a
5-year grace period; and
(b) US$7.1 million Single Currency Loan to the Republic of
Mauritius for (i) onlending to MFA for civil works, and (ii) a grant to
MMA and the Directorate of Shipping to improve conditions for
marine environment protection and control vessels' sea-worthiness, at
the Bank's LIBOR-based variable lending rate, repayable over 15
years, with a 5-year grace period.
Onlending and Grant
Arrangement:          US$6.6 million of the loan to the Republic of Mauritius would be
onlent to MFA at the same terms as in (b) above. The remaining
US$0.5 million of the loan to the Republic of Mauritius would be a
grant to MMA (US$0.3 million) and the Directorate of Shipping
(US$0.2 million).
Commitment Fee:       0.75%  on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
1
MMA is eligible for a SCL under the Pilot Program of 1993.



ii                             Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
Financing Plan:
(in US$ million)
IBRD                 1.1            29.4              30.5           30.5
ACF (JExIm)          0.2            23.2              23.4           23.4
EIIB                 -              19.7              19.7           19.6
Luxembourg           0.2             0.8               1.0            1.0
MMA                 13.5             0.8              14.2           14.2
MFA                  1.3                               1.3            1.3
Government           0.4                               0.4            0.4
Private Sector       0.7             9.0               9.7            9.7
Total               17.3            82.9             100.2          100.0
Note: Figures may not add up to total due to roundings.
Economic Rate of Return: 19 percent for the Port Development Component
Project ID Number:       MU-PA-1926



1. The Economy and the Transport Sector                                       1
I. THE ECONOMY AND THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Introduction
1.1   Mauritius is one of the third world's success stories. Over a period of just under a
quarter-century, the country transformed itself from a sugar-dependent economy with a per-
capita income of US$300 (1970) to a middle-income country with a per-capita income of
about US$3,000 (1993), led by a vibrant export-based industrial sector. However, Mauritius
now faces some constraints to further rapid growth as a result of structural changes in the
domestic economy and trends in international markets. On the home front, low-priced labor
has been fully absorbed into the economy, and enterprises face full employment-induced wage
pressures, current environmental stresses reflect the rapid growth of the last two decades and
require an appropriate regulatory framework, as well as investment, for improved pollution
control. On the international front, Mauritius' sugar exports are facing increased uncertainty
regarding continued access to EU markets at preferential prices, while stiffer competition is
arising in the textile industry from new low-cost producers. In order to ensure continued
rapid, sustainable and equitable growth, the country is now addressing these constraints
through a new strategic agenda including diversification of production and exports,
improvement of efficiency, and protection of the environment.
B. The Macro-Economic Context and The Transport System
1.2   The Republic of Mauritius comprises: the main island of Mauritius (some 800 km east
of Madagascar) which accounts for about 91% of the land area and 97% of the population;
and other small scattered islands. The country is on the maritime route between Europe and
Asia around the southern tip of Africa: this route has regained part of its past importance due
to the limitations of the Suez Canal, which cannot accommodate mega petroleum tankers.
However, the remoteness of Mauritius from its traditional trading partners in Europe and new
ones in Asia poses a challenge to the country in its pursuit of global economic integration.
1.3   The country's political stability and entrepreneurial spirit have supported a strong
export-led economic growth which enabled the per capita income increase. Diversification,
from an agriculture mono-crop (sugar) to light industry, textiles and tourism was at the root
of Mauritius' success. Since independence in 1968, social indicators have markedly improved:
life expectancy increased from 64 years to 70, infant mortality declined from 60 per thousand
to 20, and adult literacy improved from 70 to 85%.
1.4   Trade has been growing in line with consumption, fueled by rising personal incomes,
and the diversification of exports. Although sugar remains Mauritius' main export, its
production is leveling off at around 550,000 to 600,000 tons, with sugar occupying about
95%  of arable land.  The Government strategy for continued rapid growth relies on
diversification of production and exports, including products of progressively higher value.
Import growth is expected to be in line with GDP growth. Efficient maritime and air
transport will be required to meet competition in export markets from other fast industrializing
countries such as China or Vietnam.



2                                Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
1.5   The country is generally well-linked to the rest of the world. Transport infrastructure
comprises Port-Louis, the only deep-water port on the island with presently over 3.4 million
tons of freight p.a., and the International Airport of Plaisance whose passenger and freight
traffic reached over 1 million persons and about 20,000 tons respectively, in 1994. The inland
transport system comprises about 1800 km of well maintained roads, 90% of which are paved.
1.6   The port of Port-Louis plays a key role in the Mauritian economy as the main
thoroughfare for over 95% of the country's imports and exports. However, the port's capacity
is now inadequate for handling its growing container traffic, due to insufficient mechanization
of operations. In addition, port services are not as efficient or competitive as required by the
business community. Thus, the country has begun to place a high premnium on more efficient
port operations through improved management of the entities providing port services as well
as investment to remove critical capacity bottlenecks.
C. Transport Sector Management, Objectives and Issues
1.7   The Ministry of Economic Planning and Development (MEPD) oversees transport
infrastructure development and ensures adequate allocation of public resources to the sector.
The Ministry of Works (MOW) is in charge of the development and maintenance of main
highways, while the upkeep of local roads is under local authorities. The National Transport
Authority (NTA), which is responsible for road transport operators, regulates the passenger
transport industry through licensing and tariff-setting.  The Mauritius Marine Authority
(MMA), reporting to the Deputy Prime Minister who is also in charge of MEPD and of the
Ministry of Internal and External Communications (MIEC), is responsible for port operation
and maritime transport. Created in 1992, the Mauritius Freeport Authority (WA) has
responsibility to develop regional trade through transit and transshipment of cargoes on a tax-
free basis, at both the port and the airport, but has still to develop its role. The Civil Aviation
Department (CAD) under the MIEC is in charge of air transport regulation. Air Mauritius,
the national airline, satisfactorily meets the demand for international tourism, along with a few
foreign carriers; it has public and private shareholders.
1.8   Rapid economic development has generated a strong demand for better transport
infrastructure; economic operators often face shortage of capacity and traffic congestion. In
order to compete effectively, standards need to be raised to levels comparable with those
found in port, airport and telecommunication facilities offered by Singapore, for example.
Development plans for transport infrastructure and systems are generated by many sources
from the public and private sectors, in response to requests by enterprises. MEPD has thus a
difficult role to play to reconcile and prioritize such demands. The Government's policy
objectives include the following:
(i)   promoting the full utilization of existing transport infrastructure to meet peak
demand when congestion occurs, by using alternative facilities, extending working
hours or increasing productivity;
(ii)   encouraging public transportation: air, land, sea to be offered by private
operators on a commercial basis and without subsidies; and expanding infrastructure



1. The Economy and the Transport Sector                                        3
and facilities to meet demand in a cost effective way (an example is the recent public
offering of shares of Air Mauritius);
(iii) adequately maintaining facilities and infrastructure to reduce costs to operators
and to the administration or authorities in charge; and
(iv)   paying due attention to environmental costs such as air and water pollution, as
well as noise, through proper setting of engines, noise barriers and recycling of waste,
and, in addition, including in any project design, consideration of the need for
preservation of the national heritage of biodiversity, buildings, and protection of parks.
1.9   To meet demands of the transport sector and help realize these objectives, Mauritius
should: (i) improve access to and out of the Port-Louis urban area; (ii) improve the
performance of the sector parastatals, including MMA and CHC; (iii) increase productivity
and efficiency in port and airport operations. To that end, in the road subsector the
Government plans to ease congestion through a mixture of traffic management measures and
investment in possibly light rail and/or a ring road to bypass Port-Louis. For the airport, the
Government envisages a project including the extension of the runway. For the port, the
Government--with the proposed project--is seeking to reform port institutions, mechanize,
and increase transparency and efficiency in operations and extend facilities, in particular with a
new container terminal and ship-to-shore container cranes.
D. Previous Bank-Assisted Projects in the Environment and Transport Sectors
and Lessons Learned
1.10  In the past, the Bank has financed three projects in Mauritius' transport sector: a port
extension and modernization project at Port-Louis in 1974, and two highway projects in 1983
and 1989. At a total cost of US$13.6 million, the Port Project -Loans 976-MAS (1974) and
1339T-MAS (1976) provided financing for the current facilities at Port-Louis, including the
construction of three deep water berths. The project was successfully completed in March
1983.
1.11  The Highways Project--Ln. 2337-MAS (1983)--totaling US$15.2 million comprised
strengthening and improvement of 75 km of main roads, and strengthening of MOW's
functions. The project was completed, with its main objectives met, in June, 1989. The
Second Highway project--Ln. 3132-MAS (1989)--totaling US$30 million supported: the
strengthening and improvement of about 45 km of main roads; resurfacing of about 130 kln;
equipment for routine maintenance operation; traffic management; vehicle safety and emission
control; and consulting services and training. The project has been implemented satisfactorily
and will be closed at the end of June 1995, one year beyond the original closing date All
development objectives have been met and the overall rating for the project is 1 (one).
1.12 The Bank is financing an Environmental Monitoring and Development project (Loan
3277-MAS) which is seeking, inter alia, to develop a comprehensive framework of
environmental policy and an evolving legislation to provide Mauritius with a sustainable
program of continued development with adequate and appropriate environmental protection.



4                               Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
The project also supports the establishment of a conservation program and management plan
for a maritime resource and monitoring program. The Environment Protection Act (1991)
places Mauritius at the forefront of Indian Ocean nations on matters of environmental
protection. The project implementation, initially delayed by the large number of institutions
affected, is satisfactory. The proposed project will build on the achievements in the field of
environmental protection.
1.13  The above projects' implementation was satisfactory as stated in completion reports.
Overall, Mauritius' implementation performance in its investment operations has traditionally
matched the high quality of its economic management. This success stemmed mainly from: (i)
good institutional capacity; (ii) strong ownership as a result of involving institutions at the
outset; and (iii) strong follow-up, once decisions were made. However, the focus of new
operations has become directed toward more complex institutional goals, often requiring for
their achievement the cooperation of various interest groups. This sometimes led to slow
preparation of projects and/or delayed start-up and slow disbursement. To enhance project
ownership and commitment of all stakeholders, the proposed project was prepared in close
cooperation with the GOM, MMA/CHC and MFA, and in consultation with relevant private
sector and trade union representatives. The project would focus specifically on strengthening
the capacity of MMA and MFA, increased transparency and efficiency in port operations
through structural change and expanded private sector involvement.
E. Rationale for the Bank's Involvement in the Sector
1.14  The focus of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, discussed by the Board on May
24, 1994, is to help Mauritius achieve and sustain a higher level of economic performance
based on increased competitiveness and diversification of production and exports, including
the development of skills-intensive and service-based activities. This requires, inter-alia,
improving the efficiency and competitiveness of key infrastructure, such as the port in an
environmentally sound manner. The proposed project would contribute to achieve this goal.
The Bank is already supporting Mauritius' drive to reach a higher level of performance, with
economic and sector work (Mauritius-Technology Strategy for Competitiveness, Report No.
12518-MAU, September 1994) and lending (Technical Assistance to Enhance
Competitiveness Project, Ln. 37360-MU, approved in May 1994).  A Services Sector
Modernization Project is in preparation. To broaden these efforts, the Government has
requested the Bank's assistance to support and guide the modernization and extension of the
port, and achieve the appropriate blend of institutional reform, capacity extension and financial
engineering. GOM, MMNIA and MFA prepared the proposed project with the Bank helping to
guide the process. This has generated broad-based support for the project, including its
institutional and managerial objectives, as well as its investment components. The proposed
environment component of the project is significant for its demonstration value for other
countries in the area of marine pollution and vessel safety control which is now being
examined in other neighboring islands for future possible GEF regional financing.  A
biodiversity conservation program for the restoration of habitats of endemic species was
analyzed for GEF financing as part of the proposed project and is being processed separately.



11. The Port and Freeport Sub-sectors                                           5
II. THE PORT AND FREEPORT SUB-SECTORS
A. The Port
Capacity and Shipping Activities
2.1   Port Facilities: The port of Port-Louis offers a maxunum draft of 12m and can
operate vessels up to 225m in length. During Fiscal Year 1994 (FY94), 794 vessels berthed
at Port-Louis (of which 312 were fully containerized, 114 were multipurpose container, and
195 were dry and liquid bulk carriers). The port's facilities include 10 berths, but only four
have the capacity to accommodate large vessels requiring a 12m draft. Berth occupancy
rates for January to April 1994 varied from 14% for the sugar berth to about 60% for
containers and other cargo berths, and 100% for the fishing berths.
2.2   Traffic and Capacity: Port traffic has increased steadily by 5% since 1979/80. During
FY94, traffic reached 3.4 million tons, two-thirds of which was bulk cargo (mainly oil, sugar,
rice and cement); of the remaining third (non-bulk), 75% was containerized. The chart below
shows the distribution of traffic per category for FY94, and the historical traffic trend is given
in Annex 5, Tables 1 & 2.
Mauritius Port Traffic FY94
* Bulk Cargo 65%*
ON Containers 25%
El Gen. Cargo 5%
* Others   5%
* rates based on tonnage. Source: MMA
2.3   Container traffic has almost doubled over the past seven years, and reached about
96,000 TEUs in FY94, as seen in the chart below. Berths I to 4, where containerized cargo is
handled, have been operating at close to their maximum capacity since 1993. Although some
scope exists for productivity improvements and longer working hours, the present and
expected traffic volumes justify the construction of a new dedicated container terminal now.
Total traffic is projected to increase by 5% p.a. on average, container traffic increase would be
about 6% p.a., exceeding the current capacity of the facilities. Traffic volume projections are
in Annex 5, Tables 3 and 4.



6                                      Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
TEUs ('000)            MAURITIUS - CONTAINERIZED TRAFFIC
100 ..................................................................................................................................................................................
90
80
70                                                                        Total Export
60 - [ =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TotablGeneral 
80
50
40
30
20
10
0  * E l
86187    87/88    88189    89/90    90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94
Sourc: MMA
2.4    Maritime Transport and the Fleet: At present, Mauritius is served by five liner
conferences. In addition to shipping companies that are members of the conferences, about 18
other shipping lines serve Mauritius' international trade, some of which operate feeder vessels.
The shipping policy emphasizes the promotion of international and regional trade, as a way to
generate foreign exchange and indirectly create employment. Inter-island shipping is being
served by a newly created, government-owned shipping line with a multipurpose ship, the
"Mauritius Pride". Mauritius' regulation of international shipping is largely unrestrictive.
Unlike countries that give priority to the national fleet, Mauritius has no flag or cargo sharing
requirements.
2.5    The control of cargo through customs in the port takes between only two to four days
and does not unreasonably delay the traffic flows. Customs processing of cargo is based on
the commonly used Sydonia system, which is now being supplemented by the latest Electronic
Trade Facilitation System (ETFS) to allow processing of ship manifests and customs
declarations before the arrival of vessels, to further speed-up custom processing.
MMA & CHC - Organization, Management, and Staffing Issues
2.6    Mauritius Marine Authority (MAMA): The port is owned by the State and managed by
NMMA under the Ports Act of 1975. The primary role of MMA is the administration and
development of the whole port area, and operation of the commercial harbor through CHC.
NMA is governed by a Board of Directors representing the public and private sectors. The
Director General of MMA is appointed by the Board, subject to endorsement by the Minister
responsible for ports. The Director General is assisted by two Deputy Directors General, also
designated by the Board. Presently, MMA is organized in six departments and a secretariat
(Annex 5, Chart 1). MMA has a staff of 627 (January 1995) and is considered about 20%
overstaffed. Further, due to MMA's low wages (50% on average) compared with the private
sector, the rate of absenteeism is high (15 to 20%), and qualified staff are in short supply for
key functions such as piloting, marketing, cost accounting and legal counsel.



II. The Port and Freeport Sub-sectors                                         7
2.7   Cargo Handling Corporation (CHC) was created in 1983. Its shareholders are MMA
(40%) and the Government of Mauritius State Investment Corporation (60%), and it provides
cargo handling services at common user facilities (mostly for containers, other unitized cargo
and break bulk general cargo). CHC is headed by a General Manager who is appointed by the
Board. CHC is presently organized in five departments which need strengthening and
reorganization to meet future requirements (See Annex 5, Chart 4). With a staff of 1,150
(January 1994) CHC is about 40% overstaffed in relation to standard practices of more
efficient stevedoring companies. CHC was created to defuse tense relations between the port
labor and private port operators for many years before 1983. The operating practices of
CHC, since its creation, have resulted both in overstaffing and excessive wages due to the
systems of tour de role and piece rates that allow dockers to work an average of only 15 days
per month while earning more than private sector employees working a full month. As a
result, CHC's charges to port users are driven by its excessive labor costs.
2.8   Issues relating to port organization and management to be addressed by the proposed
project include: (i) the outdatedness of the Ports Act of 1975; (ii) the duplication of roles
between MMvA and CHC in controlling the same cargo, adding to the financial costs borne by
port users; (iii) the unclear definition of responsibilities between MMA and other entities
operating in the ports (such as the Central Electric Board (CEB), oil companies, or MFA),
causing lack of transparency and accountability in port operations; (iv) the need for a clearer
demarcation of the respective jurisdictions of the newly created Government agencies for
marine and coastal services; and (v) the lack of authority of MMA over the use of land within
the port area.
Port Operations and Issues
2.9   Port Operations and Maintenance: MMA provides satisfactory maritime services,
including piloting, tug service, and towage, and maintains the draft in the channel and berthing
areas. CHC provides handling services for general cargo traffic, mostly containerized or
unitized. Except for stevedoring, most of the equipment is used free of charge by CHC while
it is owned and maintained by MMA. Drivers for handling equipment are employed by MMA
while working for CHC. Private terminal operators handle major bulk cargoes (petroleum
products, cement, wheat and sugar) through specialized facilities; other bulk cargoes (coal,
fertilizer and maize) are handled by CHC.
2.10 Operational Performance: The less than optimal operating performance is due to the
absence of contractually agreed performance standards for handling operations, between
MMA/CHC. Operations are limited to a single 12 hour-day shift (except for container
vessels), in contrast to modern ports which work 24 hours with two or more shifts. The
absence of mechanization with ship-to-shore gantry cranes to handle containers also leads to
low productivity and costly operations. The handling of containers is slow, 5.5 TEUs per
hour and per gang, with a high 42% idle time, compared to a productivity of about 10 TEUs
per gang per hour in comparable ports. Though some progress has been made in recent years
(3 TEUs, 65% idle time in 1990), the productivity at Port-Louis remains sub-standard, and
improvements in both gang performance and working time are needed. These issues would be
addressed under the project.



8                                Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
2.11 Private Sector Involvement: Private firms operate their own facilities for bulk traffic in
the port (sugar, flour, liquid ammonia, gas and oil, coal and cement).  Operational
performance of such firms is sound, except when the stevedoring is performed by CHC.
However, the relation between MMA and the private sector needs to be more explicitly
defined. Also, private sector operators do not operate under formal concession agreements
with MMA, and are therefore not compelled to observe norms for their operations, in
particular with respect to environment, security and safety. The proposed project would help
define and implement standards for concession contracts.
Port Finances, Tariffs and Issues
2.12 Financial Objectives, Tariffs and Costs: MMA's basic financial objective is to become
more commercial and efficient by fully recovering its costs, in order to service its debt and
yield a reasonable return on assets. MMA has actively pursued this objective. In the past,
MMA's large cash flows yielded substantial financial revenue from short-term investments,
and its current financial situation is very liquid. Separate tariff schedules are applicable by
MMA and CHC as is common practice in ports. MMA charges for the provision of port
infrastructure at berth and marine services, while CHC's charges relate to cargo handling
services (See Annex 5, Table 5).
2.13  MMA's tariffs have remained unchanged since 1983. Currently, total port charges
(NMMA and CHC combined) are on average 50% below tariffs of ports in the sub-region (Dar
Es Salaam, Mombasa) but compare unfavorably (40% higher) with more efficient ports
(Singapore, Maputo) for dry cargo (See Annex 5, Table 6.1). The high labor cost of CHC
impacts unfavorably on total port tariffs. Port charges are also affected by high operation and
maintenance costs, estimated at about 20% higher than normal practices. Currently, MMA's
tariffs for berth and marine services are about 35% below costs after the recent revaluation of
its assets (June 1993). However, as no cost accounting system exists at MIMA, tariffs are not
cost-based and cross-subsidies between services are difficult to assess.  Initial estimates
indicate that container and piloting dues are subsidizing other services by about 11 to 17%
(see Annex 5, Table 6.2). The project would improve MMA's financial management by
introducing: (i) a cost accounting system; (ii) appropriate revisions of tariff level and
structure; and (iii) cost containment measures and appropriate cost recovery for investment in
port land development. To lower cargo handling charges, a concession contract would be
established between CHC and MMA, to include phased-in reduction of labor costs and
improved gang performance.  Such performance indicators are included in Annex 4.
Indicators for equipment availability, staffing, and overall productivity (tons/employee/year)
are also given in Annex 4. Henceforth, CHC would lease or buy cargo handling equipment
now put at its disposal by MMA.
2.14  Accounting, Budget and Auditing: The budget of MMA is prepared annually and
includes an operations budget and a capital budget based on a three year rolling investment
program. MMA forecast revenue budget is prepared on the basis of actual traffic flow
adjusted by an estimated increase or decrease in traffic. The recurrent expenditure budget is
compiled by the Finance Department after consultation with other departments, but is not
based on any cost accounting analysis; a cost accounting system will be established by June



II. The Port and Freeport Sub-sectors                                               9
1996 under the project. MMvIA's financial statements are satisfactorily audited by private
auditors. The reports of such auditors (1990-1994) are unqualified.
B. The Freeport
Organization, Operations and Issues
2.15 Mauritius Freeport Authority (MFA): The Freeport Act of 1992 provides for the
establishment of freeport zones in Mauritius and for regulation of their operations. The
objectives of MFA are to control and manage a commercial freeport in various zones as
identified from time to time by ministerial regulation, license operators and provide
infrastructure, storage and ancillary facilities to private operators in these zones. Authorized
freeport activities are warehousing and storage, sorting, mixing, packing and repackaging,
minor processing and simple assembly, with exemption from customs and sales taxes. With
fewer than 10 employees, MFA is just starting its operations. Day-to-day management is the
responsibility of the Director General supervised by a Board of Directors including public and
private sector representatives. No development strategy is yet in place, while the staffing of
financial and information systems management also awaits completion. Issues to be addressed
include: (i) clarification of the relationship between MMA and MFA for the allocation of land
for freeport activities to be conducted in the port area; (ii) definition of land leasing rates
within port limits; and (iii) development of sea-air feeder services.
Finances
2.16  To date, MFA has obtained most of its resources from the Government to help finance
the development of its business, which started only two years ago. During this period,
Government has provided about Mau. Rs. 18.6 million for start up costs and equity
investment. NMFA seeks to be self sufficient through full recovery of its costs once it has
developed its business base. This is expected to happen by the year 2000, and by June 30 of
that year, GOM will consult with the Bank on the future development of freeport operations.
GOM is committed to the development of MFA to support its strategy to transform Mauritius
into a regional entrep6t trade center. The project would support this effort to afford MFA an
appropriate management framework and needed facilities to launch its activities. MFA's
financial statements are satisfactorily audited by private auditors. The reports of such auditors
are unqualified.
C. Port Environmental Issues
2.17 Marine Pollution: Mauritius' environment has been affected to some extent by the
activities of the maritime sector, particularly in the Port-Louis harbor and surrounding coastal
waters. Waste petroleum-oil from ships is dumped at sea regularly because of a lack of
reception, storage and disposal facilities. There is also a risk of accidental oil spills from
petroleum tankers as the Western Indian Ocean is a major crude oil transportation artery. An
estimated 450 million tons of oil per year are transported from the Middle East around the
Cape of Good Hope. The proposed project would help build capacity to cope with spills, and
a wider regional initiative is also under consideration for GEF funding.



10                                Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
2.18   Vessel Safety Control: Developed countries are enforcing strict maritime regulations;
developing countries, including Mauritius, could increasingly be served by sub-standard
vessels. Records of world shipping show an increase in ship-sinking, resulting in marine
pollution by hazardous chemicals. In 1993, of about 40,000 vessels that were inspected, more
than 10% were detained for non-compliance. The Vessel Safety Control gives a state
jurisdiction over foreign vessels for the purpose of enforcing internationally accepted
standards and safety codes. Such control is required to ensure adequate environmental
protection, covering discharges at sea, crew competence and crew/ship working conditions as
they enter a port. The project would help the Directorate of Shipping develop vessel safety
control.
2.19 Hazardous Oil and Gas Products: Oil and gas storage facilities are currently located
in the port main access area, and across a main city artery. This location poses a threat of
loss of the port's assets and nearby residential properties and lives in case of accidental fire
or explosion. The project would correct this by supporting the construction of a new oil
terminal in a safe location, the reclaimed area of Mer Rouge, for the relocation of the
storage facilities.
2.20 GOM has developed a comprehensive framework of environmental policy and an
enabling legislation that provides adequate and appropriate environment protection. GOM
has also developed a strategic agenda for port development and protection of the marine
environment in line with the Mauritius Environment Protection Act (1991), addressing
protection of its coastal as well as the region's waters. On October 14, 1994, GOM deposited
with the IMO the necessary legal instruments for accession to the International Convention for
the Prevention of Ship Pollution (MARPOL), the International Commission on Civil Liability
and Oil Pollution Damage, and the International Fund for Compensation for Oil Pollution
Damage. Mauritius is henceforth required to install facilities to accept and treat wastes from
ships that call at Port-Louis. GOM deposited the instrument of accession to the International
Convention on Oil Pollution Preparedness Response and Cooperation (OPRC), too, which
aims to prepare for and respond to oil pollution incidents at the national and regional levels
through oil pollution emergency plans and national and regional preparedness and response
systems. To comply with OPRC, Mauritius must have adequate institutions, manpower and
equipment to enforce the existing National Oil Spill Contingency Plan, as well as limited
equipment to deal with accidental oil spills. The project would assist MMA and the
Directorate of Shipping in establishing such capacity.
D. Port Development Plan and Participation of Stakeholders
2.21  As part of the effort to diversify the economy, improve performance and strengthen
competitiveness, the Government approached the Bank for advice on bringing its port
operations to the cutting edge of competition, and developing the island into an attractive base
for maritime trade. Such a base could excel with port services quality, tariffs and incentives
attractive for business and trade transit through Mauritius. Such an objective requires a
2
Sumnuary of EIA in line with this Act for civil works of the proposed project is in Annex 2.



11. The Port and Freeport Sub-sectors                                            11
revision of existing port sector policy, calling for a change from the state-run, limited gateway
to the local economy, towards a more dynamnic, market-oriented maritime business center.
2.22 To this end, the Government commissioned four studies, funded through a Japanese
grant, to prepare a project that would attain the twin goals of efficient services and
competitive rates in the country's port, through reform of port institutions and a larger role
for the private sector, including the promotion and protection of the environment: (i) Port
Policy, Institutional Strengthening and Pricing Study; (ii) Updating and Revision of the Port
Master Plan; (iii) Mauritius Freeport Development Strategy; and an Environmental
Safeguards Analysis to recommend measures where necessary, for businesses currently
operating in the port and future proposals made by the Master Plan Study.
2.23 The Government of Mauritius, MMA, CHC and MFA, with the Bank helping to guide
the process, prepared the proposed project in order to maximize beneficiary participation. All
the interested parties, including port users and labor unions, participated in the planning of the
institutional studies, as well as in the review of conclusions prior to their adoption by the
Government. This participation has generated broad-based support for the project's activities,
including its institutional and managerial objectives.



12                                Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.1   The overall objective of the project, in line with the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy, is to enhance Mauritius' transport and trade competitiveness in the maritime sector,
in an environmentally sound manner. To this end, the project would help: (i) increase port
productivity, efficiency and capacity to meet the demand of port users and operators at
competitive rates through extension of facilities, mechanization and improved management of
MMA, CHC and MFA; (ii) re-define the role of MMA as a landlord port authority working
through a system of competitive concession contracts with performance indicators for port
operations; (iii) support the development of M1FA to promote Mauritius as an attractive tax-
free base for regional entrep6t trade; and (iv) accompany port development with sound
environmental protection, including control of marine pollution, and port operations and
vessels' safety enhancement.
B. Project Description
3.2   The proposed project, with a total estimated cost of US$100.2 million equivalent,
would include the following three parts:
Part A. Port Development (MMA) for US$89.3 million. This would include:
(i) institutional strengthening to make MMA a more commercially-oriented landlord port
authority, with sole legal authority over port operations, standards and land use, fostering
streamlined port handling operations through concession contracts with port operators,
including CHC; CHC would henceforth buy or lease cargo handling equipment put at its
disposal by MMA and would open its capital to private investors including an experienced
container terminal operator; (ii) improvement in the management and operations of MIMA and
CHC through the implementation of their corporate plans, including organizational
restructuring to achieve inter alia, cost containment, and rational marketing and pricing; CHC
would improve efficiency to meet specified indicators; (iii) construction of a new three berth
container and oil terminal, and procurement of related equipment including two gantry cranes
for container handling; fire-fighting and computer equipment; a passenger terminal building
and an internal road network for new port areas; civil works and pipelines to relocate oil and
gas storage; and (iv) supervision contracts (100 person/month) for civil works, and specialized
short-term assistance to develop and implement actions needed to strengthen the institutional
set-up, management and operations of MMA (30 person/month) and training (20
person/month).
Part B. Freeport Development (MFA) for US$8.9 million. This would include:
(i) a study on the modalities for liberalization of the national regime governing air transport
licensing, to allow for chartering of cargo planes to permit sea-air links, to facilitate sea-air
transshipment activities to take into account, reciprocity in international air traffic agreements;
(ii) implementation of a targeted trade development strategy through the execution of MFA's



III. The Project                                                                                        13
corporate plan to strengthen its organization and operations as well as rationalize its
marketing and pricing; (iii) site preparation of 15 hectares of land at Mer Rouge including the
construction of roads and office and customs buildings; and (iv) supervision contracts (24
person-month) for civil works, and specialized short-term assistance to develop and
implement actions needed to strengthen management, operations and training at MFA (25
person-month).
Part C. Environment Protection for US$2. 0 million. This would include:
(i) a study (50 person-month) to define the requirements and to design facilities for collection
and disposal of land and ship-based oily waste, and to draft regulations required to enforce
safety in port operations and control vessels' sea-worthiness; (ii) construction of facilities for
collection and pre-treatment of oily waste, and (iii) supervision contracts (30 person-month)
for civil works and equipment and training (30 person-month) to fight oil spills and control
vessels' sea-worthiness.
C. Cost Estimates
3.3     Cost estimates for civil works are based on detailed engineering and unit prices for
similar, ongoing works in Mauritius. The estimated total cost of the proposed project is Mau.
Rs. 1,804 million, or US$100.2 million equivalent, including physical and price contingencies.
The foreign exchange cost amounts to Mau. Rs. 1,492 million, or US$82.9 million equivalent.
The table below gives the breakdown of project costs.
%      % Total
((Mau. Rs. Million)              (USS Million)    Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign      Total    Local  Foreign   Total   Exchange   Costs
A. Port Component
Container Terminal                 139.4    1,018.4    1,157.8      7.7    56.6    64.3          88      78
Roads & Services                    27.2       45.9       73.1      1.5      2.5      4.1        63       5
Oil Storage Reloc.                   8.4       32.1       40.5      0.5      1.8      2.2        79       3
Passenger Terminal                   4.4        6.4       10.8      0.2      0.4      0.6        60       1
Institutional Strengthening          9.9       28.6       38.5      0.5      1.6     2.1         74       3
Subtotal Port Component              189.3    1,131.4    1,320.6    10.5    62 9      73.4         86      89
B. Freeport Component
Mer Rouge (Port)                    30.0       89.6      119.6      1.7      5.0      6.6        75       8
Technical Assistance                 3.2       12.2       15.4      0.2      0.7      0.9        79       1
Subtotal Freeport Component           33.1      101 8      134.9      1.8     57       7.5         75       9
C. Environment Component
Marine Environment                   5.2       19.2       24.4      0.3      1.1      1.4        79       2
Vessels Safety                       3.3        3.0        6.3      0.2      0.2      0.4        47       -
Subtotal Environment Component         8.5       22 2       30.7     0.5       1 2     1.7         72       2
Total BASELINE COSTS                 230.9    1,255.3    1,48683     12.8    69.7    82.6           84    100
Physical Contingencies              26.6      122.3      149.0      1.5      6.8      8.3        82      10
Price Contingencies                 54.7      114.1      168.8      3.0      6.3      9.4        68      11
Total PROJECT COSTS                  312.2    1,491.8    1,804.1     17.3    82.9   100.2           83    121
Interest During Construction           -      109.6      109.6        -      6.1      6 1       100       7
Total Coststo be Financed            312.2    1,601.4    1,913.7    17.3    89.0   106.3            84    129
Note: Figures may not add up to totals due to rounding



14                                       Mauritius: Port Development & Environmrent Protection Project
3.4    Physical contingencies applied to base costs have been estimated between 10%  and
15% for works, and 5% for equipment and services. Price contingencies for foreign costs
have been estimated at an annual 2.2% flat rate of increase from 1995 to 2001, and for local
costs at 7% in 1995, 6% in 1996, 4% in 1997 and beyond.
D. Financing Plan
3.5    The Government of Mauritius has requested the Bank (IBRD) to finance US$30.5
million as follows: (i) a Single Currency Loan (SCL) of US$23.4 million for civil works,
equipment, supervision contracts and specialized short term assistance for MMA (under the
Pilot Program  for SCL), to be funded jointly and in equal amount with the Accelerated
Cofinancing Facility from the Export-Import Bank of Japan (JExIm); and (ii) a Single
Currency Loan of US$7.1 million to the Republic of Mauritius for (a) onlending to MFA
(US$6.6 million), on the same terms as the Bank loan, for civil works, supervision contracts
and specialized short term  assistance; and (b) a grant to MMA (US$0.3 million) and the
Directorate of Shipping (US$0.2 million) of the Ministry of Trade and Shipping for the
environment protection component. The eligibility of MMA for a Single Currency Loan
(SCL) was confirmed during appraisal, as MMA is independently managed from Government,
has revenues denominated in US dollars, and manages its own currency risk. Conditions for
loan effectiveness would be: (i) for the loan to MMA, all conditions precedent to the initial
disbursement of the JExIm Loan, and (ii) for the loan to GOM (a) execution of the subsidiary
Loan Agreement for MFA, and (b) all conditions precedent to the initial disbursement of the
MMA loan.
3.6    Other sources of financing are: (i) a grant from the Government of Luxembourg for
US$1.0 million for technical assistance to MFA; (ii) a loan from the European Investment
Bank (EEB) for US$19.7 million for the two container gantry cranes and heavy yard handling
equipment, (iii) MMA and MFA, who would fund local costs of US$14.2 million and US$1.3
million, respectively, and (iv) the private sector for US$9.7 million for light yard handling
equipment and pipelines to relocate oil and gas pipeline relocation, as well as facilities for pre-
treatment of oily waste. The EIIB and private sector investments would be confirmed, or a
suitable alternative plan would be presented to the Bank by the Borrowers, within one year of
loan effectiveness.  GOM  and MMA would finance US$0.8 million for local costs of the
environment component.
Financing Plan:
GOM   MtM A  M FA  IBRD  ACF  EIB  Prlv. S. LUX  Total  For.  (ECI
Amt   Amm    Amt. Amt. AmIt  Amt.  Amt,  Amtn. Amt  Exch. Taoae)
A. Port Componsnt
Container Terminal. Equipment  -0.0  10.6  -    20.9    20.9  19.7  6.3  -    78.5  67.7  10.8
Roads & Services                2.0         1 5   15     -       -    -    5.0   3.0    2.0
OIl Storage R eloc         0.0          -     -    -     -     2.7    -    2.7   2.1    0.6
PaIsonger Tatminal         0.0  0 7     -     -                  -         0.7   0.4    0.3
Inslilutlonal Strengthening   0.0  0.4  -   1 0   1.0    .      .          2 5   1 .8   0.7
Subtotal Port Cmp           0.0  13.0        23.4  23.4  19.7    9.0    -  89.3  74.9   1 4.4
B. Freeport Component
M ar Rouge (Port)        -0.0         1 13  6.6    -     -       -         7.9   5.8    2.1
Techic.l Assistance              -     -     -          -      -    1.0   1 .0  0      0.2
aubtotat Fre.port Camp.             -   1.3    6     -    -       -         8 89   6 5    2.3
C. Environm ant Com ponent
Marine EnvIronment        0.2    0.4    -   0 3       -        0.7         1 .6  1 .2   0.4
Vassals Safety            0.3     -         0.2    .    .        -    .   0.4   0.2   0.3
Subtotal Envlainant Comp    0.4   0.4     -   0.5    .    .      0.7    .   2.0   1 .4   0.6
Totat Disburs    ent        0 4  14.2   1 3    30.5    23.4  19.7  9.7  1 0   100.2  82.9  17.3
Note: Figures may not add up to total due to rounding



III. The Project                                                              15
3.7   The use of a Single Currency Loan (SCL), especially for MMA, and the contemplated
private sector investment in the proposed project represent noteworthy innovations to
standard Bank financing arrangements in Africa, to date. By allowing a better exchange rate
risk management, the single-currency, US dollar-based loan offers significant value to MMA,
which earns most of its revenue in US dollars; the SCL's long termn 15-year maturity better
spreads the annual financing costs for MMA, compared to its short-term and higher-cost
alternative option. The same terms or better were secured for the project's cofinancing
arrangements (JExIm and EIB). The anticipated private sector equity financing of equipment
would reduce reliance on debt financing. Such financing sources include Mauritius' emerging
stock market, after revision of CHC's Memorandum of Association, thus furthering the capital
market-strengthening objective, consistent with an ongoing IFC project (Ln. 3699).
E. Implementation
3.8   The project would be carried out by MMA, MFA and the Directorate of Shipping.
MEPD would coordinate progress on institutional measures. Final engineering of the works
has been satisfactorily completed by consultants. Bids have been launched to minimize start
up delay and contracts are expected to be awarded in July 1995. Supervision of construction
would be carried out by local and foreign consultants. The project would be implemented in 6
years, completed by June 30, 2001, and closed by December 31, 2001.  A project
implementation schedule is presented in Annex 5, Chart 3.
3.9   Implementation of port sector reforms, which are key to attaining the project's overall
objective of increased efficiency and competitiveness in port operations, would require actions
on the part of both Government and the institutions concerned. Critical activities identified
below are part of project conditions agreed during negotiation; key performance indicators
to be monitored are in Annex 4.
3. 10  Institutional Framework Strengthening.   The Government of Mauritius has
satisfactorily finalized the following documents and measures to allow for transparency and
efficiency and private sector involvement:
(a) Statement of Port Sector Reform Policy (Annex 1), including timetables for (i) adoption
by GOM of the Port Master Plan and delegation to MMA of the authority to enforce such a
Master Plan; (ii) establishment of specific regulations for port environment and vessel safety
control and delegation to MMA of the authority to enforce such regulations; (iii) revision of
the Ports Act; (iv) adoption of corporate plans for MMA, CHC and MFA, including
quantitative performance targets and the establishment of a cost accounting system for MMA
and CHC; and (v) revision of CHC's Memorandum of Association.
(b) Revision of the Ports Act of 1975 incorporating such reforms to make MMA the sole legal
authority over port land use and setting of operations standards;
(c) revision of CHC's Memorandum of Association to gain access to private capital and
know-how. Such a revision would include provision for CHC to enter into a technical
arrangement with an experienced container terminal operator; and



16                               Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
(d) revision of the Port Master Plan with delegation given to MMA to enforce the Master Plan
and port environment safety norms and regulations.
3.11 Management and Operational Improvement: Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that:
(a) MMA would implement its Corporate Plan including a three year rolling investment plan
for the mid-1995 to mid-1998 with quantitative targets and dates to measure performance.
MNMA would update the three year rolling plan for port investment, and submit it, each year
by June 30, for the Bank's concurrence;
(b) MMA would, based on recommendations of a Technical Committee: (i) enter into a
concession contract with CHC by December 31, 1996, for use of the existing terminal, under
terms and conditions (performance indicators) acceptable to the Bank and payment of a
concession fee to MMA and (ii) lease or sell its handling equipment to CHC based on agreed
and acceptable tariffs;
(c) CHC would implement its Corporate Plan for the mid-1995 to mid-1998 including
quantitative targets and dates to measure performance; and
(d) MFA would implement its Corporate Plan for the mid-1995 to mid-1998 including
quantitative targets and dates to measure performance.
3.12 Investment in Port Facilities: Assurances were obtained that:
(a) The procurement for civil works and services under the proposed project would follow
Bank procedures and guidelines specified in Section F below;
(b) MMA would prepare before February 28, 1997, a draft concession contract acceptable to
the Bank, to define the main terms for the operational arrangements for the new container
terminal. A qualified operator, acceptable to the Bank, would be selected by December 31,
1997;
(c) MFA would consult with the Bank before undertaking new investments in common user
facilities and would not operate such facilities, which would be given under concession
contract(s) to qualified operator(s).
3.13  Services for Capacity Building at MMA and MFA and Directorate of Shipping:
Assurances were obtained that consultant services for capacity building would be procured in
accordance with Bank guidelines specified in section F. below.
3.14 Environmental Protection: Assurances were obtained for:
(a) delegation to MMA by December 31, 1995, of the authority to enforce port operation
safety and environment norms; and



Ill. The Project                                                                    17
(b) establishment by December 31, 1996, of specific regulations for port and vessel safety
control.
F. Procurement
3.15 Procurement of Civil Works and Equipment would be undertaken on the basis of
International Competitive Bidding (ICB), with the exception of the Road & Services at Mer
Rouge and the Freeport Component, which would be undertaken through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB), in accordance with IBRD's Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995). IBRD standard bidding documents would be
used by MMA and MFA for all ICB procurement. The prequalification of contractors for the
new container/oil terminal was carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines. Tendering is
scheduled to be launched in May 1995.
3.16   The following table summarizes the proposed methods of procurement for the
project's categories and the estimated amounts:
Procurement Method /a
Procurement Arrangements  International   National                  Private
(US$ Million)             Competitive    Competitive                 Sector
Bidding       Biddinwi      Other      Financing's   Total
Civil Works                   56.3            5.5           -          2.6    64.4
(24.4)         (2.5)                            (26.9)
Equipment & Spare Parts       19.4              -           -         10.3    29.6
(1.5)                                           (1.5)
Consultant Services &
Engineering                      -              -          3.4         0.2      3.5
(I. 1)      (0. 1)   (1.2)
Training                         -              -          2.3         0.3      2.7
(0.9)       (0.1)    (1.0)
Total                         75.6            5.5         5.7         13.4   100.2
(25.8)         (2.5)        (2.0)       (0.2)   (30.5)
/a: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IBRD;
/b: Mer Rouge's Roads & Sces and Freeport sub-component
Ic: Civil works for Oil Storage Relocation and Equipment
3.17   MMvA  would  implement the Port Development Component and the related
procurement. This is the second port project, and MMA's staff has experience in project
management. Consultants were retained by MMA to prepare designs and bidding documents
and would supervise the terminal construction with a team satisfactory to the Bank.
Procurement capabilities of other agencies under the project, i.e., MFA and the Directorate of
Shipping, were found satisfactory. The main port contract would include provisions for price
adjustment over its two-year duration, and MMA would receive technical assistance under the
project to monitor and publish indices of construction inputs (labor, materials, and equipment
usage) on a regular basis. As the last Country Procurement Assessment Report took place in
1988, the borrower's procurement regulations and procedures have recently been reviewed by
Bank staff, and have been found acceptable.



18                                Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
3.18 During project implementation, award for Bank-financed works contracts above a
threshold of US$300,000 would be subject to the Bank's prior review. This will cover about
95 percent of the total works contract value procured by ICB and NCB (100 percent, ICB; 50
percent, NCB). Civil works contracts under US$300,000 and in an aggregate amount not
exceeding US$2.5 million of Bank financing would be awarded through NCB. All equipment
contracts above US$250,000 each, namely fire-fighting, office technology and computerized
yard management system equipment and spare parts, would be procured through ICB. Goods
contracts or packages above US$250,000 would also be subject to prior review, covering 100
percent of the total value of Bank-financed goods.
3.19 Consultant services financed by IBRD will be contracted on the basis of the World
Bank Consultant Guidelines (August 1981). The Guidelines require the Bank to review and
comment on each step by which the Borrowers select consulting firms, including: (i)
preparation of terms of reference and budget; (ii) choice of selection procedure; (iii)
preparation of shortlist (if not single source) and Letter of Invitation; (iv) submission of
winning proposal and evaluation report; (v) negotiated draft contract.
3.20  In accordance with IBRD Guidelines (January 1995), prior review thresholds have
been established for the procurement of services, per contract, at US$100,000 equivalent for
consulting firms, and US$50,000 equivalent for individuals. Below these thresholds, the Bank
conducts post review (1 in 5) of documentation for selected consultant contracts, but still
requires prior review of TORs, assignments of a critical nature (e.g. environment), single
source selection, and amendments bringing the total above the thresholds.
3.21  Procurement reporting to the Bank will be as follows:
(a)   contract award by the Borrowers;
(b)   quarterly reports indicating: (i) updated cost estimates for individual contracts and the
total project, including best estimates of allowances for physical and price contingency;
(ii) updated timning of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract
award, and completion time for individual contracts; (iii) compliance with aggregate
limits on specified methods of procurement
G. Disbursement
3.22  A schedule of estimated disbursements which takes into account the disbursement
profile for projects in Mauritius is given in Annex 5, Table 9.4. Disbursement from the loan
would cover:
(a)   for civil works: 50% of foreign expenditures* for MMA; and 100% of foreign
expenditures and 40% of local expenditures for GOM;
(b)   for equipment and spare parts: 50% of foreign expenditures* for MMA;
*
The other 50% of foreign expenditures will be disbursed from ACF, which will jointly finance all MMA
procurement contracts funded by the IBRD.



III. The Project                                                             19
(c)   for consultant services: 50% of foreign expenditures* and 20%  of local
expenditures for MMA; and 100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of local
expenditures for GOM; and
(d)   for training: 50% of foreign expenditures* and 20% of local expenditure for
MMA; and 100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of local expenditures for
GOM.
Estimated Disbursements (in US$ million):
IBRD/FY             1996      1997      1998      1999     2000      2001
Annual               4         8        14         4.3       0.1       0.1
Cumulative           4         12       26        30.3      30.4      30.5
3.23  The minimum application amount for payments directly from the Loan Account or for
issuance of Special Commitments will be US$300,000 equivalent for MMA and US$100,000
equivalent for MFA. Disbursements will be fully documented except that withdrawals will be
made on the basis of SOEs for the items below:
- Civil works contracts valued at less than US$300,000 equivalent;
- Goods and equipment contracts valued at less than US$250,000 equivalent;
- Consulting firm contracts valued at less than US$100,000 equivalent, and individual
consultant contracts valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent;
- Local Training.
3.24  If requested by the Borrowers, and to facilitate disbursements against eligible
expenditures for small contracts of less than US$250,000 equivalent, two Special Accounts
(SAs) will be established in the name of MMA and MFA. The SAs will be opened and
maintained in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, with an authorized allocation of
US$0.5 million for MFA and US$2.0 million for MMA, corresponding to about four months
of expenditures. Replenishment applications will be submitted at monthly intervals and will
include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
H. Environmental and Social Impact
3.25  Environmental and Social Impacts.  The project is classified as Environment
Category B.  It builds on the achievement of the environment project on matters of
conservation monitoring and was prepared parallel to a biodiversity project to be presented
shortly for GEF financing. A specific Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was carried
out for the construction of the new container terminal, in accordance with the guidelines of
the Mauritius Environment Protection Act (1991). It concluded that the facilities would pose
no significant threat to the land and marine environment. The report has been approved by
Mauritius and an EIA license has been granted to MMA. This report is now public and has
been received by the Bank and forwarded to the Public Information Center (PIC). The civil
works would be executed in accordance with the provisions of the Mauritius Environment
Protection Act, and detailed design and contractual arrangements have been prepared to
comply with such provisions and the recommendations of the EIA on noise and other



20                                Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
potential works related disturbances. In addition, a study is being finalized to recommend
further specific improvement measures where needed, in the environmental safeguards of
businesses currently operating in the port. Further, the project will immediately address the
issue of the unsafe location and current operations by private oil companies of hazardous
goods--gasoline--by facilitating the relocation of such goods.  Finally, the environment
component of the project would bring the port of Port-Louis up-to-date with environmental
standards for ports (defined by international conventions such as MARPOL and OPRC),
including the establishment of the capacity for ship technical control for sea-worthiness and
safe disposal of oily waste to minimize pollution of coastal and international waters. MMA
would be granted the authority, and its staff trained, to enforce port safety regulations on
existing and future port operations. Hence, the project would contribute to enhancing the
implementation of Mauritius Environment Protection Act. The project would also have a
substantial and positive social impact by (i) providing more efficient and reliable conditions for
Mauritius trade, and (ii) helping indirectly to generate new business in the international trading
sector, thus securing and expanding employment.
1. Supervision, Monitoring, Reporting and Auditing
3.26  The Bank would devote some 84 staff weeks of supervision to the progress of the
loans through FY2001. During the first three years, supervision will focus on progress
towards achieving specific objectives such as works, implementation of corporate plans and
performance of implementation agencies. In the final three years, the emphasis will shift
towards evaluation of results and especially follow up to implement action plans. The scope
and timing of supervision are shown in Annex 3.
3.27  Overall project monitoring would be based on indicators set up in Annex 4 and the
implementation schedule shown in Annex 5, Chart 3. Monitoring would be carried out by
MEPD through a steering committee chaired by MEPD's Director, assisted by consultants as
necessary. Progress under each project investment component and action plan would be
monitored by MMA, MFA, and MOA/iMEQL, who would report to the steering committee.
Progress reports would be prepared every six months and be submitted to the Bank within one
month thereafter. An outline of the progress reports is given in Annex 3. No later than three
months after completion of the project, MEPD would prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report on the execution of the project, its costs and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it.
3.28  MMA and MFA would keep separate project accounts together with their statutory
financial statements. Terms of reference for the annual audits of the project accounts were
agreed at negotiations. Auditing will be carried out by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, and the reports of such audits will be submitted to the Bank no later than six month
after the end of the fiscal year.



IV. Economnic Evaluation                                                           21
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.    Forecast Traffic Demand
4.1    Port-Louis harbor traffic grew by 5.6%  p.a. over the period FY87-FY94, but
containerized traffic grew more rapidly than other cargo, at a rate of 10% p.a. The traffic
pattern of Mauritius is largely unbalanced between imports and exports. Of the total volume
of 3.4 million tons handled in FY94, imports comprised over two-thirds, of which 75% were
containerized. This imbalance generated a costly re-export of empties. Exports included
more bulk than containerized cargo.
FY94            In         Out        Total
Laden                44,000     23,500      67,500
Empties               5,250     23,100       28,350
(TEUs)          49,250     46,600      95,850
4.2    Traffic Forecasts: Based on projected trends in population growth, levels of
consumption and production for exports, the total port traffic is estimated to continue to
grow at a rate of about 5% p.a. for the next 10 years, slightly slower than in previous
years. Containerized traffic growth is expected to slow down from 6.5 % in FY95 to 4.5%
in FY2000 (Annex 5, Table 4).
Total Traffic: Actual & Forecast (in Tons): 1986/87-2014/15:
MIaurfGus-Globa I TraWnc
8,000 o 000
7,000,000                                      _
6,000.000 -
---BULK NPORT
4,000,000_.
^ 4 ,000,000                                         - -0- CONTA NER S
3,000,000                                            -w-- OTHER IMPORT/EXPORT
2.000,000                                                TOTAL
1.000,000
Flacal Ye a r



22                                 Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
Containerized Traffic: Actual & Forecast (in TEUs): 1986/87-2014/15:
2 500 .00
2  000 0
1a 0                                                           ,eOO~      T I          
1  D  0 0a 0 0    
7        0 C3             e      93         0   3    1 
F 1X c . I    6 *   1 r
B. Operations Without and With the Project
4.3    Without the Project. The port of Port-Louis is constrained in its ability to unload
and load container vessels because of (i) the insufficient number of dedicated berths for
container vessels and (ii) the lack of container gantry cranes. As a result, container vessels
have to wait their turn to be serviced, and have to use their own gears to handle containers, at
an increasing cost. In addition, the stacking yard is adjacent to only two berths, and the
handling of container vessels at the other two berths requires a lot of land haulage. The
average quay occupancy rate (60%) is high, mainly due to the long time taken to handle
general cargo vessels that are often old and poorly equipped. Also, the rate of handling
container vessels is substandard (about 5.5 moves per hour per gang), though a few well-
equipped self-geared vessels have managed up to 16 moves per hour. Although container
vessels are given priority for docking, their average waiting time is likely to increase fast; the
number of ship waiting days was 212 days in 1994 and is estimated to reach over 500 days by
the year 2000, even with efficiency improvements to reduce dead time in gang operation.
4.4   The increase in bulk traffic (cement, coal, ammonia) would compete with the container
traffic. Berth number I would no longer be available for containers and Berth number 2
would be used for bulk part of the time. Liquid bulk (petroleum and gas) will continue to use
Berths 3 and 4 when the first two are not available. The growth of feeder vessels (if the
transshipment policy promoted by WFA is successful) would further constrain the use of
quays, and in larger proportion than the increase in volume handled, due to their lower
efficiency.
4.5    With the Project. The proposed project will make available three additional berths,
two exclusively for containers and one for petroleum tankers. The container terminal's
productivity will increase substantially with the operation of the proposed two new container
gantry cranes. Productivity is expected to reach over 25 moves per hour per crane; annual
port-days are expected to increase from 876 to 1359; operating costs for various vessels range
from US$6,650 to 12,670 (Annex 5, Tables 10, I1 and 12). Operation would start in early
1998 and all three berths are expected to be used at over 50% of capacity by the year 2005.
From the first year of operation, it is expected that all container liners and feeder vessels will



IV. Economic Evaluation                                                            23
be handled at the new terminal. Geared container vessels will no longer be handled at the
former terminal, and ships plying Indian Ocean routes are expected to become gradually
gearless.
C. Costs and Benefits Analysis
4.6    Costs and benefits of the container and oil termninal were evaluated at constant July
1994 prices. Financial cost estimates were converted to economic costs by excluding taxes,
duties and price contingencies. Costs include construction and related maintenance costs for
the 3 berths, stacking yard terminal, 2 container gantry cranes and 4 yard rubber tired
gantry cranes and related tractors and trailers, and front end lift trucks. Benefits include
cost savings attributable to reduction in: turn-around time for container and other vessels;
handling costs for containers (mainly management improvement and lower labor costs);
dead waiting time for cargo; and freight rates from the use of larger container vessels and
petroleum tankers. Additional benefits would result from reduction of double handling
between Berths I and 3 to reach the container stacking yard behind Berth 4 at a cost of about
1000 Mau. Rs. per container (US$50).
4.7   Savings in ship turn-around time and cargo time would benefit container traffic, as
well as bulk and general cargo. Indeed, the transfer of container handling to the new terminal
and of the petroleum and gas carriers to the new oil terminal would release space on Berths I
to 4. On those berths, areas will become available to handle other cargo like fisheries' cold
storage or rice in bulk. While MFA may later take advantage of these opportunities, such
benefits have not been quantified. Overall, the benefits would accrue to cargo shippers and
ship owners. With respect to container vessels, about 75% of benefits are estimated to be
passed on to Mauritian cargo owners, given the strong competition among shipping
companies. Most other cargo is carried on voyage charter ships chartered by Mauritians
(State Trading Corporation and major private companies) and benefits would accrue to the
Mauritian economy.
D. Overall Economic Evaluation, Sensitivity and Risks
4.8   Economic evaluation only applies to the new container/oil terminal which represents
90% of the project costs and is based on a comparison of projected costs and benefits. The
operational parameters used for the economic evaluation are given in Annex 5, Table 10.
The streams of costs and benefits are set out in Annex 5, Table 13. The estimated
economic rate of return (ERR) is 19%. The sensitivity of the return to variations in costs
and benefits (Annex 5, Table 14) is summarized below:
ERR (%)
Base case                                                             19
15% increase in costs (due to delays and/or price/quantities)        17
15% decrease in benefits (due to higher operating cost and lower demand)  17
Combined increase in costs and decrease in benefits by 15% each       16
4.9    A risk analysis was carried out to assess the probability of the worst case with a
simultaneous occurrence of cost increases and benefit reductions of 15%  each.  The



24                                Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
probability of getting the theoretical minimum rate of return of 15.6%, calculated in the
sensitivity analysis (Annex 5, Table 14) is almost nil. The simulation based on a normal
distribution law and 700 iterations, gives the spread of probability in obtaining an ERR
from below 16.5% (less that 5 % of cases) to above 20.5 % (25 % of cases; see Annex 5,
Table 15).
4.10 The results show that the project remains justified even with sizable variations in
project costs and benefits.  The assumptions used are conservative.  In addition, the
benefits of technical assistance have not been quantified; they include (i) a rationalized
utilization of port land based on an approved Port Master Plan, avoiding misuse of premium
land reclaimed from the sea; (ii) a more responsive service to private investors, operators and
port users; (iii) trade opportunities for the country generated by transshipment; and (iv) less
polluted port water, better handling of hazardous cargo and improved ship safety.
4.11  The main risks to the operation of the terminal would be in the event of exceptional
tropical storms, in which case some damage may be caused to: (i) berths; (ii) berths and
yard handling equipment; and (iii) containers. A special risk analysis has been carried out
to evaluate the probability and amplitude of maximum waves in such storms. The results
were used to calculate the design structure of the berths which is independent from the
structure supporting the gantry cranes. Safety measures from other similar islands prone to
tropical storms were used in the design (La R6union, and French West Indies ports).
Warning mechanisms and emergency procedures are already operational and would be
appropriate to mitigate this risk. Calculations of the economic return have taken into
account elements of risks, including: (i) the uncertainty with respect to the development of
transshipment operations likely to result from freeport activities; hence no traffic growth
was ascribed to transshipment traffic beyond its actual volume of about 2500 TEUs; and
(ii) the findings of a mathematical model analysis indicating that the new facilities would
not be available for short periods (48 hours) three to five times per year, due to tropical
storms.
E. Economic Assessment of MFA
4.12  The economic justification of MFA's proposed investment was examined and indicated
that the cost-benefit analysis of the proposed investment based on extemal benefits is
satisfactory with a return of about 20%. The extemal benefits were quantified in monetary
terms and include residual value of land, additional income for port and airport and direct
employment revenues. Additional revenues are expected to accrue to Mauritian traders, but
are not taken into account as too difficult to quantify accurately. Providing that MFA's
development attracts sufficient free port operators to occupy its facilities, revenues from the
project's investment would be able to cover all MFA's operational costs and gradually meet
interest and debt repayment by the year 2000 to phase-out Government financing (see para.
5.19). Based on Mauritius' history of prudent management, and GOM's commitment to
launch MFA, the project will support the initial phase of investment in site preparation to
facilitate investment in facilities. During the project, GOM would consult with the Bank, by
June 30, 2000, on the development of freeport operations.



V. Financial Analysis                                                             25
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
THE MAURITIUS MARINE AUTHORITY (MMA)
A. Past and Present Financial Performance
5.1   The audited balance sheets, income statements and cash flow statements of MMtA are
presented in Annex 5, Tables 7.1, 7.2 and 7.3. The data below highlights the good financial
situation of MMA.
Key Data             FY1990   FY1991   FY1992   FY1993    FY1994
Operating Revenues (000. Mau. Rs.)    173,249  182,969   205,342    206,295   247,572
Operating Margin                   51%      47%       52%       45%       48%
Return on Net Assets               23%      39%       27%       22%        3%
DebtlEquity                         0.25    0.21      0.20      0.12      0.27
Traffic (000, Tons)               2,720    2,927     3,133     3,228     3,383
5.2    MMA's past financial performance is characterized by a careful management of its cash
flow and leverage. Port operating revenues increased at an average annual rate of 9%
between FY 1990 and FY 1994 when they reached Mau. Rs. 247 million due to growth in
port traffic and the appreciation of the US dollar on which port tariffs are based. Port
operating margin was kept at about 50% of revenues while the cost of borrowing was
restricted to a maximum of 8% of revenues. This allowed MMA to accumulate cash reserves
of about Mau. Rs. 340 million (US$17 million equivalent) by 1994, which compares favorably
to most ports of the region.
5.3    MMA also maintained an appropriate depreciation policy to allow for periodic
maintenance and replacement of its assets . The return on net assets was as high as 39% in
1991 and maintained at about 20% through 1993. The debt to equity ratio was maintained at
a low level, 0.20. Finally, MMA employed qualified staff in its finance and administrative
department.
5.4    On the downside, MMA has not consistently managed all potential revenue sources
and associated costs. The cost of MMA's investment in cargo handling equipment (valued
approximately at Mau. Rs. 105 million) for which MMA maintains a repair unit, was not
recovered from Cargo Handling Corporation (CHC). Further, MMA has not been able to
benefit from leasing the valuable port land over which it currently has no right. In addition,
MMA's tariffs cannot be properly managed as their relationship to costs is unknown, due to
the lack of a cost management system. Finally, beginning in 1993, MMA embarked on a plan
to expand port facilities (under the proposed project) without adequately considering how to
match long term investments with long term borrowing. This led to a rapid decrease of its
cash reserve.
3
Revaluation of assets was done at the end of 1993 and will be carried out periodically as warranted by price
increases.



26                                       Mauriftus: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
5.5    Under its initial plan of short/medium term borrowing, and without specific actions on
tariffs and costs, MMA's cash reserve would have been depleted by 1997 and its internally
generated funds4 would only cover one third its debt service requirements. MMA would have
been unable to meet its obligations from 1997 onwards (Chart 1 below).
Chart 1.
MMA Internal Funds Vs Debt Service
(Without the Project)
Including Existing Debt: US$31 million; New Debt (from 1995) :US$25 million Medium Term
Short term borrowing (LIBOR+ an estimated margin of 1.25%)
'000 Mau. Rs.                E& US$17 million Long Term concessional rate (estimated at 5%).
350,000 T
250,000
150,000
30,000               T m
(50,000)  1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997    98    1999   2000
(150,000)                                        Years
(250,000)   Not including a financing gap of US$10 million
(350,000)
I    F | Estinmuad Intemal Funds available  _  Total debt service (Offshore Barn) -    Cash position
Source: Mission estimates.
5.6    The overall earning capacity of the port is also affected by the inefficiencies and the
high cost of the over-manned and mediocre performance of CHC (para. 2.7). This impacts
negatively on the port's image, volume of traffic and revenues, especially for non-captive
traffic. The distortions in the ports tariff structure are highlighted in Chapter II.
B. Future Financial Strategy and Projections
5.7    Financial Strategy: The financial strategy envisaged with the project would build upon
the strengths of MMA and support a program for improved cash flow management which
would help MMA remain self sustaining and competitive. Such a strategy would address (i)
management of borrowing cost (ii) enlarging the revenue base to include a cost recovery
policy for all assets in use including land, to yield reasonable cash flow to sustain operations
(See Chart 2 below). This program would also include (iii) costs and tariff management; and
(iv) institutional support to the finance and administration unit to build its capacity for future
financial planning and monitoring. This program would be implemented through a corporate
plan to be approved by the Board of Directors of MMA, including specific financial objectives
and covenants described in Section C hereafter. Similarly, a corporate plan would be
implemented by CHC as an integral part of developing the port's business practices towards a
4
Internal funds available for debt service are 60% of the annual accumulated cash flow; the remaining 40% is
allocated to urgent investments.



V. Financial Analysis                                                                     27
more competitive and financially sound operation, and the performance indicators of this plan
(see Annex 4) would be embodied in a concession agreement.
5.8    Financial Forecasts: The cash flow illustrated by Chart 2 below indicate that if the
above components of the strategic plan are properly implemented, MMA's expected internally
generated funds would exceed its debt needs, even leaving a surplus to fund potential
investments. MMA's net cash position would at first significantly decrease from 1996 to Mau
Rs. 50 million by 1999 due both to service of the existing debts and the investment required to
extend port facilities (US$14 million to be contributed by MMA, representing about 20% of
the cost). However, the cash position would remain positive and steadily climb to its highest
projected level of Mau. Rs. 350 million by the year 2005.
Chart 2.
N4A-Internal Funds Vs Debt Service (With the Project)
seoo 0  'O    F
2 0 0 .000
la60  .0  0
10 0 .0 0 0a
0 0 0 .0 0 0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~          200         002       
C==== _l -  d I .& .d .a  1  1, In nl . . .  _ T I Fh  jT .  |     be D c.   ,e|Il 
Source: Mission estimates
5.9    The return on net assets would be initially about 2% up to 2001, then increase as port
traffic grows following modernization of its infrastructure, improvements in efficiency, and
revision of tariffs (see data below). It would reach 5% by 2005. The debt to equity ratio
would not exceed 1.5, which is satisfactory. The assumptions underlying these forecasts are
presented in Annex 5, Table 7.5.
Key Data         FY94     FY95      FY96      FY97      FY98    FY99    FYOO    FY01
Op. Rev. (000 Mau. Rs.)   247,572   259,951   299,648   314,630   396,434  416,255  437,068   474,597
OperatingMargin           48%       49%      51%       51%       58%      63%      69%      690/o
Return on Net Assets   .   3%        2%       2%        2%        2%       2%       2%       3%
DebtEquity                0.27      0.25     0.80      1.44      1.43     1.43     1.50     1.51
Trffic (000, Tons)       3,383     3,599    3,791     3,996     4,193    4,391    4,588    4,772



28                                Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
C. Financial Objectives and Covenants
5.10 The financial management program envisaged for MMA to remain self sustaining and
competitive would include the elements described below to be made an integral part of a
corporate plan for the approval of the Board of Directors of MMA. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained to meet the following objectives and covenants:
5.11 Management of Borrowings and Currency Risk Exposure: Borrowing plans for
investments in port facilities would be presented each year by June 30, in a three year rolling
plan, acceptable to the Bank, and would match the nature of the assets and the sources of
funds. The financing plan for the proposed investment would seek long term loans, with an
appropriate grace period, to better match revenue generation and debt service. Currency risk
exposure would be reduced by matching foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities.
5.12 Management of Tariffs: The current tariffs for port services are not related to the cost
of the services. MMA's tariffs are estimated at about 35% below its cost after revaluation of
assets; at the same time cross subsidies exist but cannot be properly ascertained (para. 2.13).
A cost accounting system tracing the cost of the various services, including depreciation and
the cost of capital and other common costs, and associated revenues, would be implemented
under the project, before June 30, 1996, to provide a full basis for costs recovery and yield a
reasonable cash flow to sustain operations. To this end: (a) tariffs for all services would be
revised from time to time. Current estimates for revisions are, on average not less than 15%
on June 30, 1996, to contribute to the cost of the planned extension works. Subsequently,
based on the revenues and costs analysis of the services, tariffs would be adjusted no later
than June 30, 1999, by not less than 8% on average. Tariffs would be revised regularly to: (i)
maintain their real value; and (ii) generate a reasonable return on net assets in use (estimated
at about Mau. Rs. 2.1 billion by the year 2000) of not less than 2% by the year 2000 to
contribute to future investments; (b) MMA's working expenses would not exceed 40% of
annual operating revenues by the year 2000 and thereafter; to this end, excessive maintenance
and labor costs would be reduced by at least 20% in 1998, and 10% in 2000; and (c) annual
long-term debt would not be higher than 1.5 times accumulated equity and reserves. Cargo
handling charges would be lowered through a phased reduction in labor cost and improved
gang performance to be specified in a concession contract between MMA and CHC. Such a
contract to be acceptable to the Bank, would be executed by December 31, 1996, and would
include performance indicators detailed in Annex 4.
5.13 Revenue Generation From All Assets in Use and Operating Cost Management: MMA
would price appropriately all port related services with full knowledge of their costs structure,
including land and rental values of properties. The cash flow generated annually as defined
above would be invested in financial and other equity assets through the local financial
markets, to at least prevent depletion from inflation. MIMA would be granted the authority to
benefit from the investment in developing the land in the port areas.
5
Intermediate steps to be monitored through the corporate plan would be: 50% (1996) and 45% (1998), see
Annex 4.



V. Financial Analysis                                                                         29
D. Sensitivity Analysis
5.14 Given its good record in managing operating costs, the two elements to which MMA's
financial performance would be particularly sensitive are revenue growth related to traffic
volume and tariff revisions. The sensitivity analysis in Annex 5, Table 7.4, highlights the
results of variations in revenues due to growth in the volume of traffic of 9%, 5% and 3%.
The financial covenants would require revisions of tariffs. Further, efficiency gains in gang
performance (See Annex 4, Performance Indicators) and reduction in costs (labor,
maintenance) are expected to benefit port users and thereby mitigate the effect of tariff
increases on ship owners.
5.15   Even the worst case scenario does not indicate a dramatic worsening of MMA's
financial position. Such a situation could occur if traffic increases are below 3%. The reforms
and efficiency measures included in the project would help mitigate this risk. In addition, the
forecasts were prepared using a lower revenue growth, 5% rather than the historical trend of
9%, and operating expenses were conservatively forecast.
THE MAURITIUS FREEPORT AUTHORITY (MFA)
A. Recent Financial Results
5.17           The data below  summarize the results of the first two years (1993-94) of
operations of MFA. MFA's main source of revenue is rental of infrastructure (land, storage
facilities, common areas, etc..) to private operators in freeport zones. This infrastructure is
currently in a development stage, so MFA generated about Mau. Rs. 2.8 million over the two
years for a total operating cost of about Mau. Rs. 12 million (Annex 5, Table 8.1). For these
two years, the Government provided Mau. Rs. 14.6 million representing the bulk of the
financing of the operations to support the development of MFA's business.
6
MFA - Income Statements (000, Mau. Rs.)
------ Audited -------I---------------------------- Projected --------------------------------------
FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99    FY00   FY01
Revenues           8,816  12,632   13,378    9,778    25,920   25,920   25,920  25,920  25,920
Oper. Expenses    2,119   9,807   12,050   12,574    19,307   19,549   19,801  20,063  20,335
Depreciation         35       35   3,300    8,025     8,025    8,025    8,025   8,025   8,025
Interest              0       0        0     3,994    9,390   10,780   10,780  10,780  10,680
Surplus/Deficit   6,662    2,790  (1,972)  (10,090)  (18,791)  (16,264)  (6,840)  (4,202)   2,812
Source: Mission/MFA estimates.
5.18   MFA is an autonomous entity and as such its ultimate financial objective is to be self-
sustainable, recovering the full costs of its business and yielding a reasonable return on its
investment. Because MFA is still to develop (see para. 2.16), GOM's support in covering
operating costs (exclusive of depreciation and interest) will be required up to FY 2000,
according to financial projections. Subsequently, MFA is expected to be self-sufficient. By
6
50,000 m2 of new facilities would be available from 1997.



30                                 Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
June 30, 2000, GOM will consult with the Bank as to the future development of freeport
operations.
B. Financial Projections
5.19 The assumptions, by MFA (Annex 5, Table 8.3), underlying the financial projections
from 1995 to the year 2001 are detailed in Annex 5, Table 8.1 and 8.2. The financial
projections in the table above indicate that MFA would meet its initial target of self sufficiency
by the year 2000/2001 and become profitable thereafter with a return on investment of about
5% by 2005.
C. Sensitivity Analysis
7
5.20  The projections for MFA would be most sensitive to the occupancy rate of the land .
MFA revenues are mainly from rental of properties (warehouses, storage, etc.) and license
fees. An increase in revenues depends on the number of freeport operators that MFA can
attract. As the first two years of operations do not provide sufficient reference, the project is
to assist the Government in launching this activity based on Mauritius' past good economic
management record.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations for MFA to limit
investments to providing common user areas (site preparation) only, and leave the
development and management of facilities (storage, buildings, etc.) to the private sector to
avoid a heavy debt burden. Government would monitor the development of MFA and consult
with the Bank; MFA has hired a qualified accountant and data processing expert to improve
its financial management; and rental fees for warehouses would be increased from time to time
to maintain commercial value, first before December 31, 1995, to a monthly rate of Mau. Rs.
7/feet2 in line with current market values.
7
A combined scenario of three rates (25%, 50% and 100%) is in Annex 5, Table 8. MFA intends to enter into
a joint venture with private investors to build warehouses, replacing rental revenues by its share of
potential earnings distribution.



VI. Benefits and Risks                                                        31
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1   The economic rate of return for the new container and oil terminal (which represents
78% of total base costs) is estimated at 19%, but could vary from 17% to 16% under
different, risk-related assumptions.  By improving the competitiveness of the country's
transport and trade, the project would support the development of international and regional
entrep6t trade, both of which are crucial for continued rapid, sustainable growth of the
Mauritian economy. Transport costs would be lowered through reduced ship and cargo
waiting time. The port would benefit from better land use, in particular for prime areas
reclaimed from the sea. The regulatory roles and organization of MMA and MFA would be
strengthened to make both agencies more responsive to the needs of private investors and
operators. MMA and MFA are expected to generate satisfactory cash flow and returns on
investments under the project. The project would have a substantial and positive social
impact by (i) providing more efficient and reliable conditions for Mauritian trade, and (ii)
helping indirectly to generate new business in the international trading sector, thus expanding
employment.  The project would also help realize benefits in the form  of reduced
environmental risks, through less polluted port water, better handling of hazardous cargo, and
improved ship safety control.
B. Risks
6.2   The project is subject to three risks: (i) possible partial implementation of the proposed
institutional changes, especially the labor redundancies at MMA and CHC; (ii) the effect of
the annual cyclonic storms on the operations of the new terminal; and (iii) especially for
MMA, the interest rate risk associated with a LIBOR-based SCL. The first risk has been
minimized through the use of client consultation and beneficiary participation.  All the
interested parties--the Government, MMA, CHC, port users and labor unions--participated in
the planning of the institutional studies, as well as in the review of conclusions prior to their
adoption by GOM. The second risk has been mitigated by analyzing the possibilities of
weather related loss and building the appropriate level of precaution into the design of the
berth to enable it to withstand waves of even exceptional storms. In addition, provisions have
been made to have gantry cranes secured to the ground, and yard equipment moved to safe
shelters during such storms. Also, a reasonable number of days of operations have been
deducted from benefits to take into account possible interruption of the port's operations on
such occasions. For the third risk, MIMIA is eligible for a SCL under the Bank Single
Currency Loan Pilot program. MMA's choice of a US dollar SCL will eliminate the foreign
exchange risk that it would have faced with currency pool loans. While the LIBOR-based
interest rate of the SCL is volatile and poses a risk, MIMA estimates that the benefits of
reduced currency risk the SCL affords outweigh the interest rate risk.



32                               Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protecfion Project
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1   During Negotiations. Agreements were reached on the following:
With Government:
(i)    Government's Statement of Port Sector Reform Policy, including timetables
for (a) adoption by GOM of the Port Master Plan and delegation to MMA of
the authority to enforce such a Master Plan; (b) establishment of specific
regulations for port environment and vessel safety control and delegation to
MMA of the authority to enforce such regulations; (c) revision of the Ports
Act; (d) adoption of corporate plans for MMA, CHC and MFA, including
establishment of a cost accounting system for MMA and CHC; and (e) revision
of CHC's Memorandum of Association (para. 3.10 (a, b, c, d) and para. 3.14
(a, b); and
(ii)   Consultation with the Bank by June 30, 2000, on future development of
freeport operations (paras. 4.11 and 5.20).
With MMA:
(i)    MMA would implement the project and conduct its business to meet agreed
annual performance indicators (para. 3.11, (a));
(ii)   execution by December 31, 1996, of a concession contract between MMA and
CHC, and lease or sale of MMA handling equipment to CHC, under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.11 (b));
(iii)   MMA would maintain a Technical Committee with representatives of MMA
and CHC to examine and recommend the steps required to reach agreement on
the terms and conditions of the concession contract in (ii) above (para. 3.11
(b));
(iv)   MMA would prepare by February 28, 1997, a draft concession contract,
acceptable to the Bank, and select a qualified port operator, also acceptable to
the Bank, by December 31, 1997, for the new container terminal (para. 3.12,
(b));
(v)   MMA would earn a positive return on net assets of not less than 2% by the
year 2000. Tariffs would be revised from time to time to meet such a return
(para. 5.12);
(vi)   MMA's working expenses would not exceed 40% of annual operating revenues
by the year 2000 and thereafter (para. 5.12); and
(vii)  Annual long-term debt would not be higher than 1.5 times accumulated equity
and reserves (para. 5.12).



VII. Agreements Reached and Recommendation                                    33
With MFA
(i)    MFA would consult with the Bank before undertaking new investments in
common user facilities and would enter into a concession contract with
qualified operators of such facilities (para. 3.12, (c));
(ii)   Rental fee for warehouses would be increased to Mau. Rs. 7/ft2 per month
before December 31, 1995 and adjusted regularly (para. 5.20).
General
(i)   The procurement for civil works and services under the proposed project
would follow Bank procedures and guidelines (para 3.12, 3.13); and
(ii)   Auditing would be carried out by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank,
and the reports of such audits would be submitted to the Bank no later than six
months after the end of the fiscal year (para. 3.28).
7.2   Conditions for Loan Effectiveness: (i) for the loan to MMA, all conditions
precedent to the initial disbursement of the JExIm Loan (para. 3.5), and (ii) for the loan to
GOM (a) execution of the subsidiary Loan Agreement for MFA, and (b) all conditions
precedent to the initial disbursement of the MMA loan (para. 3.5).
Recommendation
7.3   Subject to the above agreements, the project is suitable for two loans totaling US$30.5
million, consisting of (i) US$23.4 million single currency loan (SCL) to MMA, and (ii)
US$7.1 million single currency loan to the Republic of Mauritius, at the Bank's LIBOR-based
variable lending rate.



34                                      Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Prject
Annex 1: Government Port Sector Reform Policy Statement
DEPUTY PRIME MINISTER
&
MINISTER OF ECONOMIC PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
MAURITIUS
My Ref MEPDMEPU010\514\4\4                                   28Apnil,1995
:  .                                          ~~~~  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  .  -....
Mr Edward V.K.Jaycox,'
Vice President, Africa Region,
The World Bank,
i818 H Street N.W.'
Washington: D. C. 20433,
USA.
Dear Mr Jaycox,
Port Sector Reform Policy Statement
We have been, for some time now, considering the implementation of a port
.expansion project and the reform of the: port sector to enhance productivity in ,: and improve
the intemational competitiveness of, the port of Port Louis as part: of efforts to stimulate'
intemational transport and trade and to promote economic diversirlcation. Discussions
have been held with the Bank for a financing package to implement the'project and to
reach a consensus on port sector reforms. The object of this letter is to Cdetailtout to'you
the specific measures which we intend to take to bring about the necessary changes -
institutional, legal and organisational - in the port sector and to seek your support in favour
of the proposed port development project.
Recent Economic Performance
2     As you are aware, Maunitius has enjoyed sustained growth for over a decade, with
the economy expanding at an average annual rate of'5. 7 per cent in the period 1983-1993.
Exports grew at a rate (16.9 per cent) faster than GOP to reach Rs 23,522 million in 1993,
per capita income rose to neafly USS 3,000 from about US$ 1,000 ten years- earlier and
unemployment dropped to less than 2 per cent of the labor force from the peak of 22 per
cent in the early 1980's. There has been a radical change in the structure of the economy,
with industry, in. particular the Export Processing Zone (EPZ), replacing sugar as the engine:
of growth. Underpinning this success are trade preferences, which Mauntian sugar and
industrial exports enjoy in the European and USA markets, and the availability of a large.
pool of inexpersive but generally literate labor-which gave the country a comparative
advantage in basically labor-intensive manufacturing products.



Annex 1: Government Port Sector Reform Policy Statement                                    35
Constraints to Future Growth
3.    Maintaining the growth momentum  in the face of emerging challenges is a
formidable task for Govemment. Key issues impinging on our efforts to further expand
output and growth include labor and skill shortages (these are driving up wages and
production costs, thereby eroding the comparative advantage of our export products), low
labor productivity relative to what is obtained in countries. competing with us for export
markets, and the gradual erosion of trade preferences as a result of the opening up of our
traditional markets in the wake of the liberalization of international trade.   These
developments are threatening to undermine the ability of Mauritius to continue growing.on
the strength of established activities and underline the need for Govemment to identify new
sources of growth to further modernize the economy and to sustain continued increases in
income and employment.
Economic Diversification
4.    Widening further the economic base through diversification of the production
structure is the key aim of our development strategy. It lays.special emphasis on exploiting
the development potenrial of the financial services, off-shore business activities and:
intemational transport and trade activities, while consolidating the textile sub-sector of the
EPZ by moving up-market. Central to this strategy is the development of Mauritius as a
regional trade center to serve as a transit point for transshipment of goods between Europe
and Asia/Pacific and African countries. Towards this end, a commercial freeport has been
established to promote transshipment activities and re-exporft trade. The current economic
development strategy, including freeport arc' regional hub initiatives, need to be supported
by an adequate port policy designed to improve the performance and intemational
competitiveness of the Pcrt of Port Louis and to meet the demands of port users in an
optimal and timely manner
Port Policy Issues
5.    We commissioned in 1993, with the help of the Bank, studies to look at the various
aspects of port. operation to serve as a basis for the preparation of a Port Expansion
Project, including reform  of the port-sec'or policy.  The studies have identified severat
issues - institutional, organizational, operational and financial - requiring our urgent
attention. The key findings are as follows:
a.    Operational performance of the Mauritian Port is low relative to competing
ports in the region. Overmanning, low labor productivity, shortages of
qualified staff and significant time loss affect port productivity and
intemational competitiveness;
L.    Overlapping  responsibilities, in  particular between  MMA  and  other
Govemment agencies, are leading to duplication. There is a pressing need
to clarify relationships among, and hamnonize the roles and functions of, the
various bodies operating in the Port;
c.    MMA and CHC organizational structures as well as that of MFA, manifest
weaknesses.  These are having an impact on their performance and
efficiency;



36                                         Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
4d.    There are significant risks involved in the handling and storage of petroleum
products and LPG along with other dangerous cargo,. while the location of oif
tank farms in the middle of the Port constitutes a significant threat to life and
property, including the marine environment;
e.    Prime land in the Port area risks being allocated in a manner not consistent
with national priorities as there is no single body in the country withi
responsibility to allocate and oversee the use of land;
f.    CHC is almost entirely dependent on MMA for shore-handling equipment.
The Corporation is also undercapitalized. CHC should be given the means
necessary for it to become a full-fledged operator;
g.    MMA tariffs have remained unchanged since 1983. These will have to be
raised to enable MMA to improve its finances which are expected to come
under severe pressure as a result of borrowings to finance the proposed
container terminal project and other port development projects;.and
h.    Ship waste reception and treatment facilities are not available in the Port. As
a result, vessels discharge oily wastes in the sea, affecting the marine
environment and causing the pollution of intemational waters.
We subscribe to the need to reform the port sector in order to address the critical issues
impinging on port productivity and competitiveness. Details of the reform which we propose
to implement are discussed below:
Objectives of Port Policy
i6..;.   The port policy wiil be guided by the need to achieve the following major goals:
a.    Modemize the port infrastructure and mechanize port operations to the
extent possible;
b.    Promote efficiency in the provision of port services; and
C.    Provide port services at competitive rates.
The objective is to have a port which is modern, well equipped, efficiently operated,
proressionally managed and provides services at competitive rates.
Implementation of Port Policy
7     The policy with regard to the Port will be implemented through a supreme
consolidated port authority which can create the right environment, where all the various
parties concemed, including both public and private sector organizations, together with
users, unions, and other interests can effectively play their respective roles towards.fhe
provision of efficient and competitive port services. Govemment will ensure that they are alt
given the chance to operate in an integrated manner under the drive of MMA which wouJd:
regulate and control the various port activities and operations, while setting the price of porf
services or approving such other tariffs as appropriate.  The overall responsibili& willi
therefore, rest with MMA as the national Port Authority vested with adequate powers to
effectively control all port activities and operations, port development and land useL within
the port boundaries. MMA will operate under the Ministry of Internal and Extemar
Communications which will oversee that the port policy is being property implemented.



Annex 1: Government Port Sector Reform Policy Statement                                    37
Key Aspects of Port Policy
8; T''-:Jhe'national port policy components shall include:
'.:.'.... Statutory policy
a.    the legal and regulatory frarneworks of the Port Authority, port
operators and port industry will be defined;
b.    the main port-sector functions between Govemment, the :Port
Authority and port operators will be allocated bearing in mind the
needs to safeguard national interes. and grant adequate autonomy. t
the Por. Authority;
*c.    the Port Authorty will establish conditions for the llcensing of port
operators. It will have powers to set tariffs for port services and
salaries and conditions of service;
d.    the Port Authority will have direct control overland-use policy.
Investment Policy
The Port Authority will have powers to implement projects identified in the
Port Master Plan.
.i.-   Financial and Tariff Policies
..The PortAuthority will be vested with powers to set financial objectives and
regulate tariff at competitive levels.
iv.:- Environment Policy
This, in line with the Mauritius Environment Protection Act (1991), will aim at.
responding to the need to have a sound port environment by:.
a.    delegation of authorfity to MMA, the Port Authority from. MEQL by
December 1995 to enforce environment guidelines/regulations in the.
port area;
b.    establishing regulations to control vessels safety-by December 1996;
c.    develooment of other necessary means to combat ship oily
waste and oil spill pollution.
v.    Managerial
MMA and CHC will both be fully commercialized to respond to commercial'
exigencies.
The'Rofe of Mauritius Marine Authority
-'S.. M'' MA will be the supreme National Port and Maritime Authority regulating the port
sector.,. Within the context of the port-sector reforms, Govemment will strengthen and:
consolidate the present functions and powers of MMA, including the functions of a tandlord.
port to ensure that the port sector is regulated, operated and controlled most professionally
and competitively.



38                                         Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
10.   MMA will have all the functions, duties and responsibilities of a port authority. MMA
will be the sole agency to implement the national port policy, the guardian of the Port
Master Plan, once approved (expected before December 31, 1995), and Govemment's
adviser on port matters. Its main functions will be that of the port developer, regulator,
controller and coordinator. It will continue to be the provider of port infrastnucture and will
maintain a: regulatory and controlling arm. In the short term, it will be the provider of
-shore/yard equipment. It will continue to provide all marine services.
11.   MMA revised objects, functions and powers will be embodied in a revised Ports Act,.
the key principles of which have been adopted by Govemment (Attachment 1). It is
intended that the draft will be presented to Parliament by July 1996. Similarly,, the corporate
objectives, the strategy to accomplish these obiectives and the reorganization of MMA as
spelt out in a Corporate Plan will be adopted by MMA's Board by end-1995; the plan will
.cover the-next three years, (1996-98).
.12.  .. Government will give full support to MMA  in implementing the main port
-development and modemization projects identified in the revised Port Master Plan.
..The Role of Cargo Handling Corporation Ltd. (CHC)
1t3.: :0We support the pnnciple of CHC becoming a full-fledged port operator. The
transition will be in phases, as indicated in CHC Corporate Plan to be adopted by CHCs'
-Board by end-t 995 and will cover the following:
a.    CHC will be the sole port operator for containers, general cargo, and certain
bulk cargoes on existing facilities under a concession agreement with MMA
expected to be signed by December 31, 1996.
b.    CHC would acquire speciflic expertise in a technical arrangement with a
known container terminal operator, expected by December 31, 1996.
c.    Should CHC qualify for the New  Container Terminal, it will have total
r-esponsibility for handling operations from start to finish, i.e. stevedoring to
delivery and vice versa without MMA physical involvement. This will mean
no presence of MMA in sheds, container parks, open storage areas, on
quays, etc.
d.    MMA's role will be limited to regulatory, controlling and security functions (in
so far as handling is concerned); it will, however, retain gate control, au-ction
sales and cther legal responsibilities.
e.    Equipment: In the short and medium term, MMA will be the provider. A
proper formula will be worked out through which CLHC will have full
responsibility over the use/handling of its equipment which will be leased,.
starting December 31, 1996 or earlier.  To start operation of the new
container terminal, CHC will acquire handling equipment as needed.
f.    Workshop: Similarly, MMA workshop services will continue to be used for
repairs and maintenance of the equipment. However, MMA workshop will be
reorganized to operate on commercial lines, and respond to operational
exigencies promptly and effectively.



Annex 1: Government Port Sector Reform Policy Statement                                   39
The Role of Mauritius Freeport Authority (MFA)
14.   MFA  will be the agency of Government for the marketing, management,.
development and operation/regulation of free-trade zones, in particular those situated
within the port and airport boundaries.  It will have a complementary function to port
authorities and operators, with which it will work in close collaboration. MFA would be
instrumental in attracting regional trade and boosting transshipment traffic at Port Louis
Harbor.
15.   A study will be carried out starting in June 1996, on the prospect for liberalization of
the regime goveming air cargo traffic in Mauritius to permit the chartering of cargo planes
for sea/air and air/air transshipment of cargo.
The Role of Private Sector
16.   Present Position: The private sector is already substantially involved in the port
sector, both in terms of ownership of installations and operations. Concrete examples are
all the oil tank farms, fertilizer plant, flour mill and cement storage/packing facilities. The
private sector is directly involved in about 65% of the total cargo, mainly bulk, handled in
the port.
17.   Capital Increase of CHC Ltd: CHC will operate the new Container Terminal on
terms and conditions which will be specified in the concession contract to be signed with-
MMA eventually. CHC will operate on the highest standards of efficiency, whether on
manning, performance or handling charges. Should CHC fail to meet the performance,
quality and safety standards expected by MMA as the regulatory institution within the given.
time frame to qualify for the new container termina/, other altematives will be considered.
CHC capital will be opened up to 20% to MMAICHCl employees and/or to the public (
Attachment 2).
18.   Representation on MMA and CHC Boards: We will ensure that the pnivate sector,
in particular the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the shipping community, is
represented on the Boards of Directors of MMA and CHC so that the private sector is
actively involved in the development and operation o the Port.
19.   Establishment of Port User's Council: A Port User's Council will be established to
critically examine the adequacy, level and competitiveness of port facilities and services.
The Council will have a consultative role on issues like port development, tariff revision,
changes in documentation/procedures, etc.
20.   Communication with Port Ernployees and Other Interests: We will encourage
regular communication and consultation with port employees, trade unions, consumer
associations, business community and the media to ensure that alt parties play their
respective roles in a cohesive manner.
Land Pricing
21    All land in the Port will be properfy priced. Rentals will, to the extent possible, reflect
economic costs and current market values of land. Where short-term subsidization is
required, the extent of the subsidy will be clearly shown to ensure transparency.



40                                        Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
Environmental Protection
22    As a first step towards the ratification of MARPOL and OPRC, we will strengthen the.
capability of the Directorate of Shipping to enforce the Conventions.. Capacity for technicaf
inspection of vessels will also be established. Draft regulations for vessels safety control
will be prepared on the basis of a study to be carried out, before<December 31, 19953.
Implementation of the regulations and training program for ship surveyors on technicat
inspections will start on March 31, 1996.
23.   A study will be carried out to determine the requirements for facilities whicth
Mauritius will have to install, as part of its obligations under MARPOL, for oily wastes from
ships and their treatment.
Port Tariffs
24.   Port tariffs, which have remained unchanged since 1983, will be cost-based and
,reviewed periodically and revised, as appropriate  To this end,:: MMA and CHC will
implement a cost accounting system starting earfy 1996 to trace their respective costs..of
services, including provision for depreciation, capital, operating expenses and associated
revenues.
Port Infrastructure Development
25.   in addition to policy reforms, Govemment will implement a project aimed at further
;expanding and developing port infrastructure. It will include, among others_, the following
.components:
a. Construction of three berths at Mer Rouge for new container and oil Terminals;
b. ConstrUction of container parks and related buildings;
c. Construction of intemal road network for new port areas in Mer Rouge; and
d.Acquisition of the necessary gantry cranes.
26.   To conclude, Government is fully committed to bring necessary reforms in the port
sector to improve overall port eff,Tciency through institutional and managerial strengthening,
commercializing and granting more autonomy to MMA and CHC.
27.   MMA will be the supreme National Port and Maritime Authority together with the
functions of a landlord pcrt. It will be the developer of port facilities and regulator/controller
of port activities, and the provider of marine services. All land in the port area, especially
land reclaimed, will be leased to MMA at nominal rates for own use or for subletting to other
port operators.
28.   Govemment wl71 give its full support to the development and modemization of port
facilities. The Ports Act will be amended within a set time frame to further strengthen and
consolidate MMA as shown in the Corporate Plan.
29.   Finally, CHC will be commercialized and established as a full-fledged port operator.
It will lease yard equipment from MMA. If CHC's capacity is demonstrated, CHC. will
operate the new Container Terminal under a concession contract which will specify
performance standards and tariffs level.



Annex 1: Govermnent Port Sector Reform Policy Statement                               41
30    The policy reform we intend to introduce is faifly comprehensive and covers almost
every aspect of port operation and management. The reform is crucial to bring about
improvements in port productivity and efficiency without which it wilt be diffrcult for fhe port
to remain competitive intemationally. We are convinced that our proposals are in line with
the Bank's assessment of policy reforms required in the port sector and that we can count
on your support for obtaining a loan for the proposed Port Devefopment and Environment
Protection Project.
Yours sincerely,
DrP.Nababsing
Deputy Prime Minister,
Minister of Economic Planning and Development,
& Minister of Intemal and Extemal Communications



42                                     Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
Attachment I
MAURITIUS MARINE AUTHORITY
KEY ELEMENTS OF REVISION OF THE PORTS ACT, 1975
INTRODUCTION
The Mauritius Marine Authority (MMA) was established in July 1976 under the Ports
Act, 1975, which Act was approved by Parliament in November 1997. There are also
several subsidiary lecislations which have been made under the main Ports Act,
namely:
(i)     Tne Ports (Charges, Dues & Fees) Regulation, 1977, and subsequently
amended by the Port (Fees) Regulation, 1984, and The Port (Fees)
Regulations, 1985;
(ii)    The Port (Licences) Regulations, 1981;
(iii)   The Port (Operations) Regulations, 1987.
Furthermore, a series of other legislations have come up meanwhile, especially the
Merchant Shipping Ac:, the National Coast Guard, '1988, and the Mauritius Freeport
Authority Ac', 1992, which have some relationship with the port activities and
operations. Several IMO Conventions have also been ratifies by the Government.
Also, MMA has experienced several technical and operational inadequacies and
shortcomings in the Pcrt Legis!ation during its nearly 19 years of existence. As MMA
also has evolved considerably, it is felt that there is an urgent need to review the Ports
Act and related legislation, which all have to be updated to reflect the exigencies of
modern port operations and management.
The Consultants for the Port Policy, Institutional Strengthening and Pricing Study have
identified a series of amendments which are required in the present version of the Ports
Act.
This document outlines some of the sections which need to be amended. However,
these  may not be fully comprehensive, and  the services of a  part legal
experUconsul'ant will have to be retained to review completely the Ports Act, the
subsidiary legislations made under the Act, and other related legislation, and come up,
after discussions with all parties concerned including the State Law Office, with draft
proposals, including a draft Ports Act.
OUTLINE OF AMENDMENTS REQUIRED
1.    Obiects of the Authority
The statutory objects of the Authority should include the basic duties nd responsibilities
normally devolving upon a port authority. Thus the objects should clearly specify the
func.ions of a national port and maritime authority, including those of a landlord port,
adapted to the local context. Management policy would limit itself to regulatory and
controlling functions in cargo handling areas, and avoid direct involvement.



Annex 1: Government Port Sector Reform Policy Statement                            43
A realistic proposal is shown in the Appendix. Furthermore, it would be desirable to
have a section or a schedule dealing with detailed functions and powers of the
Authority.
2.    Composition of the Board
The composition of the Marine Board would be amended so as to include at least three
members from the private sector, e.g. the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of
Shipping Agents, etc.
Similarly the quorum of the Board, which is actually of 3 members, should be increased
to 5 to ensure more active and fruitful participation.
3.    Meetings of the Board
Section 6(a) provides for Board Meetings to be held at least once every month.
Assuming that with the proposed changes, the Authority's management will be fully
accountable with clearly set and defined powers together with specified responsibility
and performance targets, it is felt that the Act should not impose a monthly meeting,
althouch this may be practice. The Act should rather provide for meetincs at least on a
quarterly basis.
4.    Powers to enter in concession contract
Section 8(2) of the Act would be amended to give specific powers to the Authority to
enter into concession contracts with port operators and to set performance standards,
penalties in case of non-compliance or failing to perform, provision for suspension of
such contracts and bring in another party to intervene if necessary.
5.    Provision of Port Facilities
The Authority would legally be the sole organisation in the port area for the provision of
all marine and berthing facilities and associated infrastructures. This will enable better
coordination and rationalisation of all such facilities, and avoid wasterul duplication.
6.    Establishment of Port Users' Council
The Act would provide for the establishment of a Port Users' Council to discuss on the
adequacy, level and competitiveness of port facilities and services. the Council would
have consultative status on port development projects, tariffs levels and operational
matters.
7.    Financial Management
Sections 13, 14, 15 of the Ports Act would be amended tc allow the Authority to operate
on a commercial basis and to conduct its business in accordance with sound and
generally accepted business principles, and in such a manner to yield a fair and
reasonable return on the capital of the Authority.
Section 16 would also be amended to allow the Marine Board to have the flexibility of
investing surplus income in other port related commercial activities. This will enable
the Authority to diversify its sources of income as in the case of other modern ports.
The financial powers of the Director-General should be increased substantially.



44                                      Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
8.    Vestina of land
Government shall lease all state lands within the port limits to the Authority and hence
define port limits of Mauritius and its outer islands.
The Authority will control, regulate and lease such lands within the framework of the
approved Port Master Plan proposals.
9.    Tariff Setting
Even if under sections 10 and 1 1 of the present Act, give a certain degree of autonomy
to the Marine Board for the setting of salaries and conditions of service, the Authority
has up to now followed the pattern and trend of the Civil Service. However, in view of
the specificities of the port sector, the Marine Board will be given full powers to set
salaries and conditions of service according to prevailing market conditions.
11.   Navigation and other Business in Ports
The relevant sections under Part IV of the Ports Act should be amended so as:
(a)   to confer uoon the authority, broader powers as recards berthing and navigation
of vessels in any area within the Port limits;
(b)   to review the legal framework for the control of dangerous goods as defined by
the IDMG Code and associated activities within and adiacent to the Port limits;
(c)   to provide broader powers to deal with unsafe conditions created by immobilized
vessels, unattended vessels or refusal of vessels to clear harbour, under
directives; securing of vessels under arrest by a Court order"
(d)   to define responsibility of shipping agents in cases of unsettled debts;
(e)   to enable the Authority to withhold clearance of vessels under certain specific
circumstances, e.g. for non-payment of bills; damage to port infrastructure
and/or any other offence under the provisions of the Ports Act:
12.   Environmental Issues
The Authority would have control and enforcement powers on environmental issues
within the pore boundaries. Delegations will be given fromr the Ministry of Environment
and Quality of Life - under specific guidelines issued by them.
13.   Other Provisions
Similarly there are a series of other provisions which need review/updating and/or
amendments. These include: powers of seizure, destruction disposal of unclaimed
goods at ships' and/or consignees. costs, consolidation cf safety standards in line with
international recommendations; issue of hot or cold work permits, etc.



Annex 1: Government Port Sector Reform Policy Statement                             45
MAURITIUS MARINE AUTHORITY
1.    FUTURE OBJECTS OF THE AUTHORITY
Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Authority shall be the supreme authority in the
port as such it shall be the duty of the Authority:
(i)    to regulate and control:
(a)   shipping, navigation, dredging, port environment, pollution and other
related matters in the port and the approaches to the port; and
(b)  the entry of vessels in ports, their stay, movements or operation in, and
departure from, port; the loading, unloading and storage of cargo and
containers and the landing and embarkation of passengers.
(ii)    to provide and improve basic port infrastructure and facilities, services in or
near ports, to be operated and maintained through concession contracts
awarded to qualified operators;
(iii)    to provide navigational aid, pilotage, assist in sea rescue and salvage
operations;
(iv)    to promote the use, improvement and development of the ports;
(v)     to keep under review and advise the Government on all matters concerning
the port sector, its facilities, services related issues;
(vi)    to carry out any such duties as may be found necessary to ensure proPer
implementation of the provisions of his Act or any subsidiary legislation made
under this Act;
(vii)    to control all infrastructure developments within the port limits and to be the
sole authority responsible for land use control with the right to lease land at
commercial rates, to set and control port operation standards in compliance
with the Port Master Plan approved by Government and made opposable to
all;
(viii)   to be responsible for the implementation of a sound Environment Protection
Plan for all infrastructure developments within the port limits including
pollution control, and safety enhancement;
(ix)    to be responsible for control over environmental and safety norms and to
enforce sanctions in case of non-compliance with those norms.
Washington
April 12, 1995



46                                    Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
Attachment 2
CARGO HANDLING CORPORATION LT
AMENDMENTS TO THE CORPORATION'S MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES
OF ASSOCIATION
INTRODUCTION
1    The Cargo Handling Corporation Ltd is a private company registered
under the Companies Act and incorporated in September 1983.  The
Corporation became operational on 1st October, 1983.
The authorised and issued share capital of the Corporation at the time of
incorporation was Rs 1 m divided into 10,000 shares of Rs 100/ - subscribed and
paid as follows:
Government of Mauritius
(through the State Investment
Corporation Ltd)                       6,000
Mauritius Marine Authority              4.000
Total shares                            10.000
The share capital Was increased to Rs 10 m in 1985 and the shares allotted to
the two shareholders in the same proportion.
AMENDMENT TO THE MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
2.   Arzic!e 4.2 restricts the membership of the Company to:
(a)  the Government of Mauritius;
(b)  the Mauritius Marine Authority, and
(c)   a public sector organisation
This article would have to be altered to allow CHC to seek technical
arrangement with a known Terminal Container Operator to improve CHC
capabilities and know-how. The article would also allow to call for fresh capital
from various sources including capital markets and employees, in line with the
Company's requirements in handling equipment.  The alteration would be
effected at an extraordinary General Meeting which will be convened to open up
the capital base of CHC to private shareholding up to 20% of the total for CHC
employees and the public. This additional capital would help CHC to proceed
with the acquisition of its own fleet of yard equipment.
April 12, 1995               CARGO HANDLING CORPORATION LTD



Annex 2: Summary of Environmental Impact Assessment                               47
Annex 2: Summary of Environmental Impact Assessment
1.    The new container terminal will be located at Mer Rouge, a site designated for industrial
and port related development in the Port-Louis Harbor Master Plan for Development: 1990 to
2010. For this project, no further dredging works are required. The Mer Rouge site is land
reclaimed from the sea very recently (reclamation completed in December 1990), and as such does
not appear to have any established flora or fauna.
2.    The elements that need to be taken into consideration in relation to the development of the
Mer Rouge site are: (a) currents and tides; (b) winds; (c) Terre Rouge Estuary; (d) Baie du
Tombeau Lagoon; and (e) the Northern Sea Outfall.
3.    The proposed container terminal facilities have been designed to satisfy criteria for a
modem terminal. A visual screen (e.g. of filao trees) is proposed to reduce any visual disturbance
for inhabitants of the northern bank of the Terre Rouge river and part of the Baie du Tombeau
residential area. The noise level should be within acceptable levels. Due to the open site and the
prevailing wind direction, air pollution will be much less than in any urban area. Surface runoffs
and wastewater disposal have been considered; the access road to the terminal does not form part
of the study.
4.    The conclusion is that the proposed container terminal facilities are unlikely to have any
major negative environmental impact on the landside. On the marine side, the dredging of the
channel and turning basin was completed by 1990, and no further dredging will be required in the
foreseeable future.



48                                           Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
Annex 3: Supervision Plan & Outline of Semi-Annual Progress Reports
:.Timing                   Main Activities                       SkiUs Required:      Staff Weeks-
9/95 (a)  Initial Review:
(i) steps taken to comply with requirements     Project Management              5
for loan effectiveness;                      Port Engineering/Operation
(ii) preparation for bidding of works and       Financial Analyst
equipment;                                   Environmentalist
(iii) selection of consultants to undertake     Procurement Disbursements.
studies;
(iv) status of private sector participation;
(v) local supervision team arrangements;
(vi) arrangements for environmental;
monitoring;
(b)  Proiect Launch Workshop:
Review of all key procedures of Bank-executing
agencies interactions, procurement, disbursement,
compliance with loan/loan covenants,
implementation
schedule, updating cost estimates and progress
reporting requirements.
2/96      General Supervision:
(i) review overall progress of each component   Project Management              3
identify issues and agree on follow up action;  Port Engineering/Operation
(ii) review and reach agreement on arrangements for
training.
9/96      Maior Supervision:
In depth review of implementation status with   Project Management              4
emphasis on:                                    Port Engineering/Operation
Financial Analyst
(i) contractor's performance;                   Environmentalist
(ii) adequacy of environmental protection
measures;
(iii) consultant's conduct of studies;
(iv) operating and financial performance of MMA,
MFA, and CHC.



Annex 3: Supervision Plan & Outline of Semi-Annual Progress Reports                           49
2/97      General Supervision:
(i) review overall progress of each component   Project Management              3
identify issues and agree on follow up action,  Port Engineering/Operation
(ii) review and reach agreement on arrangements for
training.
9/97      Maior Suvervision:
Mid-      In depth review of implementation status with    Project Management              4
Term      emphasis on:                                     Port Engineering/Operation
Review                                                     Financial Analyst
(i) contractor's performance;                   Environmentalist
(ii) adequacy of environmental protection
measures;
(iii) consultant's conduct of studies;
(iv) operating and financial performance of MMA,
MFA, and CHC.
2/98      General Supervision:
(i) review overall progress of each component   Project Management              3
identify issues and agree on follow up action;  Port Engineering/Operation
(ii) review and reach agreement on arrangements for
training.
9/98      Major Supervision:
In depth review of implementation status with   Project Management              4
emphasis on:                                    Port Engineering/Operation
Financial Analyst
(i) contractor's performance;                   Environmentalist
(ii) adequacy of environmental protection
measures;
(iii) consultant's conduct of studies;
(iv) operating and financial performance of MMA,
_MFA, and CHC.
2/99      General Supervision:
(i) review overall progress of each component   Project Management              3
identify issues and agree on follow up action;  Port Engineering/Operation
(ii) review and reach agreement on arrangements for
training.



50                                          Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
9/99      Maior Supervision:
In depth review of implementation status with  Project Management             4
emphasis on:                                   Port Engineering/Operation
Financial Analyst
(i) contractor's performance;                  Environmentalist
(ii) adequacy of environmental protection
measures;
(iii) consultant's conduct of studies;
(iv) operating and financial performance of MMA,
MFA, and CHC.
2/2000    General Suoervision:
(i) review overall progress of each component  Project Management             3
identify issues and agree on follow up action;  Port Engineering/Operation
(ii) review and reach agreement on arrangements for
training.
9/2000    Maior Supervision:
In depth review of implementation status with  Project Management             4
emphasis on:                                   Port Engineering/Operation
Financial Analyst
(i) contractor's performance;                  Environmentalist
(ii) adequacy of environmental protection
measures;
(iii) consultant's conduct of studies;
(iv) operating and financial performance of MMA,
MFA, and CHC.
2/2001    PCR mission:                                   Project Management             2
Port Engineering/Operation
Financial Analyst
_________  _____ ____ ____ ____ _____ ____ __Environmentalist
Total: 42 Person/weeks
Assumption is that the annual supervision input would be:
14 staffyear for the project
'This represents 50% of the time in the field and the other 50% in Headquarters for Project management and report
writing.



Annex 3: Supervision Plan & Outline of Semi-Annual Progress Reports                        51
Outline of Semi-Annual Progress Reports
1.    The purpose of these reports is to provide information on significant events which occurred
during the reporting period, together with an evaluation of progress achieved and the prospects of future
progress. To this end, the information contained in the reports should cover at least the following
aspects the project:
(a)    physical work accomplished during the reporting period;
(b)    a comparison of the actual progress of construction at the end of the reporting period
with the original forecast of progress at that date;
(c)    actual or contemplated material deviations from the original plans or schedules, except
that any such changes which would require prior consultation with the Bank should be
reported immediately and subsequently included in the next report;
(d)    other changes, events or conditions which would materially delay the construction of the
project or increase its cost; and
(e)    the expected dates of completion of the principal physical elements of the project.
Civil Works
2.     Construction progress should be reported on all the main items of this component of the project
as follows:
2.1    Preparatory work
2.2    Main items of works
*      berths,
reclamation,
*      pavement,
*      fencing,
*      utilities,
*      power supply,
*      telecommunications, and
*      roadways
2.3    Supervision of construction
2.4    Consultant's activities and effectiveness



52                                         Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
Equipment
3.     Progress on procurement of the port and cargo handling equipment should be mentioned with
particular reference to the:
*      bidding process,
*      manufacturing/supply, and
*      testing and operation.
Technical Assistance
4.    Information contained in the reports relating to the studies undertaken in the project should
include the following information on the feasibility study and detail engineering for the ship waste
disposal facilities, and environmental training:
*      the selection of consultants,
*      the work of the consultants and their effectiveness, and
*      the current status of the study.
Traffic
,.     Particulars of port traffic that is actually handled during the reporting period, desegregated by
commodity so that the appraisal estimates and forecasts can be checked and updated, should be included
in the report.
Text of the Report
6.     The text of the report should describe the work performed on each major item  during
the reporting period, following the heading given above. Where appropriate, the text should include
explanations of and commnents on the following:
(a)    Actual or expected material deviations from the original (or amended) plan/design or
implementation schedule.
(b)    Actual or expected difficulties or delays, any measures taken or planned to correct them,
and the probable effects on the implementation schedule.
(c)    Expected changes in the completion date of any major part of the project or the project
as a whole.
(d)    Actual or expected delays in delivery of major items of equipment. Reasons for such
delays should be given, and their possible effects on the implementation schedule should
be estimated.
(e)    Numbers in the work force of the consultants and contractors.
(f)    Any actual or expected event or condition which may effect the cost of the project.
(g)    Any unusual occurrences affecting the progress of the project.



Annex 3: Supervision Plan & Outline of Semni-Annual Progress Reports                   53
(h)    Project expenditures and disbursements and a comparison of actual with estimates and
reasons for the deviation, if any.
Drawings
7.     Drawings showing the plan and sections of the container terminal and Freeport areas should be
included. Construction progress should be indicated on the drawings by color or other markings.
Implementation Schedule
8.    A bar chart should show separately scheduled and actual progress on principal activities of each
project component. Simplified CPM or PERT diagrams, which may present a more comprehensive
picture of the schedule and progress than the chart, may be used if necessary.



54                                     Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
Annex 4: Project Monitoring Indicators
Monitoring of project progress will be the responsibility of all units concerned with the
execution of the project.  Monitoring will be summarized by the Director of the Ministry of
Economic Planning and Development for those project components involving MMA and CHC.
Monitoring will be prepared by the Director-General of MMA and General Manager of CHC
for the Port component, and will be monitored using a computerized Project Management
System which will provide outputs on the financial and physical status of each of the
components. Project progress for the vessels safety sub-component will be the responsibility of
the Directorate of Shipping of the Ministry of Trade and Shipping. Each main area of
development under the project will be monitored on a continuous basis and reviewed with the
Government by the project review missions.
I.    MMA-Financial Indicators
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001
Salaries, wages, benefit
& maintenance              -       -       -       -    (20%)    -    (10%)    -
Working Ratio (*)         55%      -      50%      -     45%       -     40%
Tariffs (**)               -       -    +15%       -       -     +8%      -       -
Debt/Equity               1.5:1   1.5:1   1.5:1   1.5:1   1.5:1   1.5:1   1.5:1   1.5:1
Return on net assets (***)         -       -       -       -       -     2%      2%
(*) Costs/Revenues (**) Average (***) Not less than
II.   MFA Financial Indicators
Warehouse rental                7Mau. Rs. /ft/mth
Land price                      250,000 Mau. Rs./Ar.i) (I
Office                          15 Mau. Rs./ft2/month (
Arpent
revised from time to time to market value.



Annex 4: Project Monitoring Indicators                                                         55
III.   Cargo Handling Rates*
Vessels                                 (a)       (b)      (c)       (d)
According                               IN       AT                IDLE
to Category                            PORT   BERTH   (TEUs)   TIME
A - EXISTING FACILITIES
Al - Year 1994 (Reference)
MODERN FC (TEUs)                         19      25         7       42%
STANDARD FC (TEUs)                       18      20         5       35%
CONTAINER MULTI-PURPOSE                  5        8         4       35%
Al - Year 1995
MODERN FC (TEUs)                        21        27        9       35%
STANDARD FC (TEUs)                       19       22        6       35%
CONTAINER MULTI-PURPOSE                  5        10        5       25%
A3 - Year 1996
MODERN FC (TEUs)                        22       29        11       25%
STANDARD FC (TEUs)                       20       24        7       25%
CONTAINER MULTI-PURPOSE                  6        11       5.5      20%
A4 - Year 1997
MODERN FC (TEUs)                         24      31        13       20%
STANDARD FC (TEUs)                       22       26        8       20%
CONTAINER MULTI-PURPOSE                  7        12        6       15%
A5 - Year 1998
MODERN FC (TEUs)                        >24      >31       >13     <20%
STANDARD FC (TEUs)                      >22      >26       >8      <20%
CONTAINER MULTI-PURPOSE                 >7       > 12      >6      < 15%
A6 - Year 1999
MODERN FC (TEUs)                        >24      > 31      > 13    <20%
STANDARD FC (TEUs)                      >22      >26       >8      <20%
CONTAINER MULTI-PURPOSE                 >7       > 12      >6      < 15%
A7 - Year 2000
MODERN FC (TEUs)                        >24      >31       > 13    <20%
STANDARD FC (TEUs)                      >22      >26       >8      <20%
CONTAINER MULTI-PURPOSE                 >7       > 12      >6      < 15%
A8 - Year 2001
MODERN FC (TEUs)                        >24      >31       > 13    <20%
STANDARD FC (TEUs)                      >2       >26       >8      <20%
CONTAINER MULTI-PURPOSE                 >7       > 12      >6      < 15%
FC: Full Container Vessel
(a)    Gross TEUs per hour per vessel in Port
(b)    Gross TEUs per hour per vessel at Berth
(c)    Gross TEUs per gang per hour
(d)    Percentage of gang idle time (%)
* To be included in a concession agreement with CHC.



56                                          Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
IV.   Equipment Availability (%)
1994 1996 1998 2000
Cargo handling equipment            45%     60%    70%    75%
Mobile quay cranes                  55%     60%    70%    80%
Ship-to-shore Gantry cranes            -        - >95% >95%
Productivity (*)
1 - (tons/employee/year)            680      850   1,100   1,350
2 - (TEUS/employee/year)              54      70     123      150
T*) Total traffic less bulk ('0007)  1,200   1,300   1,500   1,600
(*) Total traffic (TEUs)          96,000 110,000 170,000 180,000
V.    New Container Terminal
(e)      (1)        (g)
B - NEW FACILITIES
B1 - Year 1997 (Reference
FULLY CONTAINERISED (TEUs)                14         18        7.0
CONTAINER XPURPOSE                        12        15         7.0
B2 - Year 1998
FULLY CONTAINERISED (TEUs)                15         19        6.0
CONTAINER XPURPOSE                        13         16        6.0
B3 - Year 1999
FULLY CONTAINERISED (TEUs)                16        20         5.0
CONTAINER XPURPOSE                        14         17        5.0
B4 - Year 2000
FULLY CONTAINERISED (TEUs)                18        22         3.0
CONTAINER XPURPOSE                        14        17         3.0
B5 - Year 2001
FULLY CONTAINERISED (TEUs)                > 18      >22       <3.0
CONTAINER XPURPOSE                        > 15      > 17      <3.0
(e)    Gross TEUs per hour per vessel in Port (per crane)
(f)    Gross TEUs per hour per vessel at Berth (per crane)
(g)    Average of containers dwell time (days)



Annex 5: Tables and Charts                                                                                                  57
Annex 5
Table 1: Port-Louis Historical Traffic Per Category (Tons) FY87-94
ITEMS             86/87        87/88        88189        89/90        90/91        91/92        92/93        93/94
I BAGGED CARGO
(A) IMPORT
RICE       76,138       73,425       76,899       82,433        74,115       75,399       72,818     76,110
FLOUR          8,429       15,678        1,775         919         1,124        3,107           0       1,436
PULSES         3,028        2,147        1,488          815          921          617          709        504
ANIMAL FEED           8,868        7,678       11,147        2,491        5,563        1,633        5,742       1,239
FERTILIZER         9,179         1,560        1,519        1,777         100          III           165        200
SUB TOTAL (A)        105,642      100,488      92,828        88,435       81,823       80,867       79,434     79,489
(B) EXPORT
BAGGEDSUGAR                 0            0            0            0            0            0        1,000          0
FERTILIZER         6,775        4,381         1,264        2,830        4,360        1,922         905         700
OTHER              0            0            0            0            0            0            0          0
SUB TOTAL (B)         6,775         4,381        1,264        2,830        4,360        1,922        1,905        700
TOTAL (A)+(B)       112,417      104_869       94,092       91.265       86,183       82,789       81.339      80_189
II.BULK CARGO
(C) IMPORT
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS           370,711      414,124       457,625      519,681      495,256      567,882      585,232    584,184
CEMENT        271,570      323,998      366,466      419,504      479,381       513,920      565,524    581,949
WHEAT              0            0       21,065       69,184       90,270       76,307       88,689    110,848
FERTILIZER        60,027       43,290        51,239       59,741       51,036       47,957       52,191     47,796
COAL        28,998       70,341       49,739       51,172       87,190       70,636       35,037      62,904
MAIZE        18,979       23,121       30,806       29,711       24,761       39,599       33,411      47,967
L. P. GAS       5,887       11,546       15,512       22,915       23,504       26,930       31,189     31,128
EDIBLE OIL        18,002       21,157       20,642       19,235       22,025       25,373       24,523      19,598
BITUMEN              0            0            0            0        6,660       14,382       20,068      22,803
LIQUID AMONIA          13,987       17,809       11.849       19,350       15,300       19,290       17,989      10,221
SOY BEAN MEAL            1,322        2,767        5,802        6,760        8,010       10,627       10,864     13,890
TALLOW & C. SODA           5,132        6,395        4,536        6,748        3,821         5,975        3,583      6,152
SUB TOTAL (C)       794,615      934,548    1,035,281    1,224,001     1,307,214    1,418,878    1,468.300   1,539,440
(D) EXPORT
FERTILIZER             0            0            0            0            0         3,396        2,089      3,693
SUGAR        656,726      562,362      601,332      456,366      513,122      490,422      497,225    443,900
MOLASSES         140,791      153,063      151.080      133,185      140,828      136,356      141,274    128,818
PETROLEUM PIPE-LINE          67,971       53,161       66,828       58,989       52,556        52,022      47,538      58,792
PRODUCTS BARGE            35,818       24.092        9,529       13,096       17,951       20,986       27,516     26,678
MAIZE         5,202        4,163        1.495            0            0          503          600           0
SUB TOTAL (D)       906,508      796,841      830,264      661,636       724,457      703,685      716,242    661,881
TOTAL (C)+(D'    I          ,701,123    I ,731.389  1.865,545    1,885,637    2,031.671    2,122.563    2,184,542   2.201.321
III.GENERAL CARGO
(E) IMPORT       128,313      122,266      152,613      166,021      162,482      169,055      166,719    182,773
(F) EXPORT         2,357        6,436        8,228        7,571       11,520        1,170          839        853
(G) TRANS IN & OUT           491          411          614         3,249         748         3,348          859       1,543
TOTAL (E)+(F)+(G'       131_161      129,113      161,45'      176,841      174,750      173,573      168,417 X  185.169
IV.CONTAINERISED
(H) IMPORT       213,806      293,219      317.932      321,255      379,709      418,135      444,340    524,132
(1) EXPORT      107,714       137,079      155,056      176,175      174,597     211,889       278,564    306,686
(3) TRANS IN.        2,310        2,583       14,288        9,492       12,680       47,049       13,361     25,251
TOTAL (H)+(1+(J        323,830      432_881      487,276      506_922      566.986      677.073      736.265    856_069
V.INTER-ISLAND
GENERAL (K) IMPORT           3,088        2,885        4,130        5,504        7,638        5,519          998         841
CARGO  (L)EXPORT           16,691       19,197       21,773       22,163       31,064       37,674       17,376      14,636
TOTAL (K)+(L)        19.779       22.082       25.903       27,667       38.702       43.193       1           154377
VI. FISH & DIVERS
(M) LOCAL MARKET            8,596       12,321       13.573       12,861       14,014       16,821       21,394     21,478
(N) DIVERS        20,635       17,845       26,911       18,819       14,274       17,050       17,308     23,234
TOTAL(M)+(N1          29.231       30_166       40_484     2              233871                               44,712
GRAND TOTAL    2,317,541    2,450,500    2,674,755    2,720,012    2,926,580    3,133,062    3,227,639   3,382,937
GENERAL TREND                          5.7%         9.2o        1.70         7.6%         7 1%         3.0%       4.8%
Source: MMA



58                                      Mauritius: Port Development & Envirorunent Protection Project
Table 2: Port-Louis Containerized Traffic (TEUS) FY87-FY94
_   C.Y    86/87  87/88  88/89  89190  90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94
Import          FULL       23,099 25,221 28,722 29,277 33,381 36,561 40,498 44,000
EMPTY   2,468  2,986  2,048  3,475  2,869  5,351  5,335  5,250
Total Import     F+E       25,567 28,207 30,770 32,752 36,250 41,912 45,833 49,246
Export           FULL      11,898 12,551 13,550 14,688 15,373  19,092 21,403 23,500
EMPTY   11,813  14,918 15,495 14,832 18,653  19,250 21,099 23,100
Total Export     F+E       23,711 27,469 29,045 29,520 34,026 38,342 42,502 46,582
Total General    Imp+Exp 49,278 55,676 59,815 62,272 70,276 80,254 88,335 95,828
Trend            13.0%  7.4%   4.1%   12.90/%  14.2%  10.1%  8.5%
Laden    34,997 37,772 42,272 43,965 48,754 55,653 61,901 67,500
Empties   14,281  17,904 17,543  18,307 21,522 24,601 26,434 28,350
Percentage Laden           7 1.0%  67.8%  70.7%  70.6%  69.4%  69.3%  70.1%  70.4%
Source: MMA



Annex 5: Tables and Charts                                                                                                59
Table 3: Port-Louis Global Traffic Forecast (Tons) FY94-FY2015
ITEMS               93/94     94/95    95/96    96/97      97/98    98/99   99/2000  2004/05   2014/15
IBAGGED CARGO
(A) IMPORT
RICE     76,110   72,500   73,750   71,250    72,500   73,750    71,250    75,000          0
FLOUR       1,436    1,500     1,500     1,500     1,500    1,500     1,500     1,500     1,500
PULSES        504    1,000      1,000     1,000    1,000    1,000      1,000    1,000     1,000
ANIMAL FEED        1,239    2,000     2,000     2,000    2,000    2,000      2,000     2,000     2,000
FERTILIZER         200      500       500      500       500      500       500       500       500
SUB TOTAL (A)    79,489   77,500    78,750   76,250    77,500   78,750    76,250    80,000       5,000
(B)EXPORT                                   0         0        0         0        0         0         0         0
BAGGED SUGAR             0    1,500      1,500    1,500     1,500    1,500     1,500     1,500     1,500
FERTILIZER         700      750     1,000     1,500    2,000    2,000      2,000    2,000     2,000
OTHER           0        0         0     1,750     3,500    3,500     3,500     3,500     3,500
SUB TOTAL (B)         700    2,250     2,500    4,750     7,000    7,000     7,000     7,000     7,000
TOTAL(A)(B)    80189   79 5    81,25              0      8450    85750    83,250    8700        12,000
II.BULK CARGO
(C) IMPORT
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS    584,184  654,600  710,000  751,000   773,000  811,000   863,000 1,079,000  1,642,000
CEMENT    581,949  605,000  632,000  661,000   697,000  737,000   768,500   980,000  1,285,000
WHEAT    110,848  125,000   132,500   137,500   142,500  147,500   150,000   150,000   180,000
FERTILIZER      47,796   55,000   56,000    57,500    59,200   60,000    60,000    60,000    60,000
COAL      62,904   65,000   72,500    85,000   113,000  132,000   154,000   280,000   300,000
MAIZE      47,967   48,000    51,500    55,000    58,000   61,000    64,000    81,500   112,000
L.P. GAS    31,128   34,000   36,400   39,400    42,500   44,500    45,000    45,000    45,000
EDIBLE OIL    19,598   21,000    21,800   22,800    23,800   24,600    26,600    30,000    30,000
BITUMEN       22,803   23,500   24,500   25,000    25,000   25,000    25,000    25,000    25,000
LIQUID AMONIA        10,221   20,200   20,500   21,100    21,700   22,400    23,000    26,700    28,000
SOY BEAN MEAL        13,890   12,000    13,000    14,000    15,700   16,500    17,400    22,100    30,500
TALLOW & C. SODA         6,152    4,500     4,500    4,500     4,500    4,500     4,500     4,500     4,500
SUB TOTAL (C)  1,539,440 1,667,800 1,775,200 1,873,800 1,975,900 2,086,000 2,201,000 2,783,800 3,742,000
(D) EXPORT
FERTILIZER       3,693        0         0        0         0        0         0         0         0
SUGAR    443,900  520,000   532,500   537,500   540,000  540,000   540,000   540,000   540,000
MOLASSES    128,818  132,500   137,500   142,500   145,000  145,000   145,000   145,000   145,000
PETROLEUM PIPE-LINE        58,792   60,000    65,000   71,000    75,000   77,500    80,000   100,000   145,000
PRODUCTS BARGE         26,678   25,000    25,000   25,000    25,000   25,000    25,000    25,000    25,000
MAIZE           0        0        0         0         0        0         0         0         0
SUB TOTAL (D)   661,881  737,500   760,000  776,000   785,000  787,500   790,000   810,000   855,000
TOTAL(C)4 (D) 21201 321 2,405,300 2,535,200 2,649,so  2,760,900 2,873,500 2,991  0 , 593.800 459700
III.GENERAL CARGO
(E) IMPORT    182,773  190,000  203,000  217,000   233,000  249,000   267,000   343,000   572,500
(F) EXPORT        853    3,750     6,750     8,750    10,900   12,700    14,250    20,250    40,000
(G) TRANS IN & OUT       1,543        0                  0         0        0         0         0         0
TOTAL (E)+(F)V(G)    185,169  193,750  209,75   225                  261,7     281,250  360,250   612,5
IV.CONTAINERISED
(H) IMPORT    524.132  547,000   570,000  600,000   637,000  675,000   714,000   910,000  1,450,000
(I) EXPORT    306,686  275,000  290,000  323,000   346,000  370,000   389,000   481,000   786,500
(J) TRANS IN.    25,251        0         0        0         0        0         0         0         0
TOTAL (H)()(J)            9 22 OC   8600    923,000ss3,00c 9       ,00 000 I 103,000            2,236,500
VINTER-ISLAND
GENERAL (K) IMPORT          841    6,550      6,850    7,200     7,550    7,950     8,400    10,650    17,800
CARGO  (L) EXPORr       14,636   43,600    44,800   46,250    47,650   49,050    50,550    58,600    79,900
TOTAL (K)s4(L)    15_477   50fl0        1                55,200   57 00    5                    97700
VI. FISH & DIVERS
(M) LOCAI. MARKET       21,478   24,500    27,300   36,000   36,900   37,900    38,800    43,300    56,300
(N) DIVERS     23,234   23,850   25,700   27,000    28,500   29,900    31,500    32,400    32,400
TOTAL (M)i _(N)    44712   48.350   53,000   63_000         40   67800    70,300    75700    88,700
GRAND TOTAL  3,382,937 3,599,300 3,790,850 3,996,000 4,192,soc 4,390,7501   7.750a 5.580.000 7,644,400
General Trend             6.40%     5.32%/6   5.41,    4.9301  4.72%1   4.49%1   3.99%       3.20%
Source: MMA & ConsultanLs



60                                  Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
Table 4: Port-Louis Containerized Traffic Forecast (TEUs) FY94-FY2015
C.Y    93/94   94/95   95/96    96/97    97/98  98/99    04/05   14/15
Import      FULL       44,000 46,780  49,560   52,340  55,120   57,900  73,600 115,600
EMPTY      5,250   5,200   5,150    5,100   5,050    5,000   3,700   5,800
Total Import  F+E      49,246  51,980  54,710   57,440  60,170   62,900  77,300 121,400
Export      FULL       23,500 25,180  26,860   28,540  30,220   31,900  39,700  64,700
EMPTY     23,100 24,680  26,260   27,840  29,420   31,000  37,500  56,700
Total Export  F+E      46,582  49,860  53,120   56,380  59,640   62,900  77,200 121,400
Total General Imp + Exp   95,828 101,840 107,830  113,820 119,810  125,800 154,500 242,800
Trend          6.3%     5.9%     5.6%    5.3%     5.0%    3.5%    4.6%
Source: MMA & Consultants.



Annex 5: Tables and Charts                                                                61
Table 5: Comparison of Handling Costs and Tariffs for Main Cargoes
(Mau. Rs. per ton/unit)
Costs               Tariffs       Estimated Change
Required (')
CHC    MMA  CHC  MMA  CHC  MMA
Containers, per         1,136        325      2,450     576       -54      -44
TEU
Unitised and break
bulk                    287          50        300      15        -4       232
Inter island            313          50        300       8        4        564
Bagged rice              139         42        210      15       -34        181
Fertilisers              85          40        55        5        54       695
Coal                     52          38        55        5        -6       666
(a) Change required to make tariffs cost based
Source: Consultant report: IMMA and CHC



62                                        Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
Table 6.1: Dry Cargo Tariffs Comparison
Port                                             Average charge per tonne (US$)
Singapore                                                        6
Felixstowe                                                       6
Maputo                                                           7
Port Louis                                                      10
Dar es Salaam                                                   21
Mombassa                                                        29
Sources: Consultant Report: Port of Singapore Accounts 1993, Felixstowe accounts, 1991, Maputo
accounts 1993, Port-Louis accounts 1993/4, Dar es Salaam accounts 1991, Mombassa
accounts 1987.



Annex 5: Tables and Charts                                                                                           63
Table 6.2: MMA Tariffs Structure
Existing MMA           MMA Costs Including         Change Required to
Revenues (1993/94)        5% Return (1993/94)          Make the Tariffs
Cost-Based in 1994
(Rupees, Million)
VESSEL DUES
Pilotage                             12                         10                       -17%
Tugs                                 47                         86                       +85%
Port Dues                            31                         52                       +68%
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.     . . . . .......   ,.,......  .. . . .   ...
CONTAINER DUES
Container Handling                   55                         49                       -11%
Storage                              31                         45                       +45%
, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .....    ..........               ....,..            ...........;,;,.
~~~~~~~~.'.t.   ........... .... .... ....   '.''''"'
TRAFFIC DUES
Quay, pipeline dues                  35                        N/A                       N/A
Import, export fees                  13                        N/A                       N/A
Levy on Port Operators               10                        N/A                       N/A
All Others                           10                        N/A                       N/A
,,,S,~~~~~~~~.       ..   .   ..     ,. , .. . .   .. .   ..    ..,    ., ........., .. . . . ,  ..... ,E
TOTAL MMA DUES                      247                        334                       +35%
Source: Consultant report



64                                                                               Mauritius: Port Development & Enviromnent Protection Project
Table 7.1: MMA Income Statements
Ahad  wOh.. y      dnadS J. 30 (Mm R. 000)                                   PrNgd 5Wthyn-  d.9 J-* 30 (M.. R..00)
mo         i"          1n2         ins         1i94         1966        16996       197         Ion         1666        200         2061        2002
V dwdt                           66,767      50.779      70.006      6,614        5,924       90.220     106,096    111,404      1166974     132,649     136.26      140,240     153.667
Tbaa. dun1 s                                 71,651      72.203      73,311      67,033       71,226      s3.7s0       7,648       2,340     104,720     109,956     115.454     121.226
Cdaiw A (1)                      4s,2        51,239      03.134      14,370      03,003        7,153     102,492     107.617     112.069     128613      134.548     141,273     14137
T_S                             173249      i6z25       2D5.342     2%203       236,760      2G154n      2,Z361      306,069     322317      366,006     363,763     402672      423,121
E_Wn
R I IV       6& b .wt            61,62       61.701      666,36      66691       66,316       71.734      75.321      7a.087      83,041      66.433      59,766      Q2.779      5,616
qW49. k*d S. p,                  21,43       3.0o6       23,002      32,214      38.315       40,231      42.242      44.354      25.200      2S.4S0      27.713      2,172       30.631
7,163     13,736       1o ,f3     11.776       16,26       196171      20,129      21.136      22.193      23.302      24.467      24.691      D96.75
flhlCp.epmna                       2.61       2,66        2.1no09     s644         2524        5,54        5,626       1R17        1423        S.744       7,31        7,435       7,607
Tedm.   taWW   V.                16,670      67,624      66,640     11"26       130.175      13S164      143,610     150,861     131664      122,636     116.121     125,077     131.331
op                               66 0,379     6,44s     1004702      6ZX770     101565       111,914     141633      151275      186641      242,66     234,662      277,96      291,70
30o_6      23.632       36.106     36,661      5s,102       66,11       67,070      66,047     167,061     169,530     101.125     102737      164,364
San Oai-                          1346        1X         13.006      10.756      20,759       30,626      52,063      a0.066      66,360      610,63      82.725      76,124      72.667
1a4i)auAcs. -10,633                            1,710       ,748      12,703       -6,907           0           0          0           0           0           0           0           0
Es_6aS54,,                            0           D           0           0        1472            0           0                0                 0           0           0           0
R.u**kmqut                       37,166      47,296      67,214      30,461       4,902      A11126         .33n     .21,650     .61.666      -3,004      2Ma11       36,036      54.3s
In.kem Wn                        23,166      56,214      36.602      44,272      44,006       40,6        44,148      43.26       25,237       7,076      10,146      11101       21,644
Lad1ht M.                             0           0           0           0           0        7,500       7,600       7,960       1427        6933        6,406      106037      10,639
Nilaint                          620.43     10o266       95667       70,723      36,104       33,370      51,311      2a.348     -2120e       12,667      40,423      14.253       7.3m2
Table 7.2: MMA Balance Sheets
AU.d o of J..   (M.. RR. 000)                                                Pqtd   ol Jun 30 (MU. R.. ODO)
1666       1061         1n62       193         1664         1s          1660        1697        1I6n        166         2306       2Sl          2302
F_.dAe_                         274731      362,614     363,666     364444   1,2m,e6        1.361627    1.2e,5ss   114,363   Z331117    Z,177.60   Z0241643    1,671,406    1,716,166
Cuth   pIwe                      561,140    137.N69     206,771     216,220     204,166            0           0     707.293          0           0           0           0           0
EP*IIW.6     6                    15061       Ro601       1601        1,s57      16,007       i6,007      16,007      16,007      16,007      16.007      16.007      16,007      16,007
a n                             331,32      411 04     56,116      663,321    1,501071    1,404,.64    1,303,567    1,i606.63    2341124   2,166,67    2,04060    1.66,41S   17T34ne
CSt h7A2&            b          227.716     31. 69      210,606     23Z446      341,626      342,oe      307.4a      22,9611      41,432     23,716       62,640       6,o00      66,222
a.16a66flInb..6                  34.147      3,167       36,.0e      41,075      46,166        2,00        2,6o0      320          2,60o       2,60        2.6Do       2,6o0       36,0o
OSfmtpeqq         & s.e hl66     66,760      66,76       61,634     122,146     1Sn794         100s        160         16s00       1soo        1500        16w         es60        1060
wwhtre.                     12,770      12,776      1,776       12,779      12.776           0            0          0           0           0           0           0           0
8.66l                            371,436    432,430    264.776      37,407         ,37       34,0        3              0         6332        40,619      64,140      63,102     11322
TMd    a                        70x606      634,604     022,6       661,7      2,021,46    1,766.742    1,023,141    Z,156.6   24026s66    2,26,706    Z,107.560    1,906,s6    1,6644.40
U!_6 & 6q                        27.130      36,016      25,N1       27,725      2,6976           0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0
DM to      _                      7,37       13,606      44,67       60,041      60,621            0           0          0           0                                   0           0
Otuastflus                       40.0h6      66.666       1026        1670     _13,1           494'1       4,141       4,661       4,61        41          4,1         41941       4,941
-*"                             t74.616     103,666      7,493       14,736      03,461        4,941       4,941       4,941       4,941       4,161       4,941       4,941       4,141
Logbmdd                         1237O0      124,763     140,036      s.72D      406,934      350,624     ess6166    1.241656    1,366,S64    1,237,192    1,207,M  1,146,333   1.047.076
Eq*c                             41p66       46,066      46,059      a,os09      46,066      a406         40,00       4e.050      46.066      ao.006 4D.069           48,059      46,060
ftat,odn.*.p.ghue.                Z2,2        14W         1,354       Z,076       2,44        36,60      n73s9        56,47       a1,e4       71n014      64,606     133,163     161725
CSAiwru.u                      374,376     474,376      74,376      64,376     704,370      68,136       33,594      33,594     142,14       62,446      45163    -132293    -161,676
Rats.. u.s-rn                    76,616      76,616      76,616      71616      767,374      767,374     767,374     767,374     767,374     767,374     767,374     767,374     6767,374
44212       730,619     641443      677,062   1,027,667    1.701,e6    1,41200    Z1iSO732    Z367.715   Z231,766    2102646    1,664,666    1a,s6,67
Td 6b. SY                       7026o    634,04         923,638     961,766   2,021,40    1i.76742    1,023,141   2,156,671   2,402,6s0   2,.705   2,1076590   1,666,666   1,044,466
Table 7.3: MMA Funds Flow Statements
A d Iwlia s-  rbd J.g 30 (Mm. R.. 000                                        Prq.l-.4 I. th.  dn  J. 30 (M.. R.. OD)
6 161       1662        13          161         160s        1n66        1667        166s        1t"         366         Sa1          62
Nethe                               Xo)     162,66       ss,ee7      71720       36,104       33,370      51,311     23,348      -210s        12,947      40,423      1,253       67,322
30.663    23,02         36X10e     36,661      95,103       96,11       97,076      66.047     167,951     150,630     161,126     162737      116,364
P.obImail_S"      moa              -102         -         30 2106         0        415             0           0          0           0           0           0           0           0
(Gdr4JL.nu.,nrn.                 10,63         1710       1,74       12,763       -5,907           0           0           6          0           o            0          o           0
TaW kde    d 04 .d              104,04      131071      13s,36e     132,27      12,046       129,44      141366      127,305     129,746     172,407     201,554     32366s      251,66
Low Rote                              5      10,660       13293         302     36634             0      46R000      021,000     164000           0           0           0           0
PmemkdeubaS_omb                     248          so         270        233          315           0           0           0           0           0           0           0 
TeFd na16                       10422       141,711     202,616     121052      4s6114       120.4e4     161,366     755,395     3174S       172467      201,654     201990      3s1,56e
MU*Cqpdtpsarm                    234,613    101644      166,249      632.67     320,426            0     466,000     021,000     100,000           0          0            0 
O6hw2n X0                                         0           6         166       1,6s        36,165      44,616      36,216      36,623      61,749      00,466      66,067      75,606
LaRpm                             104         7,710   4    ,6xo      63,450   V 1,634   s 6,110  a 6,636              60.332      09,332       6,332      46,332     104,026     11472
T    a                           31.067     114114    32,6          106,473     31,166        63,965     OR1152      755,560      126ss      121,061     101766      17,723      159,76
hc.(    Inh_ww. .p.              73.226      207467     -11,o60      2,376      115,046       35.529       126          .156       1,409      61,416      91,756      54,264      61,709
Source: MMA Audit Reports and Mission estimates.



Annex 5: Tables and Charts                                                                          65
Table 7.4: Mauritius Marine Authority
Sensitivity Analysis
MMA                 FY1995  FY1996  FY1997  FY1998  FY1999  FY2000  FY2001
BEST CASE
Operating Revenues (000, Mau. Rs.)  269,853  322,913  351,975  460,383   510,813  546,981   616,574
Operating Margins                     50%      56%      57%       65%       66%      66%        68%
Return on assets                       3%       7%       7%        7%        7%      10%        14%
AVERAGE CASE (5%)
Operating Revenues (000,Mau. Rs.)  259,951  299,648  314,630  396,434   416,255  437,068   474,597
Operating Margins                    49%       51%      51%      58%        66%      69%       69%
Return on net assets                   2%       2%       2%        2%        2%       2%         3%
WORST CASE (30/O)
Operating Revenues (000, Mau. Rs.)  254,999  288,341  296,991  367,081   378,094  389,437   414,820
Operating Margins                    45%       50%      50%      56%        61%      61%       62%
Return on net assets                  2%        2%       1%
Source: Mission estimates.



66                                  Maunitius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
Table 7.5: Mauritius Marine Authority
Assumptions for Financial Projections (1995-2005)
I.    BASIC DOCUMENTS USED
*     MMA audited Financial Statements (1990-94)
*     MMA five year budgets, including investments plan
*     Maritime and Port Statistics
*     Loans contracts
*     Relevant correspondence and Records
IL  DATA AND ASSUMPTIONS
General
(a)   Inflation is assumed to be 4% in 1997 and 2% thereafter.
(b)   Foreign exchange is assumed to be Mau. Rs. 18 = US$1.
Financial Statements
(a)   Port tariffs are projected to increase by 15% in 1996 and 8% in 1999 fiscal year and
maintain their real value.
(b)   Revenues are projected to increase annually by 5% with the volume of traffic.
(c)   Operating costs are projected to increase by 4% annually.
(d)   Depreciation is on the basis of a composite useful life of 40 years for keys, 20 years
for equipment with no residual value.
(e)   Interest charges and capital repayments are computed on the basis of the loan
agreements.
(f)    Cash available is invested in marketable securities instruments and or equity at current
market rates.
(g)   No specific provisioits are made for foreign exchange gain or loss as the Authority
earns revenues in foreign exchange and would match assets and liabilities.
(h)   Provision is made to allocate 40% of internal funds to emergency operations needs.
(i)    Equity accounts are based on actual accounts increased (decrease) by results of
operations.



Annex 5: Tables and Charts                                                                                                    67
Table 8.1: Mauritius Freeport Authority
Statement of Income (25, 50, 80, 100% Occupancy)
Audited                                                   Pro ected
FY1993   1994    1995    1996        1997     1998    1999    2000    2001         2002    2003    2004    2005
Revenues:
Rentalllnvest.             1800      6778    12960    12960   20736   25920   25920   25920   25920   25920   25920    25920
GovL grants        8,600 10,000     5,000
Licence fees        216    732        800     1500     2000     3400    3700       4100    4400      4800     5100     5202      5306
Declaration                 100       800     1500    2900    5600    7200         9700   11400    11900    13500   13770    14045
Total              8,816 12,632    13,378    9,778   17,860   21,960   31,636   34,536   41,720   42,620   44,520   44,892   45,271
Expenses:
Admnmistrative      998   4592       5600    5824      6057    6299    6551        6813    7086      7369     7664    7971       8289
Marketing          1,121  5,215     3,200    3,500   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000
Land lease                           3250    3250    3,250      3250     3250      3250     3250     3250     3250    3250      3250
Depreciation         35      35      3300    3300      8025    8.025     8025      8025     8025     8025     8025    8025      8025
Interest                                      3994    9319    10650    10650    10650   10548    10124    9669    9182          8659
Total              2,154  9,842    15,350   19,868   36,651   38,224   38,476   38,738   38,908   38,768   38,608   38,427   38,224
Surpl. (Deficit)   6,662  2,790    -1,972  -10,090  -18,791  -16,264   -6,840   -4,202    2,812    3,852    5,912    6,465    7,048
Table 8.2: Mauritius Freeport Authority
Cash Flow Statement (25, 50, 80, 100% Occupancy)
Audited                                             Projected
FY1993 1994   1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000   2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Surpl. (Deficit)  6,662 2,790   -1,972 -10,090 -18,791  -16,264  -6,840  -4,202   2,812   3,852   5,912   6,465   7,048
Depreciation         35    35    3300    3300    8025   8.025    8025    8025    8025    8025    8025    8025    8025
Total Int. Funds   6,697 2,825    1,328  -6,790 -10,766  -8,239   1,185   3,823  10,837  11,877  13,937  14,490   15,073
Debt princ. repay                                                                   5866   6290   6744    7232    7754
Avail. (Deficit)  6,697 2,825    1,328  -6,790 -10,766  -8,239   1,185   3,823   4,970   5,587   7,192   7,258    7,318
Cumnmulative       6,697 9,522 | 10,850   4,060  -6,705 -14,945 -13,760  -9,937  -4,967    620   7,813   15,070  22,389
Source: MMA consultants



68                                   Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
.,.
Table 8.3: Mauritius Freeport Authority
Assumptions for Financial Projections (1995-2005)
BASIC DOCUMENTS USED
*     MFA audited Financial Statements (1990-94)
*     MFA five year budgets, including investments plan
*     Maritime and Port Statistics
*     Loans conditions expected
*     Relevant correspondence and Records
II.    DATA AND ASSUMPTIONS
General
Foreign exchange is assumed to be Mau. Rs. 18 = US$1.
Financial Statements
(a)   Rental tariffs are projected to increase from Mau. Rs.3/ftlmonth to 7/ft2/month from
end of 1995 fiscal year and maintain their real value thereafter.
(b)    50.000 m2. of property is expected to be available for rental in 1997.
(c)    Operating costs are projected to increase by 4% annually.
(d)   Depreciation is on the basis of a composite useful life of 20 years with no residual
value.
(e)   Interest charges and capital repayments are computed on the basis of the loan
anticipated terms of loan agreements.
(f)    No specific provisions are made for foreign exchange gain or loss as the Authority
would not bear the foreign exchange risk.



Annex 5: Tables and Charts                                                                                                        69
Table 9.1: Detailed Project Cost Estimates
Breakdown of Totals mncl. Cont.        Paramieters (in %/)
T~~~~I ~~Local                            Phy.
BAe For.   (Excl.  Duties &              Cant.    For.    Gross
(US$ Million)                     C*       Exch.   Taxes)   Taxes    Total    Rate    Exch.  Tax Rate
1 -PORT COMPONENT                                          73.3    74.9    14.4         0.0    89.31
101 - CONTAINER TERMINAL
A. Quays (560m)                                                   27.8      3.6       0.0    3.ai      15.0    89.7          0
B. Earthwoks                                                       1.2      1.3       0.0      2.51    10.0    49.1          0
C. Yard Paving                                                     3.6      2.8       0.0      6.4     15.0    59.1          0
D. Buildings                                                       0.7      0.4       0.0      1.1     10.0    69.2          0
E. Services (Water, Elec., telephone)                              4.4      2.2       0.0      6.6     13.0    69.2          0
F. Firefighting Equipmenit                                         2.2      0.0       0.0      2.2      5.0   100.0          0
G. Oil Discharge Equipment                                         0.7      0.0       0.0      0.7      5.0   100.0          0
H. Pananux Ship-to-Shore Gantry Cranes (2)                        13.0      0.0       0.0    13.0       5.0   100.0          0
1. Yard Equipments                                                 9.2      0.0       0.0      82       5.0   100.0          a
J. Spare Paits                                                     2.6      0.0       0.0      2.6      5.0   100.0          0
K. Computer System, Office & Workshop Equipment                    1.2      0.0       0.0      1 2      5.0   100.0          0
L. Technical Assistance                                            0.8      0.3       0.0      1.2      0.0    74.3          0
M. Training                                                        0.2      0.1       0.0      0.3      0.0    74.3          0
Sub-Total 101     04)      67.7    10.8        0.0    78.5
102 - Road & Services
A. Mar Rouge Road Nelvwrk                                          1.9      1.4       0.0      3.3    10.0    59.1           0
B. Securtty & Services                                             1.0      0.5       0.0      1.5     10.0     69.2         0
C. Engineerng                                                      0.1      0.1       0.0      0.2      0.0    74.3          0
Sub-Total 102    4X.1.      3.0      2.0       0.0      6.
103 -OIL STORtAGE RELOCATION                            .......
A. Pipelines                                                       2.0      0.6       0.0      2.6     10.0    79.4          0
B. Engineering                                                     0.0      0.0       0.0      0.1      5.0    74.3          0
Sub-Total 103      22       2.1      0.6       0.0    >.
104 - PASSENGER TERMINAL
A. Buildings                                                       0.4      0.3       0.0       .7     10.0    59.1          0
B. Engineering                                       ...........   0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      5.0    74.3          0
Sub-Total 10       0$       0.4      0.3       0.0   .0
106 - INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
A. A. MaurMtus MarInie AuthorIty (MMA)
Training                                                           07       03         .0      1.0      5.0    74.3          0
Technical Assistance                                               0.3      0.1      03.0   0. 4        5.0    74.3          0
Subtotal A. Mauritius Marine Authority (MMA)           ....1.0                0.4       0.0      IA
B. Cargo Handling Corporation (CHC)
Training                                                           0.5      0.2       0.0  .  .0.7      5.0    74.3          0
Technical Assistance                                               0.3      0.1       0.0      0.4      5.0    74.3          0
Subtotal Cargo Handling Corporation (CHC)                            0.8      0.3       0.0    .1.1
Sub-Total 106    .2*        1.8      0.7       0.0      2
2- FREEPORT COMPONENT                                  1    7.5      6.6      2.3       0.0      8.9
201 - Mer Rouge Area (Port)
A. Site Developmient                                               4.8      1.4       0.0      6.12    10.0    79.4          0
B. Adnmnistrative Office                                           1.0      0.7       0.0      .7      10.0    59.1          0
C. Wharehouses                                                     0.0      0.0       0.0 ~   *P       10.0      0.0         0
Sub-Total 201      08       5.8      2.1       0.0      7.
202 -Technical Assistance
A. Supervision di woaks                                            0.5      0.1       0.0      13.7     5.0    79.4          0
B. Logistics & Electronic Data Processi'ng                         0.2      0.1       0.        .3      5.0    79.40
Sub-Total 202      05       0.8      0.2_    0.0   ~~
3 -EWVIRONMENT COMPONEN                                     1.8      IA4      0.6       0.0      2.0
301 - Marine Enivironment
A. Facilities                                                      0.2      0.1       00 .    Q        10.0    69.2          0
B. Equipments                                                      0.7      0.0       0.0      *7       5.0   100.0          0
C. Consultant Services                                             0.2      0.0        00~~2            50      8. 
D. Training and Technical Assistance                               01        .2       0.0 ;-j.40        0.       9. 
Sub-Total 301      14       1.2      0.4       0.0
302 -Vessels Safety
A. Facilities                                                      o.o      0.0       0.0              10.0      0.0         0
B. Equipments                                                      o.o      0.0       0.0               5.0      0.0         0
C. Salanes of Local experts                                        0.1      0.0       0.0               5.0    89.7          0
D. Instktutional Strengthening                                     0.1      0.2       0.0      O3      10.0    29.2          0
Sub-Total 302   ~ 4         0.2      0.3       0.0      0
GPAND TOTAL 11 82.6    82.9    17.3             0.0   10021



70                                                   Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
Table 9.2: Project Costs by Categories
Part A. Port Development
%        % Totd
(Mau. Rs. Mllion)                  (US$ Million)      Foreign       Base
Local     Foreign       Total      Local   Foreign    Totl        Exchange      Costs
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                               172.1        625.4        797.5       9.6     34.7       44.3           78         60
B. Equipernents                                  -        456.3        456.3         -     25.3       25.3          100         35
C. Consultant Services & Engineering           9.2         26.5         35.7       0.5      1.5        2.0           74          3
D. Training                                    8.0         23.2         31.2      0.4       1.3        1.7           74          2
189.3       1,131.4     1,320.6      10.5     62.9       73.4           86        100
Physical Contingencies                       22.7         111.3        134.0       1.3      6.2        7.4           83         10
Price Contingencies                          47.0         106.0        153.1       2.6      5.9        8.5           69         12
258.9       1,348.8     1,607.7      14.4     74.9       89.3           84        122
Interest During Construction                     -         77.7         77.7         -      4.3        4.3          100          6
TotaltobeFinanced                           258.9        1,426.4     1,685.4      14.4     79.2       93.6           85        128
Part B. Freeport Development
%       % Total
(MaU. R. Milion)                  (USS Milion)       Foreign      Base
Local    Foreign    Total      Local    Foreign    Total    Exchange    Costa
l. Investment Costa
A. Civil Works                                  30.0       89.6      119.6       1.7        5.0       6.6           75        89
C. Consultant Services & Engineering              3.2      12.2       15.4       0.2        0.7       0.9           79        11
33.1     101.8      134.9       1.8        5.7       7.5           75       100
Physical Contingencies                            3.2       9.6       12.7       0.2        0.5       0.7           75         9
Price Contingencies                              5.6        6.5       12.0       0.3        0.4       0.7           54         9
418      117.9      159.7       2.3        6.5        8.9          74       118
Interest During Construction                        -      29.9       29.9         -        1.7        1.7         100       22
Total to be Financed                            41 8      147 8      189.6       2.3        8.2      10.5           78       141
Part C. Environment Protection
Total
(Mau. Ra. Million)               (USS Million)       Foreign     Base
Local    Foreign    Total      Local    Foreign    Total    Exchange    Costa
I. Investmnent Costa
A Civil Works                                      1.7       3.7       5.4        0.1       0.2        0.3          69        18
B. Equipernents                                      -      10.8      10.8          -       0.6        0.6         100       35
C Consultant Services & Engineering                0.6       5.0        5.6       0.0       0.3        0.3          90        18
D. Training                                       6.3        2.6       8.9        0.3       0.1        0.5          29       29
8.5      22.2      30.7        0.5       1.2        1.7          72       100
Physical Contingencies                            0.8        1.4       2.3        0.0       0.1        0.1          63         7
PriceContingencies                                2.1        1.6       3.7        0.1       0.1        0.2          43        12
11 5      25.2      36.7        0.6       1.4        2.0          69       119
Interest During Construction                         -       2.1       2.1          -       0.1        0.1         100         7
Total to be Financed                              11.5      27 3      38 7        0.6        1 5       2 2          70       126



Annex 5: Tables and Charts                                                                                                                          71
Table 9.3: Estimated Project Expenditures by Years
Part A. Port Development
Base Cost (Mau Ri. Million)                                   Base Cost (USS Mllilon)
95s96   98/97   97199  9nl99   99(00   00(01       Total    95196   96(97    97n93   98(99   ff/00    00m01    Totsl
A. Port Component
ContanerTrrnlnal                   4.2   2299    7218    1988       31         -    1,157.8    0.2    12.8    40.1    110        02        -    643
Roads &Srvices                     10     397      324        -       -        -      731      0.1      22      1.8       -        -       -      41
Oil StaqeRdoc.                    104     218       83        -       -        -      40.5     0.6      1.2     0.5       -        -       -      2.2
PasengerTarminal                   54      54        -        -       -       -       108      0.3      0.3       -       -       -        -     06
InstitutonalStrengthenng          166      104      52      21      2.1      2.1      385      0.9      0.6     0.3     01       0.1     0.1      2.1
Subtotal Port Componrnt             376    3072    7677    2009       52       21    1,320.6     21      171     42.6    11.2      03      0.1    73.4
B. Freoport Com ponert
C. Envirorwnent Component
ToalBASELINECOSTS                    376    3072    7677    2009       5.2     2.1    1,3206      21     171      42.6    11.2     0.3      0.1    73.4
Physical Contngenc'es              24     328      748     237      01       01      1340      01       1.8     42       1.3     0.0     0.0      7.4
Pr)ceCortnngencies                 24     293      893     306       1.0     05      1531      01       1.6     50       1.7     0.1     0.0      8.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                  424    3694    9318    2552       6.3     27    1,6077       24     205      518     14.2     0.4      0.1    89.3
Taxes                                                                                                                                       
Foreign Exchange                  306    2930    8044    2144       45       19    1.3488       17     163     447      11.9     0.2     01     74.9
Part B. Freeport Development
Base Cost (Mau Rs. Million)                                 Base Cost (US$ Mlillon)
989e   98197   97ns8  98199   9981    ootoi    Total   95se    96117   97198   98199   99100   00101    TotW
A Port Component
B. Freeport Component
MerRouge(Port)                  57.2    416      208        -       -        -   1196       32      23      12        -        -       -      6.6
TechnialAssstance                5.8      58      3.7       -       -        -    15.4      03      0.3      02       -     _          -      0.9
Subtotal Fresport Component       63.0    474      245        -       -        -   134.9     35       2.6     14        -        -       -      7.5
C. Environment Componernt
otalEBASELINECOSTS                630     474     245        -        -       -   134.9      35      26       14        -       -       -      7.5
Physical Corinngericis           6 0     4 5      2 3       -       -        -    12 7      0 3     0 2     01        -        -       -      0.7
PrieConitngencles                40      48       32        -       -        -    12.0     02       03      0.2       -        -       -      0.7
otal PROJECTCOSTS                 73.1    567     299        -        -       -   1597       41      31       17        -       -       -      89
Taes                               -       -        -                    -       -       -        -
ForelgnExchange                 534     413      231        -       -        -   117.9     30       23      13        -        -       -      65
Part C. Environment Component
Base Coat (Mau. Rs. Million)                                Base Coat 1US$ Million)
98198   96197   97l99   98(9s9    9900   00m01    Total   9(96   9n7    37198   981199   "too    00101    Total
A Port Component
t Freoport Component
C. Environment Component
Mrlne ErpArormerit              9 3     6.7      2.9     4 0      0 7     0.7    24.4      0.5     0.4     0.2      0.2     0.0     0.0      1.4
Vassels Safety                  2.6      0 7     0.7     0.7      0 7     0.7     6.3      0.1     0 0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.4
Total BASELINE COSTS            11 9      7.4     3.6      4.7     1.5     t.5    30.7      07       0.4     0.2     0.3      0.1     0.1      1.7
PhysicalCon6ngencies            08      06       03      03       01      0.1      23      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.1
Price Contngencles              0.7     0 8      0 5     0 8      0 5     0.5     3.7      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.2
Total PROJECTCOSTS               134      88      4.4      58      21      2.2    36.7      07       0.5     0.2     0.3      0.1     0.1     2.0
Tames                             -       -        -       -        -
Foreign Exchange               10.5     6 3      3.0     4 3      0.5     0.6    25.2      0.6     0.4     0.2      0.2     0.0     0.0      1.4



72                                                         Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
Table 9.4: Estimated Cumulative Disbursement Schedule
& Detailed Financing Plan
Part A. Port Component
Costs to be Financed
Financing Available                                     Financial Charges
Private                    Interest                       The Govemrment
MMA    MFA    IBRD    ACF         EIB     LUX    Sector            Project    During    Commitemnt           Cash  Cumulave
Amount Anmount Amount Amount Amount Amnount Anount  Total   Costs  Constructlon   Charges    Total    Flow   Cash Flow
1           0.3       -     0.3      0.3       -        -      03      1.2     1.2             -                 1.2       -           -
2           0.3       -      0.3     0.3       -        -      0.3     1 2      1.2          0.0          -      12      -0.0       -0.0
3           20        -      2.8     2.8      1.9       -      0.7    103      10.3          0.0          -    10.3    -0.0         -0.0
4           20        -      28      28       19        -      07     103      103           01           -    104       -01        -01
5           34        -      64      64       72        -      25     25.9    259            02           -    261       -02        -0.3
6           34        -      64      64       72        -      25     259      259           03           -    262       -03        -06
7           1.1       -      22      22       08        -      09      7.1      71           05           -      7.6    -05          -12
8           1.1              22      22       08        -      09      7.1      7.1          06           -      7.7    -06         -1.7
9           00        -      01      01         -       -        -     02       0.2          0.6          -      08      -06        -24
10         0.0        -     0.1      0.1       -        -       -      02      0.2           0.6          -      08      -0.6       -30
11         0.0        -      0.0     0.0       -        -       -      01      0.1           0.6          -      07      -06        -37
12         00         -     00       00        -        -       -      01      01            06           -      07      -06        -4.3
Total        138         -    234      234     197         -     9.0    893      893           43            -    93.6    -43          -43
Part B. Freeport Component
Costs to be Financed
Financing Available                                     Finanial Charges
Private                    Interest                       The Governmnt
MMA    MFA    IBRD    ACF         EIB    LUX    Sector             Project    During    Comnitment           Cash  Cumulative
Amnount Amount Amount Amount Amount Amount Anount  Total   Costs  Construction   Charges    Total   Flow   Cash Flow
1            -      0.3     1.5        -       -      0.2       -      20      20              -          -      2.0     0.0         0.0
2             -     0.3      1.5       -        -     02        -      20       20           0.0          -      21      -0.0       -0.0
3             -     02       1.2       -        -     02        -      16       1.6          01           -      17      -01        -0.1
4             -     02       12        -        -     02        -      16       16           01           -      17      -0.1       -0.2
5             -     01       06        -        -     01        -      0.8      08           01           -      10      -01        -0.4
6             -     01       06        -        -     01         -     0.8      08           02           -      10      -02         -0.6
7             -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -           02           -      02      -02        -07
8             -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -       -           02           -      02      -02        -09
9             -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -       -           02           -      02      -02        -11
10           -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -           02           -      02      -0.2       -1.3
11           -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -           02           -      0.2    -0.2        -1.5
1 2           -       -       -        --                       -        -       -0.2                     -      0.2     -0.2       -1.7
Total                  1.3     6 6                       1.0              8.9     89            1g7                105     -127        -147
Part C. Environment Component
Costa to be Financed
Financing Available                                     Financial Charges
Private                    Intenrst                       The Govemment
MMA    MFA    IBRD    ACF         EIB     LUX    Sector            Project    During    Commitmn t           Cash   Cumubtive
Amount Amount Armount Anmount Anount Amount Amnount  Total   Costs  Constuctlon   Charg-         s    Total    Flow   Cash Flow
1           0.0       -      0.2       -       -        -      01      0.3     0.4             -          -      04      -0.0       -0.0
2           0.0       -      0.2       -       -        -      01      0.3     0.4           0.0          -      04      -0.0       -0.1
3           01        -      00        -        -       -      01      02       02           00           -      0.3    -0.0        -0.1
4           01        -      00        -        -       -      01      02      02            00           -      0.3    -00         -0.2
5           00        -      00        -        -       -      00      01       01           00           -      01      -0.0       -02
6           00        -      00        -        -       -      00      0.1      01           00           -      0.1    -00          -03
7           01        -      00        -       -        -      01      01      02            00           -      0.2    -00         -03
8           01        -      00        -        -       -      01      01       02           00           -      02      -00         -03
9           0.0       -      0.0       -        -       -        -     00       01           00           -      01      -0.0       -04
10         0.0        -      0.0       -       -        -       -      00      01            00           -      01      -0.0       -0.4
11          0.0       -      0.0       -       -        -       -      0.0     0.1           0.0          -      0.1    -0.0        -0.5
12         0.0        -     0.0        -       -        -       -      0.0     0.1           0.0          -      01      -0         -0.5
Total         0.4        -     0.5        -       -        -     0.7      1.6     20           0.1           -      22     -0.5        -0.5
Semesters of Bank fiscal years (FY, July I to June 30) beginning with FY96.



Annex 5: Tables and Charts                                                              73
Table 10: Operational Parameters Used for Economic Evaluation
(in US$)
COST ITEM   GENERAL   DRY BULK    TANKER                         CONTAINER SHIP
CARGO
15,000 DWT    30,000 DWT    30,000 DWT         750 TEU       1,200 TEU
Capital cost       3685            4600           6650           5400          7600
Crew               1320            1320           1320           1320          1320
Repairs and
maintenance         540            700            1000            950          1300
Stores/lubr.        130            130             190            130           170
Insurance           400            560             680            700          1080
Fuel (in port)    255-380        280-420         300-710       250-400        400-750
Overhead            320            380             420           400            450
Total           6650-6775       7970-8110      10560-10970      150-9300   12320-12670
Source: MMS Consultants



74                                             Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
Table 11: Annual Port-days per Type of Cargo
& Daily Average Ship Costs (1998 and 1999)
YEAR 1998                                          YEAR 1999
CARGO              NUMfBER OF    VESSEL               TOTAL    NUMBER OF   VESSEL COST    TOTAL
COST PER
ALONGS.         DAY (USS)         COST        ALONGS. DAYS           PER DAY            COST
DAYS__            _  _  _    __   _  _  _   __   _  _  _    _
Unitized and
break bulk             401            6700            2686700             436                6700           2921200
Cement                  91            8000             728000             95                8000             760000
Coal                    19            8000             152000             19                8000             152000
Fertilizer              60            6700             402000             60                6700             402000
White oil               58           10700             620600             63               10700             674100
-Black oil               20            6700             134000             22                6700             147400
Lie. ammonia             3            6700              20100              3                6700              20100
-Bitumen                 18            6700             120600             18                6700             120600
Containers              206           11300            2327800            219               11300            2474700
Total               8_76               X              7191800            935                                7672100
-Average Cost per vessel day (USS)                  |    8210 =0=                                               8205
Containers Daily vessel cost of US$11,300 is weighted average for 750 and 1200 TEU vessels.
Source: MMA Consultants



Annex 5: Tables and Charts                                                                                         75
Table 12: Annual Port-days per Type of Cargo
& Daily Average Ship Costs (2000 and 2005)
YEAR 2000                                           YEAR 2005
CARGO              NUMBER OF  VESSEL COST   TOTAL    NUMBER OF  VESSEL COST   TOTAL
ALONGS.   PER DAY (US$)    COST                      ALONGS.           PER DAY            COST
DAYS                                                 DAYS
Unitized and
break bulk                473              6700           2686700              702              6700           4703400
Cement                     99              8000            728000              127              8000           1016000
Coal                       26              8000            152000               41              8000            328000
Fertilizer                 60              6700            402000               60              6700            402000
White oil                  67             10700            620600               95             10700           1016500
Black oil                  25              6700            134000               17              6700            113900
Lic. ammonia                3              6700             20100                4              6700             26800
Bitumen                    18              6700            120600               18              6700            120600
Containers                236             11300           2327800              295             11300           3333500
Total                    1007                             7191800             1359                            11060700
Average Cost per vessel day (USS)                            8206                                                 8139
Containers Daily vessel cost of USS11.300 is weighted average for 750 and 1200 TEU vessels.
Source: MMA Consultants



76                                                                                       Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
Table 13: Economic Rate of Return Calculation
SSITmvTY ANALYSISL ECONOMIC ANALYSES OF ENGUSH CHANNEL CONTAINER AND onr TERMINAL XQUEP ED WITH TWO CRANKS
SCENARIO 5 COMPARED WITH SCENARIO BA. BERTHS 1-4 & QUAY A-D (IN 1lUS)
INCLUDING REDUCTION IN GANG SE AND BENEFITS FROM LARGER TANKERS
HYPOTHESIS: AVERAGE DAILY VESSEL COST -  537,650                                                                                                                             KE nRR 22:       SL38
gRR 25:          19.2398
YEAR      YEAR          Tdol          Ro&d.ia         C1.i-          Oil hpw           C pilm        TA _d       M it...          M."-.               NM Cd               NM                TOTAL
No         RPdodio         onC           H-dlig             Cot             Cot          T-.i.           Fi.nd         Eqipn    i                            B-S6                NET
bin. Co6l        WaOio1       C.o. R           R,d    R          .. tid..n  5.906             I 60%            SAM
1996        2                                                                          13030 20   ,130,W 01 260850                                                                           -13.160.83
1997        2                                                                    _ 47 230,150          202,250                                         47,4322 40D                 C          47.432
2998        3            3,990,600        222,200      1 900,000        I 676,26   _                  -202230                                             -202,230         6 889 04            4,4,1
1999        6            3,42.500         24_7.500     1,976,000        1,01661                        -730000                                             -7800)          7,467,              7.39,.
2006        5            4,008.600        289,200      2052000          118 W 991 9 _                  -32,00          377.270          676 02(          1,105,290         824346              7.143,40
2001        6            4.590,000        33D0,D0      2, 12,100        1,s9o6,7                                      -977.270          476.02          -1,0533,290        9.011,              7,s960,0
2002        7            3.353.000        35,000       2,125,4D0        2,111.96                                       377,270          476.02i         -1.033.290        10010,3               .937,07
2003        8            6.296.5Ds        445.500       22401)(         233,7                                         -377,270          476,02           -1.033.290       20,179,              9,926.3
2094        9            7.267.500        522.500      2,249,600        2,247                                         -377,270          476,02          -1.053,290         22.26,             11.233.31
2005       20            8,216,24100      5900          2,23 0000       2,369,40                                      -377.270          476,021         -1,053,290         13,416,20          12.402,91
2066       22            9,280,006        660,000       2,3210400       2.412,82                                      -377,270          476,021         -1,013.20         24,633,22           13,579,93
2007       12           10,710,00        770.000       2,372,200       2.602,3                                       -377,279          476,02          -1.013,29D         26,452.5            25,39,2
2008       23           22,240,000        880,000      2.426,300        2,725,93                                      -377,270          476,02          -2.053,29          18,262.71          27,209,4
2009       24           24,252.500      2.0L7,500       2.477.600       3,242.86                  _377.270                              476.02           -2,053.290       20,18,4              29.836,1
2020       25           26,768,300      2.205,600      2.568.800        2,9927                   -_377.270                              476.02          -1,053,290        23,533,             22,432,
2DI         L6          19.800,00   _LO.40.00           2,644,900       3,126,21                                      .377,270          476402          -2,033,290        27,090,91           26,037,62
20L2        15          24,862,500       2.787,500      2.736,000       3,Z65,423  _               _                   177.270          476,023          -,933,290        32,651,42           31,59.13
2023        28          32,230,000      2.310,000      2,42,400         3,420,94                                      .377,270          476,02           1,053,290        40,693,34           39,640,03
2024        19          42,540,000      3,080,000      2.94,30          3,399,17                                      .377,270          476,02           -2,053,290       52,267,9            31,224,6
2025        20          42,340,000      3.080,010       2.943.800       3,399,27                                      -377,270          476,02           -103.200         32,267,97           51,212,
2026        22          42,840,000      3.080.000       2,943,800       3,399,27                                      -377,270         -676,02           -1,053,296       32.267,97           31,214,
2017        22          42,340,000      3,080,000       2,941,300       3,399,27        5,628,000                     -377,270          476,02           4,374,710        52.267,9           56,642,3
2018       23           42,840,000      3,030.2(00      2,948,800       3.399,271      3__      __                    -377,272          476,02           -1,053290        52,267,9            52,224,6
2029       24           42,340,000      3,06000         2,N4,900        3,399,27                                      -377.270          470,02          -12,013,20        52,267,97           52,21,68
2020       25           42,94,000       3.,080W00       2, 3 ,300       3,399,1 7                                     -377,270          476,02          -2,053,29         32,267,9            02,284,
Source: MMA & Consultants



SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS. ECONOMIC ANALYSES OIF  NCLISH CHA.NNEL CONTAINE9RANDOI1LTERMINAL EQUIPPED WITH TWO CRANKS                                                        _____ ______ ______                                       ____             ______U
SCENARIO SCOMPARED WITH SCENARIGO A. BERTHS 1-4 &QUAY A-D (IN SUS)_______
INCLUDINGC REDUCTION IN GANG SIZE AND BENEFITS FROM LARCER TANKERS                                                                                      ____
IIRR 25:         19.2 5%       -     17.50%             17-23%             11.s9%
YER  YEAR          Told          R.do.Suo       CoOIoo         011l hOPO         CqoiU          TA -d       Mol00.-00  3 M..0..ooo              Nd COB               Nd               TOTUAL              C.                 C... B             C ... C
No.       R.doolon  4       ao. go       Hmdtog   ,J       CoB             CoB      ,   Tr..1o          FloOd          F quip-.o         __      _           Ben'r1              NET                c..t~-            B...I              _ A&B
j j Tow  CoB            W00og        CoBt R.do.       RMdoodon        R.wdu.1.        so0.80%   J    1.00%     ]     3.00%      iL_____[J                                                        15.00%             Is 00%          -l5%&-I5%
1996        I      ______                                                             13.030850       - 130,000                                    -.131608350                    0          -13.160 830         .1 5.134.978      .13,160.850         -15.134.978 
1997__    2___    ______                                                               -47,230.1I30    -20220_______                    ________        .47.432,400                 0         -47.432.400         .24.547.26D        -47.432.400        .54.547.260
19"B        3            3,090600        222200        1.900.000        1.676.2621_        _          -202.250   _____         _____                      -202.250         6,809.062           6.686.812           6.656.475         5,633.453           5.625.113
1999        4            3,442.30        247,500       1.976.000        1.901.666                      -78.000        ____                                 70.000          7.467.666  __       7.389,066           7.377,966         6.209.516           0.25.1
-2000         5            4060              208 20      Z052.000        1.899.892                       -52.000       .377 270          .676.020         -1.105.290         8.248.692          7. 143.402          6.977.609          5.900.098           5.740.305
2001        6            45900000         330,000      2.112.800        1.980,570  ______                             377.2701         -676,020         -1.053,2901        9.013.370           7.960.080           7,802.087         6.608.073           6.4 50.081
2062        7             5         .15 .000  383000   2,158.400       2.111.966                                      .377.270         -676.020         -1.053.290        10.010.366           8.957,076           8.709.085         7.4 7.52 1          7,297.328
2003        S                6 0          445.500,      2204.000       2,133.796                                     -377.270          -676.020         -1.053.29-0       10.979.794           9,926.5014          0.760.511         8.279.535           8.121.741
2004        9            727070 Soo         2.506      2.249.600       2.247.000                                     .3777270          -676.020         .1,0535290        IZ2.6.600           11,235,510          11.075.317         9.5900.52           9.232.327
2005       10            8:216 10         5900700 __2280.000           2.369.408                                      .377-676.020                      -1,053.290        13.456.208          12402.9]8            2.244.925        10.384.487  -       10.226.493 
2006        1 I          91 80.000        660 000O     2.310.400       2.48Z2.02                                     .377.270          .676,020         -1.093,290        14.633.228          15.579.938          13.421.945        11,384.954          11.226.960   ~
2007       12           10.7101100        770.000      2371.200        Z601,304                                       -377.270         -676,020         1.10535290        16.452,504          1S. 3". 294         15.241.301        12,931.406 ___   12.773.413
2008      _13            12.240,000       81S0D060     2416.800        2.Z725.932 _______                             377.270          -676.020         -1.053.290        18.262.732          17.209.4412         17.051.4.9         14.470.032 _       14,312.039
206        14           54,l52500_      1017.500  ___47.600            3.408 ____2_4    .1 377.270                                     .676.020         -.1053.2940       20.009.486          19.856,196          19.678.203        16.70.2,773        -16,544.8
2010       Is           16.768 8100     1.205.600      2.5-68.800      2.992.790                                      .377.270         -076,020         .1.053,290        23.535.950          22.48Z.700          22.124.707         18.952.302         18.7906.308
2011       16           19.890000       1.430,060      2.644.800       3.126. 112                                     .577.270         -676.020         t1.053.290        V7090,912           26.037.622          25.879.629        21,97).995          21.815,992
2D12       17           2462.500        1.787. 506     2.736.000       3.265.426                                      .377.270         .676,020         -1.053.290        3Z.651.426          31.398.150          31.440.143        26.70-0.42 2        26.542.429
2013       18 a         32130000        2310.000       2.04Z400         3.410.946 ___             _____               377.270          -676.020         -1.053,290        40,693.946          33,640,056          39,402.063        31.536.054          353.7S.061       j
2014       19           42040 060-      3060000        2.948.00        3.399.176                                      . 377.270        .676.020         .053,290          52.267.976          51,214.68           31.050.695        41.3574.4910        43.216.496
2015       20           42.040 000      3.080 000      2.948.8001       3.3909.176                                   .377,270          -676.020         -1,053.290        32.'267,976         51.214.686          51.056.693        45.174,490          43,256.496       j
2016       21           42.040000       3.080 000      2.048,8000       3.3909.176                                   .377,270           -676.020         10537299         52.267.976          51.214,686          51.050.003        45.374.430          45.216,4061
2057       22           42.040.000      3.080.000      2.068.800       3.399. 176       5.428.000                     .377.270         .676.020          4,374.710        5Z2627.976          56.642.686          37.29H.H93        48,802.490          49.478.069
2____3 42.40 000               3.080.006      Z948.800        33.76 ___________                             .377.270          .676.020         -10520            52.267.976  _ _      1,214-.-8- -105.61                    3 374 9o           41.716.496
2019       24        4 2.040 000        30500000       2.948.800        3.399,176 ______             ____             377,270           676.02          1.1053.290        52.267.976          41,4686             51.0566931j       43.3 74.440]        _43.216,496
2076       25           42.040.000      30800 000      2.068.800        3.399.576                                     .377.2701         .7.2            -.5.9             52.267,976          51,214.686          51.056.69I L      43.3 74.4901        43.216.496
Source: MMA &Consultantsl3  _                                                                             _   11                                                                                        I



78                                    Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
Table 15: Risk Analysis
A - Hypothesis of Variation on Costs and Benefits:
Probability Distribution          Normal
Average                             0%
Standard Deviation                  10%
Domain of variation of input    -25% to +25%
B - Results of the Risk Analysis:
Name.  ....... EIRR 25.:  R sidul. /::Cost++::. Residual. / RBenef-
..................  ...... ......  . .........  ...  ,,, . ...  .   ......   .   .................
Description     Output    Normal(0, 0. 1)      Normal(0,0. 1)
Cell          SIl            Q16                R16
Minimum =       14.23%         -26.67%            -28.12%
Maximum =       27.74%         27.16%             32.91%
Mean=         19.40%          0.14%              0.55%
Std Deviation=    1.95%          9.58%              10.73%
Variance =      0.04%          0.92%              1.15%
Number of iteration  700.
t Lt
X..                     W   ..... .TR
.0.1 3....~~~~~~11   .



Annex 5: Tables and Charts                                                                                                                             79
Chart 1: MMA - Existing Organizational Structure
|Chairrran of the Board|
| Director General |
Int Aud             Dep Director General (2) 
Traffic                                              I Marine  Fnnce   Personnel  Secretariat  Pub. Relatons
QCvil Engineeringj   Croieainlk                Pltg                 Stores 
Marine                Administration |      leihig |j          Accounting 
Mechanical  |   PatEupet|                                        Statistics 
a eansing                                   Computer |
Health & Safety|
Chart 2: MMA - Proposed Organizational Structure
Ca..cl. GIPn.1ni.
ATop. fArolor Gnoi |o H                                       Dp Dh.ololoorw|                  MIS EDP 
M.,ow Aid. A C.Io M SA-4iSuy
Source: MMA Consultants



80                                       Mauritius: Port Development & Environment Protection Project
Chart 3: Project Implementation Schedule
(-4 CN4
..... ......0.... . . ..........  ............  .... ..  ......... ....................
0
.0
on -
.-CN
0
0
z 
co     0
LU     -
'o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
0
LU
C.,
4)
C.,
o  0~~~~~~~~or
W  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9t
0~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
..i  a                                                    c
ZL~~~~~~~~~~~.a 72                                     -
2zM,O!8MC3MMvz.                 ,~~~~~~~
0                          -   0  U          C2  i  o   L 
w                                      LL:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
0. i- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~La 



Annex 5: Tables and Charts                                                                    81,
C                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C4
Cu
CD
C4
Cy
CD
CD
C   . . . . . . .      . . . .. . . .   . .. . . .   . . . . . . . . .   . . .
C
(1
03C)
ob
C                                                                                     C4
- 0
U7 i          .     .    . . ..     ..
I.. 
c.2   t CY
2   CD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
LLCC
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
z~
CL 
U,~~~~~~~~~~                      .
2          d CDaC    
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ 
Cl)~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
a
CU4
C4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
Ca      C l C  C   O  N  S   S  C   -  C   9C                                         I
-n       NNNNNN                  191191                                                .



REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS                                                                                          oo
PORT DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION PROJECT
Proiect Implenentation Schedule
1995              1996               1997               1998        |      1999       ]       2000        |      2001
ID   Task Name                   Duration           03  04101 02  03  04
34   2 - FREEPORT COMPONEN           630d      .                          _      _ ,
36       201- Mer Rouge Area (       260d
36            A. Site Development     52w
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . .. .... ,  
37            C. Wharehouses          25w
38            B. Administrative Of   21 6w     .                 -
39       203 - Technical Assista      610d
40            A. Supervision olw      122w                   .                      /
41            6. Logistics & Electr  30 6w
42       202 - Plaisance Area (A      260d
43            A. Site development     52w      .                                 t-.                                                     
_ _,  ___ _ _ _ _ _  _    ,__    _                                       , / /
0
*0
Project:                              Task                           Milestone           *Summary _ 
Date: 411/95...
MTSPDEP9.MP1P                                                                                                                                                              Page 3
,                              .                                .  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
PORT DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
1  1995            11997                                 1998               1999               2000               2001
10    Task Name                  Duration   014  a2 030-40430 03   04     10203l04 1020310401  0a2l03l04  
44   3 - ENVIRONMENT COMPO           1176d |                                _     __                        _ _     _     _     _n
45        301 - Marine Environm      1176d         (     _    .                  .                                           -- _ _ _i_
46            A. Facilities          348w
47            C. Consultant Servl    27.4w               r
48            D. Training and Tec     235w
49            B. Equipments          21.8w
50        302 - Vessels Safely        674d      .                    _         _,)
S1            A. Consultant Servi      25w
52            B. Training             100w
53   11 - Mid-Term Review               Od      .                                                                     101
64   III - ProJect Completion           Od
Projec: 419                           Task              =Milestone *Summary                                       (
MTSPDEP9.MPP                                                                                                                                                                Page 4           w
I-.



84                                                        Mauritius: Port Development &  Environment Protection Project
Chart 4: CHC - Existing Organizational Structure
|Boardot Directors|
|Chairmanofthe Board|
|Gneral Manager|
| Int. Audit             dmin/Sec.          jinncCOperation                                           ManPcw.r Dev
Security Adviser         A its. & Cap. Expends. |Acds & Cap. Expends.              Doctor
d Secretaries        l  |  Salaries & Wages          Billing & Cosing      Safety, Health & Welfare
Conlidenfial Assistant      Biling a Costing             Stores               Personnel Oicer
Transport Officer               Stores l_j          Salares & Wages  I



Annex 6: Project File                                                                85
Annex 6: Project File
List of Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.    Plan Directeur du port de Port Louis (BCEOM - Juillet 1985)
2.    Port Louis Harbor - Master Plan for Development (1990 thro' 2010). (CESP - October 1989),
3.    Port Louis - Revision and updating of the Port Master Plan (Posford Duvivier September 1994)
4.     Upgrading Port Louis Container Facilities (Contract MH35 - Gibbs - January 1993)
5.    Model Studies for the proposed Mer Rouge Container Terminal (Gibb & RPT - February 1993)),
6.    Port Policy, Institutional Strengthening and Pricing Study (TecnEcon September 1994),
7.    Tariff Review and Simplification Exercise (Wee Keng Chi March 1992).
8.    Human Resource Action Plans for MMA & CHC (M. Andersen - January 1995)
9.    The Freeport Development Strategy (Portia - September 1994),
10.   Environmental Safegaurds Analysis (ERM - December 1994),
11.   Mauritius Environmental Monitoring and Development Project (IBRD November 1990),
12.   National Environmental Action Plan for Mauritius (March 1990)
13.   MMA, CHC, MFA Corporte Plans (1996 - 1998)






MAURITIUS
PORT DEVELOPMENT AND
ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION PROJECT
PORT LOUIS
BIRD SANCTUARY OF                                           PROPOSED PORT FACILITIES
l |                   3fb;   /        .       ~       ~~~~~ FUTURE                             TERRE ROUGE                                PROPOSED ROADS
avu sF\  /'             ~~~CONTAINER   
PORT EXPANSION                                                                                       PROPOSED PIPELINE EXTENSION
0 [i   EXISTING STRUCTURES
EXISTING ROADS
s/   4 y \ / / g    /                                                                          ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The hoondor,es colors dno.oos or oo oher ,stlortal,oI,
20 H~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ho, nthis -fp J, not .ply on th port 01 The World Book Oro-p
-ny /Edg-nenl on  the legol sto-Ut  0f  orrIory or ony endorsement
OIL                                   RECEPTR                                                                                         20'00                                        20 00-
STORAGE'            -   ~WR                    -PodrdO
0                                                                            S~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SMILES
L-.-------~ Wort Louis
GAS 'tto                                                                                                                                                                   CesNDUe Sc I TqR
STORAGE           .    -   FORT                                                          ,  -20                                                              -       ose Hll
.  / Sv  GEOR_r          ~~YARD                                                                                  )
e+< v: <? ~PROPOSED  POR "                                                                                                             571                    5245 tr
6ZX~~~5 Bt  ;   ULK CEMENT                            IDSR                                                                 AZNA                        01 
ERFITEMNA                                                                                                        -T
MMA AND ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~7   TNAIA                                               D
PLNT  t4                     PHC FFIEWI
55W                                                                                         5,                   Mo  j./    Q\2  B.r  on   e,  
'-~~~~~~ .                          4lTPjOA4                                         *Lslo..    o/ f  qnTl,e                  {l
Io         0ET 250                             500 METERS          f- - --  r- !F               TAR El,"rK
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'VSNGR ~                                                                          TO EE~BAg                                                                .Moholo--   ITENATONA   ONAIS
o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~1 TEMIA                                                               0' -20 -er                          MADAGASCAR....  (
_/                                                                                                                \BUILDING                                                  40                  '03
oo                    0                 25~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                 nRMEES                           /
-c~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.RIA                                       TERMINAL' -  -                                                                                                                      '-4
BUILDINO                                                       AS                  LtD                    0-~~~~~~~~~~~~~OMRO






57 30 
MAURITIUS                                                                                                                     BIRD SANCTUARY
,s'                          ~~~~~~~OF TERRE ROUGE 
PORT DEVELOPMENT AND                                                                                                                        OF T ROUGE
ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION PROJECT                                                                                 MER ROUGE
PORT LOUIS                                                                    REC AIMED AREA
EXISTING FACILITIES                                                 '                                                                                                    r
{      <Qs4a~ A>\(il('                                                         t}'   ROCHE
SELECTED EXISTING STRUCTURES                                                   N                                                                               '       BOIS
EXISTING MAIN ROADS                                                           FGE(ORGE 
57 30                 57 45                                                                                                                      ,.
20 00                                       20-00                                                                                   N                                    :5            //
oPoudre d'o,                                 -                                        '>i /
0      5SMILES                                                                                                           4                 '
part Louis                                                                                                        R     M
(0
~RECLAIM'ED -
Centre de FIocq0                                                                                        7 -   AREA                      t ,
-20;15     O     Rose H,i)t                                                                                                                                 n4N '               -
FORT WILLIAM                                                      -It'                 -    I                      (i'.
\'  $EBERTHS
RECLAIMED      \X"/
20'30           Souloc0                     20'30                                                                   AREA          .. .                                ,-
57'30'                57 45                                                                   :.                                                  /             
TANZANIA,                   so-          10' 
i~ rCOMOROS
MALAW
K-                     Mohotoscyo                                                      CASSIS        -FORT
} MOZAMBiQUE          *nl=n=n=livo                                                            /0<K                                                                                                  ADELAIDE
20 eiro               MADAGASCAR        MAWUS,
Se-I De .i.
'I lolnrr   tF,}  .                                                0        250       500        750       1000 METERS
>C                                                                                      (7/                                                                     (ho boundc,,es nouz  cenomsnehe s -nd 055nst,c,, ,,.mn-, o,,on0
- ~-- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES   -0oBLV A                                                                                                                     on  rh5 .  n-s nco spic oTn rse pes l ocs Bank C/sop  C
-c                                                       2QCA3//                                    BELL VILLAGE                                                Onc, n-sdn-sssesss on she ego, uleNs Of 055c, errssery nBELL VILLAGE
A,40                      50O'                                                   1sSeopncofucbodr,                                                                                                                C









IMAGING
Report No:       13980 MAS
Type: SAR



