Page  1
                                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                                       LOAN NUMBER 3908 MAS
                               Loan Agreement
            (Port Development and Environment Protection Project)
                                   between
                            REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated February 9, 1996
                                                       LOAN NUMBER 3908 MAS
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 9, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF
MAURITIUS (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Mauritius Marine Authority has also requested the
Bank to provide assistance towards the financing of Part A of
the Project and by an agreement dated October 8, 1995, between
the Bank and MMA (the MMA Loan Agreement), the Bank is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate amount of
twenty-three million four hundred thousand dollars
($23,400,000) (the MMA Loan);
      (C)   by an agreement dated October 8, 1995, between the
Borrower and the Bank (the MMA Guarantee Agreement), the
Borrower has agreed to guarantee the obligations of MMA in
respect of the MMA Loan and to undertake such other obligations
as are set forth in the MMA Guarantee Agreement;
      (D)   the Borrower has obtained from the Duchy of Luxemburg
a grant in an amount equivalent to one million dollars
($1,000,000) to assist in financing Part B of the Project;
      (E)   MMA intends to contract from the Accelerated
Page  2
Cofinancing Facility of the Japanese Export-Import Bank
(JEXIM), a loan (the JEXIM Loan) in an amount equivalent to
twenty-three million four hundred thousand dollars
($23,400,000) to assist in financing Part A of the Project on
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the JEXIM Loan
Agreement ) to be entered into between MMA and JEXIM;
      (F)   MMA intends to contract from the European Investment
Bank (EIB), a loan (the EIB Loan) in an amount equivalent to
nineteen million seven hundred thousand ($19,700,000) to assist
in financing Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement (the EIB Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between MMA and EIB;
      (G)   Part B of the Project will be carried out by
Mauritius Freeport Authority (MFA) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to MFA the proceeds of the Loan as provided in
this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and MFA;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the
Bank, dated May 30, 1995, (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and Mauritius Freeport Authority (MFA) of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Project Agreement;
      (b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
entered into between the Borrower and MFA pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (d)   "MFA" means Mauritius Freeport Authority, established
pursuant to the Freeport Act of 1992, of the laws of the
Borrower;
      (e)   "MMA" means the Mauritius Marine Authority,
established pursuant to the Ports Act of 1975, of the laws of
the Borrower; and
      (f)   "CHC" means Cargo Handling Corporation Ltd, a company
incorporated under the laws of the Borrower.
                              ARTICLE II
                               The Loan
Page  3
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement an amount equal to seven million one hundred thousand
dollars ($7,100,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for Parts B and C of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part B of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account
in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means the initial period from
                   and including the date of this Agreement to,
                   but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date
                   occurring thereafter and after the initial
                   period, each period from and including an
                   Interest Payment Date to, but excluding, the
                   next following Interest Payment Date.
            (ii)   "Interest Payment Date" means any date
                   specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
            (iii)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means for each Interest
                   Period the London interbank offered rate for
                   six-month deposits in dollars for value the
                   first day of such Interest Period (or, in the
                   case of the initial Interest Period, for value
                   the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next
                   preceding the first day of such Interest
                   Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank
                   and expressed as a percentage per annum.
            (iv)   "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest
                   Period: (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of
                   1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average
                   margin for such Interest Period, below (or
                   above) the London interbank offered rates, or
                   other reference rates, for six-month deposits,
                   in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings
                   or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to
                   fund single currency loans or portions thereof
                   made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably
                   determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                   percentage per annum.
      (c)   The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the LIBOR Base
Page  4
Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period promptly
upon the determination thereof.
      (d)   Whenever, in light of changes in market practice
affecting the determination of the interest rates referred to
in this Section 2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply
a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the
Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may
modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable
to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six
(6) months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The basis
shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its
objection thereto, in which chase said modification shall not
apply to the Loan.
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.08. MFA is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions in
respect of Part B of the Project.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and, to this end: (i) shall carry out Part C of
the Project through the Directorate of Shipping and MMA, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, port and environmental practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project; and (ii)
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause MFA to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement all the obligations of MFA therein set forth, shall
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary
or appropriate to enable MFA to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall: (i) relend the proceeds of the
Loan, allocated for Part B of the Project, to MFA under a
subsidiary loan agreement entered into between the Borrower and
MFA, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, (A) an interest
rate at the same rate as for the Loan, (B) the principal to be
repaid in fifteen years, including a grace period of five
years, and (C) the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan
repayable by MFA being the equivalent in dollars of the
currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account in
respect of Part B of the Project, such equivalent to be
determined as of the date or respective dates of repayment; and
(ii) make available to MMA, part of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated for Part C of the Project, as a grant.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
Page  5
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the works, goods and consultants' services
required for Parts B and C of the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
      Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Part B of the Project shall be carried out by MFA
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall by June 30, 2000, consult
with the Bank, as to the future development of freeport
operations.
                              ARTICLE IV
                          Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Part C of the Project
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the said Part of the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained in
Page  6
                   accordance with sound accounting practices,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                   at least one year after the Bank has received
                   the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                   the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
                   made; and
            (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to
                   examine such records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) (i) of this Section including
                   those for the Special Account for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six months after the
                   end of each such year the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested, including a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
                   and
            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
                                  ARTICLE V
                             Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   MFA shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that MFA will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   The Freeport Act, 1992, shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of MFA to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of MFA or for the suspension of its
operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
Page  7
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                             ARTICLE VI
                     Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and MFA; and
      (b)   all conditions precedent to the initial disbursement
of the MMA Loan Agreement, other than those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by MFA, and is legally binding upon MFA in
accordance with its terms;
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and MFA and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and MFA in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VII
              Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Government House
            Port Louis
            Mauritius
            Cable address:                  Telex:
                    MINFIN                  4249
                    Port Louis              EXTERN IW
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
             1818 H Street, N.W.
             Washington, D.C. 20433
             United States of America
                    Cable address:          Telex:
Page  8
                    INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA)
                    Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                          REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
                          By /s/ A.P. Neewoor
                                                  Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                          By /s/ Andrew Rogerson
                                             Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                     Africa
                                   SCHEDULE 1
                      Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                 Dollar              to be
      Category                 Equivalent)         Financed
      (1)  Civil works          6,000,000        100% of foreign
           for Part B                            expenditures and
           of the Project                        40% of local
                                                 expenditures
      (2)  Consultants'          300,000         100% of foreign
           services                              expenditures and
           for Part C                            50% of local
           of the Project                        expenditures
      (3)  Training for          200,000         100% of foreign
           Part C                                expenditures and
           of the Project                        50 % of local
                                                 expenditures
      (4)  Unallocated           600,000
                               _________
      TOTAL                    7,100,000
                               =========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  9
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower;
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures for works under contracts not exceeding $300,000
equivalent and services under contract not exceeding $100,000
equivalent for firms and $50,000 equivalent for individuals,
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                       Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower's
policy for economic diversification by: (i) increasing the
efficiency and competitiveness of port services; and (ii)
expanding and modernizing facilities to attract investors and
stimulate foreign trade and transshipment operations in an
environmentally sound manner.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:  Port Development
1.    Strengthening MMA's mandate as the landlord of the Port
Louis port, with sole legal authority over standard's land use
and port operations under concession arrangements, through the
provision of technical advisory services and training.
2.    Improvement of management and operations of MMA and CHC
respectively through the implementation of MMA's and CHC's
corporate plans respectively, aimed at improving quality of
services and operations, as well as, the installation of a
management information system.
3.    Construction of a new three-berth container and oil
terminal, a new passenger terminal building and an internal
road network in the new port area.
4.    Acquisition of two gantry cranes to mechanize container
handling, fire fighting equipment and computer hardware and
software.
5.    Relocation of oil and gas handling and unloading
facilities in the port area.
Part B:  Freeport Development
1.    Carrying out a study on the prospects for the
liberalization of the regime governing air transport licensing
Mauritius.
2.    Implementation by MFA of a targeted trade development
strategy, including improvement of MFA's management and
operations, strengthening MFA's organization and management
information systems, and rationalization of its marketing in
accordance with MFA's corporate plan.
Page  10
3.    Site preparation on fifteen hectares of land at Mer Rouge,
including construction of roads, and office and customs
buildings, and provision of services.
Part C:  Marine Environmental Protection
1.    Carrying out a study to define the requirements and design
facilities for the collection and the disposal of oily wastes
from the port area and ships, draft regulations to enforce
safety of port operations and the control of vessels'
seaworthiness.
2.    Construction of facilities and acquisition of equipment
for the collection and pre-treatment of oily wastes disposed of
by ships.
3.    Establishment of regulations to enforce safety in port
operations, and in port handling of hazardous cargo and to
control vessels' seaworthiness.
4.    Provision of training to fight oil spills.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                               SCHEDULE 3
                          Amortization Schedule
                                             Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                      (expressed in dollars)*
      On each January 15 and July 15
            beginning January 15, 2001
            through January 15, 2010                   355,000
      and on July 15, 2010                             355,000
_____________________________
* The figures in this column represent the amount in dollar to
be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the
General Conditions.
Page  11
                             SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Works
Part A:  General
      Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section,
as applicable.
Part B:  International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
      (a)   Prequalification
      Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
      (b)   Grouping of contracts
      To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $ 300,000 equivalent
or more each.
Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures
      National Competitive Bidding
      Works estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $1,200,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate,
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Part D:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all works shall
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall
have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said
paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
Page  12
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank
shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
Page  13
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment
                   is requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories for Part B of the Project,
less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to Part B of the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories for Part B of the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
Page  14
eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
