Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3460 BU 
GRANT NUMBER H198 BU 
 
Agreement Amending 
Project Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Burundi Public Works and Employment Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
AGENCE BURUNDAISE POUR LA REALISATION 
DES TRAVAUX D’INTERET PUBLIC 
(ABUTIP) 
 
Dated February 13, 2006 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3460 BU 
GRANT NUMBER H198 BU 
 
AGREEMENT AMENDING PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated February 13, 2006, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (
“Association”) and AGENCE BURUNDAISE 
POUR LA REALISATION DES TRAVAUX D’INTERET PUBLIC (ABUTIP) 
(“Project Implementing Entity”) (“Agreement Amending Project Agreement”) in 
connection with the Financing Agreement of even date between the REPUBLIC OF 
BURUNDI (“Recipient) and the Association (“Financing Agreement”).  The Association 
and the Project Implementing Entity hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or the 
General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II – PROJECT 
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project.  To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out Parts A.1, 2, and 4 
of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions, 
and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for its Respective Part of the Project. 
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Association and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise agree, the 
Project Implementing Entity shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
3.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity
’s Representative is the Director General or such 
other person or persons as the Director General shall designate in writing, and ABUTIP 
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
3.02. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
3.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is:  
 
For ABUTIP: 
 
Director General 
 ABUTIP 
 
P. O. Box 135 
 
Bujumbura, Republic of Burundi 
 
Facsimile: 247-246-509 
 
AGREED at Bujumbura, Republic of Burundi, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Alassane Sow 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
ABUTIP 
 
By /s/ Célestin Sebutama 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  4
-
3
-
SCHEDULE 
 
Execution of the Implementing Entity’s Respective Part of the Project 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall carry out Parts A.1, 2, and 4 of the Project 
in accordance with the provisions of the PIM, including the ABUTIP Manual of 
Procedures, and shall not amend or waive any provision thereof if such amendment or 
waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect Project 
implementation. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that the Project is implemented in 
accordance with the provisions of the ESMF and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Project Implementing Entity shall not amend or waive any provision 
of the aforementioned if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the 
Association, materially or adversely affect Project implementation. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports. 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress of its 
Respective Part of the Project and prepare Project Reports for its Respective Part of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 (b) of the General Conditions 
and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Section II.A.1 (b) of the Schedule to the 
Financing Agreement.  Each such Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Recipient not later than two (2) weeks 
after the end of the period covered by such report for incorporation and forwarding by the 
Recipient to the Association of the overall Project Report. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall provide to the Recipient not later than five 
(5) months after the Closing Date, for incorporation in the report referred to in Section 
4.08 (c) of the General Conditions all such information as the Recipient or the 
Association shall reasonably request for the purposes of such Section. 
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports, Audits. 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management system 
and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting 
standards acceptable to the Association, both in a manner adequate to reflect the 
operations and financial condition of the Project Implementing Entity, including the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to its Respective Part of the Project. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Section II.A of the Schedule to the 
Additional Financing Agreement, the Project Implementing Entity shall prepare and 
furnish to the Recipient interim un-audited financial reports, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, for its Respective Part of the Project covering the calendar 
semester, not later than two (2) weeks after the end of the period covered by such reports 
for incorporation and forwarding by the Recipient to the Association of the overall 
Project Report. 
 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial statements referred to 
above audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association.  Each audit of these 
financial statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Project 
Implementing Entity.  The audited financial statements for each period shall be furnished 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the end of the period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for 
the Project Implementing Entity’s Respective 
Part of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule to the Financing 
Agreement. 
 
__________
 
