Report No. PID7970
Project Name                     Burundi-Public Works and Employment (@)
Creation Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Other Urban Development
Project ID                       BIPE64961
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF BURUNDI
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND
EQUIPMENT
1 Av. des Palmiers
B.P. 1860
Bujumbura, Burundi
Contact Person: S.E. Gaspard Ntirampeba,
Ministre des Travaux Publics et
de l'Equipement
Tel: (257) 21 0572
Environment Category             F
Date PID Prepared                December 29, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         October 2-18, 2000 Actual
Projected Board Date             January 23, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Context: Burundi's infrastructure and service sectors have been seriously
affected by episodes of violent conflict. The country is emerging from a
conflict which has resulted in the destruction of physical assets, the
disruption of trade links, the loss of human capital and the flight of
investment capital.    The lack of investment, maintenance and management
(exacerbated by heavy rainfall during the past seven years) have led to
considerable deterioration of basic infrastructure. Sector Issues:
Currently, most investment projects focus on rehabilitation of primary
economic infrastructure and not on secondary infrastructure at the
municipal level. The municipalities have limited resources to repair
municipal assets, such as roads, markets, drainage, health centers,
anti-erosion structures, schools, water supply, and so forth. In order to
revive economic activity in their localities, three key sector issues need
to be addressed and these are to:i) rehabilitate or construct basic
infrastructure;ii) build and strengthen project implementation and
maintenance capacity; andiii) establish transparent processes for project
selection and implementation.Government Strategy: With the aim of creating
employment while rebuilding and rehabilitating the country's
infrastructure, the government's strategy is to increase the capacity of
municipalities by decentralizing the identification, selection and
programming of sub-projects; delegate project management from the public
sector to AGETIP BURUNDI; and facilitate private sector recovery and
capacity building through their execution of sub-projects.
2. Objectives
The overall development objective of this project is to contribute to the



peace process and reconstruction of Burundi through generation of
productive, labor-intensive employment. Specifically, the project will
assist in:(a) Supporting a newly created Delegated Contract Management
Agency - Agence Burundaise de Travaux d'Interot Public (AGETIP BURUNDI) -
to expedite the implementation of economically and/or socially beneficial
public works projects;(b) Generating employment through labor-intensive
public works and promoting Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) participation
through cost-effective execution of public works projects; and(c) Building
institutional capacity at the municipal level to identify, prioritize,
operate and maintain sub-projects.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has provided technical support in introducing the concept of
delegated contract management in Burundi, and has extensive experience
with AGETIP projects in SSA. The design of this project incorporates
lessons learned and best practices in the 12 AGETIP projects implemented
in SSA. Recommendations from audits of these 12 AGETIPS and the Africa
Regional Action Plan were also taken into account in the design of this
project. The Bank's contribution will serve as a catalyst in the future
for other donors' support and ensure quality and transparency of the
process.
4. Description
The proposed project comprises of four components, which are as
follows:           (A) Sub-projects Implementation and Capacity Building
for Employment Creation: This component will finance, for five years, the
rehabilitation and construction of basic infrastructure at the request of
municipalities (in consultation with their communities). These
sub-projects will be aimed at constructing and rehabilitating roads,
markets, drainage, health centers, anti-erosion structures, schools, water
supply, and so forth, as well as other social infrastructure in market
towns and main urban centers not financed under BURSAP II, a Bank-financed
Social Fund project operating in rural areas. In addition, this component
will strengthen the financial and operational capabilities of AGETIP
BURUNDI (through the execution of sub-projects) and finance equipment and
operating costs for the first five years of AGETIP BURUNDI. Under this
component, the Technical Secretariat's main function will be to help
municipalities in identifying and programming sub-projects, preparing
feasibility studies of these sub-projects, and a final list of selected
sub-projects to be implemented by AGETIP BURUNDI. AGETIP BURUNDI will be
responsible for training programs in financial management, business
development and technical skills improvement for SMEs
(Contractors/Entrepreneurs). (B) Institutional Building: Under this
component, a Technical Secretariat (TS) will be established at the
Ministry of Public Works and Equipment (MPWE) and staffed by a director,
an engineer, an accountant or financial specialist, and an
environmentalist.    The TS will be responsible for providing technical
assistance, advisory services and training to municipalities in
sub-project identification, programming, operation and maintenance. The
TS will also be responsible for disseminating information by launching
information, education and communication campaigns to help municipalities
better understand eligibility criteria for sub-project identification,
preparation and implementation.(C) Support for the Prevention of
HIV/AIDS: This component will support the fight against the spread of
HIV/AIDS, by including a community information and education program,
-2 -



aimed at construction workers, inter-city truck drivers, seasonal workers,
displaced people, prostitutes, and so forth, in localities where
sub-projects are being implemented. The themes, which will be developed in
the information and education programs, will lean on existing frameworks
already developed by youth and women's associations in Burundi. The
Technical Secretariat will be responsible for the implementation of this
component, and will partner with and delegate its delivery to UNAIDS, Red
Cross, Society for Women Against AIDS, and other NGOs.    Under this
component, a study for the identification of a multi-sectoral program for
HIV/AIDS will be prepared.             (D) Project Monitoring:  Under this
component, the project will provide funds for limited studies and surveys
(mainly Beneficiary Assessments). Project monitoring will be the
responsibility of AGETIP BURUNDI and the Technical Secretariat. The
Finance and Technical Directors, with the support of consultants,
independent auditors, and the staff of the Technical Secretariat will be
responsible for project monitoring.
A. Sub-project Implementation & Capacity Building for Employment Creation
B. Institutional building
C. Support for Prevention of HIV/AIDS
D. Project Monitoring
PPF Refund
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 41.56
6. Implementation
Implementing agency: The Technical Secretariat will be responsible for
global oversight of the project without interfering with the day-to-day
management of AGETIP BURUNDI. The TS will prepare an annual work program
of approved sub-projects for transmission to AGETIP BURUNDI and will also
consolidate progress and financial reports of the project. AGETIP BURUNDI
will implement sub-projects during the five years of project execution and
capacity building activities for SMEs.    The institutional building
component will be under the responsibility of the Technical Secretariat.
The Technical Secretariat will partner with and delegate the delivery of
the HIV component to UNAIDS, Red Cross, Society for Women Against AIDS,
and other NGOs. The Technical Secretariat will monitor the implementation
of the HIV component.The project monitoring component will be implemented
by AGETIP BURUNDI and the Technical Secretariat. The Finance and
Technical Directors of AGETIP BURUNDI, with the support of consultants and
independent auditors, will play significant roles in project monitoring.
Under this component, funds will be provided for limited studies and
surveys (mainly Beneficiary Assessments).Procurement There is no Country
Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for Burundi. So far, experience has
shown that procurement procedures in Burundi do not conflict with Bank
guidelines; furthermore, national procurement law and practices allow IDA
procedures to take precedence over any provisions in national
regulations. All civil works will be contracted by AGETIP BURUNDI in line
with Bank guidelines. Financial ManagementOne of the key actions in the
area of financial management for the project has been the selection of the
Director of Administration and Finance (DAF). An action plan has been
prepared to ensure that the preparation of quarterly Project Monitoring
Reports (PMRs) will begin at least 18 months after project implementation.
- 3-



The DAF will choose this accounting system from two software programs
currently being reviewed for approval by the Bank as recommended financial
management software for all AGETIPS. The DAF will ensure that the
accounting system established in the initial stages of the project is
capable of generating the data required for the PMRs. A Manual of
Financial Procedures for Burundi, incorporating financial controls,
financial reporting, disbursement, and procurement has already been
prepared by a consultant and will be reviewed and cleared by a Bank
Financial Management Specialist. The Borrower's establishment of a
financial management system for the project in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association is a condition of effectiveness.Financial
Reporting: Annual financial statements of the project will be prepared in
accordance with accounting principles acceptable to IDA. The financial
statement will include, at the minimum, a statement of sources and use of
funds, a special account reconciliation statement and a balance sheet.
Financial statements will be submitted to IDA no later than six months
after the end of the fiscal year.Auditing: AGETIP BURUNDI's activities
will be subject to annual technical audits (carried out separately from
financial audits) by a highly qualified consultant, selected through a
competitive process acceptable by IDA. Every six months, special accounts
and SOEs will be audited; this is in addition to the annual audits of the
special accounts, SOEs and financial statements of AGETIP BURUNDI and the
Technical Secretariat.Supervision: Once every four months, supervision
missions will be carried out during the first two years of project
activities, and thereafter, once every six months depending on project
performance. During these missions, a selective post review of contract
awarded below the threshold will apply to at least one in four contracts.
Staffing: The Director General (DG) has already been hired as a
consultant and was involved in appraising this project. Recruitment of
the DAF and the Technical Director, followed a transparent process
acceptable to IDA. The terms of reference (TOR) to start the consultation
for the creation of the Technical Secretariat at the Ministry of Public
Works and Equipment have been prepared.     AGETIP BURUNDI's Manual of
Procedures and Project Implementation Manual (PIM): The Manual of
Procedures is based on the new, standardized AGETIP/AFRICATIP Manual of
Procedures. Procurement thresholds for these manuals have been aligned to
those defined in Annex 6 of the PAD. The submission of the PIM, which
includes AGETIP BURUNDI's manual of procedures in form and substance
satisfactory to IDA, will be a condition of effectiveness.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability of sub-projects is contingent upon (i) adequate management
for operation and maintenance, and (ii) adequate funding for operations
and maintenance. These contingencies may be achieved through (a) the
Government's ability to redefine its role and provide support to
municipalities; (b) the use of beneficiary assessments for yearly
reprogramming; (c) the transparency in allocation and management of
resources; (d) the identification and selection of sub-projects by
municipalities (in consultation with their communities) thereby building
ownership; and (e) the preparation of operation and maintenance plans by
municipalities.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Experience in other countries shows that with delegated contract
management the cost of works may be 20 to 25 percent lower than with
- 4 -



traditional methods. The lessons learned by the Bank from establishing 12
AGETIPS in SSA, as well as its Africa Regional Action Plan to improve
these AGETIPS, were used in the project design. Lessons learned from
these AGETIPS include:(i) Avoid overloading the agency and provide
appropriate support in early years; (ii) Ensure transparency in contract
award and project implementation;(iii) Ensure that the ownership of
sub-projects is with beneficiaries, who are ultimately responsible for
maintenance, including ensuring capacity for maintenance; and(iv)
Separate programming and project selection tasks from implementation.These
lessons are reflected in the selection of beneficiaries and activities,
and in the choice of creating a delegated contract management agency to
promote employment creation. The proposed project also drew lessons from
the implementation of BURSAP I, which emphasized simplicity in sub-project
design. Avoid overloading the agency and provide substantial supervision
in early years. It is important not to overload the new agency and to
provide extra support in the early years. Accumulated experience has
shown that AGETIP BURUNDI's effectiveness will depend on several factors,
such as administrative autonomy, coordination with public administration
agencies, flexible and transparent procurement and quick disbursement
procedures, a participatory approach, and rigorous but simple procedures.
These characteristics were included in the design of AGETIP BURUNDI by
restricting its activities in Bujumbura and the main regional towns in the
first year, and providing technical assistance and consultant support.
Ensure transparency in contract award and project implementation. The
implementation manual provides detailed steps to ensure transparency in
contract award. Contracts are awarded after a competitive bidding
process, either national or international, depending on the value of the
sub-project.Ownership of sub-projects. Sub-projects will be identified
and prepared by municipalities with the help of the Technical
Secretariat. One of the criteria for accepting sub-projects will be the
assurance that municipalities have developed a mechanism for operating and
maintaining sub-projects once completed. This will enhance ownership,
management and maintenance of sub-projects. Separate programming and
project selection tasks from implementation. Sub-project identification
and programming tasks are done by municipalities. The selection of
sub-projects is done by a separate entity, the Technical Secretariat,
while implementation is entrusted to AGETIP BURUNDI.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  A consultant conducted an environmental analysis
(EA) to (a) develop a framework for the environmental assessment of future
sub-projects (with a focus on, for example, a description of existing
circumstances in the sub-project area, an assessment of potential impacts
on the population, flora, fauna, hydrology, geology, and the preparation
of recommendations designed to mitigate potential impacts prior to and
during the implementation of sub-projects); and (b) identify potential
environmental and social impacts of some future sub-projects (protection
of river banks, street paving, drainage, construction of markets and
related infrastructures).While the majority of future sub-projects are
expected to have positive environmental and social impacts (less severe
flooding, less sedimentation, less soil erosion, increased economic
activities, improved traffic safety), the EA report noted that (i) the
continued use of quarries as a source of construction material for street
- 5 -



paving sub-projects could lead to the loss of agricultural land; and (ii)
constructing new markets and related infrastructures could lead to a loss
of land and other assets among individuals and families living in the
immediate vicinity. Discussions with the Ministry of Environment during
appraisal led to the development of an environmental and social monitoring
plan. This plan addresses environmental and social impacts, the effects of
construction activities, and the need to strengthen the capacity of the
Ministries of Environment and of Mining to monitor sub-project activities
and conduct country-wide inventory of existing quarries.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Eustache Ouayoro
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending December 29, 2000.
- 6 -



