Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21495-BU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 31.3 MILLION
(US$ 40.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT CREATION PROJECT
December 28, 2000
Country Department 09
Water and Urban II
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 6, 2000)
Currency Unit = Burundi Franc (FBu)
FBu 1 = US$0.0012
US$1 = FBu 836
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB          African Development Bank
AGETIP        Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'Interet Public
BURSAP        Burundi Social Action Project
CAP           Community Action Plan
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CPAR          Country Procrurement Assessment Review
DAF           Director of Administration and Finance
DCMA          Delegated Contract Management Agency
DG            Director General
DRC           Democratic Republic of Congo
EA            Environmental Analysis
GPN           General Procurement Notice
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Association
MPWE          Ministry of Public Works and Equipment
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
OAU           Organization of African Unity
PCF           Post Conflict Fund
PER           Public Expenditure Review
PIM           Project Implementation Manual
PMRs          Project Monitoring Reports
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
SSA           Sub-Saharan Africa
SMEs          Small and Medium Enterprises
SPN           Specific Procurement Notices
SWAA          Society for Women Against AIDS
TOR           Term of Reference
TS            Technical Secretariat
UN            United Nations
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:    Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:    Letitia A. Obeng
Task Team Leader:    Eustache Ouayoro



BURUNDI
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT CREATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       3
2. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       6
3. Benefits and target population                                                      7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       7
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        11
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           11
2. Financial                                                                          11
3. Technical                                                                          12
4. Institutional                                                                      12
5. Environmental                                                                      13
6. Social                                                                             15
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 15
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     16
2. Critical risks                                                                     17
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     18



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             18
2. Other                                                                               19
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           19
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          19
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           20
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     24
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          29
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            30
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary     32
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        33
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      42
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    43
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   44
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             46
Annex 11: Supervision Plan                                                                48
MAP(S)
IBRD 30118



BURUNDI
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT CREATION PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTU2
Date: December 28, 2000                            Team Leader: Eustache Ouayoro
Country Director: Emmanuel Mbi                     Sector Manager: Letitia A. Obeng
Project ID: P064961                                Sector(s): UY - Other Urban Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Poverty Reduction; Urban
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ I Loan     [Xp Credit    [1 Grant     [ Guarantee       [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 40.00
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5                                     Service charge: 0.75%
Fn_ancing  lan:     Soure                                     LOCal         Foreign         Tt
BORROWER                                                        0.24            0.00           0.24
IDA                                                            25.47           14.53         40.00
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT, CITY) OF BORROWING                1.31           0.00           1.31
COUNTRY
Total:                                                         27.03           14.53         41.56
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF BURUNDI
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND EQUIPMENT
Address: 1 Av. des Palmiers
B.P. 1860
Bujumbura, Burundi
Contact Person: S.E. Gaspard Ntirampeba, Ministre des Travaux Publics et de l'Equipement
Tel: (257) 21 0572                Fax:                  Email:
Other Agency(ies):
AGETIP BURUNDI
Address: c/o Ministry of Public Works and Equipment
Contact Person: Deogratias Nkurunziza, Directeur Gdneral
Tel: (257) 24 1616              Fax: (257) 24 34 23               Email: agetipbu@cbinf.com



Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
o  ffix"2001  0$;~2O02j~  2003   B  004                    2005      2006.
Annual    4.00        8.00       8.00      8.00      8.00       4.00
Cumulative    4.00      12.00      20.00     28.00      36.00     40.00
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 06/30/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
OCS PDF- R. M. 
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The overall development objective of this project is to contribute to the peace process and reconstmction of
Burundi through generation of productive, labor-intensive employment. Specifically, the project will assist
in:
(a) Supporting a newly created Delegated Contract Management Agency - Agence Burundaise de
Travaux d'Interet Public (AGETIP BURUNDI) - to expedite the implementation of economically
and/or socially beneficial public works projects;
(b) Generating employment through labor-intensive public works and promoting Small and Medium
Enterprise (SME) participation through cost-effective execution of public works projects; and
(c) Building institutional capacity at the municipal level to identify, prioritize, operate and maintain
sub-projects.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
C  Number of person-months of work created;
* AGETIP BURUNDI fully operational and effective; and
= Technical Secretariat (TS) fully operational and effective, and presents sub-projects portfolio to
AGETIP BURUNDI six months before implementation.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA SecM99-491          Date of latest CAS discussion: 10/05/1999 (Interim
Strategy)
An Interim Strategy for Burundi was circulated to the Board as background in conjunction with the
BURSAP II project. Burundi has a population of 6.4 million (1997) and is growing at 2.9 percent per
year. The population density of 215 persons per square kilometer is the second highest in Africa. Hutus
comprise the large majority of the population, Tutsis and Twa the remainder. Since 1962, when Burundi
gained its independence, the country has erupted in ethnic violence, with massacres occurring in 1965,
1972, 1988, 1991 and 1993. The 1993 intemal conflict degenerated into genocide, which killed over
150,000 persons and displaced more than 600,000. Beginning in 1994, a "convention" govemment
(negotiated under UN and OAU auspices) administered the country under a democratically elected
Parliament. This govemment was unable to provide intemal security, and was overthrown in a military-led
coup d'Etat in 1996. Progress is being made in political reconciliation and in establishing security.
Internally, a transition constitution has been promulgated, under which a coalition transition government
has been established and the national assembly broadened to 121 members to include all political parties
and civil society representatives. Externally, negotiations involving 19 political parties, Govemment and
the National Assembly have been taking place in Arusha, Tanzania over the past two years, culminating in
the signature of a peace accord on August 28, 2000 under the mediation of President Nelson Mandela. The
peace agreement addressed the need for a formula to ensure security for all and equitable representation of
all ethnic groups in politics, the armed forces, the civil service and the judiciary. The peace process is
deeper than the signature of a peace accord at Arusha, as the Govemment and people of Burundi are
actively pursuing reconciliation at the community level. Amelioration of the underlying causes of ethnic
violence requires addressing inequitable access to economic as well as political resources. The country's
- 3 -



reconstruction and development needs are enormous, and poverty, malnutrition, and deterioration in health
and education services must be urgently addressed. The international community has responded to calls by
late President Nyerere (first mediator of the peace talks), President Mandela, UN Secretary General Annan
and others (December 11-12, 2000) by pledging over US$440 million in emergency humanitarian,
reconstruction and long-term development assistance to Burundi. Donors have promised possible increases
in development assistance in 2002 if the peace pmcess holds and Burundi puts in place a strong economic
reform program.
As the conflict had rendered the 1995 CAS obsolete, the Bank prepared an Interim Strategy (Report
19592-BU) to guide actions over the next 24 months. The Interim Strategy constructs an integrated
framework for the Bank and other donors to address poverty and malnutrition, taking into consideration the
underlying factors and proximate causes of conflict in Burundi and the triggers leading to repeated
violence. It proposes economic stabilization and supports the peace process. The strategy draws on the
Bank's experience in dealing with conflict and post-conflict situations to prevent further worsening of
poverty and to stabilize the economy as the peace process evolves.
The Interim Strategy rests upon three pillars. The first, promoting governance, ownership of peace,
reconciliation and reconstruction, supports a participatory approach to rehabilitating village-level economic
and social infrastructure damaged or destroyed by the conflict.  The second, creating productive
employment, is designed to boost purchasing power and give a broad segment of the population an
economic stake in reconciliation. It also provides a vehicle for the eventual reintegration of demobilized
combatants. The third, restoring key imports and essential social services, facilitates private sector
recovery and provides resources for operating the rehabilitated infrastructure in health, education,
agriculture and return of displaced households. An Emergency Economic Recovery Credit, estimated at
US$35 million was granted by the Bank to Burundi in April 2000 to stabilize the economy and facilitate
private sector recovery.
The objectives of the interim strategy, which are supported by this project include: (a) promoting
govemance and ownership of the peace process; (b) creating productive employment; and (c) restoring key
imports, basic infrastructure and social services. The project aims at promoting govemance and ownership
of the peace process through employment creation, by providing labor-intensive SME activities including,
among others, building and rehabilitation of roads, markets, drainage, health centers, anti-erosion
structures, schools, water supply, and so forth. The employment generated will provide purchasing power
to returning refugees and displaced people, demobilized combatants, landless laborers, SME owners,
consultants and others, thereby helping to reduce some of the alienation that triggers conflict. Furthermore,
the project provides imported inputs and focuses on preservation of previous investments in the social
sectors and development and reconstruction of commercial infrastructure destroyed during the war.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Context: Burundi's infrastructure and service sectors have been seriously affected by episodes of violent
conflict. The country is emerging from a conflict which has resulted in the destruction of physical assets,
the disruption of trade links, the loss of human capital and the flight of investment capital. The lack of
investment, maintenance and management (exacerbated by heavy rainfall during the past seven years) have
led to considerable deterioration of basic infrastructure.
Sector Issues:   Currently, most investment projects focus on rehabilitation of primary economic
infrastructure and not on secondary infrastructure at the municipal level. The municipalities have limited
resources to repair municipal assets, such as roads, markets, drainage, health centers, anti-erosion
-4 -



structures, schools, water supply, and so forth. In order to revive economic activity in their localities, three
key sector issues need to be addressed and these are to:
i)    rehabilitate or construct basic infrastructure;
ii)    build and strengthen project implementation and maintenance capacity; and
iii)   establish transparent processes for project selection and implementation.
Government Strategy: With the aim of creating employment while rebuilding and rehabilitating the
country's infrastructure, the government's strategy is to increase the capacity of municipalities by
decentralizing the identification, selection and programming of sub-projects; delegate project management
from the public sector to AGETIP BURUNDI; and facilitate private sector recovery and capacity building
through their execution of sub-projects.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
This project will focus on providing basic municipal infrastructure and services. The project will also
support capacity building at the municipal level and enable them to prioritize and select sub-projects, where
appropriate, through community participation. This will not only build capacity at the municipal level but
also ownership of sub-projects, and consequently, ensure their sustainability.  The execution of
sub-projects will be carried out by private contractors and consultants recruited by AGETIP BURUNDI.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project comprises of four components, which are as follows:
(A) Sub-projects Implementation and Capacity Building for Employment Creation: This
component will finance, for five years, the rehabilitation and construction of basic infrastructure at the
request of municipalities (in consultation with their communities). These sub-projects will be aimed at
constructing and rehabilitating roads, markets, drainage, health centers, anti-erosion structures, schools,
water supply, and so forth, as well as other social infrastructure in market towns and main urban centers
not financed under BURSAP II, a Bank-financed Social Fund project operating in rural areas. In addition,
this component will strengthen the financial and operational capabilities of AGETIP BURUNDI (through
the execution of sub-projects) and finance equipment and operating costs for the first five years of AGETIP
BURUINDI. Under this component, the Technical Secretariat's main function will be to help municipalities
in identifying and programming sub-projects, preparing feasibility studies of these sub-projects, and a final
list of selected sub-projects to be implemented by AGETIP BURUNDI. AGETIP BURUNDI will be
responsible for training programs in financial management, business development and technical skills
improvement for SMEs (Contractors/Entrepreneurs).
(B) Institutional Building: Under this component, a Technical Secretariat (TS) will be established
at the Ministry of Public Works and Equipment (MPWE) and staffed by a director, an engineer, an
accountant or financial specialist, and an environmentalist.  The TS will be responsible for providing
technical assistance, advisory services and training to municipalities in sub-project identification,
programming, operation and maintenance. The TS will also be responsible for disseminating information
by launching information, education and communication campaigns to help municipalities better understand
eligibility criteria for sub-project identification, preparation and implementation.
- 5 -



(C) Support for the Prevention of HIV/AIDS: This component will support the fight against the
spread of HIV/AIDS, by including a community information and education program, aimed at construction
workers, inter-city truck drivers, seasonal workers, displaced people, prostitutes, and so forth, in localities
where sub-projects are being implemented. The themes, which will be developed in the information and
education programs, will lean on existing frameworks already developed by youth and women's
associations in Burundi. The Technical Secretariat will be responsible for the implementation of this
component, and will partner with and delegate its delivery to UNAIDS, Red Cross, Society for Women
Against AIDS, and other NGOs. Under this component, a study for the identification of a multi-sectoral
program for HIV/AIDS will be prepared.
(D) Project Monitoring: Under this component, the project will provide funds for limited studies
and surveys (mainly Beneficiary Assessments). Project monitoring will be the responsibility of AGETIP
BURUNDI and the Technical Secretariat. The Finance and Technical Directors, with the support of
consultants, independent auditors, and the staff of the Technical Secretariat will be responsible for project
monitoring.
A. Sub-project Imnplementation &   Other Urban        33.26       80.0     31 .75     79 4
Capacity Building for Employment   Development
Creation
B. Institutional building          Non-Sector          4.54       10.9      4.50      11.3
Specific
C. Support for Prevention of       HIV/AIDS            1.00       2.4       1.00       2.5
HIV/AIDS
D. Project Monitoring              Non-Sector          1.75        4.2      1.75       4.4
Specific
PPF Refund                                             1.00        2.4      1.00       2.5
Total Project Costs                   41.55      100.0     40.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                   41.55      100.0     40.00      100.0
Note: Indicative Costs include government's contribution of US$0.24 million dedicated to operating
costs and municipalities' contribution of US$1.31 million dedicated to public works.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will help the Government to take a comprehensive approach to the development of local
infrastructure and basic urban services. This will be achieved by (i) generating employment for returning
refugees and demobilized combatants, using labor-intensive methods to rebuild and rehabilitate the
country's infrastructure; (ii) supporting the decentralization process through building the capacity of
municipalities, particularly for identification, programming, operation and maintenance of sub-projects;
(iii) assisting the newly created AGETIP BURUNDI in sub-project implementation reform to move away
from public sector execution through force accounts; and (iv) facilitating private sector recovery and
capacity building through their implementation of sub-projects.
- 6 -



3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits: These include: (a) increased employment for individuals, particularly the youth, returning
refugees and demobilized combatants; (b) revival of small and medium-scale construction companies,
consulting finns, etc., through contracts; (c) increased efficiency in the execution of public works, together
with greater development impact of such works; (d) strengthened private sector capacity to manage
contracts; (e) improved access to municipal infrastructure, such as roads, markets, drainage, health
centers, schools and water; (f) increased employment and income for women through self-employment in
micro-enterprises; and (g) increased capacity building of municipalities and participating NGOs in
planning, monitoring, and financial accounting.
AGETIP BURUJNDI will also ensure transparency in procurement, resulting in lower unit costs, increased
number of participating firms, increased firm sizes, and ultimately, increased technical capacity of firms, as
demonstrated by other AGETIPS in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). This project will also temporarily increase
personal incomes and build institutional capacities in the process. In addition, technical capacity will be
enhanced by insisting on performance in order for contracts to be paid, by standardizing procedures, and by
improving efficiency and providing quick disbursing quality work. The skills developed by small and
medium-sized firms and their employees will enhance opportunities for new work.
Target Population: The project will focus on areas where there is great demand for basic services;
typically, in under-served or unserved urban areas. It will cover market towns, main urban centers and
activities not funded through the Burundi Social Action Project (BURSAP II). The project will benefit
returning refugees, displaced and landless people, demobilized combatants, and women living in these
localities.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementing agency: The Technical Secretariat will be responsible for global oversight of the project
without interfering with the day-to-day management of AGETIP BURUNDI. The TS will prepare an
annual work program of approved sub-projects for transmission to AGETIP BURUTNDI and will also
consolidate progress and financial reports of the project. AGETIP BURUNDI will implement sub-projects
during the five years of project execution and capacity building activities for SMEs.
The institutional building component will be under the responsibility of the Technical Secretariat. The
Technical Secretariat will partner with and delegate the delivery of the HIV component to UNAIDS, Red
Cross, Society for Women Against AIDS, and other NGOs. The Technical Secretariat will monitor the
implementation of the HIV component.
The project monitoring component will be implemented by AGETIP BURUNDI and the Technical
Secretariat. The Finance and Technical Directors of AGETIP BURUNDI, with the support of consultants
and independent auditors, will play significant roles in project monitoring. Under this component, funds
will be provided for limited studies and surveys (mainly Beneficiary Assessments).
Procurement
There is no Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for Burundi. So far, experience has shown
that procurement procedures in Burundi do not conflict with Bank guidelines; furthermore, national
procurement law and practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any provisions in national
regulations. All civil works will be contracted by AGETIP BURUNDI in line with Bank guidelines.
- 7 -



Financial Management
One of the key actions in the area of financial management for the project has been the selection of the
Director of Administration and Finance (DAF). An action plan has been prepared to ensure that the
preparation of quarterly Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs) will begin at least 18 months after project
implementation. The DAF will choose this accounting system from two software programs currently being
reviewed for approval by the Bank as recommended financial management software for all AGETIPS. The
DAF will ensure that the accounting system established in the initial stages of the project is capable of
generating the data required for the PMRs. A Manual of Financial Procedures for Burundi, incorporating
financial controls, financial reporting, disbursement, and procurement has already been prepared by a
consultant and will be reviewed and cleared by a Bank Financial Management Specialist. The Borrower's
establishment of a financial management system for the project in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association is a condition of effectiveness.
Financial Reporting: Annual financial statements of the project will be prepared in accordance with
accounting principles acceptable to IDA. The financial statement will include, at the minimum, a statement
of sources and use of funds, a special account reconciliation statement and a balance sheet. Financial
statements will be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year.
Auditing: AGETIP BURUNDI's activities will be subject to annual technical audits (carried out separately
from financial audits) by a highly qualified consultant, selected through a competitive process acceptable
by IDA. Every six months, special accounts and SOEs will be audited; this is in addition to the annual
audits of the special accounts, SOEs and financial statements of AGETIP BURUJNDI and the Technical
Secretariat.
Supervision: Once every four months, supervision missions will be carried out during the first two years of
project activities, and thereafter, once every six months depending on project performance. During these
missions, a selective post review of contract awarded below the threshold will apply to at least one in four
contracts.
Staffing: The Director General (DG) has already been hired as a consultant and was involved in appraising
this project. Recruitment of the DAF and the Technical Director, followed a transparent process
acceptable to IDA. The terms of reference (TOR) to start the consultation for the creation of the Technical
Secretariat at the Ministry of Public Works and Equipment have been prepared.
AGETIP BURUNDI's Manual of Procedures and Project Implementation Manual (PIM): The Manual of
Procedures is based on the new, standardized AGETIP/AFRICATIP Manual of Procedures. Procurement
thresholds for these manuals have been aligned to those defined in Annex 6 of the PAD. The submission of
the PIM, which includes AGETIP BURUNDI's manual of procedures in form and substance satisfactory to
IDA, will be a condition of effectiveness.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
One altemative, which was rejected, was to entrust the implementation of the project to a public sector
agency; instead, it was decided to delegate contract management to a semi-private agency by creating
AGETIP BURUNDI. The reason for this choice is the weak implementation capacity and cumbersome
procedures of the Central Govemment agencies and municipalities.
- 8 -



The preferred new generation of AGETIPS, operating on a standardized, long-term approach with more
capacity building elements was also considered. However, given the post conflict situation, limited local
capacity and little possibility for comprehensive community decision-making in Burundi, it was agreed that
it is too early to move to this way of operating.
A Social Fund was also considered as an alternative. This option was rejected because Social Funds are
found to be more effective in rural and semi-rural settings and for small-scaled sub-projects, and this has
been demonstrated by the two Social Fund projects implemented by Twitezimbere in Burundi, BURSAP I
and H. In addition, a review of Twitezimbere revealed that beneficiaries, size, type and financing deal with
smaller-sized sub-projects (less than $75,000 per commune), and not with medium-sized sub-projects in
urban centers and market towns to be financed under this project. This project will concentrate on market
towns, and urban centers, and medium- and large-scaled basic infrastructure, and a social fund would not
be appropriate.
Another altemative that was considered was whether to invest in strengthening the capacity of an existing
NGO, such as Twitezimbere, which implemented the first Social Action Project (BURSAP I) and is
currently implementing BURSAP II. However, this altemative was dropped to avoid overloading
Twitezimbere.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
0~~~~~~~~~ T    La1jtest Supervision -
Sector Issue                      Prc - |                                only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Poverty alleviation               Social Action Project
(BURSAP I - Cr. 2494-BI)
Closed.
Second Social Action Project     S             S
(BURSAP II - Cr. 3287-BI)
Ongoing
Infrastructure                    Water Sector Supply Project       S             S
(Cr. 2288-BI) Ongoing
Urban Development                 Urban Development Project
(Cr. 1968) Closed
Other development agencies
IFAD                              Rural Development Project
(Ongoing)
AfDB                               Transport Project (Closed)
IPIDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
-9-



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Experience in other countries shows that with delegated contract management the cost of works may be 20
to 25 percent lower than with traditional methods. The lessons learned by the Bank from establishing 12
AGETIPS in SSA, as well as its Africa Regional Action Plan to improve these AGETIPS, were used in the
project design. Lessons learned from these AGETIPS include:
(i)    Avoid overloading the agency and provide appropriate support in early years;
(ii)   Ensure transparency in contract award and project implementation;
(iii)   Ensure that the ownership of sub-projects is with beneficiaries, who are ultimately responsible
for maintenance, including ensuring capacity for maintenance; and
(iv)   Separate programming and project selection tasks from implementation.
These lessons are reflected in the selection of beneficiaries and activities, and in the choice of creating a
delegated contract management agency to promote employment creation. The proposed project also drew
lessons from the implementation of BURSAP I, which emphasized simplicity in sub-project design.
Avoid overloading the agency and provide substantial supervision in early years. It is important not to
overload the new agency and to provide extra support in the early years. Accumulated experience has
shown that AGETIP BURUNDI's effectiveness will depend on several factors, such as administrative
autonomy, coordination with public administration agencies, flexible and transparent procurement and
quick disbursement procedures, a participatory approach, and rigorous but simple procedures. These
characteristics were included in the design of AGETIP BURUNDI by restricting its activities in Bujumbura
and the main regional towns in the first year, and providing technical assistance and consultant support.
Ensure transparency in contract award and project implementation. The implementation manual
provides detailed steps to ensure transparency in contract award.  Contracts are awarded after a
competitive bidding process, either national or international, depending on the value of the sub-project.
Ownership of sub-projects. Sub-projects will be identified and prepared by municipalities with the help of
the Technical Secretariat. One of the criteria for accepting sub-projects will be the assurance that
municipalities have developed a mechanism for operating and maintaining sub-projects once completed.
This will enhance ownership, management and maintenance of sub-projects.
Separate programming and project selection tasks from implementation. Sub-project identification and
programming tasks are done by municipalities. The selection of sub-projects is done by a separate entity,
the Technical Secretariat, while implementation is entrusted to AGETIP BURUTNDI.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
A study tour was organized by the Government to draw lessons from the experiences of similar projects in
Senegal, Mali, Benin and Niger. In addition, the Government created a project preparation team, and
requested a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to carry out studies and other activities for project
processing. The Govemment recruited AGETIP BURUNDI's Director General so that he could actively
participate in the appraisal of this project. The Government also took the following measures before
appraisal: (i) identified the sub-projects to be implemented in the first year, and (ii) drafted the Manual of
Procedures and the Project Implementation and Accounting Manuals. All of the above documents have
been received by IDA. These documents will be reviewed by Bank Specialists before being adopted.
Government's signing of Ordinance No. 530/907, November 16, 2000, to create AGETIP BURUNDI is
another indication of its commitment to and ownership of this project.
- 10-



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has provided technical support in introducing the concept of delegated contract management in
Burundi, and has extensive experience with AGETIP projects in SSA. The design of this project
incorporates lessons learned and best practices in the 12 AGETIP projects implemented in SSA.
Recommendations from audits of these 12 AGETIPS and the Africa Regional Action Plan were also taken
into account in the design of this project. The Bank's contribution will serve as a catalyst in the future for
other donors' support and ensure quality and transparency of the process.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The Public Works and Employment Project will support a variety of sub-projects. A cost-benefit or
cost-effectiveness methodology will be used to screen proposals. However, for most sub-projects,
cost-effectiveness analysis will be used, since these sub-projects will not have an easily quantifiable
revenue stream. Also, because benefits will be measured in non-monetary units, such as number of
beneficiaries, the approach will use a maximum unit cost per beneficiary criteria, labor content and
community contribution. These criteria will be reviewed annually to incorporate experience gained in
implemented sub-projects. A matrix summarizing the type of appropriate analysis to undertake is in Annex
4, and an outline of sub-project justification, including the set of selection criteria will be in the
Implementation Manual to be used in sub-project appraisal. In such cases, the standard "with" and
"without" project comparisons will be used to measure incremental economic benefits arising from the
project.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
For many of the sub-projects with large environmental benefits, calculation of the rate of return will be
difficult, therefore, cost effectiveness calculations will be used. For those sub-projects with market price
outputs relatively easy to assess, cost benefit analysis will be applied.  This will apply to
income-generating, commercial infrastructure projects (markets, bus terminals, abattoirs, and so forth).
Fiscal Impact:
Some of the sub-projects, such as drainage and access roads are public goods, and therefore, no cost
recovery is envisaged through direct user charges. Nevertheless, some indirect recovery may be possible
through property taxes. In the case of revenue-generating sub-projects, such as markets, slaughter houses
and lorry parks, user fees will be charged. This project is expected to increase the revenue generating
capacities of municipalities. In addition, a detailed operation and maintenance plan (including sources of
financing) will be developed for each sub-project, indicating incremental operations and maintenance costs,
and expected revenues.
Counterpart funds. Recognizing that Bunmdi is coming out of a civil war and that IDA is responding to
an emergency situation, the level of poverty is such that it is not possible to expect large contributions from
the communities. Therefore, local entities are required to contribute five percent of the cost of sub-projects
in kind (labor, construction materials, and so forth) while the Government of Burundi would contribute five
percent of total IDA credit. Government's annual contribution will be provided on a semi-annual basis in
- 11 -



accordance with tho annual implementation program needs. A first year contribution of US$25,000 will be
requested before credit effectiveness.
3. Technical:
The project will introduce the concept of delegated contract management in Burundi. This will increase the
implementation capacity of municipalities and help redefine their roles. Sustainability of completed
sub-projects will be assured by the participation of municipalities in their identification. Assurance by
communities and municipalities that sub-projects will be operational and maintained will be criteria for
selection of sub-projects. Municipalities will be assisted by the Technical Secretariat in developing
maintenance arrangements and establishing maintenance fund accounts, to which monthly or yearly
contributions will be made, thus ensuring that facilities maintenance needs are met in subsequent years.
The project will give small enterprises an opportunity to learn and grow, which will increase construction
capacity in this area; it will strengthen NGOs in their role as community development catalysts and existing
training institutions in their capacity to train different levels of govemment and civil society in
implementing their activities in an efficient manner. This project will require contractors with labor
intensive and managerial capabilities and diverse technical skills to undertake building and rehabilitation of
roads, markets, drainage, health centers, anti-erosion structures, schools, water supply and so forth. The
project also requires civil engineering consulting firms to design and supervise works. Therefore, a study
to assess the level of support and capacity of SMEs and NGOs was financed from the Project Preparation
Facility. This study concluded that there is some capacity from local consultants and contractors;
therefore, the project will provide support through technical training for contractors to enhance their
capacity. In addition, AGETIP BURUNDI will use existing vocational training facilities in Burundi and in
neighboring countries to improve management capacity. AGETIP BURUNDI will act as a professional
contract management agency and take remedial actions, such as contract cancellation, and previous
termination of a contractor will be one of the post-selection criteria for future evaluation of bids. As part of
its capacity building activities, AGETIP BURUNDI will annually update the roster of contractors and
consulting firms based on performance on previous projects. The preparation of this roster will be done in
a transparent manner. Participation in bidding will not be limited to contractors and consulting firms on the
roster.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The implementation arrangements for the project are based on similar operations financed by IDA in
Africa, where public works are executed through the contracting out approach, by an AGETIP-type agency
(AGETIP BURUNDI) acting as a Delegated Contract Management Agency (DCMA). This model has been
adapted to the Burundi context to ensure that it functions effectively. Procedures for the daily management
of AGETIP BURUNDI are included in a Manual of Procedures. A convention to be signed between
AGETIP BURUNDI and the Govemment will spell out duties and responsibilities of both parties. The
signing of this convention will be a condition of project effectiveness.
4.2 Project management:
Sub-project implementation will be carried out by AGETIP BURUNDI. The Technical Secretariat will
manage the institutional building component of this project. The Govemnment has created AGETIP
BURUJNDI, in a manner satisfactory to IDA, and a Manual of Procedures guiding its day-to-day activities
has been prepared and should be cleared by IDA before credit effectiveness. The terms of reference to start
- 12-



the consultation for the creation of the Technical Secretariat at the Ministry of Public Works and
Equipment have been prepared.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement capacity assessment was carried out during the appraisal mission. Since AGETIP
BURUTNDI was not in place at that time, the assessment took into consideration the procurement
experience of World Bank financed projects in Burundi, and particularly Social Action Projects I and II
(Cr. 2494-BU 1993-1999 and Cr. 3278-BU 2000-2004). Agreed upon actions between the Government
and the World Bank have been completed by the Govemment. The appointment of AGETIP BURUNDI's
Director General and Technical and Financial Directors have been done in a manner satisfactory to IDA.
An action plan to build the capacity of AGETIP BURUNDI's management team was agreed to during
project preparation and appraisal and includes: (i) procurement training for senior staff in Dakar; and (ii)
procurement supervision as well as support and guidance provided by the Burundi Country Office.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial Management
There is no financial management system in place as this is a newly created agency. The establishment of a
new system is a condition of effectiveness. One of the key actions in the area of financial management for
the project has been the selection of the Director of Administration and Finance (DAF). An action plan has
been prepared to ensure that the preparation of quarterly Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs) will begin at
least 18 months after credit effectiveness. The DAF should ensure that the accounting system, established
in the initial stages of the project, is capable of generating the data required for the PMRs.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
A consultant conducted an environmental analysis (EA) to (a) develop a framework for the environmental
assessment of future sub-projects (with a focus on, for example, a description of existing circumstances in
the sub-project area, an assessment of potential impacts on the population, flora, fauna, hydrology,
geology, and the preparation of recommendations designed to mitigate potential impacts prior to and during
the implementation of sub-projects); and (b) identify potential environmental and social impacts of some
future sub-projects (protection of river banks, street paving, drainage, construction of markets and related
infrastructures).
While the majority of future sub-projects are expected to have positive environmental and social impacts
(less severe flooding, less sedimentation, less soil erosion, increased economic activities, improved traffic
safety), the EA report noted that (i) the continued use of quarries as a source of construction material for
street paving sub-projects could lead to the loss of agricultural land; and (ii) constructing new markets and
related infrastructures could lead to a loss of land and other assets among individuals and families living in
the immediate vicinity.
Discussions with the Ministry of Environment during appraisal led to the development of an environmental
and social monitoring plan. This plan addresses environmental and social impacts, the effects of
construction activities, and the need to strengthen the capacity of the Ministries of Environment and of
Mining to monitor sub-project activities and conduct country-wide inventory of existing quarries.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
- 13 -



The EMP consists of plans for mitigation, monitoring and capacity development as listed below; these
plans are considered adequate under the proposed project.
(a) A mitigation plan identifies (i) environmental and social impacts, such as deforestation, soil erosion,
water pollution, dust, noise, traffic safety problems, loss of land and other assets due to the continuous
exploitation of quarries and construction activities, including markets and related infrastructures; and (ii)
positive impacts of the proposed civil works on the banks of the Muha, Mpimba and other rivers in
Bujumbura.
(b) A monitoring plan focuses on the rehabilitation of existing quarries, development of a country-wide
inventory of existing quarries, environmental guidelines for construction activities, as well as on
environmental assessments prior to the establishmnent of new quarries and some sub-projects.  A
resettlement and compensation framework has been prepared, used in screening all sub-projects and applied
during sub-project implementation.
(c) Resettlement is not anticipated in any of the 18 sub-projects identified for the first year of project
implementation. Sub-projects in subsequent years will be demand-driven by local govemments (in
consultation with their communities). During the life of the project, social assessments will be carried out
for sub-projects, and if resettlement/compensation plans are required, these documents will be submitted to
the Bank for approval. The resettlement/compensation framework will be applied (should the need be
identified) through social assessments.
(d) A capacity development plan addresses the need of the Ministry of Environment to develop
environmental assessment procedures, to train staff responsible for the development of inventories of
existing quarries, and to strengthen its capacity to monitor the implementation of environmental assessment
recommendations as well as the implementation of works on the Muha, Mpimba and other rivers.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, tirneline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Date of receipt of final draft EA: May 2000
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Consultations were held with representatives and residents of Buyenzi, and with the Govemor and
merchants of the province of Mwaro at the construction site in Karama. Additional consultations were
recommended with the communities involved in sub-projects. However, during appraisal it was decided that
the proposed project would focus on urban areas where sub-project decisions would be made mostly by
govemment organizations (municipalities) and that additional community consultations were not needed at
this time. Also, due to the uncertain security situation in the country, field visits were not undertaken at the
time of appraisal. Consultations will be held as necessary for subsequent years once future sites have been
identified.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The Ministry of Environment will be responsible for monitoring the implementation of the EMP.
Implementation arrangements for the involuntary resettlement fiamework and social assessments of
sub-projects will be included in the Implementation Manual.
- 14-



6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project is expected to support reconciliation by mobilizing diverse groups to work together for their
common benefit. The aim is not only ethnic reconciliation, but also to create a supportive environment for
the reintegration of retuming refugees and intemally displaced persons. During implementation, the project
will finance activities in larger municipalities (Bujumbura, Gitega, Ngozi, Mwaro, and so forth), which
have more capacity to prepare sub-projects for submission to the Technical Secretariat. The rest of the
municipalities will be assisted by the Technical Secretariat in finalizing the design of sub-projects to be
executed. The H1V/AIDS component will support the fight against V/AIDS in Burundi.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Municipalities and ministries will be directly involved in the selection of sub-projects presented to AGETTP
BURUNDI for financing. Essentially, all requests will be assessed by the Technical Secretariat to ensure
that they meet the eligibility criteria and that they will be operational and maintained once built.
Communities will be involved in building and maintaining these sub-projects where appropriate.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The project supports consultations and collaboration with NGOs and other civil society organizations.
Ownership and govemance of the peace process will be promoted through a participatory approach
involving all strata of the population in building, operating and maintaining sub-projects, thereby giving
voice to all groups and contributing to social cohesion and the peace process.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
NGOs and civil society participated to ensure that all stakeholders are involved. The project will
sub-contract the building of sub-projects to SMEs, and information, education and campaign (IEC)
activities to NGOs. This will increase the revenue base of local NGOs, especially those working to
reintegrate displaced people and provide employment for returning refugees. Female-headed households
have also increased due to the prolonged war in Burundi. Therefore, the project aims to have women
directly benefiting and/or implementing at least a reasonable number of sub-projects.  The skills
development training component of the project will benefit unemployed youths, contractors and women,
who are among the most vulnerable groups in the society.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Annual reviews will measure the project's social development outcomes by putting a monitoring process in
place. Social and beneficiary assessments as well as audits will be conducted on a regular basis.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           O Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    O Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes 0 No
- 15 -



Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   O Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             O Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N/A
F. Sustainability and Risks
L. Sustainability:
Sustainability of sub-projects is contingent upon (i) adequate management for operation and maintenance,
and (ii) adequate funding for operations and maintenance.
These contingencies may be achieved through (a) the Government's ability to redefine its role and provide
support to municipalities; (b) the use of beneficiary assessments for yearly reprogramming; (c) the
twansparency in allocation and management of resources; (d) the identification and selection of sub-projects
by municipalities (in consultation with their conmmunities) thereby building ownership; and (e) the
preparation of operation and maintenance plans by municipalities.
- 16 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk :iskska_g                                  R  ;i  Measure
From Outputs to Objective
There is a breakdown in the peace process   M         Employment creation and skills development,
and the intensification of civil conflict.            especially for unemployed youths, will help
reduce the triggers leading to repeated violence.
Sub-projects will be executed in areas largely
free of civil violence.
There are no effective contributions from   M         Since some sub-projects will be directly
relevant sector ministries for operations             demanded by Central and Municipal
and periodic maintenance                              governments, this risk is minimized. However,
(e.g. funding for teachers or nurses to               the Technical Secretariat will demand
operate schools and hospitals).                       supporting documents for operations and
maintenance provision to ensure
complementarity and that infrastructure
demanded by municipalities and ministies will
be provided with operational resources. This
secretariat will also help municipalities develop
operating and maintenance plans.
SMEs will not have the absorptive           M         Technical support to contractors on construction
capacity to execute sub-projects and                  sites is one of the activities included in the
benefit from training.                                capacity building component. AGETIP
BURUNDI will also use existing vocational
training facilities in Burundi and in neighboring
countries to improve management capacity of
SMEs.
Population will not use newly constructed   N         Burundi is in a post conflict situation, therefore,
or renovated basic infrastructure as their            most basic infrastructure need to be rebuilt or
priorities may be different.                          rehabilitated thereby creating ample demand.
Media campaigns will be used to inform the.
public of the need to be involved in their
municipalities' selection of sub-projects.
Government and Technical Secretariat        M         Government will sign convention with AGETIP
will interfere with AGETIP BURUNDI's                  BURUNDI as a condition of project
operations.                                           effectiveness. Sub-projects will be identified by
municipalities and therefore ensure municipal
ownership and eligibility.
From Components to Outputs
- 17-



Sub-projects are not implemented in a      M         AGETIP BURUNDI will act as a professional
timely manner, within budget and of                   contract management agency and will have
acceptable quality.                                   technical audits to assure quality control.
Remedial actions, such as contract cancellation,
will be taken on SMEs that deliver sub-standard
sub-projects.
AGETIP BURUNDI operating costs are          M         AGETIP BURUNDI's MIS will allow for close
not kept low (below 8% of the costs of                monitoring and control of operating costs. This
sub-projects).                                        will be closely followed by Bank Supervision
missions.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main CreditConditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(i)   the AGETIP BURUNDI Convention has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and AGETIP BURUNDI in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association;
(ii)   the Borrower has adopted the PIM, including AGETIP BURUNDI's Manual
of Procedures, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(iii)  the Borrower has established: (i) a financial management system for the
Project in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) caused AGETIP
to establish a financial management system for implementation of the project;
(iv)   the Borrower has appointed financial auditors under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association;
(v)   the Project Account has been opened and the initial amount of US$25,000
equivalent has been deposited;
(vi)  the Borrower has created TS and has appointed four key staff (a director, an
engineer, an accountant or financial specialist and an environmentalist) under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Association; and
(vii)  the AGETIP BURUNDI Work Program Agreement for the first Project Year
between AGETIP BURUNDI and TS has been executed on behalf of AGETIP
- 18-



BURUNDI and TS, in fonn and substance satisfactory to the Association.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by AGETIP BURUNDI and is
legally binding upon AGETIP BURUNDI in accordance with its terms;
(b)   that the AGETIP BURUNDI Convention has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
AGETIP BURUNDI and are legally binding upon the Borrower and AGETIP BURUNDI in accordance
with their terms.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[l 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D2 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
L 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Eustache Ouayoro                 Letitia A. Obeng                  Emmanuel Mbil
Team Leader                      Sector Manager                    Country Director
- 19-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BURUNDI: PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT CREATION PROJECT
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Promoting ownership and    Increased access to basic  2001 household survey and   Security situation will improve
governance of the peace   infrastructure and jobs.   subsequent quantitative   and stabilize.
process; creating productive                         surveys.
employment; and restoring                                                       Government will continue to
key imports, basic                                                             emphasize governance of the
infrastructure and social                                                      peace process and employment
services.                                                                      creation as key policy
objectives and make available
counterpart funds.
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
To generate productive,   Increased infrastructure   Employment records of SME's Use labor-intensive methods
labor-intensive employment  constructed and rehabilitated, and counts on sub-project    to implement sub-projects.
mainly aimed at demobilized  and employment generated.  implementation sites.
combatants and retuming
refugees to help in the                                                         Government and Technical
reconstruction of Burundi,                                                      Secretariat will not interfere
thereby contributing to the                                                     with AGETIP BURUNDI's
peace process.                                                                  decisions.
- 20 -



|--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ... . ...--,----  
tlier.rtiy of Ob              .  ... ....     ..........bn  &Eataio               Crt~a   .r~tiE
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
A. Sub-projects
Implementation and
Capacity Building for      Operating costs not exceeding AGETIP BURUNDI reports   MIS in place and functioning.
Employment Creation        8% of the amount of executed
- Independent contract    works;                                                The Technical Secretariat and
management agency                                                               Selection Committee prepare
established (AGETIP        maximum time spent from    Annual technical audits   portfolio of sub-projects
BURUNDI).                 sub-project approval to                               timely and effectively.
commencement of technical
studies: 2 months;
maximum number of days
between reception of invoice
andpayment: 15 days;
minimum number of firms
participating in bidding for
sub-projects: 3;
work on at least 50% of
sub-projects commenced
within 9 months of receipt of
approved sub-projects from
the Technical Secretariat.
- Cost-effective provision of   75% of rehabilitated or  Municipal data         Contractors are qualified and
priority infrastructure in  constructed infrastructure                          able to implement quality
selected areas.            found to be operational and   Annual beneficiary     sub-projects in a timely
properly maintained after    assessments and direct  manner.
completion.               measurements at the
infrastructure level
Household survey and
municipal data
-Number of jobs created.   Over 25,000 average person-  Municipal data           Sub-projects implemented by
days of employment created.                          local contractors have more
impact on employment than
those executed by bigger,
capital-intensive enterprises.
- 21 -



B. Institutional Building
- Municipalities have the  Staff and officials of    Annual beneficiary        Local revenues will be
capacity to identify, prepare,  municipalities trained by  assessments         available for municipalities'
operate and maintain       Technical Secretariat on                             share of sub-project cost.
sub-projects.             sub-project identification,    Audits
preparation and                                      Beneficiary population will
programming:                                         use newly constructed or
30 municipalities by 2003.                           renovated infrastructure and
80 Municipalities by 2006.                           demand for social services will
emerge.
Municipal revenue for O&M
of sub-projects increased by
20% by 2006.
- SMEs develop capacity to   SME staff trained by AGETIP Annual financial and   SMEs will have the absorptive
implement sub-projects.   BURUNDI on business       technical audits           capacity to implement projects
administration, financial                            and benefit from training.
management and technical
skills improvement:
1000 person-days of training
by 2003.
2000 person-days of training
by 2006.
C. Support for the        Percentage of work sites   Quarterly reports prepared by  NGO's will have the capacity
Prevention of HIV/AIDS    receiving HIV/AIDS         NGO's and information      to disseminate appropriate
awareness and prevention    provided by UNAIDS.      information.
workshops:
65% of work sites by 2003.
85% of work sites by 2006.
- 22 -



Project Components /      Iputs: (budget for oach    ProJect reports          (from Components to
Sub-components            cmponent)                                           Output$)
A. Sub-projects           US$33.26                  AGETIP BURUND)I pmgress Sub-projects are implemernted
Implementation and Capacity                         reports                  in a timely manner and within
Building for Employment                                                       budget.
Creation
B. Institutional Building  US$4.54                  Financial audits, AGETIP    AGETIP BURUNDI is
BURUNDI progress reports  efficiently managed.
C, Support for the Prevention US$1.00               Progress Reports
of HIV/AIDS
D. Project Monitoring     US$1.75                   Technical audits
E- PPF Refinancing        US$1.00
- 23 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BURUNDI: PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT CREATION PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component I - US$33.26 million
Sub-projects Implementation and Capacity Building for Employment Cregtion: This component will
finance a five-year program of public works for rehabilitation and construction of infrastructure and other
municipal assets requested by municipalities. The basic sub-projects will be aimed at:
(i)  improving roads, markets, drainage, health centers, anti-erosion structures, schools, water supply,
and so forth.
(ii)   financing AGETIP BURUNDI's equipment and operating costs under a delegated management
contract to be signed with the Government. AGETIP BURUNDI will draw on the success and lessons
learned from existing AGETIPs in SSA.
The sub-projects will be carried out through a demand-driven and labor-intensive process, which will
provide employment while rehabilitating infrastucture destroyed or not maintained in the past decade.
This program will be based on priority sub-projects identified by municipalities and the central government,
which will be implemented by the private sector through delegated contract management. The entire
program will be managed by AGETIP BURUNDI, which has already been created. AGETIP BURUNDI
will receive from municipalities the authority to manage on their behalf, contracts for implementation of
sub-projects. Three agreements will be signed to clearly state the responsibilities of the different agencies:
(i) the Government will sign a Delegated Contract Management Agreement with AGETIP BURUNDI ; (ii)
the Government (TS) will also sign agreements with AGETIP BURUNDI to implement annual work
programs; and (iii) agreements will be signed between the beneficiaries (municipalities) and AGETIP
BURUNDI. AGETIP BURUNDI will use sample contracts for works, goods and consulting services
included in the Manual of Procedures.
Activities eligible for project financing include: construction, extension and rehabilitation of roads, markets,
drainage, health centers, anti-erosion structures, schools, water supply, toilets, community centers.
Eligibility criteria for each sub-project are presented in the Project Implementation Manual. Sub-project
implementation must commence within four to nine months from the receipt of the sub-project portfolio
from the Technical Secretariat. The application form for submission of sub-project proposal for approval
includes information on implementing agencies, sub-project cost, benefits expected (including
environmental impact assessment, operation and maintenance arrangements), as well as financial data,
such as costs and cash flow forecast and location of the sub-project (see Annex 4-A). Completed-
applications prepared by municipalities are then presented to the Technical Secretariat, where staff would
verify the application form, supporting documents and compliance with eligibility criteria (appraisal
checklist). The Project Implementation Manual gives details for eligibility, selection of sub-projects and
beneficiary groups agreed with the municipalities during project preparation. AGETIP BURUNDI and
municipalities will sign a "convention de matirise d'ouvrage deigu&e. " AGETIP BURUNDI will start
sub-project preparation only after verifying with the TS that the beneficiaries' financial contributions, as
specified in the convention, or agreement on what will constitute in-kind contributions (such as labor, sand,
stones, and so forth) are in place.
For inviting bids, awarding contracts and disbursing funds, AGETIP BURUNDI will follow procurement
guidelines as stated in Annex 6 and in line with AGETIP BURUNDrs Manual of Procedures. For
activities carried out by the TS, procedures for inviting bids, consultants, vendors and awarding contracts
will follow guidelines spelled out in Annex 6. The PIM will include: (a) eligibility criteria for selecting
- 24 -



sub-projects submitted by local and central administrations for implementation; (b) procedures for inviting
bids, selecting contractors, consultants and vendors (including prequalification if necessary), and awarding
contracts; (c) internal organization for work supervision and control; (d) disbursement procedures; and (e)
procedures for delivery of completed works. Project accounts will be audited once a year but special
accounts and SOEs will be audited twice a year. Project funds will be replenished only upon presentation
of properly documented records on the use of funds. AGETIP BURUNDI's board will have full authority
to propose and implement any measures deemed necessary to achieve the project's objectives, including
hiring and dismissal of AGETIP BURUNDrs management and staff.
Implementation mechanisms:
Sub-project Identification:
- Municipalities prepare their annual plan of action with priority works, and prepare for each priority
sub-project a "project form" along with supporting documents showing that this sub-project is eligible fQr
funding.
- The PIM gives details for eligibility, selection of sub-projects and target groups.
- Municipalities submit consolidated annual or bi-annual programs to the Technical Secretariat.
Municipalities will include operation and maintenance costs in their annual budgets. They will also come
to an agreement (with the Technical Secretariat) on what constitutes their in-kind contribution (labor and
building materials) and arrangements for their delivery during sub-project construction.
- The Technical Secretariat will select sub-projects that meet the eligibility criteria and submit the list to
AGETIP BURUNDI.
- AGETIP BURUNDI will notify municipalities of approved sub-projects and the agreement on proposed
"mai'trise d'ouvrage" (MOD).
- AGETIP BURUNDI and relevant municipalities will sign a delegated management contract "convention
de maztrise douvrage. "
Sub-project Implementation:
- AGETIP BURUNDI recruits, by open bid where appropriate, consultants to prepare technical design and
bidding documents, except where this work has already been satisfactorily done by municipalities.
- AGETIP BURUNDI publishes an invitation to bid for the implementation of sub-projects.
- Works are executed by Small and Medium Enterprises and/or NGOs after bids have, been awarded.
- AGETIP BURUNDI regularly inspects sub-projects in construction and promptly pays contractors in
accordance with the terms of the contract.
- AGETIP BURUNDI receives completed sub-projects and hands them to respective municipalities.
- Any Ministry can also ask AGETIP BURUTNDI to execute works through a "Contrat programme."
However, this will not be encouraged in the first two years while AGETIP BURUNDI is building its
capacity.
The project's intended beneficiaries are divided into four groups. First, there is the population at large
benefiting from improved infrastructure and services. Second, there are the contractors, small enterprises
and laborers, largely from the informal sector, who will execute the works. The project will be helpful to
these groups to the extent that it will provide them with work and contribute to their transition from the
informal to the formal sector. The third group of beneficiaries is the municipalities that will benefit from
investments financed by the project. Finally, the project benefits a fourth group, the "maltres doeuvre"
(architects, engineers, and consulting firms), that will be engaged in the sub-project preparation and
supervision of works.
- 25 -



Package of Training Services for Small and Medium Enterprises in the construction sector - contractors/
repreneurs:
(1)    This sub-component would be implemented by AGETIP BURUNDI and will aim at increasing the
technical and managerial capacity of small- and medium-sized indigenous firms in the building and
construction sectors, selected through a competitive bidding process to implement sub-projects.
Contractors will be charged a nominal registration fee for training.  The rationale behind this
sub-component is twofold:
(a) most firms in the beneficiary groups are expected to be weak in terms of management, work
organization, and technical skills, which may jeopardize successful implementation of the
sub-projects they will be commissioned to carry out. The provision of some technical assistance to
contractors is deemed an effective way of addressing this risk; and
(b) conversely, firms which that will be awarded contracts are likely to be comparatively better than
others, if the competitive selection process is effective. Therefore, with a view to strngthening
comparative advantages, instead of randomly spreading assistance over the whole industry, these
firms will be supported to improve the overall efficiency and competitiveness of the industry.
(2)    Several training programs will be offered under this, including:
(a) a business administration and financial management program intended for entrepreneurs and their
administrative staff; and
(b)       a work organization program, primarily designed for foremen, and various technical training
courses to improve the workers skills.
These training programs will be very practical and will take the form of on-the-job training. Potential
beneficiaries will be free to accept or refuse this form of assistance, except in cases where technical
assistance will be deemed necessary for successful implementation of the sub-projects and will, therefore,
be a condition for contract award.
(3)    The establishment of an effective, technical and management assistance program for small- and
medium-sized firms involved in project implementation will be delegated to an outside entity that will be
contracted for this purpose. Terms of reference have been drafted to invite proposals from short-listed- -
local consultants already identified to formulate an Action Plan that will be presented to IDA for its
approval no later than three months after credit effectiveness. The agreed Action Plan will be updated
annually to reflect the needs identified during supervision missions.
Project Component 2 - US$4.54 million
Institutional Building (including contingencies): Under this component, the project will provide technical
assistance, training and support to:
(i)  the Ministry of Public Works and Equipment through the establishment of a Technical Secretariat;
(ii)  municipalities in sub-project identification, programming, operations and maintenance, monitoring,
community partnerships and human resource development,
(iii) NGOs orientation to help them to assist communities.
- 26 -



(i) Support to the Ministry of Public Works and Equipment through the Establishment of the Technical
Secretariat
This sub-component will support advisory services, human resource development and technical assistance,
as well as some equipment to the Ministry of Public Works and Equipment.
(ii) Technical Assistance for Capacity Building ofMunicipalities to Plan and Monitor Projects and
Account for Resource Use
This sub-component will be implemented by the Technical Secretariat to provide support to municipalities
in preparing sub-project proposals, which will be appraised and cleared by the Technical Secretariat and
submitted to AGETIP BURUNDI for funding. Under this sub-component, municipalities will receive
training in identifying and preparing sub-projects. Municipal capacity will be developed on managing
operations and maintenance funds for completed sub-projects and on preparing plans for improving
services.
This sub-component will also help in organizing a program to increase community participation in urban
infrastructure project maintenance. This program will disseminate information in several cities, using local
languages, logos, appropriate colors and music, to district chiefs, neighborhood committees, laborers and
micro-entrepreneurs, which should lead to increased ownership of sub-projects by communities. The
project will provide funding for the above activities, including a week-long media campaign culminating in
a project launch workshop in order to sensitize the population on the project and increase ownership of
sub-projects by the communities.
(iii) NGOs orientation to help them to assist communities
T;his sub-component will help sensitize domestic and foreign NGOs in participatory processes for
sub-project identification and implementation.  It will also help to develop coordination and
complementarity among NGOs.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.00 million
Support for the Prevention of HIV/AIDS
This component will help in the fight against the spread of HIV/AID, by including a community
information and education program, targeting high-risk groups, such as the youth and women. The themes,
which will be developed in information and education programs, will be based on existing frameworks- -
already developed by youth and women's associations in Burundi. The Bank is collaborating with
UNAIDS in Burundi. It has been strongly recommended by UNAIDS to invest in a participatory
diagnostic process to better sensitize and educate people on HIV/AIDS prevention.  Taking into
consideration that much of Burundi is still rural, the UNAIDS group has recommended in its action plan a
program of "peer sensitization" to better disseminate relevant HIV/AIDS information. This program will
also target workers who will be involved in building public works under this project. The first interv'ention
will be targeted at those communities receiving the first tranche of sub-projects. In addition, this
sub-component may also finance specific programs targeting mobile people, such as truck drivers, seasonal
workers who live in town but still have their wives and children in rural areas, prostitutes, and so forth.
Possible partners in the implementation of this sub-component include the Red Cross of Bunindi, the
Society for Women Against AIDS in Burundi (SWAA-Burundi), and other NGOs actively working on
HIV/AIDS prevention. Hospitals and health centers near sub-project implementation sites will be involved
in HIV diagnostic and treatment.
- 27 -



This component will also finance studies and preparation activities for a future multi-sectoral WV/AIDS
project to be financed by IDA and other donors.
Project Component 4 - US$1.75 million
Project Monitoring: Under this component, the project will provide finding for limited studies and
surveys (mainly Beneficiary Assessments).
The monitoring program will broaden the supervision scope. Given the wide margin of independence and
initiative, which is deemed necessary to ensuring AGETIP BURUNDI's efficiency and effectiveness, close
and continuous post monitoring are essential to ensuring that AGETIP BURUNDI use its autonomous
decision-making powers in accordance with the agreed convention. Also, some features of the proposed
project require the Government and IDA to jointly monitor progress of those components and take timely
remedial measures as necessary. In order to make relevant information available in a manner, studies of
the impact and performance of implemented sub-projects and beneficiary assessments will be carried out.
- 28 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BURUNDI: PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT CREATION PROJECT
A. Sub-projects Implementation and Capacity Building for        20.30            9.09          29.39
Emplovment Creation
B. Institutional Building                                         2.47           1.85           4.32
C. Support for the Prevention of HIV/AIDS                         0.96           0.00           0.96
D. Project Monitoring                                             0.50           1.17           1.67
E. PPF Reimbursement                                              0.00           1.00           1.00
Total Baseline Cost                                             24.23           13.11          37.34
Physical Contingencies                                           1.71           0.69           2.40
Price Contingencies                                              1.21           0.61           1.82
Total Project Costs                 27.15          14.41          41.56
Total Financing Required                  27.15           14.41         41.56
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 41.56 (USSm). Therefore, the project co.st sharing ratio is 96.25% of
total project cost net of taxes.
-29 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
BURUNDI: PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT CREATION PROJECT
Summary of benefits and costs:
Main Assumptions:
Essentially, two sets of factors determine the type of analysis applied: the type of project and its size.
For those projects whose benefits are measurable in monetary terms and whose output has a market price
that is relatively easy to assess, cost benefit analysis will be applied. This will apply to income-generating,
commercial infrastructure projects (markets, bus terninals, abattoirs, and so forth). In such cases, the
standard "with" and "without" project comparisons will be used to measure the incremental economic
benefits arising from the project. At the other extreme, there may be projects (for example in health and
education sectors) whose benefits either do not have a readily accessible market price or are not easily
measurable in monetary terms. In such cases, cost-effectiveness analysis will be used, with benefits being
measured in non-monetary units, such as the number of beneficiaries.
While the above analysis is unquestionably useful, it entails gathering and analyzing of a significant
amount of data. For small municipal or community projects, the time and effort involved may be
prohibitive and could result in excessive delays. Therefore, for smaller projects, a more simplified approach
would be used.
Annex 4-A: Type of Project Brief
I .   Project Name     Specific name of the operation.
Indicate the code of the project (subprogram and component).
2.   Site              Indicate if access to the site is difficult.
3.   Duration          Estimated duration of work and studies (in the event those are not available).
4.   Description       Technical description and list of works and their principal components with
corresponding quantities (total surface to be built, number and use of beds... in a
medical building, width and length of roads, length of tubes, number of small
individual jobs).
5.   Preparation       Indicate if the site is available. Indicate if engineering studies are available.
6.   Recipients        Municipality of. and/or community of..
Description and estimate of direct or indirect beneficiaries.
- 30 -



7.   Justification      Description of current situation and its problems.
Description of the expected results.
If it is an economic project: indicate the economic rate of return (to be calculated
later on in the event of pilot project); or social project: indicate the social sectoral
justification (school map for example), or income generation activity (markets):
the rate of financial profitability. In all cases, calculate the cost by direct
beneficiary.
8.   Cost               Estimated cost of works.
9.   Employment         Ratio total salaries/total cost
Number of workstations during .............. months
Men/month during construction
Permanent jobs (if existing).
10.   Environment       Brief description of impact on the environment and possibly on public health.
1I.   Management        Description of planned management system.
Description of management for a community or a private manager.
12.   Participation     Description of implemented participative process with the community during
identification and definition of project.
- 31 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BURUNDI: PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT CREATION PROJECT
Not Applicable
- 32 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BURUNDI: PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT CREATION PROJECT
Procurement
General
1.    There is no Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for Burnmdi, so far, experience has
showrn that procurement procedures in Burundi do not conflict with Bank guidelines; fuirthernore, national
procurement laws and practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in
national regulations.
Guidelines
2.  Procurement of goods and works required for the project and to be financed from the proceeds of the
credit shall be governed by the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credit,
published in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999.
Consultant services contracts financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September 1997
and January 1999). The project implementation manual includes the manual of technical procedures
drawn up for AGETIP agencies. AGETIP BURUNDI will also use standard AGETIP bidding and
consultant proposal documents.
Procurement Notices
3.    A  General Procurement Notice (GPN) with pertinent information on estimated contract
opportunities scheduled during the next twelve months will be published in the UN Development Business
(UNDB) and in a national paper of wide circulation. The GPN will be updated annually for ICB contracts,
if any. Specific Procurement Notices (SPNs) will be required for goods and works contracts. For ICB
contracts, if any, the SPN will also be advertised in the UNDB. For NCB, a general procurement notice
will be advertised in a national paper of wide circulation, followed by SPNs when bids are launched. Such
GPN will be updated annually. Contracts for consulting firms are estimated below US$200,000;
consequently, the GNP for expressions of interest will be published only in a national paper of wide
circulation. However, if foreign firms express interest in these bids, they will not be excluded from
consideration.
Procurement Capacity Assessment
4.     The implementing agency will be "AGETIP BURUNDI A.S.B.L."  A procurement capacity
assessment was carried out during appraisal. Since AGETIP Burundi is not yet functional, the assessment
focused on the recent procurement experience in small construction works fiom Social Action Projects I
and II (Cr. 2494-Bu 1993-1999 and Cr. 3278-Bu 2000-2004). These social fund projects have been
implemented since 1993 by a non-profit association "Twitezimbere A.S.B.L." After a difficult start,
Twitezimbere achieved impressive results in terms of the number of sub-projects financed (556) as well as
the quality of execution. The experience with Twitezimbere confirms the importance of the following
lessons: (i) the need to recruit a qualified management team; (ii) the requirement to establish clear
procedures, and simple and standardized technical documents which can be easily mastered by the parties
involved in procurement activities; (iii) the necessity to set up a training program tailored to the needs of
- 33 -



the different partners (SME, national and local administration, associations of beneficiaries); and (iv) the
importance of a close monitoring and rigorous selection of consultant firms in charge of designing
(preparation of bidding documents) and supervising civil works contracts.
5.    In view of Twitezimbere's experience, "AGETIP BURUNDI" was created in November 2000, as
an AGETIP agency (Agence de Travaux d'nteret Public du Burundi (AGETIP BURUNDI), in line with
other AGETIP-type agencies created in West Africa under Bank-financed operations, to handle larger
sub-projects in the capital, main secondary towns and municipalities. The lessons learned from
Twitezimbere have been incorporated in the project's design and AGETIP BURUNDI's operating
procedures. AGETIP BURUNDI will operate as an independent non-profit association. The agency will be
independent and private-sector oriented. Its Board consists of an administrator and key stakeholder
representatives (the Mayor of Bujumbura, the Chamber of Commerce of Burundi, the Association of
Engineers, Architects and Urban Planners).
6.    AGETIP BURUNDI's Director General, Technical Director and Financial Director have recently
been appointed in a manner satisfactory to IDA. The procurement capacity of the AGETIP BURUNDI
management team and staff will be reinforced through: (i) training of senior staff at Bank sponsored
procurement courses in Dakar, and (ii) close procurement supervision and guidance provided by the
Burundi Country Office. A formal capacity assessment of AGETIP BURUNDI will be carried out by a
Bank procurement specialist six months after start-up of operations, including a review and--if needed-an
adjustment of the action plan to strengthen its capacity.
Procurement Implementation Arrangements
7.    AGETIP BURUNDI will be responsible for the procurement process, except: (i) the selection of
sub-projects; and (ii) the capacity building sub-component in favor of municipalities and ministries
involved in project execution. These tasks have been delegated to the Technical Secretariat which will be
funded under the capacity building sub-component to help municipalities in the technical aspects of
sub-projects, and set up in the Ministry of Public Works and Equipment. This Technical Secretariat will
conduct feasibility studies, ensure that adequate provisions have been made for operations and
maintenance, and that complementary support will be provided by relevant ministries.
8.    AGETIP BURUNDI will follow procurement guidelines specified in this Annex, which will be in
line with its own manual of procedures. A draft Manual of Procedures, including a manual of technical
procedures with all standard technical documents for AGETIP agencies, was reviewed during appraisal.
An updated version was discussed during negotiations. A final version, acceptable to IDA, will be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
9.    The TORs, and the short list of a consultant mission regarding the training program, will be
prepared and made available before July 2001. The implementation of this program will be launched as
soon as the Government, through the Technical Secretariat, and IDA have accepted the training prograrn
and the budget.
10.    Recruitment procedures conceming consulting services are clear and well described in the manual
of technical procedures. AGETIP BURUNDI will also benefit from the experience of the Social Action
Project- Twitezimbere- (I & II ) and the Road Sector Project, which contributed to strengthening the
capacity of local consulting firms. However, AGETIP BURUNDI will closely monitor the obligations and
accomplishments of consulting firms, and their performance will be scrutinized in the technical audit.
- 34 -



Procurement plan
II.   The borrower submitted a detailed procurement plan for the first year, which includes relevant
infonnation on civil works and goods. It was agreed that by October 1 of each year, AGETIP BURUNDI
will submit a detailed procurement plan for the next year for IDA's prior review. The procurement plan
will be updated at least once a year. The progress report forwarded to IDA will provide appropriate details
on procurement progress.
Procurement Methods
12.   Civil Works contracts will include inftastructure, such as rehabilitation of urban roads,
construction and renovation of markets, buildings, water supply and sanitation. All civil works contracts,
costing more than US$25,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$12.48 million (or 48 percent
of the total contract amount), will be procured through NCB, in accordance with procedures described in
the manual of technical procedures acceptable to IDA. Contracts exceeding US$200,000 will be subject to
ICB.
13.   Small civil works contracts costing less than the equivalent of US$25,000 each, up to an
aggregate amount of US$2.63 million (or 5 percent of the total amount of civil works contracts), may be
procured on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors. The
contract will be awarded to the contractor who offers the lowest quotation, provided he has the experience
and financial and technical resources to successfully complete the contract.
14.   Goods contracts for furniture, equipment, vehicles and computers, estimated to cost US$100,000
or more, will be awarded by ICB. Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$100,000 per
contract, up to an aggregated amount of US$0.22 million (or 60 percent of the amount), will be awarded
through NCB using procedures acceptable to IDA. Small items for office equipment, supplies, small
equipment and furniture locally available, costing up to US$10,000 per contract, and up to an aggregated
amount of US$0.14 million (or 40 percent of the total contract amount for goods), will be procured on the
basis of comparison of at least three quotations obtained from reputable suppliers. To the extent possible,
goods and equipment to be purchased under the project will be combined into packages worth up to
US$100,000.
15. Consultant Services financed by IDA will be for: (i) studies, architectural design, civil works
supervision, preparation of bidding documents, accounting systems, financial management support,
financial and technical audits; and (ii) consultancies on technical matters and training program--skills gap
analysis, skills development-and training of staff, communities, and municipalities. For consultant
services estimated to cost more than US$50,000 per contract, the Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
(QCBS) method will be used. For financial audits costing less than US$50,000 per contract to an aggregate
amount of US$150,000, the Least-Cost Selection (LCS) will apply.
16.   Consultants services for small and simple services, such as training, community sensitization, etc.
(estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$50,000 per contract and up to an aggregate amount of
US$4.3 million), will be selected on the basis of Consultants' Qualifications (CQ), by comparing
consultants' experience and competence relevant to the assignment. AGETIP BURUNDI will advertise
these consultancies in a national newspaper with wide circulation to obtain expressions of interest.
17.    Services for small studies, which can be delivered by individual experts, such as technical audits
(estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$50,000 per contract and up to an aggregate amount of
- 35 -



US$0.25 million), will be selected through comparison of qualifications of Individual Consultants (IC) who
have expressed an interest in the assignment or who have been approached directly because of their specific
competence in the field.
18.    Short-lists of consultants for contracts estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$50,000 may
be comprised entirely of national consultants, if a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are
locally available at competitive costs. This would particularly apply to contracts for architectural and
engineering services. However, if foreign firms express an interest in these contracts, they will not be
excluded from consideration.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                            12.47          12.48          2.63           0.00          27.58
(11.82)        (11.82)        (2.63)         (0.00)        (26.27)
2. Goods                            0.00           0.22           0.14           0.00           0.36
(0.00)         (0.22)         (0.14)        (0.00)         (0.36)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00           9.41           0.00           9.41
Consultant Services &               (0.00)         (0.00)         (9.41)         (0.00)        (9.41)
Training _  _
4. Operating Costs                  0.00            0.00          3.20           0.00           3.20
(0.00)         (0.00)         (2.96)         (0.00)        (2.96)
5. PPF                              0.00            0.00           1.00          0.00           1.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.00)         (0.00)        (1.00)
Total                            12.47          12.70          16.38          0.00          41.55
(11.82)        (12.04)        (16.14)        (0.00)        (40.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govermnent
units.
- 36 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
. a1
A. Firms           4.70      0.00      0.00      0.15      4.31      0.00      0.00      9.16
(4.70)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.15)    (4.31)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (9.16)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.25      0.00      0.00      0.25
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.25)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.25)
Total   4.70     0.00      0.00      0.15      4.56      0.00      0.00      9.41
(4.70)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.15)    (4.56)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (9.41)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 37 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
19.    Civil works contracts exceeding the equivalent of US$100,000 will be subject to IDA's prior
review procedures. In addition, the first three contracts below US$100,000 will be subject to prior review.
For small works, the first three contracts below US$25,000 will be subject to prior review. All other
contracts will be subject to post review by IDA during supervision missions and by auditors.
20.    Goods contracts for an amount exceeding the equivalent of US$50,000 will be subject to prior
review by IDA. The first three contracts below this level will also be subject to prior review. All other
contract will be subject to post review by IDA during supervision mission and by auditors.
21.    Consultant services. All terms of reference, regardless of contract cost, will be subject to prior
review. All contracts at or above US$50,000 will be subject to prior review. The first three contracts
below US$50,000 will be subject to prior review. The first three contracts for audits costing less than
US$50,000 will be subject to prior review. Contracts with individuals, costing US$30,000 or more, will be
subject to prior review. The first three contracts costing less than US$30,000 per contract will be subject
to prior review.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works                      > $200,000                  ICB                   all contracts
> $25,000 - < $200,000          NCB                    > $100,000
Small works                                                              < $100,000 first 3 contracts
< $25,000               3 quotations           first 3 contracts
2. Goods                      > $100,000                  ICB                   all contracts
>$10,000 - < $100,000           NCB              > $50,000 Prior review
<$50,000 first 3 contracts
< $10,000                Shopping
3. Services
Consultants
Firms                         > $50,000               QCBS/LCS                 Prior review
Audits                       <     $50,000              LCS                 first 3 contracts
Other                        < $50,000                  CQ                   first 3 contracts
Individuals                   > $30,000                   IC                   Prior review
< $30,000                   IC                first 3 contracts
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
- 38 -



Procurement supervision and technical audit
22.     During the first year of project activities, procurement specialists will supervise AGETIP
BURUNDI every four months, and thereafter, once every six months provided project performance is
satisfactory. During these missions selective post review will be carried out of contracts awarded below the
threshold. AGETIP BURUNDI activities will be subject to annual technical audits (carried out separately
from financial audits) by a qualified consultant, selected through a competitive process acceptable to IDA.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 39 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
23.    The proposed IDA Credit will finance a five-year investment project according to the
categories shown in Table C below. The credit closing date will be six months after the end of the
fifth year, to allow payments of last invoices for contracts completed before the completion date.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
1. Goods                                                       100% of foreign expenditures
90% of local expenditures
(a) Technical Secretariat                0.14
(b) AGETIP BURUNDI                       0.20
2. Consultant Services                                                   100%
(a) Technical Secretariat                4.14
(b) AGETIP BURUNDI                       2.43
3. Sub-projects                             25.24               100% of amounts disbursed
4. Operating Costs                                                        90%
(a) Technical Secretariat                0.99
(b) AGETIP BURUNDI                       1.83
5. PPF Refinancing                          1.00
6. Unallocated                              4.03
Total Project Costs                         40.00
Total                                       40.00
Sub-projects category amount includes consultant services for studies, design and oversight of works.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
24.   Disbursements of the credit will be fully documented when the submission of withdrawal
application is received, except for expenditures valued at less than US$100,000 equivalent for civil
works, less than US$50,000 equivalent for goods, less than US$50,000 equivalent for consulting
firms, and less than US$30,000 equivalent for individual consultants, which will be made against
SOEs, and available for examination by financial and technical auditors, and by IDA supervision
missions. Applications for direct payments can be submitted for amounts exceeding 20 percent of the
special account (initial deposit).
Counterpart Funds, Project Account, and IDA support for Operating Costs
25.   Government's counterpart funds (needed for 12 months) to cover the share of investment not
financed by IDA, including advances for operating costs, will be deposited by the government in a Project
Account (PA), no later than January 31 each year. Payment by the Government of the first tranche of
US$25,000 equivalent is a condition of credit effectiveness.
Special account:
26.    To facilitate disbursements, the Govemment will open two Special Accounts (SA), one for
- 40 -



AGETIP BURUNDI and another for the Technical Secretariat at commercial Banks in Bujumbura for
IDA's share of eligible expenditures. The authorized allocation for AGETIP BURUNDI's SA will be
US$750,000 representing about three months of disbursement. IDA will make an initial deposit of
US$375,000 equivalent upon credit effectiveness, and the balance will be made available as soon as
cumulative disbursements reach SDR3,000,000. The authorized allocation for the Technical Secretariat
will be US$250,000 representing about three months of disbursement. IDA will make an initial deposit of
US$125,000 equivalent upon credit effectiveness, and the balance will be made available as soon as
cumulative disbursements reach SDR1,000,000. IDA will replenish the SA upon receipt of appropriate
documentation (satisfactory to IDA) for incurred eligible expenditures. Each replenishment request will be
accompanied, as necessary, by up-to-date bank and reconciliation statements. IDA would carry out, at the
end of the first year of implementation, a comprehensive assessment of the project's financial management
to determine its adequacy and readiness for a new enhanced disbursement method (to be discussed with
IDA at that time).
Auditing
27.   Accounting records will be maintained at AGETIP BURUNDI and the Technical Secretariat
by designated financial staff.  All procurement documents, contracts, and invoices would be
maintained separately by the two agencies and made accessible to supervision missions and auditors.
The TS and AGETIP BURUNDI will provide: (a) financial statements and audit reports by
independent auditors (following International Auditing Standards) within six months after the end of
the Government's fiscal year; and (b) reports on the construction program and technical audits by
individual consultants within six months after the end of AGETIP BURUNDI's fiscal year. Financial
auditors will also: (i) express separate opinions on SOEs and the SA; and (ii) perform semi-annual
audits on the SOEs and SA and review the internal control system.
Reporting
28.   AGETIP BURUNDI will submit the following reports: (a) trimestrial progress reports; (b) an
annual report and a proposed financing plan, four weeks before the annual review, and no later than
September 30 each year; (c) an annual technical, financial and management audit, no later than six months
after the end of AGETIP BURUNDrs fiscal year; and (d) relevant sections of the hnplementation
Completion Report (ICR) three months before the closing date. The TS will provide consolidated reports
on project implementation on the same frequency as AGETIP BURUNDI.
Supervision
29.   The project will require intensive supervision during the start-up phase when imnplementation
arrangements would be put to the test. The first full IDA/donors' mission will take the form of a
project launch workshop, at least three months after credit effectiveness, to establish the annual review
cycle. In addition to the first annual review meeting, three supervision missions will be scheduled
during the first project year to monitor progress and coordinate with Govermnent, and every six
months thereafter.  Supervision missions--comprising financial management and procurement
specialists at least twice a year--will consist of field trips, including work sites, to review financial and
management practices, bidding, and payment procedures. For each annual review, a full technical and
financial audit of the project, as well as a beneficiary assessment, will be conducted. The mid-term
review will take place 30 months after effectiveness. A detailed supervision plan is presented in Annex
11.
- 41 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BURUNDI: PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT CREATION PROJECT
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             04/17/2000                    07/15/2000
Appraisal mission departure                      09/25/2000                   10/02/2000
Negotiations                                     11/25/2000                   12/20/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   06/30/2001
Prepared by:
Government of Burundi Project Preparation Committee
Ministry of Public Wotks and Equipment
Preparation assistance:
IDA PPF - Two tranches for a total of US$1 million
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Na0. 0  i X E r:    ,.g0X . 0 W .   . ..  Si .' '  ' y..g:.00 ,, g  W:400 ti,0 . itEt :00000044200  ftELLL,00
Eustache Ouayoro                  Team Leader
Jainaba Kah                       Urban Economist
Pamphile Kantabaze                Operations, Community Participation Gender, HIV-AIDS issues and
Social Infiastructures
Prosper Nindorera                 Operations, procurement
Bernard Abeille                   Principal Procurement Specialist
Isabella Micali-Drossos/Solange Aliali Lawyer
Agnes Albert-Loth                 Disbursement Officer
Abdul Haji                        Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Emestina Attafuah                 Sr. Program Assistant
Connie Kok Shun                   Program Assistant
Sophie Hans-Moevi                 Team Assistant
Leoncie Niyonahabonye             Country Office Team Assistant: Community Development; Procurement
& Disbursement
Peer Reviewers
Quality Assurance:         Frannie Leautier, Director (INFDR)
Jagdish Bahal, Sr. Urban Finance Specialist (AFTU2)
Richard Verspyck, Lead Water & Sanitation Specialist (AFTU2)
Alain Labeau, Sr. Transport Specialist (EASTR)
Operations Support Review:   Hedi Larbi, Lead Transportation Planner (AFTTR)
- 42 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BURUNDI: PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT CREATION PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Project Information Document
2. Identification Mission Aide-Memoire and Back-To-Office Report
3. Minutes of the PCD Review Meeting
4. Preparation Aide-Memoire and Back-To-Office Report
5. Pre-Appraisal Aide-Memoire and Back-To-Office Report
6. Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire
7. Environmental Assessment and Management Plan
8. Financial Management
9. Procurement Capacity Assessment
10. Procurement Plan
11. Implementation Schedule
C. Other
1. Studies to Set up Executing Agency, AGETIP BURUNDI
2. Manual of Procedures: Administrative and Accounting, Budgeting and Financing
3. Construction Industry Survey
4. Training Program for Small Contractors, Consulting Firms and Communes
5. Identification, Appraisal and Bidding Documents for Pilot Projects
6. Assistance to Communities for Rapid Project Assessments
7. Environmental Impact Methodology
8. Management Information System and Accounting Procedures
9. Community Mobilization Strategy
10. Training in Participatory Techniques
11. Cost Recovery Policies
*Including electronic files
- 43 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BURUNDI: PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT CREATION PROJECT
Dec-2000
Dfference between expected
and actual
Odginal Armount in US$ Millions                                disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                         IBRD         IDA                          Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P064556        2000 BI-EERC                                             0.00      35.00                             0.00       4.59     -29.74       0.00
P064510        2000 Bi-Bursap 11                                       0o00       12.00                             0.00      10.89       1.28       0.00
P038801        1995 EMERG. ASSIST PR.EAP                                000       14.0                              0.00       0.00      -0.24       0.00
P000216        1995 HEALTH/POPULATION 11                               0o00       21.30                             0.00       6.78       7.41      -0.89
P000237        1993 AGRI-BUSINESS PROMOT                                0.00       3.10                             2.96       0.00       2.73       0.00
P000227        1993 BI-Social Action                                    0.00      10.40                            0o00        0.70       0.73       0.30
P000208        1992 SAL III                                             0.00      30.00                            21.93       0.00      18.63       0.00
P000217        1992 WATERSUPSECTOR                                      0o00      3270                              0.00       1.45      25.69       1.38
P000226        1992 PRIV SEC                                            0.00      17.00                            10.03       0.00       9.57       0.67
P000219        1991 BI-EnergySectorRehab.                               0.00      22.80                             1.19       0.02       1.24       O.0
P000204        1990 Bui-Transport Sector                                0.00      43.20                             4.73       0.00       4.67      -2.05
Total:        0.00     242.10                            40.84       24.44      41.97      -0.59
- 44 -



BURUNDI
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Dec-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval         Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
2000                AEF V&F Export                  0.44     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:          0.44     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0(
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                           Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Cormmitment:         0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
- 45 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BURUNDI: PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT CREATION PROJECT
Burundi at a glance                                                            9J12100
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Saharan      Low-
Burundl    Africa  Income       Development diamond*
Population, mid-year (nmtiIons)                      6.7      642     2,417                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atfas metho, US$)                    130      500       410
GNP (Atlas nethodo .US$ billions)                    0.8      321       988
Average annual Frowth, 1993-89
Population (%)                                       2.1       2.6       1.9                   /
Laborforce (%)                                       2.4       2.6      2.3     Gpe       I                     Gross
Moat recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                           capita        \p/ enroliment
Poverty (X of population below nahtonal poverty line)
Urban population (X of total population)              9        34        31
Life expectancV at birth (yeasi)                     42        50        60
lnfant mortalty (per 1,000 hle births                118       92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            ..       32        43               Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of populatIon)     ..       43        64
lliteracy % of populaton ae 15+)                     53        39        39
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  51       78        96            -Buundl
Male                                               55        85       102                 Low-Incorm group
Female                                             46        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1989      1998      1999
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billiors)                          0.8      1.1       0.9       0.7
Gross domestic investmentiGOP              14.9    16.5        8.8      8.0                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP          14.2      9.7       8.1      8.8
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  6.4      3.3      -2.9      -1.6
Gross national savings/GDP                  5.3    14.3        2.6       4.2
Current account balance/GDP                   ..    -2.1      -6.2      -3.6     Domestic       /           ie
Interest payments/GDP                       0.2      1.3       1.4      2.1     Savings                     Investment
Total debtGDP                              17A      79.0    128.7    157.6       avgs
Total debt service/exports                  3.7    36.4       73.7     88.9
Present value of debtGDP                      ..      ..      71.3
Present value of debtexports                 ..       ..    833.6
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99    1998      1999  1999-03
(avwrage annual growth)
GDP                                 4.4    -2.9    -5.8        5.5      3.2            -     Burundi
GNP per capita                      1.3    -4.5    -7.2        5.1       1.1                 Low-Income group
Export of goods and services       3.8      8.2    -4.0       35.9     17.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979    1989      1998      1999     Growth of investment and GOP (%)
(%of GDP)                                                                      10
Agriculture                                60.6    53.7       53.6      49.8    100
Industry                                   16.6    19.7       17.3      18.5    so                     /
Manufacturing                             10.5    13.3       6.9       7.9
Services                                   22.8    26.7       29.1     31.7
Private consumption                        80.8    86.6       89.6     84.0    .50
General govemment consumption              12.8    10.2       13.3      17.6              -   GDI       e  GDP
Importsofgoodsandservices                  22.7    22.9       19.8      18.3
(avergeM annual growth)                 1979-89  1989-99     1998      1999     Growth of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                 3.1    -1.6        4.7      -2.8    30
Industry                                    5.1    -6.2       -5.1       6.3    2
Manufacturing                              5.9    -8.1      -10.8      4.9
Services                                    5.8    -1.3        8.7      -0.3    10o
Private consumption                         3.4    -5.3       21.1      -6.5      o A..   _
General govemment consumption               0.5    15.7        4.6      15.0                           597   98   55
Gross dometbic investment                   8.7    -2.7       45.8      10.9   -100
Importsofgoodsandservices                   2.2      8.1      81.3      13.0                 Exports   -e  lImports
Gross national product                      4.2    -3.0       -5.6       5.1
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared vith its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 46 -



Burundi
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
DomestIc pnlces                             1979    1989      1998      1999     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                       40 -
Consumer prices                             27.8    11.7       12.5      3.5    30 -
Implicit GDP deflator                       26.1    14.8       23.7     -3.0    20
Govemment finance                                                                 10
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               o
Current revenue                                ..    21.1      17.4     18.3   -10        4
Current budget balance                         ..     6.2      -0.2     -3.0                  GDP deflator    * CPI
Overall surplusideficit                       ..    -4.3       -5.0     -7.6
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1979    1989      1998      1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                            ..     93         64       56    250
Coffee                                       ..      75        51       44
Tea                                                   6         9         8    200
Manufactures                                 ..       4         0         1     iso
Total imports (cit)                           ..    184         157      118    100         *
Food                                         ..      10        10       1 1                J
Fuel and energy                              ,       20        14       19       o
Capital goods                                6. 85             49       52                                   E
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..      88        64        58
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      85        88        89                EExports      aImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..    104         73       65         -
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(UlSS millions)
Exports of goods and services                109     109        71        62     3-
Imports of goods and services                178     256        174      129
Resource balance                             -69    -147       -102      -68  o  -  '  t  l  l  _  _ l l 111 11
Net income                                   -10     -18        -8        -9                              97
Net current transfers                         ..    141         56        51
Current account balance                        ..    -24        -55      -26
Financing items (net)                                 49         16       12
Changes in net reserves                        7      -25       39        14     s
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        97      101       108       92
Conversion rate (DEC, locaVUS$)             90.0   158.7      447.8    563.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                    ComposItlon of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         136     880      1,130    1,126
IBRD                                         0       0         0         0                       G 14
IDA                                         25     328       708       599                F:95
Total debt service                             4      43         55       57          E 152
IBRD                                         0       0          0        0
IDA                                          0       3         12       12
Composition of net resource flows                                                                               aB. 59
Official grants                             32      75        51
Official creditors                          31      91         27        5          D:253
Private creditors                            1       -6       42        53
Foreign direct investment                    0        1         1
Portfolio equity                             0       0          ..                           C :13
World Bank program
Commitments                                  7      53          0       12      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               11      45        32        15      B- IDA    D- Othermultlateral  F-Private
Principal repayments                         0        1         7        9      C- IMF                     G - Short-term
Net fowv                                    11      44        25         6
Interest payments                            0       2          5        5
Net transfers                               11      42        20         1
Development Economics                                                                                             9112/00
- 47 -                                               Burundi



Additional
Annex No.: 11
PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
No  Date    Objective                                Composition               Duration   SW
1.  June    Project Launch Workshop: Review of       Team Leader, Urban        2           12
2001    performance indicators, project description,   Specialist, Procurement
AGETIP BURUNDI and Technical           Specialist, Financial
Secretariat organization and work plan,  Management Specialist,
procurement plan and procedures,       Field Operations Officer,
disbursement procedures, reporting formats,   Environmental Specialist
scope of technical and financial audits,
environmental and resettlement plan.
2.   Sept.   Supervision Mission: Review of          Team Leader, Urban         2          6
2001    procurement plan and procedures, works  Specialist, Procurement
execution, work plan, action plan on   Specialist
financial management, SOEs, AGETIP
BURUNDI and Technical Secretariat
performance.
3.   Dec.    Supervision Mission: Review of procurement  Team Leader, Urban    2           10
2001    procedures and plan, works execution, work   Specialist, Procurement
plan, action plan on financial management,   Specialist, Financial
SOEs, AGETIP BURUNDI and Technical    Management Specialist,
Secretariat performance.               Field Operations Officer
4.   March  Supervision Mission: Review of           Team Leader, Procurement   2          6
2002    procurement procedures and plan, works  Specialist, Financial
execution and plan, action plan on financial   Management Specialist
management, SOEs, AGETIP BURUNDI
and Technical Secretariat performance.
5.   June    Supervision Mission: Review of          Team Leader, Procurement   2          6
2002    procurement procedures and plan, works  Specialist, Urban Specialist
execution and plan, action plan on financial
management, SOEs, AGETIP BURUNDI
and Technical Secretariat performance.
6.   Dec.    Supervision Mission and annual review:  Team Leader, Procurement   2          6
2002    Review of procurement procedures and plan,  Specialist, Urban Specialist
works execution and plan, action plan on
financial management, SOEs, AGETIP
BURUNDI and Technical Secretariat
performance.
7.   June    Supervision Mission: Review of          Team Leader, Procurement   2          6
2003    procurement procedures and plan, works  Specialist, Urban Specialist
execution and plan, action plan on fnancial
management, SOEs, AGETIP BURUNDI
and Technical Secretariat performance.
8.   Dec.    Mid-term review: Accounting and         Team Leader, Procurement   2          14
2003    disbursement procedures, progress on project  Specialist, Urban Specialist,
implementation, AGETIP BURUNDI and     Financial Management
Technical Secretariat performance,     Specialist, Field Operations
performance indicators, environmental and    Officer, Environment
social action plan, project impact, agreement  Specialist, Operations
on future actions.                     Assistant
9.   June    Supervision Mission: Review of          Team Leader, Urban        2           8
2004    procurement procedures and plan, works  Specialist, Procurement
execution and plan, action plan on financial   Specialist, Financial
management, SOEs, AGETIP BURUNDI       Management Specialist.
and Technical Secretariat performance.
- 48 -



10.  Dec.    Supervision Mission and annual review:   Team Leader, Urban          2          10
2004    Review of procurement procedures and plan,  Specialist, Procurement
works execution and plan, action plan on  Specialist, Financial
financial management, SOEs, AGETIP      Management Specialist,
BURUNDI and Technical Secretariat       Field Operations Officer
performance.
11.  June    Supervision Mission: Review of           Team Leader, Procurement    2          6
2005    procurement procedures and plan, works   Specialist, Urban Specialist
execution and plan, action plan on finacial
nianagement, SOEs, AGETEP BURUNDI
and Technical Secretariat perfomiance.
12.  Dec.    Supervision Mission and annual review:   Team Leader, Urban          2          10
2005    Review of procurement procedures and plan,  Specialist, Procurement
works execution and plan, action plan on  Specialist, Financial
financial management, SOEs, AGETIP      Management Specialist,
BURUNDI and Technical Secretariat       Field Operations Officer
performance.
13.  June    Supervision Mission: Review of           Team Leader, Procurement   2           6
2006    procurement procedures and plan, works   Specialist, Urban Specialist
execution and plan, financial management,
SOEs, AGETIP BURUNDI and Technical
Secretariat performance.
14.  Dec     Supervision Mission: Review of works     Team Leader, Procurement    2          8
2006    execution, procurement, AGETIP           Specialist, Urban Specialist,
BURUNDI and Technical Secretariat        Operations Assistant
performance, performance indicators, targets
and achievements, ICR preparation.                                            _
- 49 -






28                              X     { }<t                          )          ~        ~~~ 300                                                310
/ Lke                   R W                N           
; t Klvu t ~~~W  A/ N D   
.~     Kivu
f                                                /           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lak
JRweru1
Tou                                                       Cohoha 
Buk                                       TO
l . . . 4 < < a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Butare                                                                                      Nyo kanazi
|                            BURNDI uBURUNDI< 
o     SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIES;-','i                                       
   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                     r ',                                  p                             TANZANIA
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                         >li  r~   i l  
40                                                                                                             _3_________    __4
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                   -'                                     W 
This map was produced by the, ,   IIJX   - X/ a     
Mop Design Lnitof The World Bank.     OF  CONGO                         }i2              i              
The boundaries, colors, denominations                                               1                   
and any other information shown on this                              t  , /  1 1.,: st,l Q , :-i-,w'l >ttubnz
map do not imply, on the part of The l{.;t . > <   :gZ./
w       World Bank Group, any judgment an                                              /X                               /02                                   0KLMTR 
c       the legal status of any territory, or any1-jrfr t,L i -*2 Ii;
_ endorsement or acceptance of such </.........is  ..  55 IE 
'0                  28                                                   2 9 0,a-;X>,-,t,;27    I    Kigoma                  300                                    <              3]v      1O
'0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1U



