  THE INSPECTIONPANEL
  OFFICE MEMORANDUM

   DATE: September29,2004

     TO: Mr. Paatii Ofosu-Amaah

   FROM: Eduardo Abbott, Executive Secretary, IPN

EXTENSION:82617

 SUBJECT: Request for Inspection
          BURUNDI-Public Works and Employment Creation Project
          (CreditNo. 3460-BU)


               Attached for distribution to the Executive Directors and Alternates please find a
          memorandumfrom      the Chairperson of the InspectionPanel     entitled "Request for
          Inspection: BURUNDI    - Public Works and Employment Creation Project (Credit No.
          3460-BU)" dated September29,2004.



          Attachment

INTERNATIONAL BANKFOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTIONPANEL                        1818 H Street,N.W.           Telephone:(202) 458-5200
                                           Washington,D.C.20433         Fax :(202) 522-0916
                                           U.S.A.                       Email: ipanel@worldbank.org

Edith Brown Weiss
Chairperson

                                                                        September29,2004


          MEMORANDUM TO THEEXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND ALTERNATESOF THE
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


        SUBJECT: Request for Inspection
                      BURUNDI-Public Works and EmploymentCreation Project
                     (Credit No.3460-BU)


      In accordance with paragraph 17 of IDA Resolution No. 93-6 that established the Inspection
      Panel (the `Resolution') and paragraph17of the Inspection Panel'sOperatingProcedures (the
      `Operating Procedures'), I herebyinformyouthat         on September 17, 2004, the Inspection
      Panel (the `Panel') received a Request forInspection(the `Request') related to the above-
      referenced Project. The Panel did not register theRequest in the Panel's Register. As detailed
      below, the Request did not meet the eligibilitycriteriabecause     it relates to procurement
      actions.

      The Request for Inspection was submitted by AFOPROCA (l'Associationpour laformation,
      la production des ouvrages de carrieres et la lutte contre le SIDA sur les chantiers h haute
      intensite`demaind'oeuvre    - Association for training, stone and quarryworkandAIDS
      prevention on labor-intensiveworksites) andits legal representatives.

      According to the Requesters, a few months after theDevelopmentCreditAgreementwas
      signed, the Republic of Burundi entered into a concession agreement with AGETIP (Agence
      d'execution des travaux d'interetpublic - public works agency,later called ABUTIP) givingit
      primary responsibility in accomplishing the infrastructureworks.TheRequesters           also state
      that AGETIP contractedin turn with AFOPROCAto provide stone pavements for the Project.
      According to the Requesters several contractual provisions, not included in the bidding
      process, were added to the contract. The Requesters state that the contract between AGETIP
      andAFOPROCA          was improperly terminated, AFOPROCA'sassetswereseized,and
      persecution took place against itslegalrepresentative, which resulted in his imprisonment.
      The Requesters add that AFOPROCAhasdenouncedalleged               embezzlement andmoney
      launderingoccurringthrough the Project.

      The Requestersbelieve that their rights andinterestshave been harmed becauseof violations
      of the followingBank'sPolicies and Procedures:
      -   OP/BP 13.05concerningproject supervision;
      -   OP/BP 11.OO concerningprocurement;

      -   Violations of Bank guidelineson procurement under IBRDloans and IDA credits;
      - Violations of guidelinesconcerning the selectionand employmentof consultantsby World
          Bank Borrowers.

      The Requesters also assert that on several occasions theyinformedandexchanged
      correspondence with the WorldBankand the Government of Burundi without findingany
      attempt to remedy the situation. The Requesters hold the Bank responsible for the problems
      they believe emanate from the Project. Theyalso consider that the Bank's actions and
      omissions, contrary to the Bank's Policies and Procedures, haveharmed their rightsand
      interests, and therefore request the Panel to recommend an investigation to theBoard of
      Executive Directors.

      I have advised the Requesters that, in accordance with paragraph14 (b) of thePanel's
      Resolution and its subsequent 1996and1999 Clarifications, the Request did not fulfill the
      eligibility criteria because it relates to procurement. As stated in the 1996 Clarifications"[n]o
      procurement action is subject to inspectionbythePanel,whethertakenbytheBankorby a
      borrower. A separate    mechanism available
                                        is                     for addressing  procurement-related
      complaints." The Panel, therefore, referred the Request to the Department of Institutional
      Integrity andto the ProcurementPolicy and ServiceGroupfor their consideration.

      I have also delivered a copy of the Request to the President of IDA pursuant to paragraph 17
      of the Resolution. Enclosed for your information is a copy of the Memorandum to the
      President.


                                                 Sincerely yours,




Enclosure




                                                        2

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT

                                                         1818 H Sheet,N.W.        Telephone:(202) 458-5200
                                                         Washington,D.C. 20433    FaX (202) 522-0916
                                                                                  Email: ipanel@worldbank.org




                                                                    September29,2004


                                NDUM TO THE PRESIDENTOF THE
                 INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                                      est for Inspection-
                                       s and Employment Creation Project
                                   (CreditNo. 3460-BU)

     In accordance with paragraph 17 of IDAResolution No. 93-6 that established the
     InspectionPanel (the `Resolution') and paragraph17of the Inspection Panel's Operating
     Procedures (the `OperatingProcedures'),Iherebyinformyouthat              on September 17,
     2004, the InspectionPanel (the `Panel') received aRequest for Inspection (the `Request')
     related to the above-referencedProject. The Paneldid not register the Request in the
     Panel's Register. Asdetailedbelow,       the Request did not meet the eligibility criteria
     because it relates to procurement actions.

     The Request for InspectionwassubmittedbyAFOPROCA                     (I'Association pour la
     formation, la production des ouvragesde carrieres et la luttecontre le SIDA sur les
     chantiers ii haute intensite` de main d'oeuvre - Association for training, stone and quarry
     work and AIDS prevention on labor-intensive worksites) andits legal representatives.

     Accordingto the Requesters, afew months afterthe Development Credit Agreement was
     signed, the Republic of Burundienteredintoa         concession agreementwithAGETIP
     (Agence d'execution des travaux d'interet public - public worksagency,latercalled
     ABUTIP) giving it primary responsibilityin accomplishing the infrastructure works. The
     Requesters also state that AGETIP contractedin turnwith AFOPROCA to provide stone
     pavements for the Project. According to theRequesters several contractualprovisions,
     not included in the bidding process, were addedto the contract.The Requesters state that
     the contract between   AGETIPAFOPROCA
                                    and                          was improperly  terminated,
     AFOPROCA's assets were        seized,
                                        and        persecution took place against its legal
     representative,which resulted in his imprisonment. The Requestersadd that AFOPROCA
     has. denounced allegedembezzlementandmoneylaunderingoccurringthrough                        the
     Project.

     The Requestersbelieve thattheir rights andinterestshave been harmed becauseof
     violations of the followingBank's Policiesand Prccedures:
     -  OP/BP 13.05concerningproject supervision;
     -  OP/BP 11.OO concerningprocurement;
     - Violationsof Bank guidelines on procurement under IBRD loansandIDA credits;

    -  Violations of guidelines concerningthe selection andemploymentof consultants by
                ank Borrowers.

    The Requesters also assert that on'several occasions theyinformed and exchanged
    correspondence with the World Bank and the Government of Burundi without finding
    any attempt to remedy the situation. The Requesters hold the Bank responsible for the
    problems theybelieve emanate from the Project.They also consider that the Bank's
    actions and omissions, contraryto the Bank'sPolicies and Procedures,have harmed their
    rights and interests,and therefore request the Panel to recommend an investigationto the
    Board of ExecutiveDirectors.

    I have advised the Requesters that, in accordance with paragraph 14 (b) of the Panel's
    Resolution and its subsequent 1996 and 1999 Clarifications, the Request did not fulfill
    the eligibility criteria because it relatestoprocurement.       As stated in the 1996
    Clarifications "[n]o procurementactionissubjecttoinspectionbythePanel,whether
    takenbytheBank or by a borrower, A separatemechanism is availablefor addressing
    procurement-related complaints." ThePanel,       therefore, referred the Request to.the
    Departmentof Institutional Integrity andto the ProcurementPolicyand ServiceGroup for
    their consideration.

    Please note that the Request asks that the names of the signatories tothe Request be kept
    confidential.

    Enclosed is the Memorandumto the Executive Directorsand Alternates.



                                        Sincerely yours,




To: Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
    President
    InternationalBank for Reconstructionand Development
    Room MC12-750)

cc: Mr. ShengmanZhang
    Mr. CallistoMadavo

