Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3460 BU
Development Credit Agreement
(Public Works and Employment Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  February 14, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3460 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 14, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Parts A.1, A.2 and A.4 of the Project will be carried out by AGETIP 
BURUNDI with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make part of the proceeds of the credit provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Credit) available to AGETIP BURUNDI, as set forth in this Agreement; 
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement :
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association determines 
meets the requirements set forth in 
Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the Board 
of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.” ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of 
goods, if such payment or import, 
to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“AGETIP BURUNDI” means “Agence d’Exécution de Travaux d’Intérêt Public”, 
a non-profit entity created pursuant to its Articles of association adopted on 
November 4, 2000 and officially recognized as serving the public interest by 
“Ordonnance ministérielle” No. 530/907 dated November 16, 2000;
(b)
“AGETIP BURUNDI Convention” means the delegated contract management 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and AGETIP and including provisions 
concerning the transfer of part of the proceeds of the Credit to AGETIP for the 
carrying out of Parts A.1, A.2 and A.4 of the Project, as the same may be amended from 
time to time with the Association’s prior consent and to its satisfaction, such term 
to include any annexes and schedule thereto;
(c)
“AGETIP BURUNDI Grant” means the grant made available to AGETIP BURUNDI 
under the AGETIP BURUNDI Convention;
(d)
 “AGETIP BURUNDI Manual of Procedures” means the manual related to the 
implementation of Subprojects, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement containing, inter alia, the terms 
and conditions under which AGETIP BURUNDI will enter into agreements with a 
Beneficiary or a Contractor and describing the procurement as per Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, disbursement, administrative, financial and other arrangements for the 
implementation of Part A.1 of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to 
time in consultation with and to the satisfaction of the Association, and such term 
includes any annexes, schedules and tables supplemental thereto;
(e)
“AGETIP BURUNDI Work Program Agreement” means an agreement to be entered 
into between AGETIP BURUNDI and TS and describing the annual work programs for the 
Page  3
implementation of Part A.1 of the Project;
(f)
“Beneficiary” or “Beneficiaries” means municipalities, local authorities, 
communities or other community-based organizations as well as central government 
bodies, which have met the eligibility criteria for Subprojects as set out in the 
Project Implementation Manual (as hereinafter defined) and the requirements of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and which, as a result, have benefited from the 
implementation of a Subproject (as hereinafter defined);
(g)
“Beneficiary Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between 
AGETIP BURUNDI and a Beneficiary for the implementation of a Subproject under Part A.1 
of the Project;
(h)
“Contractor” means a civil work contractor, a NGO, a consulting firm or 
an individual consultant who will carry out civil works or related services under a 
Subproject, or part of a Subproject, under Part A.1 of the Project;
(i)
“Contractor Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between 
AGETIP BURUNDI and a Contractor for the execution of a Subproject, or part of a 
Subproject,  under Part A.1 of the Project;
(j)
“Franc Burundais” or “FBU” means the currency of the Borrower;
(k)
“grant” means the grant made available to a Beneficiary under a 
Beneficiary Agreement for a Subproject;
(l)
“HIV/AIDS means Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immunodeficiency 
Syndrome;
(m)
“MPWE” means the Borrower’s Ministry in charge of public works and 
equipment;
(n)
“NGO” means a non governmental organization operating under the laws of 
the Borrower;
(o)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
AGETIP BURUNDI of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement; 
(p)
“Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the manual referred to in 
Section 6.01 (b) and paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement containing, inter 
alia, disbursement and procurement arrangements, work plans, training plans, 
monitoring and performance indicators referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement and procedures to be used for the purposes of implementation of the Project, 
as they may be amended from time to time, in consultation with and to the satisfaction 
of the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the Project Implementation 
Manual. For the purpose of this Agreement, it is understood that the AGETIP BURUNDI 
Manual of Procedures shall be deemed to be a schedule to the Project Implementation 
Manual and an integral part thereof;
(q)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(r)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on June 8, 1999 and on behalf of the Borrower on June 24, 
1999;
(s)
“Project Year” means the twelve month period starting after the Effective 
Date, and each subsequent twelve month period during Project implementation;
(t)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(u)
“Subproject” means a specific project to be carried out by AGETIP BURUNDI 
and referred to in Part A.1 of the Project;
Page  4
(v)
 “TS” means a technical secretariat to be created within MPWE responsible 
for providing technical assistance, training  and advisory services to municipalities 
in Subproject identification, programming, operation and maintenance; and
(w)
“UNAIDS” means the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-one million three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 31,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or if the Association shall so 
agree to be paid) on account of withdrawals made to meet the reasonable costs of 
eligible expenditures relating to a Subproject, and in respect of which a withdrawal 
from the Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and cause to be 
opened,  and thereafter maintain  and cause to be maintained in Dollars two special 
deposit accounts (the “TS Special Account” in respect to Parts A.3, B, C and D of the 
Project and the “AGETIP BURUNDI Special Account” in respect of Parts A.1, A.2 and A.4 
of the Project in (a) commercial bank(s) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, each respective Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Page  5
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 15 and September 15 commencing March 15, 2011 and ending September 15, 
2040. Each installment to and including the installment payable on September 15, 2020 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i) 
shall carry out Parts A.3, B, C and D of the Project through TS 
with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with 
appropriate financial, administrative, engineering, environmental and health 
practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
Page  6
facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project; and
(ii) 
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement, shall 
cause AGETIP BURUNDI to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement 
all the obligations of AGETIP BURUNDI therein set forth, 
shall take and cause to be taken all action, 
including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to 
enable AGETIP BURUNDI to perform such obligations, and shall not 
take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)
the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Parts 
A.1, A.2 and A.4 of the Project available to AGETIP BURUNDI as a grant under the 
AGETIP BURUNDI Convention to be entered into between the Borrower and AGETIP BURUNDI; 
and 
(d)
the Borrower shall exercise its rights under the AGETIP BURUNDI 
Convention in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the AGETIP BURUNDI Convention or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts A, B, C and D of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation and sustainability of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the Project, an 
account (the Project Account) in Francs Burundais, in a commercial bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment;
(b)
promptly thereafter make an initial deposit in Francs Burundais of an 
amount equivalent to US$25,000 (Initial Deposit) into such account to finance the 
Borrower’s contribution to the Project for the first Project Year;
(c)
thereafter deposit into the Project Account on a semiannual basis during 
Project implementation such amounts as shall be required and agreed upon with the 
Association to timely replenish the Project Account back to the amount specified in 
the annual work program for the following Project Year agreed between TS and AGETIP 
Page  7
BURUNDI; and
(d)
use the funds in the Project Account exclusively to finance expenditures 
under the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A.1, A.2  
and A.4 of the Project shall be carried out by AGETIP BURUNDI pursuant to Section 2.03 
of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of 
each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report 
of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate 
accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Page  8
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 18 
months after the Effective Date or such later date as the Association shall agree, to 
prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of 
which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, 
and projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (B) shows 
separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month 
period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
AGETIP BURUNDI shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that AGETIP BURUNDI will be able to perform its obligations under 
the Project Agreement.
(c)
Ordonnance ministérielle No. 530/907, giving official recognition to 
AGETIP BURUNDI as serving the public interest, shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
AGETIP BURUNDI to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
AGETIP BURUNDI Convention shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of AGETIP 
BURUNDI to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
Page  9
following additional event is specified, namely that any event specified in paragraph 
(b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions :
(a)
the AGETIP BURUNDI Convention has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and AGETIP BURUNDI, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
the Borrower has adopted the PIM, including the AGETIP BURUNDI Manual of 
Procedures, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
the Borrower has established: (i) a financial management system for the 
Project in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) caused AGETIP 
to establish a financial management system for implementation of Parts A.1, A.2 and 
A.4 of the Project;
(d)
the Borrower has appointed the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) 
of this Agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association and in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(e)
the Project Account has been opened and the initial amount of US$25,000 
equivalent as requested in Section 3.04 of this Agreement has been deposited;
(f)
the Borrower has created TS and has appointed four TS key staff, namely a 
director, an engineer, an accountant or financial specialist and an environmentalist, 
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association and in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(g)
the AGETIP BURUNDI Work Program Agreement for the first Project Year 
agreed between AGETIP BURUNDI and TS has been executed on behalf of AGETIP BURUNDI and 
TS, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by AGETIP 
BURUNDI and is legally binding upon AGETIP BURUNDI in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
the AGETIP BURUNDI Convention has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and AGETIP BURUNDI and are legally binding upon the Borrower and AGETIP 
BURUNDI in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
Page  10
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministère des Finances
B.P. 1830
Bujumbura
Burundi
Telex:
Facsimile:
5135
(257) 223827
MINIFINBDI
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By /s/ Thomas Ndikumana
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Pamela Cox
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
Page  11
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
100% of foreign
expenditures and
(a) under Parts A.3, B,
   103,000
90% of local
C and D of the Project
expenditures
(b) under Parts A.2 and A.4 
   163,000
of the Project
(2)
Consultants’
100% 
services, training
and audits
(a) under Parts A.3, B,
 3,000,000
C and D of the Project
(b) under Parts A.2 and A.4 
 2,000,000
of the Project
(3)
Subprojects
20,000,000
100% of amounts
under Part A.1
disbursed
(4)
Operating Costs
90%
(a) under Parts A.3, B,
   800,000
C and D of the Project
(b) under Part A.2 and A.4
 1,500,000
of the Project
(5)
Refunding of
   800,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) 
of
Advance
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
 2,934,000
TOTAL
31,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “operating costs” means the incremental operating costs arising 
under the Project on account of local contractual staff salaries, travel and other 
allowances, maintenance of buildings, office equipment and vehicles, office rental, 
materials and supplies, utilities, communications’ expenses and vehicle insurance, but 
excluding salaries of members of the Borrower’s civil service;
3.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods, under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (ii) works, under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iii) services under contracts costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent each for consulting firms and less than $30,000 
Page  12
equivalent each for individual consultants; (iv) training; and (v) operating costs, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) generate productive employment to help 
reconstruction in the Borrower’s territory through labor-intensive public works; (ii) 
promote the execution of cost-effective and economically and socially useful public 
works projects, including through small and medium enterprises; and (iii) building 
institutional capacity at the municipal level to identify, prioritize, operate and 
maintain Subprojects.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Subprojects implementation and Capacity Building for Employment Creation
1.
Carrying out a five-year program of rehabilitation and construction of basic 
infrastructure and other municipal assets, especially in the areas of basic 
infrastructure and natural resource management, through the execution of Subprojects, 
including inter alia, roads, markets, drainage, health centers, anti-erosion 
structures, schools and water supply facilities).
2.
Strengthening the financial and operational capabilities of AGETIP BURUNDI 
through the execution of Subprojects, the acquisition of equipment and the provision 
of technical advisory services.
3.
Enabling TS to appraise and select Subprojects from Subproject applications 
submitted by the Beneficiaries and present the portfolio of selected Subprojects to 
AGETIP BURUNDI for implementation through the acquisition of equipment and the 
provision of technical advisory services and training. 
4.
Strengthening the capacity of small and medium enterprises of contractors and 
entrepreneurs, consultants and consulting firms, in order to enable them to improve 
the quality of their performance as  their financial management and business 
development skills through the provision of technical advisory services and training 
to be carried out by AGETIP BURUNDI.
Part B:  
Institutional Building
1.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of MPWE and TS to enable them to carry 
out project planning/programming, monitoring and evaluation as well as human resource 
development through the acquisition of equipment and the provision of technical 
advisory services and training.
2.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of Beneficiaries to identify and 
prepare Subproject proposals, increase community ownership and participation in 
Subproject maintenance and disseminate information by launching an information 
education and communication campaign through the acquisition of equipment and the 
provision of technical advisory services and training.
Part C:
Support for the Prevention of HIV/AIDS
1.
Carrying out an information, education and communication campaign targeted 
towards construction and seasonal workers, drivers, women organizations, refugees and 
prostitutes and other vulnerable groups through the provision of technical advisory 
Page  13
services, training and the acquisition of goods.
2.
Supporting programs already developed by NGOs as well as UNAIDS through the 
provision of technical advisory services, training and the acquisition of goods.
3.
Carrying out a study for the identification of a multisectoral program for 
HIV/AIDS in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part D:
Project Monitoring
Carrying out studies and surveys on Project monitoring through the provision of 
technical advisory services
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country”  shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, contracts for: (i) goods 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each; and (ii) works estimated to cost 
$200,000 equivalent or more each, shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost more than $25,000 equivalent each per contract and goods 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $12,480,000 equivalent and $220,000 equivalent respectively, may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Page  14
Goods estimated to cost $10,000 equivalent per contract or less, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $140,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $2,630,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more; (ii) the first 3 contracts for works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or less; (iii) the first 3 contracts for small works 
estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or less; (iv) each contract for goods estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (v) the first 3 contracts for goods 
estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
Page  15
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for architectural and engineering, 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for financial audits and other services, estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000, may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for technical design estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract up to an aggregate amount of $ 4.3 million may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for training, technical audits and small studies shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) the first 3 contracts estimated to cost $30,000 
equivalent each or less; (ii) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (iii) the first 3 contracts 
for audits costing less than the equivalent of $50,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more; and (ii) the first 3 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than 
$30,000 equivalent, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
Page  16
have been given.
(c)
All terms of reference for contracts regardless of cost will be subject 
to prior review.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1. Technical 
Secretariat
The Borrower shall establish and maintain, until the completion of the Project, 
the Technical Secretariat, with four key staff, namely a director, an engineer, an 
accountant or financial specialist and an environmentalist, all with terms of 
reference, qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association. The Technical 
Secretariat shall be responsible for: (i) the general oversight and coordination of 
Project implementation; (ii) appraising and approving Subprojects submitted by the 
Beneficiaries and presenting the portfolio of eligible Subprojects to AGETIP BURUNDI 
for implementation; and (iii) monitoring the Project. 
2.
Project Implementation Manual
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set out 
in the Project Implementation Manual, including the AGETIP BURUNDI Manual of 
Procedures, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or 
waive any provision thereof, if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the 
Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
3.
Performance Indicators and Program Reports
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, no later than January 31 and July 31 of each year, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, not later than 4 weeks after the submission 
of the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the said report, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Association’s views on the matter.
Page  17
4.
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement, no Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Credit unless TS shall have determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in 
accordance with the guidelines set forth in the PIM, that the Subproject satisfies the 
eligibility criteria specified in more detail in the PIM, which shall include the 
following:
(a) 
the Subproject shall be for basic social and economic infrastructure and 
services, inter alia, including roads, markets, drainage, health centers, anti-erosion 
structures, schools and water supply facilities;
(b) 
the Subproject shall be initiated by a Beneficiary;
(c) 
the Subproject shall be economically, financially and technically viable 
in accordance with the standards specified in the PIM;
(d) 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Beneficiary shall  
provide not less than 5% of the estimated costs of the Subproject in the form of cash, 
materials, labor or other services; and
(e) 
the Subproject shall be in compliance with the standards set forth in the 
applicable laws of the Borrower relating to health, safety and environmental 
protection.
5.
Terms and Conditions of Subproject Agreements
In financing Subprojects, AGETIP BURUNDI shall enter into a Beneficiary 
Agreement with a Beneficiary, and a Contract Agreement with a Contractor under terms 
and conditions which shall include the following:
(a) 
financing to be on a grant basis and, unless otherwise agreed with the 
Association, not to exceed the equivalent of $500,000 per Subproject;
(b) 
the obligation to carry out the Subproject in accordance with the PIM 
(including the AGETIP BURUNDI Manual of Procedures), with due diligence and efficiency 
and in accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental, engineering and 
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of 
the Subproject;
(c)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in the AGETIP BURUNDI Manual of Procedures; and (ii) such goods, works and 
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(d) 
the right of AGETIP BURUNDI and TS to inspect by themselves, or jointly 
with the Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, 
plants and constructions included in a Subproject and any relevant records and 
documents;
(e) 
the right of AGETIP BURUNDI and TS to obtain all information as AGETIP 
BURUNDI, TS or the Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, 
operation and financial conditions of the Subproject; 
(f)
the right of AGETIP BURUNDI to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Beneficiary to benefit from the Subproject upon the failure by the Beneficiary to 
perform any of its obligations under the Beneficiary Agreement; and
Page  18
(g)
the right of AGETIP BURUNDI to suspend or terminate the right of a 
Contractor to receive payments for a Subproject upon the failure by such Contractor to 
perform any of its obligations under the concerned Contractor Agreement.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means: (i) in respect of Parts A.1 A.2 and 
A.4 of the Project, Categories (1) (b); (2) (b); (3); and (4) (b) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  and (ii) in respect of Parts 
A.3, B, C and D of the Project,  Categories (1) (a); (2) (a) and (4) (a) set forth in 
said table;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A, B, C and D of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to 
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $250,000 
in respect of the TS Special Account for Parts A.3, B, C and D of the Project and an 
amount equivalent to $750,000 in respect of the AGETIP BURUNDI Special Account for 
Parts A.1, A.2 and A.4 thereof, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 
into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, 
however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $ 125,000 in respect of the TS Special 
Account for Parts A.3, B, C and D of the Project and an amount equivalent to $375,000 
in respect of the AGETIP BURUNDI Special Account for Part A.1, A.2 and A.4 thereof, 
until: (i) in respect of the TS Special Account for Parts A.3, B, C and D of the 
Project, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account  plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts A.3, B, C and D of the Project 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000; and (ii) in respect of 
the AGETIP BURUNDI Special Account for Parts A.1, A.2 and A.4 of the Project, the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts A.1, A.2 and A.4 of the Project shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests 
for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
Page  19
furnish to the Association the documents 
and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in 
respect 
of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each 
such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount 
as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the 
respective Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date 
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
Page  20
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
For the purpose of this Agreement, the Borrower agrees that Project performance will 
be measured by the Indicators below, unless otherwise agreed by the Association:
PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR PERFORMANCE INDICATORS, FORMAT WILL NOT FIT INTO DOCUMENT
