Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3460 BU
Project Agreement
(Public Works and Employment Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGETIP BURUNDI
Dated February 14, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3460 BU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 14, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and AGETIP BURUNDI (AGETIP BURUNDI).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Burundi (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
thirty-one million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 31,300,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
conditions that AGETIP BURUNDI agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a Convention to be entered into between the Borrower and AGETIP 
BURUNDI, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to AGETIP BURUNDI on the terms and conditions set 
Page  2
forth in the said Convention; and
WHEREAS AGETIP BURUNDI, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) AGETIP BURUNDI declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out Parts A.1, A.2 and A.4 of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering 
and environmental and community development practices, and shall provide, or cause to 
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and AGETIP BURUNDI shall otherwise agree, AGETIP BURUNDI 
shall carry out the Parts A.1, A.2 and A.4 of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to the Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts A.1, A.2 and A.4 of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to the Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) AGETIP BURUNDI shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and Parts A.1, A.2 and A.4 of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, AGETIP BURUNDI shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later 
than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Association and AGETIP BURUNDI, a plan for the sustainability of 
the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with AGETIP BURUNDI on the said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Without limitation to its obligations under Section 2.01 of 
this Agreement, AGETIP BURUNDI shall duly perform all its obligations under the AGETIP 
Page  3
BURUNDI Convention.  
(b)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AGETIP BURUNDI shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the AGETIP BURUNDI Convention or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) AGETIP BURUNDI shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement, under the AGETIP BURUNDI 
Convention, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
AGETIP BURUNDI shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by AGETIP BURUNDI of 
its obligations under this Agreement and  under the AGETIP BURUNDI Convention.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of AGETIP BURUNDI
Section 3.01. AGETIP BURUNDI shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. AGETIP BURUNDI shall at all times operate and maintain its 
offices, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, technical and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. AGETIP BURUNDI shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) AGETIP BURUNDI shall establish and thereafter maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and 
to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
AGETIP BURUNDI shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements 
of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited; 
and (B) an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by the said auditors,  
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such records, 
accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and concerning the said 
Page  4
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request; and
(iv)
without limitation to its obligations under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, AGETIP BURUNDI shall furnish to the Association, on a semiannual basis, the 
statements of expenditures and the audited financial statements for the AGETIP BURUNDI 
Special Account in respect of Parts A.1, A.2 and A.4 of the Project.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, AGETIP BURUNDI shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of the said Section 4.01 in order to enable AGETIP BURUNDI, not later 
than18 months after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Association shall 
agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, 
each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by the said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by the said report; 
and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit during the period covered by the said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month 
period following the period 
covered by the said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
the said report; and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by the said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, AGETIP BURUNDI shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable 
to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the 
end of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
AGETIP BURUNDI thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify AGETIP BURUNDI of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
Page  5
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For AGETIP BURUNDI:
The Director General
AGETIP BURUNDI
B.P. 420
Bujumbura
Burundi
Facsimile:   
(257) 24.34 23
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of AGETIP BURUNDI 
may be taken or executed by the Director General or such other person or persons as 
the Director General shall designate in writing, and AGETIP BURUNDI shall furnish to 
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Pamela Cox
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
Page  6
AGETIP BURUNDI 
By /s/ Thomas Ndikumana
Authorized Representative
Schedule 1
Implementation Program
1.
AGETIP BURUNDI shall carry out Parts A.1, A.2 and A.4 of the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of the PIM, including the AGETIP BURUNDI Manual of 
Procedures, and shall not amend or waive any provision thereof which, in the opinion 
of the Association, will materially or adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project.
2.
AGETIP BURUNDI shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association set forth in Schedule 6 to the Development Credit Agreement, the carrying 
out of Part A.1, A.2 and A.4 of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, no later than January 31 and July 31 of each year, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of Parts A.1, A.2 and A.4 of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
the said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of Parts A.1, A.2 and A.4 of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, not later than 4 weeks after the submission 
of the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of Parts A.1, A.2 and A.4 of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Association’s views on the matter.
