                                   Document of
                                The World Bank


                                                     Report No: ICR0000695


            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (IDA-34600 IDA-H1980)

                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 31.3 MILLION
                        (US$ 40.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    AND AN

                        ADDITIONAL FINANCING GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.1 MILLION
                        (US$ 30.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI

                                     FOR A

            PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT CREATION PROJECT




                                  June 26, 2008




AFTU2 (Water and Urban 2)
AFCC2 (Central Africa 2)
Africa Region

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2007

                           Currency Unit = Burundian Franc (FBU)
                                   FBU 1,000.00 = US$0.893
                                    US$1.00 = FBU 1,119.54

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1 ­ December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABUTIP Agence burundaise pour la réalisation des travaux d'intérêt public (Burundi Agency for the
       Execution of Public Works)
ADB    African Development Bank
AGETIP Agence d'exécution des travaux d'intérêt public (Agency for the Execution of Public Works)
DCA    Development Credit Agreement
EA     Environmental Assessment
ESMF   Environmental and Social Management Framework
EMP    Environmental Management Plan
EIRR   Economic Internal Rate of Return
EU     European Union
FBU    Franc burundais (Burundian Franc)
ICR    Implementation Completion and Results Report
INT    Department of Institutional Integrity
ISC    Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee
ISN    Interim Strategy Note
ISR    Information of Status and Results Reports
LMC    Local Maintenance Committee
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
MAP    Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project
MPWE   Ministry of Public Works and Equipment
O&M    Operations and Maintenance
PWECP  Public Works and Employment Creation Project
PDO    Project Development Objectives
PPF    Project Preparation Facility
QEA    Quality at Entry Assessment
SDR    Special Drawing Rights
SME    Small and Medium-sized Enterprise
TS     Technical Secretariat
TTL    Task Team Leader




                         Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
                      Country Director: John Murray McIntire
                       Sector Manager: Eustache Ouayoro
                 Project Team Leader: Déo-Marcel Niyungeko
                     ICR Team Leader: Déo-Marcel Niyungeko

                                 REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI

                 Public Works and Employment Creation Project



                                              CONTENTS




Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information                                                                                                       i
 B. Key Dates                                                                                                               i
 C. Ratings Summary                                                                                                        i
 D. Sector and Theme Codes                                                                                                 ii
 E. Bank Staff                                                                                                             ii
 F. Results Framework Analysis                                                                                            iii
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs                                                                                iv
 H. Restructuring                                                                                                          v
 I. Disbursement Graph                                                                                                     v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...............................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes...............................................5
3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................9
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.........................................................12
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance......................................................13
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................15
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners...........15
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ..........................................................................17
Annex 2. Outputs by Component..................................................................................18
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .................................................................20
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............23
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ...........................................................................25
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results...................................................27
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .....................28
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................37
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents.......................................................................38
Annex 10. Evaluation Grid for Sub-Project Evaluation (Supplemental Annex) ..........39
Annex 11. Situation of basic infrastructure at Appraisal (Supplemental Annex).........40
MAPS

A. Basic Information

                                                                    PUBLIC WORKS AND
Country:               Burundi                Project Name:         EMPLOYMENT
                                                                    CREATION PROJECT
Project ID:            P064961, P095028       L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-34600, IDA-H1980
ICR Date:              06/19/2008             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                    BURUNDI
Original Total                                Disbursed Amount: XDR 51.1M
                       XDR 31.3M
Commitment:
Additional Financing: XDR 21.1M
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Public Works and Equipment
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: Not applicable


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        05/13/1999    Effectiveness:       06/29/2001          06/29/2001
Appraisal:             10/02/2000    Restructuring(s):    Not applicable    Not applicable
Approval:              01/23/2001    Mid-term Review:     12/01/2003          10/08/2003
                                     Closing:             12/31/2006          12/31/2007
Appraisal, AF          10/06/2005    Effectiveness, AF:   02/28/2006          05/12/2006
Approval, AF           01/05/2006    Closing, AF:         12/31/2007          12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings               Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Satisfactory



                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
      Implementation                                QAG Assessments
        Performance               Indicators               (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project at                     Quality at Entry (QEA),
                               No                                            Not applicable
any time (Yes/No):                               Original Project:
Problem Project at any time                      QEA, Additional             Moderately
                               No
(Yes/No):                                        Financing:                  Satisfactory
                                                 Quality of Supervision
DO rating before
                               Satisfactory      (Original Project and       Not applicable
Closing/Inactive status:
                                                 Additional Financing):


D. Sector and Theme Codes
Sector Code (as % of Total Bank Financing)                      Original            Actual
General education sector                                           21                   0
Health                                                             25                   0
Roads and highways                                                 21                 22
Sub-national government administration                             12                 12
Water supply                                                       21                   0
General industry and trade                                          0                 28
General water, sanitation and flood protection                      0                 25
Other social services                                               0                 13

Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)                                  Original            Actual
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction            Secondary           Primary
HIV/AIDS                                                         Primary           Secondary
Municipal governance and institution building                    Primary            Primary
Other urban development                                          Primary            Primary
Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring                        Primary         Not applicable
Small and medium enterprise support                           Not applicable        Primary


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli K. Ezekwesili              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          John McIntire                       Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:            Eustache Ouayoro                    Letitia A. Obeng
Project Team Leader:       Déo-Marcel Niyungeko                Eustache Ouayoro
ICR Team Leader:           Déo-Marcel Niyungeko
                           Christian Eghoff and Déo-Marcel
ICR Primary Author:
                           Niyungeko



                                                ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Development Credit Agreement)
The objectives of the project were to: (i) generate productive employment to help
reconstruction in the Borrower's territory through labor-intensive public works; (ii)
promote the execution of cost-effective and economically and socially useful public
works projects, including through small and medium enterprises; and (iii) build
institutional capacity at the municipal level to identify, prioritize, operate, and maintain
sub-projects.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised. However, indicators related to employment generation and
training of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) were adjusted to reflect the
scaling up of Component 1 (see Indicators 1 and 2 below).

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target        Formally    Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value           Values (from         Revised      Achieved at
                                                  approval           Target     Completion or
                                                documents)           Values     Target Years
Indicator 1
(Objective (i), Person-days of employment created.
Comp. 1):
                 There is no baseline.
Value            Performance is measured 750,000                   2,750,000  6,082,722

                 against project progress.                                    (2005: 3,421,206)

Date achieved 10/02/2001                    12/31/2006             12/31/2007 12/31/2007
                 221 percent achievement overall. 456 percent achievement for the original
                 project and 133 percent achievement for the additional. The original project
Comments         generated 3,421,206 person-days of employment, largely surpassing the target of
(incl. %         750,000 person-days. The more ambitious target for the additional financing was
achievement)     2,000,000 person-days, exceeded by 661,516 person-days for a total of 2,661,516
                 person-days for the additional financing and 6,082,722 person-days total for the
                 entire project.
Indicator 2
(Objective (ii), Capacity building of local SMEs (person-days of training).
Comp. 1):
                 There is no baseline.
Value            Performance is measured 2,000                     5,000      5,582

                 against project progress.                                    (2005: 4,300)

Date achieved 10/02/2001                    12/31/2006             12/31/2007 12/31/2007
                 111 percent achievement overall. 215 percent achievement for the original

Comments         project and 183 percent achievement for the additional. The original project

(incl. %         provided 4,300 person-days of training, largely surpassing the target of 2,000

achievement)     person-days. The target for the additional financing was 700 person-days,
                 exceeded by 582 person-days for a total of 1,282 person-days for the additional
                 financing and 5,582 person-days total for the entire project.


                                                iii

Indicator 3
(Objectives
(ii) and (iii), Percentage of rehabilitated or constructed infrastructure found to be operational

Comp. 1 and     and properly maintained after completion.

2):
                There is no baseline.
Value           Performance is measured 75%                           NA      95%
                against project progress.
Date achieved 10/02/2001                    12/31/2006                NA      12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        All infrastructures are operational and maintained except for five sub-projects

achievement)    that were not finalized at project closure and one market damaged by a landslide.

Indicator 4
(Objective      Percentage increase in municipal budgets (all municipalities) for infrastructure

(iii), Comp. 2):maintenance.

Value           0%                          20%                               80%
                (FBU 473,261,231)           (FBU 567,913,477)         NA      (FBU 51,450,141)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                    12/31/2006                NA      12/31/2007

Comments        The local governments made substantial efforts to increase revenues and largely

(incl. %        surpassed the target. Figures are only reliable from 2004 (baseline year), but the

achievement)    percentage increase in revenues would likely have been larger compared to 2001
                if figures had been available for this year.
Indicator 5
(Objective      Staff and officials of municipalities trained by the Technical Secretariat on sub-

(iii), Comp. 2):project identification, execution, operation, and maintenance

                There is no baseline.                                         Staff and officials
Value           Performance is measured     Staff and officials in    NA      in 129
                against project progress.   80 municipalities.                municipalities.
Date achieved 10/02/2001                    12/31/2006                NA      12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        161 percent achievement. Staff of all 129 municipalities of Burundi received

achievement)    training.

Indicator 6
(Comp. 3):      HIV/AIDS awareness campaigns implemented.

                                            At least 65 percent of
                There is no baseline.       sub-project sites by              At least 66 percent
Value           Performance is measured 2003. At least 85             NA      of project sites by
                against project progress. percent of sub-                     2007.
                                            project sites by 2006.
Date achieved 10/02/2001                    12/31/2006                NA      12/31/2007
                66 percent of project sites by 2007, based on the sites targeted by activities
Comments        implemented by the PWECP. The remaining sites benefited from the Multi-
(incl. %        sectoral HIV/AIDS project (MAP), which took over implementation of
achievement)    HIV/AIDS activities in 2004 on behalf of the PWECP, but without systematic
                reporting.




                                                iv

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s) for Component 1 implementing agency (AGETIP
Burundi/ABUTIP)

                                            Original Target       Formally     Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value            Values (from         Revised      Achieved at
                                                 approval          Target      Completion or
                                              documents)           Values      Target Years

Indicator 1:   Operating costs of implementing agency not exceeding 8 percent of the amount
               of executed works.
               There is no baseline as

Value          the agency was
               established with the        8%                        NA      5.9%

               project.
Date achieved 10/02/2001                   12/31/2006                NA      12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       The result for the entire project is 26 percent below the maximum.
achievement)
Indicator 2:   The time period between receipt and payment of an invoice by the agency.
Value          NA                          Maximum 15 days           NA      4 days
Date achieved 10/02/2001                   12/31/2006                NA      12/31/2007
Comments       The result for the entire project is 73 percent below the maximum. The 4 day
(incl. %       time period for the implementing agency compares to an average turnaround
achievement)   time of around 90 days for the central Government in 2005.
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                          IP              Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     06/08/2001          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                  0.00
  2     10/02/2001          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                  1.30
  3     03/25/2002          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                  2.41
  4     04/26/2002          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                  2.54
  5     04/30/2002          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                  2.54
  6     09/30/2002          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                  4.78
  7     10/01/2002          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                  4.78
  8     12/11/2002          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                  6.73
  9     01/22/2003          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                  7.53
  10    08/12/2003          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                 13.08
  11    11/26/2003          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                 15.47
  12    05/25/2004          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                 21.29
  13    11/24/2004          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                 26.53
  14    04/15/2005          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                 32.98
  15    11/23/2005          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                 40.45
  16    05/30/2006          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                 43.35
  17    11/09/2006          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                 51.08
  18    02/28/2007          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                 55.99
  19    10/13/2007          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                 68.03



                                                 v

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

I. Disbursement Profile




                             vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At appraisal, the Republic of Burundi was slowly emerging from a civil war that had erupted
in 1993 and claimed the lives of an estimated 300,000 people while displacing about 15
percent of the population. The population was nearly 7 million people, with an urbanization
rate of about 10.6 percent. A landlocked country, Burundi is one of the smallest in Sub-
Saharan Africa, with a total land area of only 27,834 square kilometers. The country had the
second highest population density in the region at almost 250 persons per square kilometer,
creating strong competition for natural resources and land.

The combined effects of the civil war and a regional economic embargo from 1996 to 1999
resulted in economic and social decline. GDP dropped from US$180 per capita in 1993 to
US$110 in 1999. The relative poverty rate nearly doubled from 35 percent in 1992 to 66
percent in 1998. Infant mortality rates were as high as 114 per 1,000 (2000) and gross
primary school enrollment had fallen from 70 percent in 1993 to 44 percent in 2000. Overall
social indicators were among the worst in Africa at the time.

The war and the economic decline took a heavy toll on the country's infrastructure, which
was either destroyed or seriously deteriorated due to poor maintenance and lack of
investment. Water and electricity facilities were among the most affected as they were
targeted by acts of sabotage. Many rural dwellers had sought refuge in semi-urban areas and
particularly the Bujumbura periphery, contributing to a drop in the rate of urban water
supply coverage from over 70 percent in 1993 to an estimated 57 percent at appraisal. Less
than two percent of the country's households had electricity in their homes. The Bujumbura
sewerage and wastewater treatment network covered only 38 percent of the population.
Population health surveys showed that 84 percent of mortality and morbidity in children
under five resulted from poor conditions of water supply, hygiene and sanitation, leading to
water-borne diseases such as bacillary dysentery, amoebiasis, diarrhea and cholera.

The capacity of the Government to manage public resources was largely eroded. Institutions
had weakened and the legislation governing public finances and budget management in
Burundi, which had been in effect since 1969, was obsolete. Much of the public sector's
human resource base had been eliminated. In addition, the poor security situation and the
lack of oversight and the absence of democratic institutions had eroded government
accountability and transparency.

In 2000, the international community sponsored a framework for national reconciliation and
lasting peace among Burundians. In August 2000, a comprehensive peace agreement was
concluded between seventeen political organizations in Arusha, Tanzania. Several rebel
groups did not participate in these talks. At a donor conference held in Paris in December
2000, the Government of Burundi presented a transitional strategy for the period 2001-2003
to the international community to address the immense challenges faced by the county. This
included economic stabilization and prevention of further-deepening poverty as the peace
process evolved. The international community responded by pledging US$440 million in
emergency humanitarian, reconstruction, and long-term development assistance to Burundi.




                                            1

World Bank Response
As the conflict and regional embargo rendered the 1995 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
obsolete, the Bank prepared an Interim Strategy in 1999 to guide actions over a two-year
period and provide an integrated framework for the Bank and other donors to address
poverty and its underlying factors, including the triggers of repeated conflicts in Burundi.
The Interim Strategy rested upon three pillars: (i) promoting governance and ownership
through participation in rehabilitation and reconciliation; (ii) creating productive
employment and rural purchasing power; and (iii) restoring key imports to support private
sector activity and minimum levels of essential social services. The donor community
aligned its assistance with this strategy.

The 1999 Interim Strategy, specifically its second pillar, provided the basis for the Public
Works and Employment Creation Project (PWECP), which was one of three immediate
operations under this Strategy. The two others were the Social Action Project II, supporting
a participatory approach to the rehabilitation and provision of social and economic
infrastructure in rural areas, and an Emergency Economic Recovery Credit.

The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) in the amount of SDR 31.3 million (US$40.0
million equivalent) was approved on January 23, 2001 and became effective on June 29,
2001. The original closing date was December 31, 2006.

Context at appraisal of Additional Financing
By January 2005, disbursement projections indicated that the credit would be fully disbursed
by December 31, 2005, one year ahead of the original closing date. Therefore, the
Government requested additional financing to scale up the project, as strong local
government demand for infrastructure sub-projects largely exceeded the original funding
envelope. Local governments and communities had already mobilized about FBU 602
million (US$0.6 million equivalent) in local contributions to support their requests for
additional sub-projects.

Emerging from twelve years of civil conflict, Burundi's security conditions were
increasingly conducive to resuming economic activity at the local level and throughout the
country. Fair and transparent municipal and legislative elections were held during 2005. It
was evident that not implementing the additional PWECP sub-projects would have
undermined the prevailing momentum and possibly promoted distrust between the
population and the new Government, an unwelcome development at a time when the
country was attempting to consolidate its national unity towards a lasting peace. A window
of opportunity was open and experience in other countries suggests that rapid provision of
exceptional levels of support was needed to take advantage of such opportunities. At the
same time, a new Bank Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for Burundi covering FY06-07,
approved by the Board on May 3, 2005 included an Additional Financing for the on-going
PWECP. One of the objectives of the ISN was to ensure that communities and populations
have access to basic social services and income-generating activities with the expectation
that they would be, in turn, supportive of the peace process and the economic reform agenda.
Therefore, the Additional Financing of the above Public Works and Employment Creation
Project was prepared and approved by the Bank on January 5, 2006 for a total amount of
SDR 21.1 (US$30.6 million equivalent) and became effective on May 12, 2006 bringing the
total project amount to SDR 52.4 million (US$70.6 million equivalent).


                                             2

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
As stated in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA)1, the objectives of the PWECP were
to: (i) generate productive employment to help reconstruction in the Borrower's territory
through labor-intensive public works; (ii) promote the execution of cost-effective and
economically and socially useful public works projects, including through small and
medium enterprises (SMEs); and (iii) build institutional capacity at the municipal level to
identify, prioritize, operate, and maintain sub-projects. The key indicators focused on the
generation of employment, capacity building, the performance of the public works
implementation agency, operation and maintenance of infrastructure, and the fight against
HIV/AIDS (see Data Sheet for details).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators

The PDO did not change during implementation, as the project remained consistent with the
country conditions. However, indicators related to employment generation and training of
SMEs were adjusted to reflect the scaling up of Component 1 (see Data Sheet for details).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

Local populations. The rehabilitation and construction of economic and social infrastructure
were intended to improve the living conditions of the populations residing in the beneficiary
urban centers. Unskilled workers, including youth, women, returning refugees, displaced
and landless people and ex-combatants, were to benefit from short-term employment
through the use of labor-intensive construction methods. Creating employment and thereby
boosting local purchasing power was to provide a broad segment of the population with an
economic stake in the reconciliation process and reduce the likelihood of triggering further
conflicts.

Local governments. The project was to improve the capacity of local governments to
mobilize local resources, to identify, prioritize, and undertake sustainable investments
relevant to the needs of their populations, and to maintain these assets through the
development of a systematic approach to financing, operating, and maintenance
arrangements. This was to further strengthen the nascent decentralization process.

Small- and medium-sized enterprises. The project was to help strengthen the capacity of
local consultants and contractors active in the public works and construction sector through
training and the execution of sub-projects using labor-intensive construction methods.

Sector ministries. The ministries in charge of public works and equipment, energy and mines,
environment, and land management were to benefit from capacity building programs aimed



1The statement of the Project Development Objectives (PDO) on page 3 of the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) contains the same three basic elements as the Development Credit Agreement (DCA): employment
generation, implementation of economically and socially useful public works projects, and institutional
capacity building. This differs somewhat from Annex 1 of the PAD, which specifies demobilized combatants
and returning refugees as the main beneficiaries of employment generation. The PDO version in the DCA is a
better representation of the actual objectives, since the project sought to generate equal employment
opportunities for all, irrespective of their role in the civil war, and thus not introduce potential sources of
conflict. The PDO from the DCA (the one used for the purposes of this ICR) was reproduced in the Project
Paper and Financing Agreement for the Additional Financing Grant.

                                                      3

at improving their ability to carry out social and environmental impact assessments as well
as monitoring and evaluating mitigation action plans and resettlement plans.

1.5 Original Components

Component 1: Sub-project Implementation and Capacity Building for Employment Creation
(Appraisal: US$33.26 million. Approved Additional Financing: US$30.60 million. Actual:
US$67.19 million)

Based on requests from local governments (in consultation with their constituents), this
component was to finance sub-projects to rehabilitate or construct basic local level
infrastructure. In addition, the component was to strengthen the financial and operational
capacity of a newly created delegated contract management agency, the Agency for the
Execution of Public Works (Agence burundaise d'exécution des travaux d'intéret public ­
AGETIP Burundi, which later became ABUTIP), which would assume responsibility for
procurement and implementation of Component 1. This component also included training
programs for SMEs in business management and relevant technical skills.

Component 2: Institution Building
(Appraisal: US$4.54 million. Actual: US$6.06 million)

Under this component, a Technical Secretariat was to provide advisory services, technical
assistance and training to local governments in programming, implementing, financing,
operating, and maintaining local level infrastructure, including sub-projects financed under
Component 1. It was also to support capacity building activities for Government agencies
and local governments in the area of resource management, budgeting and accounting, and
social and environmental assessment.

Component 3: Support for the Prevention of HIV/AIDS
(Appraisal: US$1.00 million. Actual: US$0.43 million)

This component aimed at preventing the spread of HIV/AIDS through a community
information and education program in areas where sub-projects were implemented.

Component 4: Project Monitoring
(Appraisal: US$1.75 million. Actual: US$37,665)

This component provided funds for limited studies and surveys.

1.6 Revised Components

Component 1 was scaled up to finance additional sub-projects in relation to an Additional
Financing Grant of US$30.6 million and the performance indicators were adjusted to reflect
the expected increased impact (see Data Sheet for details).

1.7 Other significant changes

The project implementation period was extended by one year, from December 31, 2006 to
December 31, 2007 to provide adequate time to implement the Additional Financing Grant.




                                            4

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Quality at Entry Rating: Satisfactory

The quality at entry is rated satisfactory based on: (i) the relevance of the project
development objectives at appraisal of the original and additional financing; (ii) the
soundness of the background analysis contained in the 1999 Interim Strategy and 2005
Interim Strategy Note, (iii) the incorporation of lessons learned from public works and
employment creation agencies active in Sub-Saharan Africa into the project design; (iv) the
Government's commitment to the original project and its expansion; and (iv) the proper
identification of project risks and the comprehensiveness of the risk mitigating measures.
The project was designed to overcome the weak institutional capacity in Burundi, the
perceived high risk business environment associated with the post-conflict situation of the
country and the limited local private sector capacity.

Key features of the project design consisted of: (i) separating responsibilities for sub-project
selection from sub-project implementation to ensure transparency and avoid conflict of
interest; (ii) using demand, including beneficiary contribution, for selecting sub-projects and
sustainability; (iii) advocating the use of local materials in construction and labor-intensive
methods to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and employment
generation, and (iv) inclusion of an environmental impact analysis into the sub-project
approval process and close monitoring of implementation of its mitigation plan by the
Technical Secretariat (TS). The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) assessed the quality at
entry (QEA) of the additional financing in August 27, 2008 as moderately satisfactory (See
paragraph 2.3, 2.4 and 5.1a for details).

The strong client ownership of the project was demonstrated by the creation of a Technical
Secretariat (TS) in the Ministry of Public Works and Equipment (MPWE) to assure global
project oversight and assist local governments in submitting proposals while ensuring that
sub-projects were demand-driven, identified, and partly financed by the beneficiary
communities. Selection of sub-projects was based on a screening process using a series of
filters including the level of community contribution, economic, social, and environmental
criteria (Annex 10). A final arbitration of eligible sub-projects was undertaken by an Inter-
Ministerial Steering Committee (ISC) to assure equitable distribution of works and avoid
concentration of sub-projects in the capital city and a few major urban centers.

AGETIP Burundi (later ABUTIP) was created to implement the sub-projects submitted by
the TS. Rapid and transparent processing of procurement activities and quick payment of
SME invoices were considered critical to show results and support the strengthening of the
local construction and civil engineering industries. Furthermore, the Government also
showed its commitment to the project by identifying, prior to appraisal, sub-projects for the
first year of implementation. This helped to get the project rolling and build confidence in
the local governments that the project would deliver and that they could participate and pay
counterpart funds for subsequent sub-projects. In a fully transparent process, the
Government recruited AGETIP Burundi's Director General to participate in the appraisal of
the project.




                                              5

2.2 Implementation

Project implementation has consistently been rated satisfactory in ISRs and this is
corroborated by the following factors:

    · The use of an experienced team for project supervision with most of the supervision
        done from the field;
    · Government commitment to showing results and a good communication strategy
        with beneficiaries;
    · Transparency of sub-project implementation, following on a participatory and
        transparent sub-project selection process;
    · Importance of competitive selection of all project staff with incentives and clear
        accountability;
    · Tailored capacity building program and rapid payment of invoice arrangements to
        SMEs, and the systematic application of penalties for default on contractual clauses
    · Regular technical and financial audits.

Slight delays in sub-project implementation were experienced early on due to late payments
of beneficiary contributions. This issue was addressed during the Mid-Term Review when,
based on the findings of the periodic beneficiary assessment reports, the counterpart
contribution for social infrastructure was lowered from 5 percent to 2 percent and in-kind
payment of contributions was allowed. The first solution proved to be very effective; the
second option delayed the completion of some of the sub-projects, and the quality of
materials provided by the communities did not always meet the required standards.

Despite a challenging institutional and governance environment for the project, the
Government and the Bank were able to ensure that the project did not suffer from
governance issues, particularly related to the management of AGETIP Burundi. The regular
supervision missions identified issues with poor management and internal organization of
the original AGETIP Burundi as well as with its governing structure, due to the fact that the
Board lacked involvement of key stakeholders. The Government promptly acted upon the
highlighted issues by dismissing the managing director while the Board of AGETIP was
dissolved and the organization dismantled, 13 months after project effectiveness. A new
agency, ABUTIP, was established to take over from the previous agency. During the
transition, the TS and the Government ensured a smooth continuation of the project by
maintaining key personnel in place in a temporary implementation arrangement. ABUTIP
implemented the project in a satisfactory manner despite the dismissal of the new managing
director two and one- half years later for conflict of interest related to two contracts, as
substantiated by the Department of Institutional Integrity (INT) in collaboration with the
client (Refer to Fiduciary Compliance, Section 2.4, for details). Due to a strong commitment
and pro-active intervention by the client and close follow-up by the Bank, the Project
implementation performance did not suffer from these issues.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The M&E framework design was simple, taking into account the weak institutional capacity
of the client, and flexible enough to accommodate the project's demand-driven approach.
The key indicators focused on the generation of employment, capacity building, the


                                             6

performance of the public works implementing agency, operation and maintenance of
infrastructure, and the fight against HIV/AIDS (see Data Sheet for details). Monitoring of
employment generation was based on direct reporting by works supervisors and has
provided useful information on which types of works and technology are most efficient at
generating employment for unskilled labor, including for women. The indicator on the
infrastructure maintenance program was monitored on an annual basis by external
consultants hired to assist municipalities with budget programming and assessed the actual
execution of the budget and the quality of works. For the HIV/AIDS activities, awareness-
raising activities were monitored through reporting by international and local NGOs hired
by the TS.

The operating cost of the implementing agency (ABUTIP) against the total investment for
infrastructure was monitored and reported quarterly. In addition, the timeframe for payment
of invoices by the public works implementing agency helped to monitor ABUTIP support to
the emerging SME sector by assuring regular and timely flow of funds.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards compliance
The project was rated Category B as no adverse long term impacts were anticipated.
According to the original Project Environmental and Social Data Sheet, OP 4.01
Environmental Assessment was triggered by the project and the OP 4.12 on Involuntary
Resettlement was applied. An Environmental Assessment (EA) was conducted prior to
appraisal to develop an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF)
comprised of the following tools: (i) mitigation plans for environmental and social impacts,
including a resettlement and compensation framework to be used in screening all sub-
projects; (ii) monitoring plans and inventory of existing quarries and environmental
guidelines for construction activities; and (iii) capacity building plans to addresses the needs
of the Ministry of Environment, SMEs and civil society. These tools were systematically
used to screen sub-projects for the original credit and the additional financing.

Supervision of the environmental and social compliance of sub-projects was carried out by
the TS environmental specialist in collaboration with the environment focal point in the line
ministry. Environmental and social screening checklists have been adequately applied in
sub-project processing, and in all cases each sub-project has a site specific Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) that is reviewed by the Bank safeguard specialists. The Technical
Secretariat has delivered 1,320 person-days of training on social and environmental issues to
the Ministry of Environment staff and to the staff of the consulting and construction
industries.

The Quality at Entry Assessment (QAE) rated the additional financing moderately
satisfactory, noting that the project documentation lacked detailed description and analysis
of outstanding issues relating to resettlement and therefore the Involuntary Resettlement
Safeguard should have been triggered. Furthermore, the QAE also noted that the project
impact on specific groups, such women heads of households, ex-combatants, returnees and
refugees, could have been better monitored. Although the project proved to be an
opportunity for such groups, the approach of the project was to provide equal opportunities
to ex-combatants, returnees and local poor communities and not to single out specific
groups. In addition, while OP4.12 related to resettlement should have been triggered, a

                                              7

Resettlement Plan Framework (RPF) and an ESMF were available as part of the preparation
of the original project and both instruments were still valid and applicable to the Additional
Financing. . In addition, sub-projects were selected on the basis of eleven eligibility criteria
including safeguards, and all the sub-projects were implemented in full compliance with the
safeguards guidelines.

Fiduciary compliance
Compliance with fiduciary requirements received close supervision in light of the country
context. A financial and procurement capacity assessment was carried out at appraisal and
an action plan developed to build capacity in the two implementing bodies. Regular
supervision missions with participation of Bank financial management and procurement
specialists were key to ensuring compliance and strengthening institutional capacity. Three
technical audits and six financial audits were conducted and their recommendations were
duly implemented. In addition, when the Bank received a complaint from a witness who
alleged that the first General Director of ABUTIP was involved in a conflict of interest in
awarding contracts, it referred the allegations to the Department of Institutional Integrity.
The INT promptly investigated and substantiated the allegations of conflict of interest on
two consultancy contracts totaling US$20,875. The Bank informed the Government of
Burundi of deviations in project procurement procedures. The Government of Burundi
immediately undertook its own investigation and confirmed the conflict of interest. The
Director General of ABUTIP was removed from his position and misprocurement for the
two contracts was declared.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The project has taken steps to ensure sustainability of the project's achievements in the areas
of both infrastructure operation and maintenance (O&M). Throughout the country, 3,164
Local Maintenance Committees (LMCs) comprised of neighborhood residents have been
established and trained to ensure proper maintenance of local infrastructure. The post-
project operation of the commercial facilities constructed under the project is adequately
addressed.    Most of completed neighborhood markets are managed by local private
operators under contracts signed with the municipalities. For the social infrastructure, local
user associations have been trained to assure proper O&M of infrastructure. At the
institutional level, the project has provided training and technical assistance to local
governments on budgeting and resource mobilization, thus increasing the funds earmarked
to maintain infrastructure, but this will need to be reinforced over time. The capacities
created under the project will continue to be available to the municipalities. The same
implementing bodies (ABUTIP and TS) are used to implement a US$14 million multi-sector
reinsertion project financed by the African development Bank (ADB) and an IDA-funded
education project.

A follow-up operation has been strongly requested by the Government to cope with high
demand from communities and to buttress the emergent decentralization process.
Municipalities and communities have already mobilized about FBU 822 million (US$0.8
million equivalent) in local contributions to support their additional requests for sub-projects.
In addition, the two growing cities of Bujumbura and Gitega urgently need adequate
management tools to: (a) improve the programming, financing, and implementation



                                             8

mechanisms of service delivery; (b) improve local resource mobilization; and (c) rationalize
municipal management and infrastructure maintenance.

The new Country Assistance Strategy for Burundi for 2009-2012 is scheduled for Board
presentation around July 2008 and has earmarked resources for a follow-up operation to the
PWECP and to strengthen the decentralization process as a result of the impacts achieved by
the project. Stakeholders consulted during the preparation of the CAS have indicated that an
appropriate communication strategy will be needed to address the strong demand from
communities and to clarify the eligibility criteria in order to ensure a more equitable
geographic distribution of the sub-projects.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objectives accurately reflected the development priorities of Burundi at appraisal
of the original credit and at the time of project closure and remain consistent with the Bank
Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for Burundi (FY06-07), approved by the Board on May 3, 2005.
One of the objectives of the 2005 ISN was to ensure that communities and populations have
access to basic social services and income-generating activities. The objectives of the
project are also aligned with the second pillar of the 2006 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
which addresses increasing access to basic services, promoting the private sector, and
generating jobs for the poorest segment of the population.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

All the PDO indicators were achieved and in some cases surpassed. The primary indicator of
creating employment was surpassed. Sub-projects succeeded in improving social services
and reviving economic activities, and reached more than a quarter of the total population of
the country.

Objective 1: Generate productive employment to help reconstruction in the
Borrower's territory through labor-intensive public works. The project generated
6,082,722 person-days of employment compared to the combined target of 2,750,000 days
for the original project and additional financing. Of this employment, 17 percent was
generated for women. In addition, more than US$9.3 million was paid in salaries to
unskilled workers, of a total project cost of US$70.6 million

Objective 2: Promote the execution of cost-effective and economically and socially
useful public works projects, including through small and medium enterprises. A total
of 191 civil works contracts were signed with 52 local contractors for US$62 million, and
169 contracts were signed with 48 local consulting firms for US$4.3 million. These included
the rehabilitation or the construction of: (i) 55 km of cobblestone roads, compared to 350 m
with cobblestone before the project; (ii) 28 markets; (iii) 6 health centers; (iv) 230
classrooms; (v) 335 km of potable water system; (vi) 80 km of sewerage system providing
wastewater evacuation system to 18,000 population equivalent; (vii) one stadium with a
multipurpose hall for 300 visitors; (viii) two butcheries; (ix) 12.9 km of riverbank
consolidation works carried out to protect residential plots, schools, hospitals, roads and two
national bridges. Access to infrastructure has increased and the following results have been
achieved:


                                              9

  · There has been a 2 percent increase in the level of access to water services with the
      construction of a 335 km water supply network providing water to 120,000 people;
  · Now 25 percent of the urban roads (55 km) are paved with cobblestone
  · With the construction of 80 km of sewerage lines, the network has increased in
      length to 260 km, bringing access to sewerage system services in Bujumbura city
      from 38 to 42 percent of the population;
  · Classroom occupancy has been reduced from 65 pupils to 50 with the 230
      classrooms built and rehabilitated under the project, as compared to 100 pupils per
      class in the majority of the schools in the country;
  · Distances to health centers have been reduced from 12 km to 7 km with the
      construction of 6 health centers;
  · Three percent of the urban population has been protected against erosion as a result
      of the construction of 12.9 km of gullies and riverbanks; and
  · In terms of economic revitalization of the country, the 28 neighborhood markets
      constructed or rehabilitated by the project have created 30,679 points of sale and
      induced 5,000 new jobs from the increased economic activity generated in the
      vicinity of the markets.

Objective 3: Build institutional capacity at the municipal level to identify, prioritize,
operate, and maintain sub-projects:

  · Local administrations have increased their budgets for project maintenance by 80
      percent against a target of 20 percent; 27 of 28 neighborhood markets constructed or
      rehabilitated are privately managed.           95% of the constructed/rehablitated
      infrastructures are operational (one market was damaged by landslide).
  · The project has provided more than 14,000 person-days of training in project
      identification, management, operation and maintenance across all 129 municipalities
      against a target of 80 municipalities.
  · Local project maintenance committees are in place over the entire country and are
      actively engaged in maintenance of infrastructure.
  · Positive experiences with privatization of management of nine markets constructed
      under the project are being scaled up across the country and the remaining
      municipalities are being supported by the Technical Secretariat to implement public-
      private partnerships under standardized management contracts.
  · In the construction sector, 5,582 person-days of training were provided to SMEs in
      business administration, financial management, and technical issues, surpassing the
      target of 5,000 person-days of training. The average invoice payment time was 4
      days for a target of 15 days, a remarkable achievement, even by international
      standards. For ABUTIP, the contract management agency managed to keep its
      operating ratio at 5.9 percent of the cost of works for a target of 8 percent.
  · The average revenues of construction companies increased by more than 100 percent
      between 2002 and 2006 (from US$312,628 to US$790,503) while their number of
      staff increased from 16 to 29, with the average number of female employees
      increasing from 1.8 to 4.1. This was accompanied by an important annual investment
      in new equipment, corresponding to for more than 10 percent of their revenues for
      some of the firms, showing increase in implementation capacity of SMEs.



                                            10

    · Consulting firms saw their revenues increase by more than 100 percent between
        2002 and 2004 (from US$25,010 to US$60,739). In 2000, Burundi had less than 10
        registered construction consulting firms; in 2007 there were 48 firms and the six
        consultancy firms surveyed had invested 13 percent of their turnover in equipment
        (mainly computers and software) to assure continued business development.

On HIV/AIDS awareness and prevention campaigns, 66 percent of project work sites
benefited from the program, against a target of 85 percent. The remaining sites benefited
from the Multisectoral HIV/AIDS project (MAP) which has been effective since FY03.

3.3 Efficiency

Selection of sub-projects was based on a screening process using a series of filters including
the level of community contribution, economic, social, and environmental criteria (Annex
10). At project completion, a detailed cost-efficiency study was carried out for the
Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) for the various types of infrastructure.
For 85 percent of physical investments, where cost-comparison across standards was
possible. An analysis of the efficiency of investments in terms of unit rates of the various
types of social and economic facilities was prepared and was also provided in Annex 3.
This analysis shows that the unit rates compare favorably with the values observed in the
country and elsewhere in Africa. For schools, and health centers, where the line ministries
have provided standard drawings and guidelines, price comparisons were done by putting
aside the earthworks item which are specific to each site.

In addition, an economic analysis has been carried out for 18 of the 28 markets supported by
the project. The analysis presented an NPV of around US$470,000 for an investment of
US$11,849,723, with a weighted average IRR of 12.6 percent. Nine of the 18 surveyed
markets demonstrated an IRR above 12 percent. For the remaining ones, revenues currently
generated are less than in other markets as a result of lower economic activities. It is worth
mentioning that the analysis did not assess additional economic benefits related to increased
revenue to farmers and shop tenants and the improved services rendered to communities and
consumers. The Economic Rates of Return calculated for the sub-projects are likely to
understate some of the social and environmental benefits gained.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

The project has achieved its objectives and the overall rating is satisfactory. The PDO
continues to remain relevant considering the country context and the limited access to
infrastructure services by the majority of the population and the pervasive poverty in
Burundi. The PDO indicators were achieved and in some cases surpassed, including the
primary indicator of employment creation. Sub-projects succeeded in improving social
services and reviving economic activities, reaching more than a quarter of the total
population of the country. Increasing funds for infrastructure maintenance was a major
project achievement, laying the foundation for a sustainable management regime for local
level infrastructure. SME capacity for sub-project implementation was strengthened through
targeted training activities and learning by doing. Moreover, project efficiency has been
evaluated as satisfactory.




                                           11

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Historically, Burundi has been characterized by a very centralized administrative system,
with little public involvement in setting priorities and implementing developmental
initiatives. The result has been an absence of community ownership of local infrastructure.
The project has introduced changes in the previous approaches using fully participatory
approaches at the municipal level to identify community needs, set priorities and implement,
operate and maintain infrastructure. Furthermore, the project has relied on the labor force
provided by women as they represented 28 percent of the unskilled workforce for the labor-
intensive road paving activities. Many of these women are heads of households and the
impact evaluation revealed that revenues generated through these activities have had a
significant impact on empowering them and reducing poverty in their households.

(b) Institutional Change and Strengthening

Poor governance in the public works sector was a major problem in Burundi following years
of conflict. The situation was characterized by lack of transparency, delays in invoice
payments, inflated unit cost rates and cost overruns, poor quality of works and delays in
execution. The project emphasized open competition and respect for contractual clauses and
procedural manuals. Application of penalties for delays, unknown in the past, was
generalized and contributed to introducing more professionalism in the construction industry.
While 75 percent of contractors were penalized for delays in the execution of works for the
first batch of sub-projects, this number had dropped to 14 percent in the final batch of sub-
projects. The introduction of private operators in the management of commercial
infrastructures has significantly increased the revenue of the municipalities and the quality
of the service rendered to the communities. Increasing funds for infrastructure maintenance
was also a major achievement of the project, laying the foundation for a sustainable
management regime for local level infrastructure.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Two beneficiary assessments were conducted during project implementation and an impact
evaluation at project closure. The information collected has been used to adapt and improve
the implementation arrangements over time.        Contribution from the communities was
lowered from 5 to 2 percent for social infrastructure sub-projects. In addition, the findings of
the assessment were helpful in creating tailored training modules aimed at improving the
capacity of SMEs and consulting firms. The details are presented in Annex 5.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The risks to development outcomes remain moderate despite the mitigation measures
implemented by the project. Although there has been a significant increase in budget
allocation for O&M, the creation of LMCs and specific arrangements for maintenance of
social and commercial infrastructure, there is still a moderate risk of poor municipal
infrastructure maintenance due to inadequate funding. The 2010 election presents a potential



                                            12

political risk of the country falling into another round of instability given the lack of strong
political and economic institutions.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The project design benefited from the lessons learned by the Bank through the Burundi
Social Action Project I and the experience gained in the design and implementation of public
works by the 12 implementing agencies (AGETIPS) active in Sub-Saharan Africa. These
include: (i) separating responsibilities for sub-project selection from implementation to
ensure transparency and avoid conflict of interest; (ii) using demand, including beneficiary
contribution, for selecting sub-projects and increasing sustainability; and (iii) advocating the
use of local materials in construction and labor intensive methods to support SME
development and employment generation which have proved to be very effective on the
ground. Bank performance in ensuring Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory.

One drawback was the lack of assessment of local government's and communities' capacity
to pay contributions in support of their requests and to set the appropriate level of
contribution. The Quality at Entry of the project additional financing was assessed on
August 28, 2007 (see para 2.4).

(b) Quality of Supervision

The Bank performance in supervision is rated satisfactory, as the team addressed prevailing
issues in relation with the Borrower. Since project effectiveness, regular supervision
missions visited the country and project sites and met with all key stakeholders, including
contractors. Supervision was conducted in the field with a civil engineer and fiduciary team
based in the country office. Issues that arose from the poor management of AGETIP
Burundi at the beginning of the project were swiftly handled by the client and the Bank team,
ensuring that the project continued to deliver.

Later on, the Bank received a complaint from a witness for alleged cases conflict of interest
in contract awards and for funds mismanagement. The case was referred to INT and the
Bank proactively suspended disbursements. INT substantiated the allegations of conflict of
interest on two consultancy contracts totaling US$ 20,785 and the Government of Burundi
confirmed the conflict of interest. Therefore, the Director General of ABUTIP was removed
from his position, after which the disbursement suspension was lifted.

Based on the findings of the periodic beneficiary assessment reports, the counterpart
contribution for social infrastructure was lowered from 5 percent to 2 percent and allowed
in-kind payment of contributions. This change in the level of contributions accelerated the
implementation of the project.




                                             13

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

The overall rating of Bank performance is considered to be satisfactory on the basis of
Quality at Entry and the effective supervision arrangements put in place, with strict
supervision conducted by a Burundi-based task team leader since FY05.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

The Government performance is rated satisfactory. The client participated actively in the
preparation of the project. It prepared the first group of sub-projects prior to appraisal to get
the project rolling and developed local governmental trust by showing that the project would
deliver and that their counterpart funds would be put to good use. The Government further
assured a timely and transparent recruitment of the manager of AGETIP Burundi to
participate in project preparation. The Government also supported the delegated contract
management arrangement and separation of sub-project selection from their implementation.
During implementation, the Government reacted appropriately to management problems at
the implementing agency and worked to find solutions to the counterpart contribution issue.
The Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee met regularly and assured equitable geographic
distribution of sub-projects. Despite a tight financial situation, the Government managed to
pay 100 percent of its counterpart funds. However, one issue remains regarding an
outstanding payment of US$533,000 corresponding to about 20 percent of the required
beneficiaries' contributions, but this has had limited impact on the completion of sub-
projects. This balance is partially due to price increase of sub-projects between the appraisal
and the implementation period (regional cement and fuel price hike).

(b) Implementing Institutions Performance

The project implementation performance is rated satisfactory, based on the contribution of
the two implementing institutions and the client to the project outcome.

Technical Secretariat
The TS assured smooth coordination of the project and ensured capacity building at local
and central levels, following up on local governmental performance of infrastructure
operations and maintenance and assured timely transfer of the list of selected sub-projects to
ABUTIP. In addition, the project included environmental impact analysis into the sub-
project approval process and closely monitored implementation of its mitigation plans. The
satisfactory performance of the TS has been recognized by other partners and this body is
now being used to implement the AfDB-financed Multi-Sectoral Reinsertion Project.

ABUTIP
ABUTIP improved its operating efficiency by keeping its operating cost at 5.9 percent of
total project investment in infrastructure, compared to the target of 8 percent. Average time
for payment of invoices was reduced to 4 days instead of the targeted 15 days. This
performance has been impressive and was greatly appreciated by the local SMEs. The strong
enforcement of contractual clauses and systematic application of penalties for delays in



                                             14

contracts execution has helped strengthen the capacity of the local construction industry and
brought discipline in the construction sector.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Based on the analysis above, the overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

The delegated contract management arrangement is well-suited to mitigating capacity
constraints in a post-conflict environment. Showing peace dividends in a post-conflict
environment requires swift implementation of programs while ensuring that fiduciary
requirements are met. Delegated contract management arrangements using streamlined and
transparent procurement procedures and faster payment methods of contractors have proved
to be very efficient in delivering quick results on the ground. This arrangement has allowed
the disbursement of more than US$75 million in 6½ years and access to infrastructure
services has been increased tremendously in a very short period of time. Such performance
could easily be attributed to project implementation arrangement.

Demand-driven      selection    through   participatory    arrangements    of    communities'
infrastructure needs is most suited to address social cohesion and sustainability of services
in post-conflict environments. With a social fabric very fragmented as a result of years of
conflict and the persistent perception of Government unfairness in allocating public
resources, a demand-based approach to the selection and financing of community
infrastructure needs is appropriate to ensure transparency in resource allocation and
strengthened social cohesion, while at the same time improving the prospects for sustainable
operation of financed facilities. However, a proper mechanism to ensure equitable
distribution of sub-projects is needed to avoid project concentration in the capital city and a
few major urban centers. In addition, strong ownership at all levels and the demand-based
approach used by the project to select activities to be financed have precluded the project
from failure and have mitigated the fiduciary risks faced by the project considering the
multiple changes that took place at central, local and implementing agencies' levels.

Short term employment creation is critical in post-conflict environments. Public works
projects using labor-intensive technologies can address high unemployment levels and also
the revenue-generating needs of conflict-affected groups such as single women, ex-
combatants, returnees and refugees. Post conflict countries are faced especially with high
levels of unemployment and poverty that can only be structurally addressed in the medium-
to long-term timeframe. Burundi is blessed with abundant local materials and has developed
labor-intensive technologies that have been successfully used for paving roads, and for
building schools, markets and health centers. This approach has significantly reduced the
need for imported materials and has reinforced the capacity of the local construction
industry while supporting the distribution of revenues to an unskilled labor force.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The draft ICR was translated and shared with the Client and the implementing agencies. The
Client has provided its contribution (Annex 12).


                                            15

(b) Cofinanciers

There were no direct cofinanciers at the time of appraisal. The African Development Bank is
using the same project implementation bodies and approaches for its ongoing operation.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders (Annex 5 &6)




                                           16

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                Appraisal      Additional    Actual/Latest
         Components              Estimate      Financing       Estimate      Percentage of

                              (US$ million)   (US$ million)  (US$ million)    Appraisal

A. SUB-PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION &
CAPACITY BUILDING FOR                33.26           30.60          67.2        105.2

EMPLOYMENT CREATION
B. INSTITUTIONAL
BUILDING                              4.54            0.00           6.06       133.6

C. SUPPORT FOR
PREVENTION OF HIV/AIDS                1.00            0.00           0.43        43.2

D. PROJECT MONITORING                 1.75            0.00           0.04        2.2
PPF REFUND                            1.00            0.00           0.00        0.0
           Total Project Costs       41.55           30.60          73.73       103.6
Physical Contingencies                0.00            0.00           0.00        0.00
Price Contingencies                   0.00            0.00           0.00        0.00
           Total Project Costs        0.00            0.00           0.00
Front-end fee PPF                     0.00            0.00           0.00        .00
Front-end fee IBRD                    0.00            0.00           0.00        .00
   Total Financing Required           0.00            0.00           0.00


(b) Financing

                                     Appraisal     Additional Actual/Latest
   Source of Funds        Type of                                            Percentage of
                        Cofinancing   Estimate     Financing     Estimate
                                    (US$ million) (US$ million) (US$ million)  Appraisal

Borrower                                     0.24                        0.00           .00
IDA                                        40.00          30.60        73.73         103.6
Local Governments of
Borrowing Country                            1.31                        0.00           .00




                                          17

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Sub-project Implementation and Capacity Building for Employment
Creation

Cost: Appraisal: US$33.26 million. Additional Financing: US$30.6 million. Actual:
        US$67.2 million.

122 sub-projects were constructed in 60 communes and the City of Bujumbura.

     · 27 new markets and one rehabilitated market
     · 2 butcheries
     · 24 road-paving sub-projects (covering 55.50 kilometers2- 60 lots)
     · 1 culvert
     · 9 drainage and dirt road resurfacing sub-projects (13.75 kilometers)
     · 3 sub-projects of land development (64.29 ha including 12.96 kilometers of dirt
        roads)
     · 30 school infrastructure projects totaling 230 classrooms and also including 5
        teachers' residences
     · 6 health centers
     · 1 urban sewerage sub-project (80 kilometers of sewerage network)
     · 1 sub-project to create the basic elements for an Olympic stadium
     · 7 urban rainwater drainage sub-projects (8.150 kilometers3)
     · 9 water supply networks (324 kilometers) and rehabilitation of one water supply
        network (9 kilometers)
     · 1 communal office
     · 3 sub-projects to protect 5 ravines against erosion (7.4 kilometers total)
     · 2 sub-projects to protect river banks (5.5 kilometers)


Component 2: Institution Building

Cost: Appraisal: US$4.54 million. Actual: US$6.1 million.

Training programs for consulting firms and construction companies have involved 814
managers and employees of more than 203 entities for a total of about 5,582 person-days of
training in business, financial and technical management of companies, as well as carrying
out project environmental and social impact evaluations.

More than 14,963 person-days of training at both the central and decentralized levels were
carried out in the following areas: (i) 4,852 person-days of training of the local maintenance
committees in communal infrastructure maintenance; (ii) 882 person-days of training in
management of privatized management contracts for markets and butcheries; (iii) 1,320
person-days of training in environmental concerns (iv) 2,349 person-days of training in local


2Including 250 meters of paved road in connection with works in Rumonge (construction of a culvert and
paving of a road).
3 Including 1.32 kilometers of collectors in Rumonoge. To this should be added 0.4 kilometers of gutter in
Kayanza and Kirundo.

                                                18

development planning; and (v) 5,560 person-days of training in accounting. Further, the
PWECP has undertaken 133,947 person-days of training for the cobblestone cutters.

A total of 70 studies were undertaken by the TS/PWECP for an amount of FBU 4.5 billion.

Component 3: Support for the Prevention of HIV/AIDS

Cost: Appraisal: US$1.00 million. Actual: US$0.4 million.

Awareness campaigns had been carried out in 100 percent of project sites by the end of 2004,
when the World Bank financed Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project (MAP) took over the activities.
Implementation of activities was returned to the PWEC after the MAP could no longer
finance them beyond the end of FY 2006. Not counting activities financed by the MAP, 66
percent of work sites were affected over the project duration, against a target of 85 percent.
Site-specific data are not available for the MAP-financed activities.

Under this component, 43,946 persons had participated in awareness-raising activities by the
end of 2004. For the second phase of activities, started in the second half of 2007, 3,540
persons were affected, and of these more than 17 percent were women.

Component 4: Project Monitoring

Cost: Appraisal: US$1.75 million. Actual: US$297,959.

Three beneficiary surveys have been carried out, including the final impact evaluation.




                                             19

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

No economic evaluation was carried out at appraisal since the sub-projects were demand
driven. For the ICR, a study on cost-efficiency has been carried out for the various types of
infrastructure. In addition, the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) and the Net Present Value
(NPV) have been calculated for a representative selection of market infrastructure.

Cost-efficiency
The cost-efficiency study shows that for each works contract tendered, more than seven
bidders responded to the competition. The high turn-up of competitors has had an impact on
the pricing of works. For 85 percent of investments under Component 1, where cost-
comparison in terms of standard and service was possible, unit cost rates compared
favorably with investments in Burundi and in the Region as shown below.

 Average cost per person served (US$/person)

 Type of facilities                                               Project    Regional Average

 Simple gravity systems                                             36             50-80

 Major systems (>70 km)                                             66             >100

                      Average cost (US$/standard unit by type of infrastructure)

 Type of facilities                                               Project    National Average

 Average cost per classroom (US$/classroom, primary school)       27,420          27,680

 Average cost per Health center type B (US$/health center)        304,130         330,000

 Average cost per linear meter (lm) of paved road by cobble         215             302
 stone (US$/lm)
                                                                               328 (Rwanda)

 Average cost per square meter of covered neighborhood              127             138
 market (US$/SM)

N.B.:

a. A basic standard primary school includes (i) a block of six classrooms covering 472
square meters, (ii) an administrative block; and (iii) a block of latrines (12 stances).

b. For paved roads with cobblestone, the cost for a standard linear meter is comprised of an
average width of 7 meters including drainage on both sides.

Economic analysis of markets
An economic analysis has been carried out for 18 of the 28 markets supported by the project.
The markets account for 30.8 percent of sub-project investments of the project. The analysis
uses a discount rate of 12 percent and assumes a 20-year4 investment horizon corresponding




4Inflation is estimated at 9% per year.

                                              20

to the average life of the assets, a 12.5 percent annual increase in revenues generated by the
operation of markets and a 5 percent annual increase in expenses.

Assumptions. In terms of revenues, most of the constructed markets included on the average
100 shop windows (covered stalls), 200 kiosks, 300 open stands, 1 block of toilets, 1
butchery with a cold room and a parking lot for more than 100 vehicles, generating revenues
ranging from US$25,000 to US$80,000 in the form of rent for the different services and
patent fees. Out of the above revenues, the operation of markets incurs expenses that
include mainly (i) employment cost for 32% of the total expenses, (ii) transport and
maintenance for 3%, (iii) water/electricity for 5%, and (iv) depreciation/rent of the facility
which accounts for 50% paid to the municipality. Since the majority of markets are run by
local private operators, there is a corporate tax based on the benefit margin which accounts
for 35% of the balance of the above total revenues minus expenses.

The analysis presented an NPV of around US$470,000 for an investment of US$11,849,723,
with a weighted average IRR of 12.6 percent. Nine of the 18 surveyed markets demonstrated
an IRR above 12 percent. For the remaining ones, revenues currently generated are less than
in other markets as a result of lower economic activities. It is worth mentioning that the
analysis did not assess additional economic benefits related to increased revenue to farmers
and shop tenants and the improved services rendered to communities and consumers. The
Economic Rates of Return calculated for the sub-projects are likely to understate some of
the social and environmental benefits gained, in particular:

(i) Employment generation: by appropriately dimensioning public works using labor-
intensive methods, the project has created employment opportunities for unskilled and semi-
skilled labor and promoted SMEs in construction and urban services. The project efficiently
used the US$67.2 million of Component 1 for infrastructure investments to generate
6,082,722 person-days of employment, with US$9.3 million paid in salaries to unskilled
laborers, corresponding to 14 percent of investments going to unskilled labor.

(ii) Improved physical living conditions and better environmental management has had a positive
impact on the quality of life.




                                             21

Annex 3: b) NPV and EIRR of the neighborhood markets

                                                                NPV (NET
                                                                PRESENT
                                      MARKET                    VALUE),       INVESTMENT,
N°       BENEFICIARY COMMUNE          DESIGNATION    EIRR (%)   FBU           FBU

      1  Matongo                      Bandaga            13.0%     18,141,769     473,432,094

      2  Bubanza                      Bubanza            14.3%     95,217,546     544,622,133

      3  Kirundo                      Kirundo            11.1%    -78,812,365     596,728,336

      4  Muyinga                      Muyinga            13.9%     78,037,146     594,664,367

      5  Giteranyi                    Giteranyi           9.2%   -261,405,926     907,611,000

      6  Mpanda                       Musenyi            13.3%     68,224,817     950,585,475

      7  Musigati                     Musigati           13.5%     38,915,990     429,474,521

      8  Rugombo                      Rugombo            10.7%   -108,734,285     631,955,604

      9  Mugina                       Nyeshenza           9.5%   -222,295,821     839,081,293

     10  Bwambarangwe                 Mukenke             8.3%   -284,891,073     795,989,742

     11  Makamba                      Makamba            15.9%    186,438,264      550731198

     12  Mugamba                      Tora               15.5%     92,746,212      305794073

     13  Rutana                       Rutana              8.9%   -225,748,119      686494430

     14  Buyengero                    Muyama              3.6%   -363,778,199      563629612

     15  Kayokwe                      Mwaro              13.3%     29,985,772      452908547

     16  Kabezi                       Kabezi              7.9%   -156,581,100      400467823

     17  Buyenzi                      Buyenzi            17.6%  1,797,289,455     3317152691

     18  Cankuzo                      Cankuzo             8.8%   -228,170,761     625,384,169

         TOTAL                                                    474,579,323  13,666,707,108

         WEIGHTED AVERAGE EIRR                           12.6%

NB: The analysis uses a discount rate of 12 percent and assumes a 20-year investment
horizon, a 12.5 percent annual increase in revenues generated by the operation of markets
and a 5 percent annual increase in expenses.




                                            22

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                   Responsibility/
          Names                         Title               Unit
                                                                      Specialty

Lending

Eustache Ouayoro         Senior   Water    and   Sanitation
                         Specialist                        AFTU2 TTL

Jainaba Kah              Urban Specialist                  AFTU2 Economic analysis

Pamphile Kantabaze       Senior operation officer          AFT HD Country
                                                                  coordination
Prosper Nindorera        Procurement specialist            AFTPC Procurement
Bernard Abeille          Principal adviser Procurement     AFTPC Procurement
Isabella Micali-Drossos  Counsel                           AFTPC Legal
Agnes-Albert-Loth        Finance Officer                   LOAFC Disbursement
Abdul Haji               Sr. Financial Specialist          AFTQK FM aspect
Ernestina Attafuah       Sr. Language Program Assistant    AFTU2 Cost table

Sophie Hans-Moevi        Language Program Assistant        AFTU2  Concept/PAD
                                                                  consolidation
Leoncie Niyonahabonye    Program Assistant                 AFMBI Logistic suppport

Supervision/ICR

Otieno Ayany             Financial Management Specialist AFTFM FM aspect

Mary C.K. Bitekerezo     Sr. Social Development Specialist AFTCS Social safeguard

Bella Lelouma Diallo     Sr. Financial Management
                         Specialist                        AFTFM FM aspect

Yvette Laure Djachechi   Sr. Social Development Specialist AFTCS Social safeguard

Sophie Hans-Moevi        Language Program Assistant        AFTU2 ISR

Ludovic Joseph Kabran    Sr. Operations Officer            CSRRM FM aspect

Jean Charles Amon Kra    Sr. Financial Management
                         Specialist                        AFTFM FM aspects

Anta Loum Lo             Language Program Assistant        AFTEG Report writing

Prosper Nindorera        Sr. Procurement Specialist        AFTPC Procurement

Seraphine Nsabimana      Program Assistant, AFMBI          AFMBI

Africa Eshogba Olojoba   Sr. Environmental Specialist      AFTEN Environmental


                                       23

                                                                  safeguard

Eustache Ouayoro           Sector Manager                  AFTU2 Quality assurance

Deo-Marcel Niyungeko       Municipal Engineer              AFTU2 TTL, since FY05

Emmanuel Tchoukou          Financial Management Specialist AFTFM FM aspect

Richard Verspyck           Consultant                      AFTU2  Monitoring &
                                                                  Evaluation



(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

     Stage of Project Cycle                                US$ thousand (including
                                     No. of staff weeks     travel and consultant
                                                                    costs)

Lending

  FY99                                                              36.42

  FY00                                      25                      78.67

  FY01                                      47                     162.29

  FY02                                       9                      21.00

Total:                                      81                     298.38

Supervision/ICR

  FY01                                                              11.91

  FY02                                      17                      96.80

  FY03                                      23                      57.78

  FY04                                      42                      83.47

  FY05                                      32                      43.17

  FY06                                      40                      76.40

  FY07                                      30                      41.14

  FY08                                       6                      13.43

                          Total:          190                      424.10




                                       24

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

(if any)

Three beneficiary assessments were carried out during project implementation. The first one
was carried during the first year of implementation (2002), a second one at mid-term review
(2004), and the last one around the project closing date. The issues raised were immediately
addressed, in close partnership with the Borrower These included (i) lowering the
counterpart contribution for social infrastructure from 5 percent to 2 percent, (ii) accepting
in-kind contribution, (iii) mainstreaming the annual stakeholders workshop, (iv) customizing
SME and local government authority training programs based on recommendations of the
training needs assessment report, and (v) expanding the Interministerial Steering Committee
(ISC) to accommodate the participation of the ministries of health, water, energy and mines.
The expansion of the ISC helped the project ensure the availability of health workers just
after the completion of health centers financed by the project. Lowering the counterpart
contribution for social infrastructure from 5 percent to 2 percent proved to be very effective
but the second option related to the contribution in-kind delayed the completion of some
sub-projects because the quality of materials provided by the communities did not always
meet the required standards. Furthermore, the question of equitable distribution of sub-
project countrywide was regularly addressed.

ICR Survey

The final beneficiary survey (the ICR impact study) built on focus group interviews of
beneficiaries and in-depth interviews of key stakeholders from a selection of 28 sub-projects,
with all types of infrastructures represented and covering the entire country. It has not been
possible to verify the methodology for all aspects of the study. According to the interview
guide presented in the survey, the interviews focused on changes in the behaviors of the
beneficiaries of sub-projects. Furthermore, the survey made use of a method to synthesize
findings of focus group interviews on qualitative aspects into simple scores on a scale of
satisfaction/dissatisfaction of various project outputs. The survey presents findings and
general trends on a number of quantitative aspects, such as increase in revenues of market
vendors, increase in land prices and rent, increased urban mobility. The findings are
presented below:

The general perception of project outputs is positive.

Markets have been positively received. More and more women are starting up businesses,
goods are better protected in the new buildings, and the formalization of the management of
markets has contributed to weeding out unwanted dishonest informal vendors. The
permanent nature of the buildings associated to the fact that the structures are
environmentally friendly was also highlighted as a positive aspect.

Road paving and drainage have impacted positively on urban mobility in general. The road
paving and drainage works benefited more than 65,000 people living directly next to roads,
improving urban mobility in general and specifically reducing incidences of flooding from
two to three per year in the affected neighborhoods before the works to none or one
maximum after the completion of works.




                                            25

Construction of school classrooms has improved teaching conditions in general. All survey
respondents highlighted the improved schooling conditions as a positive aspect.




                                         26

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

(if any)

Supervision missions systematically held annual implementation workshops with
stakeholders (municipalities, community leaders (CDCs), contractors, consulting firms,
NGOs, implementing bodies (ABUTIP, TS, ISC), chamber of commerce and representative
of the ministries in charge of public works, environment, mines, education and health) and
the team took such opportunity to improve implementation performances. The main issues
raised during this annual forum included (i) the annual update and classification of
contractors and consulting firms based on their specialization, capabilities and experiences
taking into account the new registered SMEs, (ii) the need to update the sub-project
eligibility criteria to promote equitable distribution of sub-project countrywide and the need
to avoid complex sub-projects which are expensive and require very skilled labor to operate
and maintain, (iii) the need to provide water supply and electricity to the constructed
/rehabilitated infrastructure by the project for an effective operation and maintenance, (iv)
the tailoring of training programs of the local maintenance committees and the provision of
first maintenance kits, and (v) the need to conceive an agreement between the GoB and the
User Association (UA) or NGOs on the use of some government infrastructure such as
schools operated by NGOs and churches. Furthermore, the stakeholders recommended that
the GoB takes advantage of the capacities created under the project and the accumulated
experiences of the two implementing bodies (ABUTIP and TS) to continue implementation
of the government infrastructure programs and reinforce the capacity of the municipalities.



.




                                             27

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The summary from the Borrower's ICR:

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The summary from the Borrower's ICR:

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

This completion report relates, respectively, to a) the evaluation of the Public Works and
Employment Creation Project (PWECP) at its design and implementation stage, b) the
performance appraisal of the borrowing client which in this case is the Government and c)
the performance appraisal of the other stakeholders, i.e. IDA, the research departments and
other partners.

The completion report is carried out, as its name suggests, at the time of project closure and
aims to highlight the strengths and weaknesses identified during the design and
implementation stages and to identify the lessons learned in order to make use of them in
comparable future projects.

        · Appraisal of the Project objectives
The Project objectives aimed to respond to Burundi's particular situation, i.e. a post conflict
situation characterized by the breakdown of basic infrastructure, the deterioration in the
level of social services, widespread impoverishment, etc.

The Project also responded to the recommendations that came out of the Burundi Peace
Negotiations in Arusha, signed in August 2000. One of these recommendations cited
reconstruction efforts and productive employment creation as being key to consolidating
peace.

A labor-intensive job creation approach was used to rehabilitate basic infrastructure and
large scale reconstruction projects throughout the country helped the recovery of SMEs and
consulting firms. This approach aimed to provide a foundation for a swift return to peace,
which was the overall objective of the Project.

        · The Government's role in the Project design
While Government's role may have been less proactive during the project identification and
appraisal stages, it had a positive influence that contributed to the success of the Project. It
was able, for example, to adjust the beneficiary contribution to the cost of sub-projects from
10% to 5% and later to 2% for social sub-projects. It also strengthened institutional
arrangements for implementing the project with a Technical Secretariat responsible for
liaising with grassroots communities for sub-project identification, programming and
maintenance, as well as for coordinating Project and other donor operations, building
synergies and ensuring consistency with the overall development guidelines. Also in support
of strengthening implementation institutional arrangements, the Government entrusted the
implementation of the Project's infrastructure component to a Maître d'Ouvrage Délégué
(MOD), and to that effect, established an autonomous executing agency.




                                            28

Separating the sub-project planning, programming and implementation functions also helped
to ensure continued beneficiary involvement and develop ownership, which is contributing
towards the sustainability of project-built infrastructure.

       · Role of the Government in implementing the Project
The Government fulfilled its obligations outlined in the credit Agreement by providing the
resources and assistance necessary to implement the Project and by introducing conservatory
measures when necessary to protect the Client's interests and also enforce compliance with
the financing agreement clauses particularly when the MOD contract arrangement with the
Agence d'exécution des travaux d'intérêt public - AGETIP (Agency for the Execution of
Public Interest Works) was terminated in 2002.

Apart from the termination of the agreement between AGETIP and the Government, which
will be discussed below, and some of the delays associated with the signing of the MOD
contract agreements between the communes and the Agency, the various agreements
between the parties that regulate the Project proved to be successful.

The rules governing project operations have been documented in the procedure manuals and
have proved to be effective and flexible enough to sustain project implementation under
changing circumstances, including various agreements which had been continued under the
COG arrangement and the arrangements linked to the additional grant awarded at the
beginning of 2006.

These rules contributed to the building of a level playing field and, particularly with regard
to procurements, to the satisfaction of the stakeholders in as far as there were no
fundamental conflicts related to misinterpreting or incorrectly applying the rules.

The Government and the donor proved to be flexible with regard to tailoring the basic texts
of the Agreement to the reality in the field. Certain conditions relating to the National
Bidding threshold were revised upward, certain steps in the no objection request were
reviewed and, lastly, studies and monitoring activities were combined for each office in
order to speed up the implementation process.

The Project implementation arrangements were based on two essential assumptions:

(i)    the comparative advantage of private management over public management with the
introduction of an Agency that operates on a private basis with limited government
involvement;

(ii)   the centralization and strengthening of the Agency Director's authority in order to
make him individually accountable and to put pressure on him to achieve success. With
regard to this assumption, the October 2000 assessment mission noted "that in view of the
private management nature of the Agence burundaise pour la réalisation des travaux
d'intérêt public - ABUTIP (Burundi Agency for the Execution of Public Works) it is
essential to encourage individual responsibility by giving the Director General full scope to
select his immediate staff and to negotiate their contracts" and of course terminate their
contracts if their performance is unsatisfactory.




                                             29

The Project was affected by two crises (the termination of the MOD contract agreement
between AGETIP and the Government and the termination of the 2nd Director General's
contract) which exposed the limitations of these two assumptions, i.e. the absence of an
early warning mechanism in the case of internal management failures. The key reasons of
the latter are a lack of joint management and shared responsibility at the management level
of the Agency, the absence of mechanisms allowing prompt decisions to be made or
sanctions to be carried out as a result of the limited level of government involvement in the
management of the Agency, and the lack of clarity with regard to the respective
responsibilities of the Government and of the Agency's management (Executive Committee)
with regard to decision making.

The implementation of the Project also revealed the inappropriate nature of the Agency's
legal status. The Agency is governed by the 1992 law relating to the organization and
operation of non-profit organizations. The various delegated contract management
arrangements link the Agency to different partners with the result that it has relationships of
a private contractual nature with inherent responsibilities. The payment system that has been
kept means that the Agency is responsible for operating costs. This does not put it in a
favorable position with regard to meeting the other obligations associated with fulfilling its
contracts. The pending action in the courts against the Agency illustrates the ambiguity and
the limitations of the current legal status. The obligations and accountability imposed by its
legal status is inconsistent with the level of its resources and autonomy.

        · Project performance
Despite these failings the Project has been able to deliver impressive results.

For example, the credit was fully disbursed one year ahead of the original closing date given
in the Agreement and almost the entire grant was absorbed within just 16 months of
operation. While its initial closing date was December 31, 2006, the credit was in fact fully
disbursed by December 31 2005, although the grant was only released at the end of 2006.

In terms of results, the Project supported 122 sub-projects which are listed in the annex.

These included, in particular, 55 sub-projects associated with basic infrastructure including
23 road paving sub-projects, 7 sanitation and unpaved road resurfacing sub-projects, 6 rain
water drainage sub-projects, 2 urban waste water disposal sub-projects, 5 river and gully
management sub-projects, 9 drinking water supply sub-projects and 3 building site
development sub-projects.

The Project also supported 37 socio-economic facility sub-projects including 29 school
facility sub-projects, 6 health centers, 1 Olympic center and 1 communal office facility.

Lastly, the Project supported 30 market sub-projects including 28 markets (including a
rehabilitated market) and 2 slaughterhouses.

These 28 markets supported the creation of 22,238 points of sale, 2,555 enclosed stalls, the
development of 5,381 indoor market sites, 505 butchery spaces and 13,637 sites directly
close to these markets. They also supported the creation of 5,000 additional jobs inside and
around the market as well as the development of new distribution chains.




                                              30

These achievements have improved the population's access to basic services, created spin-
off services, improved quality of life and hygiene, created jobs and injected revenue into the
economy.

The road paving, urban improvement and sanitation sub-projects have prompted residents to
become more aware of environmental issues, an appreciable improvement in the conditions
related to the movement of goods and people as well as hygiene conditions.

The river and gully management sub-projects have served to protect 200 public
infrastructures and 22,000 households and has at the same time generated revenue-earning
activities in the redeveloped areas.

The sewage disposal sub-projects in the commune of Ngagara allowed 2,275 households and
20 public infrastructures to be reconnected to the system and the area to be cleaned up. Pools
of water were also removed which were breeding grounds for mosquitoes.

The drinking water supply sub-projects have allowed the construction of 570 water supply
points providing access to 120,000 beneficiaries including 19,200 pupils in more than 51
establishments. These sub-projects contributed to a 2% increase in the level of drinking
water supply in rural areas as well as a reduction of 50% in the time spent by women and
children collecting water, etc.

The school infrastructure and equipment sub-projects have helped to reduce overcrowding in
schools with the number of pupils in each classroom falling from 65 to 50 pupils, and they
have also led to a 70% reduction in the distance walked by each student to school as well as
an improvement in the hygiene and working conditions for the teachers.

Lastly, the health center construction sub-projects have resulted in (i) a reduction in the
distance covered in order to access to health care, which fell from 12 km to 7 km in the
communes concerned; (ii) improvement in health care coverage and reduced pressure on the
previously existing health care infrastructure.

The project had generated 6,082,722 person-days of temporary employment by December
2007, 17% of which was generated for women. This is equal to 3,000 full time jobs over a
period of six years, or 10% of full time jobs in the informal sector in Burundi and 5% of the
jobs in the public and parapublic sector in accordance with the 2004 report on human
development. This employment resulted in revenue for the unskilled labor force amounting
to USD 9.3 million.

The Project has prompted the development of new management tools and reform initiatives.
This includes, in particular, the drawing up and introduction by private operators of a
standard management contract for the drinking water supply networks and markets and an
up-to-date inventory of public infrastructure and equipment for which, together with the
maintenance requirements, the local administrations are responsible. Other examples include
the creation of a national map showing the geographic distribution of the natural paving
stone quarries and the development of standard prospection permits for the quarries, issued
by the local administration.




                                            31

        · Project performance against the conditions stipulated by the credit
            Agreement
For the most part, the Project results were on target, i.e. operating costs were reduced to less
than 8% of the cost of works, i.e. 5.87% for the whole Project.

The Project has led to a drastic reduction in the average period of time between invoice
receipt and payment to 4 days compared to the 15 days outlined in the Agreement.

Similarly, 7 companies submitted bids for works contracts instead of 3 as originally
expected. The rehabilitated infrastructure was utilized and has been effectively maintained.
Target groups were trained according to plans and campaigns to increase HIV/AIDS
awareness were introduced and reached more members of the public than forecast, i.e. 100%
of the work sites in 2007 compared with the 85% targeted. However, a total of 66% of the
work sites benefited from the program during the whole period of the Project.

The only delays related to the maximum period between sub-project approval and the
initiation of studies (6.1 months instead of 2). This was to due to various factors such as the
minimum period required to recruit consulting firms, the lack of project officers at the start
of the Project, insufficient requests for proposal and the absence of or insufficient
beneficiary contributions in certain cases. These delays had an impact on the other
efficiency parameter since they led to delays in starting up the sub-projects. 50% of sub-
project works were supposed to start 9 months after transmittal of the TS but this was
delayed to 15 months due to the reasons given above.

        · Project visibility
The Project's visibility and the population's confidence in it is reflected by the improved
collection rate of beneficiary contributions as well as the level of anticipated payments
amounting to BIF 822 million at 12/31/2007 for 1,162 approved sub-projects.

The Project has had more of an impact than any other previous stakeholder operations.
Construction sites were opened up in 60 communes throughout the country where billboards
provided information about the Project.

        · World Bank performance
For its part, the Bank fulfilled its obligations outlined in the Agreement by ensuring timely
disbursements, following up on the no objection requests within the required time frames
and providing guidance and support for the Project through its supervision missions.

As mentioned before, the Bank proved to be flexible with regard to changes in procedures
when constraints in the field so demanded. This flexible approach was also evident when it
agreed to provide the country with a grant in response to the pressing demands of the
beneficiaries when the expiration date of credit was reached. This avoided the long process
of negotiating further credit.

        · Performance of other partners
The Project allowed 47 consulting firms to be set up (compared with the 4 that were
regularly in operation in 2000). These firms were awards BIF 5.331 billion worth of
contracts including 171 studies and works control contracts.



                                             32

Revenues from these contracts help these firms to become more organized and to purchase
modern equipment. Their involvement in the various aspects of the construction business
allowed them to increase their competencies and widen their experience.

The Project also supported 44 different companies and 12 groups with contracts of
approximately BIF 62 billion which contributed to the country's wealth and helped
companies to become self-reliant with regard to equipment and personnel recruitment.

These companies and research offices benefited from training in business administration,
financial management and technical skills. 5,582 person-days in training were provided.

The communes also benefited from capacity building with regard to planning, management
and infrastructure maintenance with 8,635 person-days of training provided in 2003 and
14,963 person-days of training in 2007.

Thanks to the privatized management of contracts introduced within the framework of the
Project, the communes now earn more money and no longer have to worry about
management concerns. In fact, expenditure such as security and maintenance which can
sometimes put a strain on the commune's budget is now assumed by the management which
is able to collect more revenue due to an improved collection system. As such, Mabanda
market now earns BIF 2 million per month, Makamba market earns BIF 3 million and
Matana market earns BIF 2.5 million.

The beneficiary population took control of mobilizing contributions and infrastructure
maintenance through local maintenance committees.

·       Lessons learned
·       Lessons learned with regard to Project design

                 With regard to client involvement at the identification stage of the Project.
The Client's involvement made it possible to lay the foundations for the Project's operating
mechanisms which, since they were tailored to the situation in Burundi, ensured the
Project's success.

The client effectively changed two key components of the donor's proposals. These related
to the creation of a national structure to link the Agency and the beneficiaries and to provide
support to the beneficiaries with regard to preparing and implementing the sub-projects and
also to a review of the beneficiary contribution rate for infrastructure projects which was
initially decreased from 10% to 5%.

A further revision of the contribution rate allowed the start-up of the sub-projects. It became
clear later on that if the rate had remained at 10% and if the contribution had been due
before start-up then very few communes would have been able to readily participate.

                 With regard to defining objectives
The Project's objectives were both relevant and practical. They created a framework aimed
at dealing with the challenges that existed at the start-up phase of the Project when the
country faced uncertainty, damaged infrastructure, a lack of access to basic services and
widespread impoverishment, etc.



                                              33

Beneficiary commitment is dependent on how well the Project objectives are perceived and
how well they are tailored to the environment.

        · Lessons learned with regard to Project implementation

                With regard to Project implementation arrangements.
On a more technical note, institutional responsibilities were divided between a works
implementation structure (Project component A), and an institutional capacity building and
sub-project monitoring structure (Project component B and D).

Given the importance of both functions and the distinct specialized skills they require, the
dual institutional structure proved to be more cost effective than the combination of both
functions in one structure as suggested during the negotiation stages of the Project.
Combining both functions in a single agency would have resulted in time delays or could
have led to one function having priority over the other.

                  With regard to the adjustment mechanisms that guide the partners and
                  Project implementation structures,
The relationships between the various partners including the Bank and the Client (credit
Agreement), the Client and the agency (MOD agreement), the TS and the Agency (portfolio
agreement), the Bank and the agency (Project Agreement), as well as local governments and
the agency (specific MOD contract) were governed by agreements stipulating the rights and
obligations of each of the contracting parties.

Arrangements are based on the principle that specialization and separating responsibilities
leads to greater efficiency as mentioned above, but also on a realistic understanding of the
stakeholders' competencies. Obviously, at the start of the Project none of the communes had
the necessary skills to be able to prepare, implement or monitor the projects themselves.
Striving for efficiency also called for specific private sector-based procedures which helped
to avoid the lengthy and complicated public procurement procedures, particularly useful in a
crisis situation undermined by all sorts of demands. The works contractors preferred to bid
for Project contracts rather than those offered by the State despite strong competition and
tighter pricing, proof that the efficiency of this system was considered to be more equitable.

Half of all contractors surveyed indicated that if the working conditions and the resources
available to them meant that they could only choose between bidding for a Project contract
or a government contract then they would automatically bid for the Project contract as long
as the government contract value was not more than double that of the estimated Project
contract value. The contractors stated that their decisions were governed by three factors:
risks associated with procurement (project procurement viewed as less risky), shorter
payment terms and a more reassuring contract management approach, particularly with
regard to the frequency of project implementation monitoring and the management of
potential conflicts. These same contractors also indicated that even if the estimated value of
the government contract was double that of the Project contract, the expected benefits from
the government contract would always be undermined by the impractical payment terms,
which are particularly strict if a bank guarantee is involved.




                                              34

                  With regard to the Client contribution
The Client and the beneficiaries met their obligations satisfactorily once they had been
convinced of the merits of the Project. They paid their contributions and provided the
necessary support to ensure that the Project ran smoothly. Lessons learned showed that
clearer Project objectives meant beneficiaries paid their contributions more readily.

                  With regard to Project operation
The Project was governed by well-thought rules, guaranteeing its smooth operation
whatever the type management structure or activity.

Key features of the management rules included:

-       neutrality (no conflict or very little)
-       adaptability (the rules applied under the COG, AGETIP and ABUTIP systems, both
with regard to credit and grants)
-       flexibility (the Project has the advantage of being able to adapt the rules to the
context without surrendering its key elements of efficiency, competition and fairness.

                  With regard to the sustainability of the structure:
Two factors threaten the Agency's sustainability:

- the constraints associated with the Agency's status and the payment methods that have
been put in place
- limited government support

The Agency is governed by the 1992 law on the management of not-for-profit organizations.
The Agency is, however, not a not-for-profit organization in the classic and legal sense of
the term since its operating methods are contractual in nature with associated obligations and
duties and it uses a delegated management contract approach.

Its status means that payment can only be negotiated on the basis of the known operating
costs without taking development or risk compensation costs into account.

However, the identification mission suggested a payment of 5% of the works contract to the
Agency with no other precisions regarding the amount.

Settling the potential liabilities associated with losing the lawsuit against the Agency is
obviously problematic in view of the current state of affairs.

With regard to government support, the government has not demonstrated any sustained
commitment to approving works in favor of the Agency. The government's contract
procurement and implementation institutions should, however, take a guarded approach to a
competitive institution.

There is also the issue of mobilizing local resources both for maintaining the existing
infrastructure and also to expand it. A tax system tailored to the local economy has been
introduced to respond to this requirement. This was put forward in the recommendations.



                                               35

        · Conclusions and recommendations
The Project has produced substantial results thanks to solid management tools, stakeholder
compliance with the conventions, stakeholder commitment and the experience of some of its
managers.

The following recommendations advocate capitalizing on the advances that have been made
and adjusting certain internal management mechanisms in order to guarantee the Project's
long-term success.

The recommendations relate to 7 key areas:

i)      The project should be extended based on its performance, visibility and the
        continued demand that justified its implementation and the scope of its operations
ii)     Contractual commitments should be pursued (collection of overdue payments) and
        the litigation settled in order to meet the project extension requirements
iii)    Progress made by the Project should be sustained
iv)     The institutional management framework should be fine-tuned in order to correct
        past deficiencies by:
          a)    Specific actions aimed at improving local governance with regard to:
                ·       Mobilizing local resources
                ·       Financial and accounts management
                ·       Urban planning and maintenance of infrastructure
                ·       Environmental management
          b)    "Cross-sectional" activities to support central and provincial government
            with regard to training programs, sectoral studies and cross-sectional activities
            for all stakeholders including the BTP (Construction and Public Works sectors).
            These activities aim to ensure the sustainability of major investments made
            within the framework of the Project, to continue with the agreed efforts to
            improve financial relationships and encourage the communes to achieve a level
            of resources more in line with their level of socio-economic development and
            demand for basic services from the beneficiary population.
v)      Agency support through continued government commitment to assign works to
        ABUTIP within the framework of the EIB or other multilateral or bilateral funding.
vi)     The communes should be given maximum opportunity to access future Project
        funding
vii)    The successful management practices suggested by the donor should be consolidated.


All of these recommendations are discussed further in the following sections.




                                              36

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                     37

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
· Project Appraisal Document (dated December 28, 2000).
· Minutes of Negotiations (December 20, 2000).
· Development Credit Agreement (February 14, 2001).
· Amendment to Development Credit Agreement (October 12, 2004).
· Project Paper, Additional Financing (December 6, 2005).
· Minutes of Negotiations for Additional Financing (November 21, 2005).
· Financing Agreement, Additional Financing (February 13, 2006).
· Project Aide-Mémoires.
· Project Closure Impact Study.
· Cost-Effectiveness Study.
· Technical Audits.
· Project Status Reports (PSRs).
· Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs).
· Government Implementation Completion Report.
· Official correspondence concerning additional financing, restructuring, and extension of
  project closing date.
· Interim Strategy (1999).
· Burundi Poverty Note (1999).
· Transitional Support Strategy (2002).
· Interim Strategy Note (2005)
· Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (2006).




                                        38

 Annex 10. Evaluation Grid for Sub-Project Evaluation (Supplemental Annex)

   Criteria                         Score Weight    Criteria                     Score Weight
1  Cost of sub-project                     2     6  Size of enterprise required         3
      < 100 million                   6                 Small                      3
      100-200 million                 5                 Medium                     2
      200-350 million                 4                 Large                      1
      350-450 million                 3
      450-550 million                 2
      > 550 million                   1
   Sub-total 1 (max)                  6    12       Sub-total 6 (max)              3    9
2  Labor content in the cost of            4     7  Use of imported construction        3
   sub-projects                                     materials
      10-20 percent                   1                 > 30 percent               0
      20-30 percent                   2                 20-30 percent              1
      > 30 percent                    3                 10-20 percent
                                                        < 10 percent               3
   Sub-total 2 (max)                  3    12       Sub-total 7 (max)              3    9
3  Duration of employment                  3     8  Type of equipment used              1
      < 2 months                      1                 No mechanical equipment    3
      2-3 months                      2                 No significant use of      2
      3-4 months                      3                 mechanical equipment
      4-5 months                      4                 Significant use of         1
      > 5 months                      5                 mechanical equipment
   Sub-total 3 (max)                  5    15       Sub-total 8 (max)              3    3
4  Participation of the population         2     9  Technical and financial
   in the initiation of sub-project                 capacity to maintain
      Participation                   2             infrastructure
      No participation                1
   Sub-total 4 (max)                  2    4
5  Social and economic viability                 9a Technical capacity                  2
5a Social aspect                           4            Exists                     2
      Market                          3                 Does not exist             1
      Roads and drainage              3             Sub-total 9a (max)             2    4
      Health center                  2.5         9b Financial capacity                  2
      Primary school                 2.5                Exists                     2
      Communal high-school           2.5                Does not exist             1
      Water supply                    3             Sub-total 9b (max)             2    4
      Communal office                 1          10 Complementarity with other          1
      Electrification                1.5            projects
      Teachers' homes                 1                 Yes                        2
   Sub-total 5a (max)                 3    12           No                         1
5b Economic aspect - economic              4
   rate of return                                   Sub-total 10 (max)             2    2
      < 12 percent                    0          11 Impact on the environment           1
      12 percent                      1                 Negative impact            0
      12-20 percent                   2                 Slight improvement         1
      > 20 percent                    3                 Significant improvement    2
   Sub-total 5b (max)                 3    12       Sub-total 11 (max)             2    2
 Total 11 criteria: 100



                                              39

    Annex 11. Situation of basic infrastructure at Appraisal (Supplemental Annex)

                   TABLE1: NUMBER OF CLASSROOMS/ 1000 INHABITANTS


    5
    4
    3
    2
    1
    0




                                             Provinces




                    TABLE2: HEALTH CENTERS PER 10,000 HABITANTS ACROSS PROVINCES


1.50

1.00

0.50

-
    RUSI                  A                          O              I                                 I
            YA   EGA           RO     A     ZA                                                 O
                                                   ND     OKE            GA    ANA                         URI
   KA    AMV   GIT                         AN                  NGOZ   YIN            AMBA
                            MWA                                                                  RUYIG
                                               KIRU   CIBIT                                             BUR
                                                                     MU     RUT          CANKUZ
     MUR                         BUBANZ KAY
                  BUJUMBUR                                                        MAK




                             TABLE3: RATIO OF MARKETS /20,000 HABITANTS ACROSS PROVINCES


       2.50
       2.00
       1.50
       1.00
       0.50
        -
                                                              O              I
            RUSI          EGA          ARO   NZA      A     ND     OKE             GA  TANA                 YIGI   URI
           KA    AMVYA GIT    UMBURA MW                                                             KUZO
                                                  YANZ                  NGOZ                 AMBA         RU    BUR
                                          BUBA          KIRU   CIBIT          MUYIN  RU          CAN
              MUR                               KA
                           BUJ                                                             MAK



                                       TABLE 4: METERS OF ROAD PER SQUARE KM2


      1400
      1200
      1000
        800
        600
        400
        200
         0

                                 A                    A      O                                  A
           RUSI    YA                                                      ZI
                               UR     ARO   ANZA   ANZ             KE                  TANA  AMB     UZO          URI
          KA   RAMV   GITEGA UMB                                               YINGA
                                    MW                                 NGO
                                         BUB    KAY    KIRUND CIBITO                               NK    RUYIGI
                                                                             MU      RU                         BUR
                                                                                                 CA
             MU                                                                           MAK
                          BUJ




                                                    40

