RESTRICTED
Report No. PTR-58a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their. views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
SIERRA LEONE
October 12, 1970
Transportation Projects Department



Currency Equivalents:
Currency Unit              - Leorne (Le)
Le 1.00                    - US$1.20
US$1.00                    = Le o).833
Le 1.0 million             = US$1.2 million
Fiscal Year
July 1 to June 30
Weights and Measures: British S,ystem
Metric:  British equivalents
1 kilometer (km)          = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)               - 3.28 feet (ft)
1 square kilometer (km2) = 0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)            = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)               = 0.22 imp. gallons
0.26 US gallons
1 kilogram                = 2.205 pounds
1 ton                     - 2,205 pounds
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADT    - Average Daily Traffic
DELCO - Sierra Leone Development Company
MOW    - Ministry of Works
SLR    - Sierra Leone Railway



SIERRA LEONE
APPRAISAL OF A FIRST HIGHWAkY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .....................................                               i
1.     INTRODUCTION  ................................................                               1
2.    BACKGROUND  ..................................................                                2
A.    General  ................................................                              2
B.    The  Transport  Sector  ...................................                            3
C.    Railways  ...............................................                              3
D. Ports .................                                                        ,,   4
E.  Air Transport ..................,                                                        4
F.    Transport Policy  and  Coordination  ......................                            4
3.  THE HIGHWAY SECTOR .........................                                                    6
A.     The Highway  Network  ....................................                            6
B.     Characteristics  and  Growth  of Road  Traffic  ....                   .........      6
C.    Highway  Administration  .................................                             6
D.    Highway Planning  and Engineering  .......................                             7
E.    Highway  Construction  ...................................                             8
F.    Highway Maintenance  ....................................                              8
G.    Highway  Financing  ......................................                             9
4.    THE PROJECT            .....       ...........................................               11
A.  General Description ........................                                           11
B.  Construction ........................                                 ,, 12
C.    Detailed  Engineering  .................                    ..................       12
D.  Feasibility Study ......................                                               13
E.    Mechanical  Equipment  for Highway  Maint:enance  ....                    .......     13
F.    Technical Assistance  ...................................                             13
G.    Cost  Estimates  .........................................                            13
H. Financing .............                                                                  16
I.    Project  Execution,  Procurement,  and Disbursement                       .......    16
This report was prepared by Messrs. Morris (engineer), Rowat and
Wouters (economists), and Kesson (railway consultant), on the basis
of an appraisal mission in February-March 1970.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                          Pae No.
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION .......................................   ] .8
A.   General ..................................................    18
B.   Construction of the Bo-Kenema Road .....................   1.8
C. Highway Maintenance .19.... ].9
D.   Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering .....                20
6.   RECOMMENDATIONS ................       e      .     .      .    .    21
ANNEX Sierra Leone Railway (S]R)
TABLES
1.  Sierra Leone Railway:  Traffic Data, 1950-1968/69
2. Sierra Leone Railway:  Revenue and Expenditure, 1950-1.968/69
3.  Sierra Leone Ports AuthorLty:  Port Traffic, 1965-69
4.  Motor Vehicle Registration and Distribution, 1960-69
5.  Composition of Goods Hauled by Road in 1968
6. Highway Development Program, 1970/71-1974/75
7.  Design Standards for Class I Highways (Rural)
8. Highway Expenditures, 1965/66-1969/70
9. Highway Maintenance Program: Current Expenditures, 19I71-76
10.  Highway Maintenance Program:  Capital Expenditures, 1971-75
11. Highway Program: Total Expenditures and Financing,
1970/71-1974/75
12. Mechanical Equipment and Vehicles to be Purchased
13. Estimated Cost of Project
14. Estimated Schedule of Dis'bursements
15.  Bo-Kenema (New Road): Estimated Average Daily Traffic, 1969-1993
16. Motor Vehicle Operating Costs and Savings Per Mile
17. Highway Maintenance Program: Economic Evaluation
CHART
Ministry of Works: Existing Organization
MAP
Sierra Leone Road Network



SIERRA LEONE
APPRAISAL OF A FIRST 1HIGHIAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises the first highway project proposed for
Bank/IDA assistance in Sierra Leone.  The project consists of:  Part I
which includes construction of the Bo-Kenema Road (43 mi), detailed en-
gineering (already carried out) of the road and of the rural section of
the Freetown-Waterloo Road, and purchase of mechanical equipment for high-
way maintenance; and Part II, which includes a feasibility study and de-
tailed engineering study of the urban section of the Freetown-Waterloo
Road and technical assistance to the Ministry of Works (MOW) for improving
the organization, administration and methods for highway maintenance.
Only Part I is proposed for Bank/IDA financing.  For Part II, the UNDP
has made an advance allocation towards estimated expenditure through June
1971, when the Governing Council is scheduled to consider financing for
the balance; the Bank has agreed to act as Executing Agency.
ii.       Transport demand has increased steadily in recent years as a
result of the growth of the economy which has averaged about 5% p.a. At
the same time, demand has shifted from rail to road transport. Develop-
ment of the transport system has not kept pace with the increase and shift
in transport requirements. As a first step tohards improving the trans-
port system, the Government in 1966 commissioned Italconsult to carry out
a Land Transport Survey, under UNDP financing and with the Bank acting
as Executing Agency. The main recommendations of the Survey are: (a) to
close down the Sierra Leone Railway by the end of 1972; (b) to improve
the country's two main trunk roads from Freetown, via Mile 47 to Kenema
and to Sefadu; and (c) to implement a comprehensive program for improv-
ing highway maintenance..
iii.      The Government has accepted these recommendations and has agreed
to close the railway by the end of 1972. The branch line (Bauya-Makeni)
has already been closed and is being dismantled. Furthermore, construc-
tion of all but one of the unpaved sections of the country's two main
trunk roads is underway, or should start soon, wvith bilateral financial
assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany and the United Kingdom.
Construction of the one remaining section between Bo and Kenema has been
included in the project. The Government is recruiting additional engi-
neers for the Highway Division, and has increased the highway maintenance
budget for 1970-71 by about 40%.
iv.       The Freetown-Waterloo-Bo-Kenema road is expected to carry most of
the railway traffic, after the railway is close(d down. Construction of the
Bo-Kenema section would replace a circuitous low standard road, which is
occasionally impassable during the rainy season. The investment in the
new road is expected to yield a rate of return of 21%. The feasibility
study of the urban section and the detailed engineering of the urban and
rural sections of the Freetown-Waterloo road would prepare a project for



- ii -
improving the access to the business and administrative center of the
capital; a feasibility study of the rural section was carr:Led out under
the Land Transport Survey. The urban section of the route consists of
narrow city streets and the rural section is a low standard paved road,
with a poor alignment, sharp curves and steep gradients. The urban sec-
tion, and part of the rural section, of the Freetown-Water:Loo road area
congested.
v.         The provision of technical assistance and mechanical equipmenat
under the project would help the Government to implement the comprehen-
sive program recommended by Italconsult for improving highway maintenance.
This program will involve a major reorganization of the llighway Division
of the Ministry of Works, a large increase in the budget for highway main-
tenance and new investment in equipment and workshops. The proposed in-
crease in capital and current expenditure in the program would gradually
improve road conditions to reasonable standards. The addit-ional expendi-
ture would yield a satisfactory rate of return of over 30%, as a result
of savings in vehicle operating costs. The Government has agreed on de-
tailed arrangements for implementing the program, including a time sched-
ule and the provision of local funds.
vi.        The total cost of the ptoject, including contingencies, is esti-
mated at US$11.4 million equivalent. The total cost of Part I is estimated
at US$10.0 million, including a foreign exchange component of US$7.2 mil-
lion equivalent to be financed by the Bank Group. The award of construc-
tion contracts and procurement of mechanical equipment wil:L be based on
international competitive bidding.  Feasibility studies, detailed engi-
neering and supervision of construction will be carried ouit by consultants.
The inclusion of detailed engineering for the Bo-Kenema road and the
Freetown-Waterloo road (rural section) would involve retroactive finaac-
ing, not exceeding US$350,000.  The Ministry of Works would have overall
responsibility for executing and administering the project.
vii.       The project as a whole would yield a weighted average rate of
return of about 24%. It would corstitute a suitable basis for an IDA
credit of US$3.5 million equivalent on the usual terms, together with a
Bank loan of US$3.7 million equivalent, for a term of 22 yeaars, inclulding
a grace period of four years. Disbursements will be made from the credit
until it is exhausted, and thereafter from the loan. The Credit and Loan
would be made to the Government.



SIERRA LEONE
APPRAISAL OF A FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This would be the First Highway Project to be financed by the
Bank Group in Sierra Leone. The Bank has however been involved in the
transport sector since 1966, when it agreed to act as Executing Agency
for the UNDP financed Land Transport Survey carried out by Italconsult
(Italy). The main objectives of the Survey were to examine the feasibi-
lity of rehabilitating the Government-owned Sierra Leone Railway (SLR),
to review the road transport system, and to prepare programs for highway
improvement and maintenance.
1.02      The principal findings of the survey, which have been accepted
in principle by the Government, include: (i) the closing down by the end
of 1972 of the Sierra Leone Railway, which has been incurring losses of
about Le 1.0 million (US$1.2 million) annually; (ii) an investment pro-
gram for improving the more important roads; a-ad (iii) a comprehensive
program for improving highway maintenance. Thie recommended highway in-
vestment program gave first priority to the improvement of four sections
(Bo-Kenema, Taiama-Bo, Lunsar-Matotoka and Freetown-Waterloo) of the two
main trunk roads from Freetown into the interior. As part of the Survey,
Italconsult prepared feasibility studies of the four sections, except for
the urban section of the Freetown-Waterloo road for which no funds re-
mained under the UNDP allocation. The recommended maintenance program
would involve reorganization of the Highway Division of the Minsitry of
Works, including its field offices, an investment program for mechanical
equipment and workshops, a substantial increase in budgetary allocations
for highway maintenance, and technical assistance to the Ministry of Works
for carrying out the program. Italconsult is setting up a training pro-
gram for supervisory and technical staff.
1.03      The project would be in line with the recommendations of the
Land Transport Survey and would comprise under Part I: construction of
the Bo-Kenema Road (43 mi.); the detailed engineering, with retroactive
financing, of the Bo-Kenema road and of the rural section of the Freetown-
Waterloo Road (18 mi); and the purchase of mechanical equipment for high-
way maintenance; under Part II: a feasibility study of the urban section
of the Freetown-Waterloo road, to be followed by detailed engineering (if
found to be justified); and the provision of technical assistance for the
reorganization of the Highway Division of the Ministry of Works and the
improvement of highway maintenance. Part I is proposed for Bank/IDA fi-
nancing, and UNDP has provisionally agreed to finance Part II.
1.04      This appraisal is based on the studies and engineering referred
to above and on the findings of a Bank Group aplpraisal mission to Sierra
Leone consisting of Messrs. Morris (engineer), Rowat and Wouters (econo-
mists), and Kesson (railway consultant), in February/Uarch 1970.



- 2 -
2. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Sierra Leone, an independent country within the British Conr-
monwealth since 1961, is situwted on the west coast of Africa, between
Guinea to the west and north, and Liberia to the south.  With an areaL of
28,000 sq. mi., it is one of t:he smaller West African countries, roughly
equal in size to Panama or Ceylon. The terrain presents no special bar-
riers to transport. Nearly 70% of the country has an elevation of less
than 1,000 ft., though the north Ls more mountainous with peaks rising to
8,000 ft.  The coastal areas have higher humidity and temperatures than
the interior plateaus and mountainious regions.
2.02      The population of 2 .5 mLllion is growing at about 2% p.a.,
somewhat lower than the West African average. It is faiLrly evenly dis-
tributed except for the more sparsely populated nothern region. About.
10% of the total live in towns of 10,000 or more people, including about
180,000 in Freetown, while three-quarters of the working population is
engaged in agriculture.
2.03      The land, although not of exceptional quality., is for the mCost
part arable; the northern regions offer good grazing grounds for catt].e.
Production is mostly in the hamds of individual farmers on a smallholder
basis; only a few large plantations have been developed..  Production is
rudimentary, and mostly limited to subsistence crops.  Agricultural pro-
duction accounts for about one-th:Lrd of GDP and about 10% of total exTorts,
mainly palm kernels, cocoa, coffee, cassava and ginger.
2.04      Sierra Leone has sonie valuable minerals, principally diamonds,
mostly of gem quality, rutile (titanium dioxide), iron ore and bauxite.
Diamonds alone account for about 60% of total exports. Mineral producc-
tion as a whole accounts for 20% of GDP and almost 90% of total exports.
Manufacturing is still in an i nfant stage, consisting mainly of assembly
and simple processing carried out in small shops.
2.05      Although Sierra Leone has an open economy, trade relations with
other African states are limit:ed principally because their economies are
non-complementary. The country's most important trade partners are the
United Kingdom and other industrial countries.
2.06      During the past decade, the economy has developed at an average
rate of about 5% p.a., primarily as a result of a rapid expansion in nLin-
ing while agricultural production has barely kept pace with the increase
in population.  Transport has been a dynamic sector of the economy.  In-
flation, which was prevalent in previous years, has been curbed as a re-
sult of the successful implementation of a stabilization program prepaLred
with the assistance of the IMP.  At present, GNP per capita is estimated
at about US$135. Because of the dual nature of the economy, a dynamic



-3-
mining sector on the one hand and a large undeveloped agricultural sector
on the other, this figure exaggerates the living standard of most of the
population.
B. The Transport Sector
2.07      The focal point of the transportation network is Freetown, the
capital and most important administrative and commercial center as well
as the country's main port. From Freetown, the network radiates into the
interior to the most important population and production centers. Traf-
fic up-country consists primarily of manufactured goods, building mate-
rials and fuels, principally to the mining areas in the east. Freight
traffic from the interior towards Freetown consists mainly of agricultural
produce for export (palm kernels, coffee and cocoa).
2.08      The transport network consists of about 5,000 mi of roads (ex-
cluding tracks), a few inland waterways which are navigable during the
three month rainy season, the Sierra Leone Rai:Lway (SLR), and a short,
privately-owned mineral railway. The network has serious deficiencies.
The waterways are of very limited use, the SLR has outlived its useful
economic life, most of the road network is unplanned, suffers from poor
maintenance, and many roads are below standard for present needs.
2.09      Following the recommendations of the Land Transport Survey and
related studies, (paras. 1.01 and 1.02), the Government has decided to
phase out the SLR, to improve the country's main highways, and to raise
highway maintenance to a reasonable level. The! Government is already
looking beyond the Survey and has recently commissioned, from its own
resources, consultants to carry out further feasibility studies to de-
termine additional road improvements needed for the country's develop-
men t.
C. Railways
2.10      Sierra Leone has two railways:  (i) tlhe Sierra Leone Railway
(SLR), owned and operated by the Government and (ii) the Sierra Leone
Development Company (DELCO) railway (56 mi long), privately owned and
operated by the company for transporting iron ore from its mine near
Lunsar to the company port at Pepel.
2.11      The SLR is operated as a Government department within the Min-
istry of Transport and Communication. In 1968/69, the SLR employed about
2,000 people, and carried 620,000 passengers and 40,000 tons of freight.
(Annex ; and Tables 1 and 2). A recent supplementary study under the
Land Transport Survey proposes a more detailed program for closing the
main line and disposing of all assets by the end of 1972; the Government
is arranging to alleviate the effect on staff byt re-training, re-employ-
ment and special severance benefits. During negotiations the Government
gave assurances that it would close down the SLE' by the end of 1972 in
accordance with this program and an agreed time schedule.



-4-
2.12      The SLR will require technical assistance to help implement
the phasing-out program, especially to prepare in detail and to direct:
(i) severance arrangements for personnel; (ii) the disposal of assets;
and (iii) the closing of accounts., The British Government has agreed in
principle to provide this technical assistance.
D. Ports
2.13      The Sierra Leone Port Authority, which is a public corporation
established in 1964, controls and manages the country's main port, in
Free town, and two smaller ports, one at Bonthe, about 80 miles south of
Freetown, and thle other at Su]ima, near Liberia.  DELCO manages its own
port at Pepel, about 15 miles up the Sierra Leone River from Freetown,
for the export of iron ore (para. 2.10). This enclave port is capable
of handling ore carriers of up to 100,000 tons. Its annual oul:put is
2.0 - 3.0 million tons.
2.14      The Port Authority is completing a major expansion of quay facil-
ities in Freetown port, at a cost of Le 10.8 million (US$13.4 million equiv-
alent), with contractor financing. The port handles a variety of goods;
it now has seven berths, with modern cargo handling equipment, including
facilities for palm kernel oil and grains, an oil jetty,, and a jetty for
handling frozen fish.  About ],500 vessels dock annually; total cargo
handled averages between 0.8 -C 0.9 million tons p.a. (Table 3).
2.15      Bonthe is a small lighterage port, mainly for exports of palm
kernels, piassava and some girbger. An anchorage nearby in the Sherbrc
river channel is used for loacding rutile and bauxite brought 18 miles
downriver on barges. The port: of Sulima consists of an open roadsteadL;
loading is carried out by surfboat:s. Its importance has been steadily
declining and the present volume of cargo is very small.
2.16      As a result of increased port charges and the introduction of
cost accounting in 1967, the Authority has been able to reverse previous
deficits; it earned a profit of LA 0.9 million during the 18 months enrd-
ing June 1969.
E. Air Transport
2.17      Sierra Leone is served by 12 international carriers, mainly for
passenger service; air cargo amounts to only about 500 tons annually. The
international airport is situated at Lungi, about two hours travel by car
and ferry on the opposite side of the estuary from Freetown. A small do-
mestic carrier provides air connections from Hastings, near Freetown, to
a few points in the interior.
F. Transport Policy and Coordination
2.18      The Ministry of Tralnsport and Communications is primarily re-
sponsible for initiating and iLmplementing transport policy; it also nmn-
ages the SLR and the country's airports, and exercises overall supervision



- 5 -
of the Freetown Port Authority and the Road Transport Corporation.  The
latter is a public corporation, with an autonomous budget and management,
operating bus and other road transport services in the greater Freetown
area. The Ministry exercises control of road transport through the Road
Traffic Act of 1964, which provides in a satisfactory manner for vehicle
registration, licensing and the highway code. The Act also determines
specific responsibilities and jurisdictions of other public agencies or
Government departments.
2.19      Following the recommendations of the Land Transport Survey,
Sierra Leone has recognized the importance of road transport for the
country's economic development, and is prepared to allocate larger re-
sources for new highway investments as well as for highway maintenance.
Closure of the SLR will eliminate a source of subsidized competition for
road transport. Entry into road transport is relatively free and compe-
tition is keen. For these reasons, road transport is expected to be a
dynamic growth sector.
2.20      Revenues from road user charges are rnot clearly identifiable
but are roughly estimated to exceed the Le 5.0 million p.a. currently
being spent on highway construction, administrattion and maintenance.
They are expected to continue to exceed future maintenance requirements
and the local expenditures of the Government on road construction and
improvement. The Government has agreed that, in order to improve the
quality of data, it will review the level and structure of road user
charges as part of its general obligation to collect and record basic
data for highway planning.
2.21      One major policy issue, which will have to be settled soon,
concerns the Road Transport Corporation (para. 2.18). The Corporation
has continuously incurred substantial losses since its establishment in
1964 and does not have the necessary financial resources to renew urgent-
ly needed equipment to continue operations. The Government will have to
decide whether the Corporation should continue to exist and, if so,
whether the scope of its activities should be reduced, maintained, or
expanded. A suggestion has been made to expand the Corporation's services
to upcountry areas as a means of employing a large number of laid-off
railway personnel. Such an expansion does not appear to be justified,
at least not until the Corporation gives evidence that it can compete
effectively with the private sector. The Government recognizes that:
(i) the Corporation needs reorganization and strengthening; and (ii)
comprehensive technical, commercial and economic studies should be under-
taken before a decision is made to expand the activities of the Corpora-
tion into new areas; to assist the Corporation hn these tasks, the Gov-
ernment has obtained technical assistance from the Federal Republic of
Germany.



-6-
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. The Highway Network
3.01      The main highway network (Class I), consisting oE 330 mi of
paved roads and 1,400 mi of gravel roads, carries about 90% of total
traffic. This network has Freetourn as a focal point and ruans in a gen-
erally east-west direction, linking Freetown with the principal areas of
agricultural production and diamond mining. The paved roads are mostly
located in the greater Freetown area, but the Government iS currently
carrying out a program of constructing with a bituminous, surface the un-
improved sections of the country's two main trunk roads, from Freetown,
via Mile 47, to Kenema and to Sefadu.
3.02      The country also has a secondary road network (Class II) con-
sisting of 3,400 mi of low standard gravel or earth roadcs. This second-
ary network carries only 10% cf total traffic.
B. Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.03      Sierra Leone had approximately 16,000 vehicles in circulation
at the end of 1969, having quadrupled its vehicle population in 10 years;
over half are registered in Freetown (Table 4). About 50% of total ve-
hicles belong to medium and large firms (mining companies, etc.). The
principal goods moved by road are: palm kernels, petroleum products,
rice, and firewood, which combinecd account for over half of total road
tonnage (Table 5).
3.04      The Road Traffic Regulat:ions, issued tnder the 11960 Road Traffic
Act, limit the gross weight of vehicles to 5-1/2 tons and the maximum axle
load to 4 tons. The Government is not strictly enforcing these limits as
it recognizes that they are unduly restrictive, and has undertaken to
review and revise the Road Traffic Regulations and implement them in ac-
cordance with an agreed time schedule.
C. Highway Administration
3.05      The MOW is responsible for the construction, maintenance and
administration of the main network and for advising the District Councils
and certifying their work on secondary roads.  The MOW is also responsi-
ble for Government buildings and other public works.  In headquarters,
separate divisions are responsible for the main activities: roads, build-
ings, and water supply. They rely jointly on other divisions for auxiliary
services such as personnel, accounts, mechanical equipment and stores. In
the field, the MOW has six offices, each headed by an Area Engineer (see
Chart), who is responsible to headquarters for carrying out maintenance
and minor construction. Execution of major construction is handled by
headquarters with the assistance of consultants.



-7-
3.06      As part of the Land Transport Survey, Italconsult has undertaken
a study of the MOW organization, operations, and administration concerned
with roads. Its report reveals deficiencies, chiefly concerning highway
maintenance, and recommends a number of remedial measures, of which the
following are the most important:
(i) increasing the engineering staff, mainly in the Area
offices;
(ii) improving the Area organizations for highway maintenance;
(iii)  improving financial control by setting up specific budget
subheads and accounts for roads (separating them from
those for other activities of the Ministry), and their
subdivision into items for maintenance (routine, periodic
and special), minor improvements and construction;
(iv)   preparing and executing detailed programs for highway
maintenance and increasing budgetary provisions to
finance them;
(v) replacing worn-out mechanical equipment and improving
mechanical workshops and road maintenance depots;
(vi)  setting up an "Equipment Pool" to imqrove the management
and utilization of MOW mechnical equiLpment, including
the financing of repairs and replacement from funds
derived from hire charges; and
(vii) providing technical assistance to the MOW.
3.07      The Government has undertaken to implement the above recommenda-
tions in accordance with an agreed program and timetable. It has already
recruited additional highway engineers in the MOW headquarters, and in-
creased its highway maintenance budget for 1970-71 by about 40%.
3.08      Under the Land Transport Survey, Italconsult is assisting the
MOW to set up an in-service training program for supervisory and techni-
cal staff in the Ilighways and Mechanical Divisions. Instructors are
presently being trained and the courses are expected to start late in
1970.
D. Highway Planning and Engineering
3.09      Proposals for highway projects are drafted initially by the MOW
and considered by an inter-ministerial commitee, (which includes repre-
sentatives of the Ministries of Finance, Development, Transport and
Communications, Works, and the Economic Advisor as chairman). Agreed
programs are then presented by the Minister of Finance to the Cabinet,
and eventually to the House of Representatives.



- 8 -
3. 10     The Government has prepared a Five-Year Road Development Pro-
gram, 1970/71 - 1974/75 (Table 6).! totalling Le 31 million (US$37 mil-
lion). This program is based largely on the traffic analyses and other
studies and the recommendations of the Land Transport Survey.  Feasibil-
ity studies and detailed engineering by consultants have been completed
on four of the road sections in the program, and are in progress on a
fifth.  The Government is also commissioning consultantEs for the prepara-
tion of the remaining section in the program, as well as some other roads
identified in the Land Transport Survey as part of a second Five-Year
Program.
3.11      Traffic counts are taken by the MO1W twice a year on main roa,ds.
The counts are not reliable because they are taken by largely untrained
staff, in places where traffic: may not be representative for the entire
road section in question.  Furthermore, the processing and analysis of
these counts has been neglected and they have been of little value in
planning maintenance and investment. One of the purposes of the techni-
cal assistance to be provided under the project, with UNDP financing,
(paras 4.02 and 4.12) is to inmprovre the collection and processing of
basic data for highway planning.
3.12      The design standards usebd by the MOW and their consultants for
Class I roads in rural areas are shown in Table 7.  These are reasonable
for the roads currently being considered by the Government for construc-
tion, including the project roads.
E.  Highway Construction
3.13      No domestic contractors are capable of undertaking substantial
works. Major road construction projects are carried out: by foreign firms
under unit price contracts, usually awarded after competitive bidding.
German, French, British, and Lebanese contracting firms are working in
Sierra Leone; other foreign contracting firms are registered with the
Government but not currently operating. Mechanical equipment and vehi-
cles are admitted duty free for ime on Government contracts, but if not
reexported or handed over to the Government at the end of the contract,
duty must be paid on the deprecial:ed value. The MOW undertakes mainte-
nance and minor road improvement works with its own staif.
F. Highway Maintenance
3.14      Road maintenance is presently inadequate.  Most of the existing
paved roads are due, or overdue, Eor resealing; some sections have marly
potholes and extensive failures w:Lll develop unless resealed soon. Gravel
roads are becoming increasingLy suinken and badly drained and the need. for
their substantial reshaping and regraveling is becoming more acute.  Very
little such periodic maintenance has been carried out in recent years.
3.15      Engineering supervision will be improved by introducing spe-
cialist highway engineers under the Area Engineers.  Field supervisors
are adequate in number but they are not sufficiently trained and should



- 9 -
attend the relevant in-service training courses when established (para.
3.08). The labor force will be organized in gangs on a district and
sub-district basis.
3.16      Budgetary allocations for road maint:enance have declined from
Le 1.2 million in 1963-64 to Le 0.7 million in 1969-70, whereas they
should have increased to take account of rising costs and increasing
traffic volumes (Table 8). The Land Transport: Survey recommends that
the annual allocations should be increased to Le 1.4 million in the
first year, and to Le 1.8 million in the fifth year, of a five-year pro-
gram for improving highway maintenance (Table 9). These budget estimates
are based on a detailed assessment of maintenance requirements on four
road sections, typical for the main road network. These estimates are
reasonable but will be refined when the detailed annual maintenance pro-
grams are prepared (para 3.06).
3.17      The mechanical equipment of the MOW, though sufficient in quan-
tity, is largely worn out; 90% is over 5 years old and 50% over 10 years
old. Financing for its replacement is dependent on annual provisions in
the Development Budget; these have been inadequate for many years. There
has also been insufficient provision (in the Recurrent Budget) for purchase
of spare parts. The Land Transport Survey recommends investing Le 3 mil-
lion, over a 4 year period, in essential equipment, with an initial stock
of spare parts, and in workshops and depots (Table 10).
G. Highway Financing
3.18      Table 8 shows the funds allocated during the past seven years
for road construction and maintenance. The figures for maintenance are
estimates, because the allocations, and accounits, for this purpose have
not been separated, since 1963-64, from those for maintenance of other
public works. No complete information is avaiLable on the funds being
allocated to the District Councils (through the Ministry of the Interior)
for maintenance of Class II roads, but they are estimated to be presently
a maximum of Le 150,000 annually.
3.19      The Government expects that total expenditure on highway main-
tenance and construction during the period 1970/71 - 1974/75 will amount
to about Le 40 million (US$ 48 million), practically double the amount
spent during the previous five years (Tables 8 and 11). This increase is
based on the recommendations of the Land Transport Survey.
3.20      The Government expects to secure Le 18 million (US$21 million)
in foreign financing and to finance the remainder of Le 22 million (US$26
million) from local resources. Provided the proposed project is approved
for Bank Group financing, the prospects are that the above total of for-
eign financing could be obtained. In recent years a major part of highway
construction was covered by bilateral financial assistance from the Federal
Republic of Germany and the United Kingdom, and by contractor financing.
The latter has been discontinued, but the Federal Republic of Germany has
already agreed to help finance construction of the Lunsar-Makeni road with



- 10 -
a loan of DM 14 million (US$3.8 million), and the Unitecd Kingdom construc-
tion of the Taiama-Bo road wit.h a loan of up to El.8 nillion (US$4.3 mil-
lion).  Foreign financing remains to be found for construction of the
Freetown-Waterloo and Makeni-Matol:oka roads, to be started later in the
program.
3.21      The local resources reqiuired for financing the program appear to
be within the financial capacity of the country, although they are about
twice as large as those spent on highway maintenance and construction during
the previous five years. As explained in the Bank's report entitled "The
Current Economic Position and Prospects of Sierra Leone"' (AW20A, paras 41-52)
Government finances have shown a Large surplus on current account since mid-
1968.  The Government has given assurances that it will allocate adequate
funds for highway maintenance and for carrying out the investment program
for equipment, workshops and mDaintenance depots (Table 11).



4. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The project (see Map) consists of:
Part I. Items to be financed by the Bank/lIDA:
(a)  The Construction of a new primary highway, with
two-lane bituminous paving, inc]Luding supervision
by consultants:
Bo-Kenema                        43 mi
(b) The Detailed Engineering, by consultants of the
following sections of primary highways:
(i)  Bo-Kenema                             43 mi
(ii)  Freetown-Waterloo (rural section)  18 mi
(c) The Purchase of Mechanical Equipment, and Spare
Parts, for highway maintenance.
Part II.  Items to be financed by UNDP:
(d) A Feasibility Study, to be followed by Detailed
Engineering (if found to be Just:Lfied), by consul-
tants, of the following section of primary highway:
Freetown-Waterloo
(urban section)                5 mi
(e) Technical Assistance, by consultants, for the re-
organization of the Highway Division of the Ministry
of Works and the improvement of highway maintenance
operations.
4.02      Only the items included in Part I of the project are proposed
for Bank/IDA financing. For Part II of the project, the UNDP has made
an advance allocation of US$250,000 to help finance expenditures through
June 1971, when the Government's application for financing the balance
of this part of the project is scheduled to be considered. The Bank has
agreed to act as Executing Agency for the UNDP. The items to be financed
by UNDP have been included in the project because they are essential for
carrying out the part to be financed by the Bank/IDA (paras 4.11 and 4.12).



-- 12 -
B. Construction
4.03      The proposed new highway would provide a more direct route be-
tween Bo and Kenema, the second and third largest towns in Sierra Leone.
It will also complete the main trunk road between Freetotwn and Kenema
since the remaining unpaved link between Taiama and Bo is to be construct-
ed, also on a new direct alignment, with UK financial assistance (para.
3.20).
4.04      The existing Bo-Keneima road (61 mi) follows a roundabout route
via Koribundu.  It is narrow, sunken, poorly drained, and in a number of
places badly aligned.  For most of its length (38 mi) it is unpaved, mluddy
in wet weather, particularly in a number of low lying areas, and corrugated
in dry weather. The remaining length (23 mi) has received a thin bitu:ia-
nous surfacing, but it has inadequate strength; it has many potholes re-
quiring constant maintenance and some sections are likely to disintegrate
rapidly.
4.05      The new Bo-Kenema alignment is parallel with the SLR, which is
to be closed down (see Annex). Between Bo and Blama it follows an entire-
ly new route, forming the third side of a triangle with the existing road
via Koribundu; between Blama and Kenema it will replace the existing road.
The project includes 17 new bridges, the largest being 578 ft long over
the Sewa River. The new highway wrill be 18 mi shorter than the existing
route. Table 7 shows the principal design standards, which are satisfac-
tory.
C. Detailed Engineering
4.06      Feasibility studies of the Bo-Kenema road (43 mi) and the rural
section (18 mi) of the Freetown-Waterloo road were undertalken by Italconsult
in 1967-68 as part of the Land Transport Survey.  To enable a proposed con-
struction project to be prepared quickly, the Bank agreed to consider in-
cluding retroactive financing of t:he detailed engineering in a possible
Bank loan or IDA credit for cconstruction. The Government then engaged
two consulting firms, accepted. by the Bank, Italconsult (Italy) for
Bo-Kenema and the joint venture Walter-Davies (Germany/'Sierra Leone) for
Freetown-Waterloo (rural section),, The amount of retroactive financing
would be limited to a maximum of US$350,000.
4.07      On the Bo-Kenema road the detailed engineering has been satis-
factorily completed and the estimates of construction cost appear reasona-
ble.  For the Freetown-Waterlc'o road (rural section), however, a substan-
tial reduction in construction cost could be achieved, without significantly
reducing the benefits to road useirs, by varying the alignment. The Gcov-
ernment has been advised that the Bank would consider financing the for-
eign exchange cost of the detailed engineering of the Bo-Kenema road and
also of the Freetown-Waterloo road provided the designs for the latter are
satisfactorily revised. The Government has arranged for the consultants
to revise the detailed engineering as suggested by the Bank.



- 13 -
D. Mechanical Equipment for Highway Maintenance
4.08      The mechanical equipment for highway maintenance is in very poor
condition and most is already beyond its economic life (para. 3.17). Table
12 shows the main items of new equipment to be purchased under the project,
to enable highway maintenance to be carried out at an adequate level.
4.09      The estimated cost CIF Freetown, all in foreign exchange, would
be Le 1.2 million (US$1.5 million), including an initial stock of spare
parts. In addition, there would be a small local currency cost for han-
dling, assembly and delivery. The purchases would be made over a period
of three years, but about half of the equipment should be available by
mid 1972, when the proposed Equipment Pool is scheduled to be in operation
(para. 3.06).
E. Feasibility Study (and possible Detailed Engineering)
4.10      The feasibility study of the Freetown-Waterloo road, carried out
as part of the Land Transport Survey, did not cover the urban section of
about 5 miles from the central administrative/business district of Freetown
to Kissy. The first half of the urban route is through narrow, largely un-
planned streets which are very congested. The second half (to Kissy) is
a poorly aligned two-lane road which is also congested, carrying between
8,000 ADT (at the start of the downtown area) and 5,000 ADT (at Kissy).
4.11      The project includes a feasibility study, by consultants, of the
urban section to consider alternative locations for constructing a new road,
including the possible use of parts of the right-of-way of the SLR, which
will become available after the railway is cloised down. The consultants will
update the study of the rural section and integrate it with their study of
the urban section. If the study indicates thai: subsequent construction
would be economically justified, as is expected, the detailed engineering
of the best alternative route would also be carried out by consultants as
part of the project. This feasibility study/detailed engineering has been
included in the project not only because the irnprovement appears necessary
but also because it is essential to obtain optiLmum benefits from the improve-
ment of the rural section, the detailed engineering of which is included in
Part I of the project.
F. Teclnical Assistance
4.12      The project includes the provision of technical assistance to the
Ministry of Works for implementing the recommendations in the Land Transport
Survey (para 3.06). Five experts would be provided by a consulting firm,
for periods of between two and three years. This assistance has been in-
cluded in the project because it is needed to ensure optimum utilization
of the mechanical equipment to be purchased under Part I of the project.
G. Cost Estimates
4.13      The cost estimates for construction have been prepared by consul-
tants on the basis of quantities calculated after completing detailed en-
gineering, and of unit prices obtained from contracts awarded for similar



- 14 -
work after international bidding in 1967, adjusted to cover cost increases
to early 1970.
4.14      The cost estimates for consultants' services for:  (i) the de-
tailed engineering of the Bo-Kenema and of the Freetown-Waiterloo Road (ru-
ral section), and (ii) the supervision of construction of ithe Bo-Kenema
Road, have been derived from existing contracts between the consultants
and the Government. The cost estimates for consultants' services for. (iii)
the feasibility study, and subsequent detailed engineering if found to be
justified, of the Freetown-Waterloo Road (urban section), and (iv) tehinical
assistance to the Ministry of Works, have been based on esitimated man-months
of work.
4.15      The cost estimates for the purchase of mechanicaL equipment 'have
been prepared by consultants after assessing the equipment needed by the
Ministry of Works for highway maintenance and the size and condition of the
existing mechanical equipment fleet; their assessment, and cost estimates,
are considered reasonable.
4.16      The total cost of the project is estimated at Le 9.6 milliona
(US$11.4 million).  The total cost of Part I, to be financed by the Bank/
IDA, is estimated at Le 8.4 million (US$10.0 million), including a foireign
exchange component of Le 6.1 million (US$7.2 million). Table 13 shows the
cost estimates in detail; they are summarized below:



- 15 -
Le (millions)        US$  (millions)    Foreign
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Exchange
Part I. Items to be
financed by
Bank/IDA
1.  Construction          1.7    3.1    4.8    2.0    3.8    5.8         65
2. Consultants'
Services for:
(a) Supervision;
and               0.1    0.4    0.5    0.2    0.4    0.6        70
(b) Detailed
Engineering       0.2    0.4    0.6    0.2    0.5    0.7        70
3. Purchase of
Mechanical Equip-
ment for Highway
Maintenance           /1      1.3    1.3    /1      1.5 /2 1.5    100
(of cif price)
4. Contingency
Allowances:
(a) On Item 1, 20%   0.3    0.7    1.0    0.4    0.8    1.2         65
(i) 10% quantity
(ii) 10% price
escalation
(b) On Item 2, 10%   /3      0.1    0.1    /3       0.1    0.1      70
(c) On Item 3, 10%   /1      0.1    0.1    71       0.1    0.1    100
Total of Items to
be financed by
Bank/IDA              2.3    6.1    8.4    2.8    7.2   10.0
Part II.  Items to be
financed by
UNDP
5. Consultants Services
for:
(a) Feasibility Study
and detailed en-
gineering         0.1    0.4    0.5    0.2    0.4    0.6        70
(b) Technical
Assistance        0.2    0.4    0.6    0.2    0.5    0.7        70
6. Contingency Allow-
ance on Item 5, 10%  /3      0.1    0.1    /3       0.1    0.1      70
Total of Items to
be financed by UNDP  0.3    0.9    1.2    0.4    1.0    1.4
Total Project Cost           2.6    7.0    9.6    3.2    8.2   11.4
/1   A small amount for local handling, assembly and transport.
/2   CIF Freetown.
/3   A small amount for local costs.



-- 16 -
4.17      Contingency allowances of 20% for construction and 10% on con-
sultants' services are considered. reasonable. The 20% for construction
comprises 10% for quantities of work and 10% for price increases; the
latter represents an increase of about 4% p.a. for the 2-1/2 years be-
tween March 1970, when the estimates were prepared, and the anticipated
mid-point of the 3-1/2 years construction period; equal price increases
are expected for foreign and local costs.  The 10% for mechanical equip-
ment is for price increases of about 4% p.a. for the average period of
2-1/2 years between early 1970, when the estimates were prepared, and
the shipment of the equipment. Ihe 10% for consultants' services is for
increases in the man-months of work in design and supervision.
4.18      The foreign exchange component of the constructi'on cost is esti-
mated to be 65%; this assumes that the work would be carried out wholly by
foreign contractors since no domestic contractors are adequately quaLified.
The estimated foreign exchange component of consultants' services is 70%.
H. Financing
4.19      The proposed Loan/Credit would be used to meet the estimated
foreign exchange cost of Part I of the project.  The local costs would
be met by the Government and no difficulties are expected in making ade-
quate provision in the budget.  The UNDP has agreed to help finance Part
II of the project (para 4.02).
I. Project Execution, Procurement, and Disbursement
4.20      The Ministry of Works will be in overall charge of the exec:u-
tion and administration of the project, which will be carried out with
the assistance of contractors and consultants as explained below.
4.21      Construction will be carried out through contracts awarded on
the basis of international comapetitive bidding. Feasibility studies,
engineering, and supervision of construction will be carried out by con-
sultants acceptable to the Baik.  The mechanical equipment will be pur-
chased on an international competitive basis.
4.22      The work included in the project is expected to take about 3-1/2
years and, allowing for the arardLng of contracts and making final pay-
ments on completion, disburseraent would take about 4-1/2 years. The f'ore-
cast schedule of disbursements for the individual elements of Part I of
the project is indicated on a quarterly basis in Table 1L4 and is summarized
on an annual basis below:
(in US$ million)
Year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5                Total
1.4           2.2          2.0          1.2          0.4                   7.2



- 17 -
4.23      Disbursements for construction would be made on the basis of:
(a) 65% of the cost of construction works (para. 4.18), (b) the CIF cost
of imported mechanical equipment, and (c) the actual foreign exchange
costs of consultants' services. These disbursements will be made from
the credit, until it is exhausted, and thereafter from the loan.
4.24      Right-of-way for construction of the Bo-Kenema Road would be
acquired by the Government, which has adequate powers for the purpose.
The Government has agreed to secure adequate right-of-way in time for
construction to proceed as scheduled.
4.25      The Non-citizens (Trade and Business) Act of August 20, 1969
prohibits non-citizens of Sierra Leone from opening a new business or
trade without prior written approval of the Government, and requires
non-citizens to cease to operate or participate in certain existing busi-
nesses, including road transport (even for own business), and supply of
stone or sand. The Government has amended the Act so that it does not
apply to contractors, consultants and suppliers of equipment under Bank/
IDA financed projects and has undertaken to make this clear when inviting
bids.



- 18 -
5. 'ECON(MIC EVALUATION
A. General
5.01      Sierra Leone is becomning increasingly dependent on road trans-
port as a prime mover of peoplea and goods (paras. 2.08 and 2.09).  An ef-
ficient and reliable system of low cost road transport services is, there-
fore, vital for the country's economic development.  Such a system does
not now exist, mainly because the roads are generally below standard for
the traffic they have to carry. However, the authorities are now making
great efforts to improve the road network, by both new construction and
better maintenance. The proposed project would support these efforts, in
particular by enabling the Government to complete construction and improve-
ment of the country's main trunk road, Freetown-Waterloo-Bo-Kenema, and
to implement a major program for improving highway maintenance. The
weighted average rate of return on the project would be about 24%, which
is satisfactory.
B. Construction of the Bo-Kenema Road
5.02      The Bo-Kenema road would be the last section to be completed
of the country's main trunk highway between Freetown and Kenema. Bo
(30,000 population) and Kenema (20,000 population) are the second and
third largest towns in Sierra Leone; both are important administrative
and commercial centers.
5.03      The road would serve a relatively densely populated area of
about 500,000 people, largely dependent for their livelilhocod on the exc-
port of diamonds and agricultural products. The area to be! served by t:he
road produces nearly all of the country's cocoa and coffee exports, and
20% of total palm kernel exports, as well as some timber for domestic
use. All of these exports, and a large proportion of the timber, are
transported to Freetown. The reverse flow of goods into the area, mainly
from Freetown, consists largely of fuel and other supplies needed in dia-
mond mining, some construction materials, and about 5,000 tons of rice
p.a.
5.04      The SLR provides the only direct route between Ba and Kenema,
but this route will cease to exist when the railway is clos-ed down, about
the end of 1972. Since there Ls no bridge for road traffic to cross the
Sewa river between Boama and Blama, all road traffic between Bo and Kenema
must take a circuitous road, vLa Koribundu to the south. This circuitous
road is in poor condition (para. 4.04); traffic is sometimes interrupted,
occasionally for several days, during the rainy season.  Engineering anid
economic studies show that the project road would be a better alternat:Lve
than the improvement of the exLsting road mainly because most of the traffic
on the existing road is through traffic for Bo and Kenema and the proJect
road would shorten the distanca between these two cities from 61 miles to
43 miles. The project road would also benefit the villages along the
railway, now being served by low standard roads.



- 19 -
5.05      Table 15 indicates the expected traffic on the proposed road.
The estimates are based on past trends, recent origin and destination
studies, and projections of production of goods and services, and per
capita income, in the zone of influence. In crder to take diverted and
generated traffic into account the estimate for 1969, an average of 400
vehicles per day, assumes that the road had been built, and the railway
closed. The forecasts for later years assume that traffic growth will
gradually decline from about 10% p.a. in the first 10 years to about 7%
in the last ten years of the economic life of the project.
5.06      For calculating the return on investment, only savings in vehi-
cle operating costs and in road maintenance costs are counted as benefits.
The expected unit savings in vehicle operating costs range from 31% for
landrovers to over 40% for passenger cars and heavy trucks (Table 16).
These are consistent with Bank experience in other countries. The above
unit savings do not include any time savings for drivers and passengers
of passenger cars, nor of passengers in buses. Similarly, benefits on
account of greater comfort in travelling and possible reductions in in-
ventory requirements have been disregarded in calculating the rate of
return.
5.07      Based on the most probable estimates of construction costs,
vehicle operating costs, initial traffic and traffic growth, the project
would yield a rate of return of 21%. A sensitivity analysis shows that
this rate would be 18% assuming an increase of 5% in construction cost
combined with a decrease of 10% in the savings of vehicle operating costs,
initial traffic and traffic growth; or 24% assuming a reduction of 5%
in construction cost combined with an increase of 10% in the savings of
vehicle operating costs, initial traffic and tr-affic growth. These rates
indicate that the proposed project would yield satisfactory economic bene-
fits. In view of the expected closure of the railway within the next two
years, the project road ought to be undertaken as soon as possible.
C. Highway Maintenance
5.08      The recommended program for improving highway maintenance (paras
3.14-3.17), including the increase in maintenance budgets (Table 9) and
the investment program for equipment, workshops and depots (Table 10), are
expected to yield considerable savings in vehicle operating costs. These
savings would accrue gradually as the program is being implemented by:
(i) preventing further deterioration of the road network and consequent
further increases in vehicle operating costs; and (ii) gradually improving
road conditions and reducing vehicle operating costs. Table 16 shows the
unit vehicle operating cost savings expected in the seventh year; they
range from 10% on paved roads to 28% on gravel roads. These units savings
correspond to Bank experience elsewhere for sinmlar projects.
5.09      Based on the most probable estimates of maintenance costs and
benefits, the proposed maintenance program would yield a rate of return
of 31%, or a Benefit/Cost ratio of 1.23 using a discount rate of 12%,
and assuming that the average economic life of ithe equipment is 7 years



- 20 -
(Table 17). A sensitivity test indicates that a 10% increase in costs
combined with a 10% reduction in benefits would reduce the rate of return
to 14% and the Benefit/Cost ratio to 1.02. Alternatively, assuming a 10%
decrease in costs combined with a 10% increase in benefits rate of return
would be 51%, with a Benefit/Cost ratio of 1.52.
5.10      Thus, even on very conservative assumptions, the recommended
program would yield satisfactory benefits. Furthermore, if the program
is not implemented, the country would have to devote considerable resources
in a few years to rehabilitate the network; otherwise the roads would be-
come impassable. These rehabilitation expenditures, which would be avoided
if the maintenance program is implemented, have not been counted as bene-
fits in calculating the above rates of return and benefit/cost ratios.
The recommended program is, therefore, amply justified.
D. Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering
5.11      The project includes a feasibility study and detailed engineer-
ing for improving the Freetown-Waterloo road (paras. 4.06, 4.07, 4.10 and
4.11).  Italconsult, in the Land Transport Survey, recommenlded the improve-
ment of this road as being of high priority. The road carries the heaviest
traffic in the country and serves the capital and main port, as well as the
country's foremost industrial area, which is rapidly developing. The urban
section of this route, from the administrative/business center of Freetown,
consists of narrow, heavily congested city streets.  The! ruaral section con-
sists of a poorly aligned, two-lane paved road, parts of which are also
congested. Preliminary investigations suggest acceptable rates of return
on construction of these sections of roads, and the proposed studies and
engineering for completing the preparation of a project aplpear fully jus-
tified.



- 21 -
6. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations, the Government gave assurances that
it will:
(i) close down the SLR by the end of 1972, in accordance
with an agreed program and time schedule (pars. 2.11);
(ii) review the level and structure of road user charges
as part of its general obligation to collect and
record basic data for highway planning (para. 2.20);
(iii) review and revise road traffic regulations, and im-
plement them in accordance with an agreed time schedule
(para. 3.04);
(iv) implement the principal recommendations for improving
highway administration and maintenance in accordance
with an agreed program and timetable (paras. 3.06 and
3.07); and
(v)  provide adequate funds for highway maintenance and
investment in highway maintenance equipment, workshops
and depots (para. 3.21).
6.02      With the assurances indicated above, the project constitutes a
suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$3.5 million equivalent, on the
usual terms, and a Bank loan of US$3.7 million equivalent, for a term of
22 years, including a 4-year grace period.



I                                                         ,          .                        .                      I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .



ANNEX
SIERRA LEONE - FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Sierra Leone Railway (SLR)
1.        The main line of the SLR was built between 1896 and 1908 to open
up the interior of the country. The SLR is a single track system with an
overall length of 310 miles, consisting of a main line 227 miles from Free-
town to Pendembu in the east, with a branch line 83 miles long, running in
a northerly direction (see Map). The lines were built with narrow gauge,
(0.76 m; 2'-6"), and have sharp curvature and steep gradients to follow the
old caravan routes and for cheapness of construction. The SLR is operated
as a Government department within the Ministry of Transport and Communica-
tions. It has been the largest employer in the country with a staff in
1964/65 of 3,100, now reduced to about 2,000.
2.        Traffic volume reached a peak in 1960/61, but has since declined
by about 75% due to declining efficiency and increasing road competition.
In 1968/69, the SLR carried 620,000 passengers and 40,000 tons of freight
(Table 1). At present, the output in traffic units per employee is about
10,000, which is extremely low.
3.        Until 1950, SLR revenues were on average sufficient to cover oper-
ating expenses, but not depreciation or capital, costs (Table 2). There-
after, operating expenses each year exceeded revenues, despite new invest-
ments of about Le 7.0 million (US$8.4 million) by the Government in track
and equipment during the period 1954-1964. The ratio of operating expendi-
ture (excluding depreciation) to revenue has increased from 105 in 1950 to
357 in 1968/1969. Personnel expenses, which currently average about Le 1.2
million per year (US$1.4 million equivalent) are almost three times as high
as total revenue. The SLR has received in recent years a Government subsidy
averaging Le 1.0 million p.a. (US$1.2 million).
4.        The Land Transport Survey (paras. 1.01 and 1.02) included a fea-
sibility study to determine whether the SLR should be retained. The study
concluded that over the next ten years road transport would be more eco-
nomical than rail transport, even assuming: (i) technical reorganization
of the SLR; (ii) reduction and retraining of ra:Llway personnel; (iii) min-
imum new investment in railway equipment; and (iLv) maximum recapture of
traffic. Discounted total transport costs by eiLther road or rail indicated
that railway transport would cost about three tiLmes as much as road trans-
port. The study, therefore, recommended that the SLR should be closed, and
that the country should concentrate on improving the road network and road
transport in the area served by the railway.
5.        The Government decided in 1967 to phase out the railway over a
number of years, not then precisely defined. The branch line to the north
(para 1) was closed to public traffic in 1969 and is being dismantled.
Meanwhile, the consultants for the Land Transport Survey have completed
a further study, outlining a more detailed program for closing the main



ANNEX
Page 2
line and laying off staff and dispoosing of assets by the end of 1972.
The Government has accepted the consultants' recommendat:ions and aims
to mitigate the effects on railway staff through re-employment in other
branches of Government, retraining, and the provision of special sever-
ance benefits. To implement the phasing out program, the SLR will re-
quire technical assistance, especially in providing for. (i) severance
arrangements for personnel; (ii) t:he disposal of assets; and (iii) the
closing of accounts.



SIERRA LEONE - FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Sierra Leone Railw2yj  Traffic Data,. 135  -968/69
Year                1950   1960/61   1961/62   1962/63   1963/64   1964/65   1965/66   1966/67   1967/68   1968/69
Passenger Nos.
(mill)            1.0     1.9        1.8       1.6      1.3       0.9        o.6      0.5        0.7       0.6
Passenger Miles
(mill)           24.7   66.0       59.3      54.0      42.0      26.9      14.8      19.6       18.3      16.4
Average Journey
(miles)          24      34        34        34        33        30        27        36        28         26
Freight-Tons
(thousands)     100    128        120       102        82        67         54        47        45        40
Freight-ton miles
(mill)           14.4   20.0       15.5      13.4       11.9       9.7      8.2       6.9        6.5       5.9
Average Haul
(miles)         144    155        129       131       144       143       151       1146       145       146
Traffic Units
(pass. miles &
ton miles mill)     39.1   86.o       74.8     67.4       53.9      36.6      23e0      26.5      24.8      22.3
No. of employees                                          3100                                              2075
Traffic units per
employee
(thousands)                                              17.14                                              10.8
Source: Sierra Teone Railways-



SIERRA LEONE - FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Sierra Leone Railway: Revenue and Expenditure ,-1950-1968/69
(in million of leones)
1950     1960/     1961/      1962/     1963/      1964/     1965/      1967/     1968/
61        62        63         64        65         66        68         69
REVENUE
Passengers                      0.22     0.65       o.66      0.59       0.56      0.42       0.23      0.30       0.22
Freight                         0.59      0.80      0.83       0.73      0.60      0.48       0.40      0.34       0.21
Sundries                        0.03      0.04      0.04      0.09       0.05      0.07       0.07      0.04       0.03
TOTAL                     0.84     1.49       1.53      1.41       1.21      0.97       0.70      0.68      0.46
EXPENDITURE 2
Operating Expenses              0.87     2.11       2.32      2.21       2.16      2.10       1.97      1.68       1.64
OPERATING DEFICIT               0.03     0.62       0.79      0.80       0.95      1.13       1.27      1.00       1.18
Non-Recurrent Expenditure       n.a.      0.07      0.05       0.02      0.05      0.04       0.01        -         -
Loan Charges                    0.09     0.04       0.04      0.04       0.04     o0o4        0.04       -          -
TOTAL GOVERNMENT
CONTRIBUTION                    n.a.     0.73       0.88      0.86       1.04      1.21       1.32      1.00       1.18
Operating Ratio 2/              105       16        152       167        178       217        280       251        357    j-
2/ Figures for 1966/67 are not available
2/ Without allowance for depreciation
Source: Sierra Leone Railway



Table 3
SIERRA LEONE: FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Sierra Leone Ports Authority: Port Traffic, 1965-69
Year                        1965       1966      1967        1968       1969
Volume (thousand tons)
Imports                      383        387       340         342        389
Petroleum products
discharged                260       243        247        292         164
Exports                       78         79        58          76         87
Bunkers                      170        214       223         143        160
TOTAL                   891       923        868        853         800
No. of Vessels             1,614     1,531      1,584       1,h81      1,332
Source: Sierra Leone Ports Authority



Table 4
SIERRA LEONE - FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Registration and Distribution, 1960-59
Year           Cars & Light Vans         Trucks and        Total       Anntial
Buses                     Rate of
Griowth (%
1960                 2,847                  1,317           4,1i6L
1961                 3,483                  1,402          14,885        17-7.3
1962                 4.,260                 1,486          5,746         17.6
1963                 5,205                  1,581          6,786         1.8.0
1964                 6,366                  1,683          8,C049        1.8.6
1965                 7,786                  1,791          9,577         1.8.9
1966                 9,001                  2,078         11,079         1.5.7
1967                10,406                  2,4411        12,817         1.5'.7
1968                12,030                  2,797         11,827         15.7
1969 1              13,900                  3,100         17,000         1.5.0
Geographic Distribution in 1968
Cars & Light        Trucks and
Vans               Buses       Total
Freetown                                    58%                 46%         56%
Kenema                                      12%                17%          13%
Kono                                        14%                15%          14%
Bo                                          12%                17%          13%
Makeni                                       4%                 5%           4%
Estimates
Source:   Ministry of Works.



Table 5
SIERRA LEONE - FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Composition of Goods Hauled by Road in 1968
Percent of
Goods                                     total freight
Palm Kernels                                   14.4
Rice                                           11.8
Firewood                                       10.6
Motor Spirit                                    8.1
Diesel-gas-oil-furnace-oil                      6.0
Cement                                          5.5
Edible Oils                                     5.2
Sugar                                           5.0
Other                                          33.4
TOTAL                100.0
Source: Italconsult, Land Transport Survey.



SIERRA LEONE; FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Development Program, 1970/71 - 1974/75
(in millionsof leones)
Total
Item                    zaa  1/    1970/71      1971/72     1972/73        1973/74        1974/75       1975/-
1.  Taiama-Bo                         5.2          3.1          0.7         0.7            0.5             -           _
2,  Bo-Kenema                         6.3          0.8          1.8         1.8            1.2           o.6
3.  Lunsar-Makeni                     4.9          1.3         1.8          1.7             -              _           _
4. Makeni-Matotoka                    4.1           -            -           -             1.1            1.4         1.4
5.  Freetown-Waterloo
(Rural)                       708         o.5          2.3          2.3           2.3             -
6.  Freetown-Waterloo
(Urban)                       3.0         0.2          0.1          0.1           0.8            0.9         0.9
7.  Feeder Roads                      2.7          0.5         0.5          0.7            0.9             _           _
Total                            34.0          6.4         7.2          7.3            6.8           2.9          2.3
1/ Includes small amolnts previously incurred.
So-urce:  Mlinistry of Finance.                                                                                       L



Table 7
SIERRA LEONE: FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Class I Highways (Rural)
Design Speed                                  50 mph
Minimum Radius of Curvature                 1,000 ft
Maximum gradient                               6%
Maximum length of grade at 6%                 800 ft
Right-of-Way on each side of
center line                                 100 ft
Pavement width                                 22 ft
Shoulder width (not paved)                      5 ft
Axle load                                  20,000 lbs
Structures
Design Loading                            B.S. 153, HA
Source: Ministry of Works



TABLE 8
SIERRA LEONE:  I13T HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway E22n,ditUresj 1963/64-1969/70
(in millions c,f leones)
Highway     1/       Highway
Year           Construction          Maintenance        Administration        Total
1963/64             0.9                  1.2                  0.2              2.3
1964/65             1.2                  1.0                  0.2              2.4
1965/66             3.1                  o.8                  0.2              4.1
i966/67             5.6                  0.9                  C1.2             6.7
1967/68             2.0                  0.8                  0.1              2.9
1968/692(           2.1                  0.8                  0.1              3.0
1969/70-2/          4.3                  0.7                  0.1              5.1
1/   Includes foreign financing.
2/ Budgetary appropriations; data on actual
expenditure are not yet available.
Source:  Ministry of Works



SIERRA IEONE: FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Maintenance Program: Current Expenditures, 1971-76
ANTICIPATED MAINTENANCE PROGRAM                                     BUDGET ESTIMA1TES
Minor
Existing                                                Improvements
Paved         Gravel                                                all Roads &
Paved       Gravel       Roads         Roads        Routine        Periodic      Special      Existing
Year     Roads       Roads     Resurfaced       Sealed     Maintenance    Maintenance   Maintenance  Gravel Roads    TOTAL
----------(approximate mileage)-------------    -------------------(in thousands of leones)---------------------
1971/72   329        l,0O0         30              -           587            667             63             63         1,379
1972/73   339        1,390         35             10           599            681             64            107         1,451
1973/74   354        1,375         40             15           610            697             66            131         1,504
1974/75   374        1,355         45             20           622            712             67            146         1,547
1975/76   528        1,335         45             20           679             830            76            166         1,752
1/  The above budget estimates include materials, fuels, equipment depreciation and maintenance;
and also salaries and other charges, except for supervisory Highway Staff which are estimated
to be 17% of the maintenance budget.   The External Aid element of expatriate staff salaries                            X
has also been excluded.,
Source: Italconsult - Land Transport Survey



TAB1J: 10
SIERR. LE0Ei E:IRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Maintenance Progtram: Capital Expenditures, 1971-75
(in thousands of leones)
Expenditures:                           L971-72      1972-73       1973-74      1974-75
Road Depots                               271          281           202-
New Central Mechanical
Workshops                               100           700          130
New Office for Workshops                   -             13           14
uoentral and Sub-Plant Pool
Yards and Offices                        26             3           -             2
Improvements to Provincial
Mechanical Workshops                     12
Vehicles for Road
Maintenance                             10           151           1.78          84
Equipment for Road
Maintenance                             412           71           1.02          -
Special Maintenance on
Equipment                                28           -             -
Unit Spares                                10            7             7            -
Total                     :L,0o49      1,226           633           86
Source: Italconsult, Land Transport Smuvey



SIERRA LEONE: FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Program:  Total Expenditures and Financing, 1970/71 -_1974/75
(in millions of leones)
Expenditures-                                                          Financing
2/                                                         Foreign            Local
Year       Constructioni             lighway Maintenance          Total           Resources         Resources
Current  3/             4/
Expenditure-    Investment
1970/71        6.4                   1.0             0.1           7.5                4.3              3.2
1971/72        7.2                   1.4             1.0           9.6                h.0              5.6
1972/73        7.3                   1.5             1.2          10.0                4.2              5.8
1973/74        6.8                   1.5             0.6           8.9                4.0              4.9
19714/75       2-9                   1.5             0.1           4.5                1.2              3.3
Total         30.6                   6.9             3.0          40.5                17.7            22.8
1 Excluding expenditure on highway administration, amounting to
Le 0.1 million to ;e 0.2 million per year.
2/ See Table 6
3/ See Table 9
4/ See Table 10
Source: Ministry of Finance and Italconsult, Land Transport Survey.



TABLE 12
SIERBA LEONE: FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Mechanical EquipmenLt and Vehicles to be Purchased
Description                     No.    Estirnulled
Cost
( leonleeL
Motor gradera                    14       270,000
Front end loaders               1J3        0O(O,C(s
Traotora (with dozera)            4        80,'OU0
Rollers                           5        20,000
Miscellaneous small. items                 10,ODO
Tip trucks                      100       500,000
Pick-up trucks                   50       120,000
Spare parts                                50,000
Total                1,250,000
Equivalent, to  US$1,500,000
1/ CIF Freetown
Source: Italconsult, ].and Transport Survey



TABLE 13
SIERRA LEONE: FIRST HIGkAY PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Project
leones (millions)         US$ (millions)         Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Exchange
PART I. Items to be financed
by the Bank/IDA
A.  Construction
1. Bo-Kenema (43 mi)            1.7      3.1     4.8       2.0     3.8      5.8        65
B.  Consultants' Services for:
1. Supervision of
A.1 above                    0.1      0.4     0.5       0.2     0.4      0.6       70
2. Detailed Engineering of:
(a) Bo-Kenema (43 mi) &
(b) Freetown-Waterloo
(Rural Section, 18 mi)  0.2      0.4      0.6      0.2      0.5     0-7        70
Subtotal                 0.3     0.8      1.1      0.4      0.9     1.3
C.  Xechanical Equipment for
Highway Maintenance                      1 l.3?/   1.3     v       1.5?/   1.5        100
(of CIF price)
D.  Contingency Allowance:
(a) On Item A 20%               0.3      0.7     1.0       0.4     0.8      1.2       65
(i) 10% quantity
(ii) 10% price
(b) On Item B 10%                        0.1     0.1               0.1      0.1       70
(c) On Item C 10%               V        0.1     0.1               0.1      0.1      100
___               -      (    of CIF nricon
Subtotal                 0.3      0.9     1.2       -4     1-0      1.4
Total Cost of Items to
be financed by Bank/IDA         2.3      6.1     8.4       2.8      7.2    10.0
PART II   Items to be financed by
IMDP
R.  Consultants' Services for:
1. Feasibility Study and
detailed engineering of
1reetown-Waterloo            0.1      0.4     0.5       0.2      0.4     O.6        70
tUrban SectionDmi
2. Technical Assistance to
Ministry of Works
(160 man-months)            0.2      094     o.6       0.2     0.5      0.7        70
Subtotal                 0.3      0.8     1.1       0.4     0.9      1.3
F. Contingency Allowance:
On Item E 10%                    1       0.1     0.1               0.1      0.1        70
Total Cost of Items to be
financed by UNDP                 0.3     0.9     1.2       0.4      1.0     1.4
Total Project Cost
(Items A through F)                 2.6     7.0     2.6       3        8.2    1
A small amount for local handling, assembly, and transport
j CIT Freetown
A small amount for local costs
Source: Ministry of Works and Consultants



3l3l1PAA LWONE: t'IES?i HIGHWAY FECJECCT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year          1970-71         1971-72               1972-73               1973-74              1974-75
Quarter               3    4    1    2    3    4       1    2    3    4       1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4
Project Category                                                                                                        Total
1. Construction      0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.3   0.3  o.4  o.4  o.h   0.2  0.2  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1   3.8
2. Consultants'
Services for
Engineering and
Supervision       0.4   -   0.1   -   0.1   -    0.1   -   0.1   -    0.1          -    -    -    -    =    -         0.9
3. Mechanical
FEmilinnmPn+ f'nr
Highway Main-
tsnenance- _                      0.1  0.2  0.2   0.2  0.1 0.1 0.1  0n1  n 1  A1  n 1  A 1 _
4. Contingency
Allowance          -    -    -    -    -    -       -   0.1   -   0.1    -   0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.2  0.1  0.1   1.0
Total Disbursements 0.6  0.2  0.3  0.3  0.5  0.5   o.6  0.6  o.6  0.6   o.4  0.4  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.2  0.2   7.2
Undisbursed Balance
at end of Quarter   6=6  6.h  6.1  5 8  5 3  4.8   L 2  3(6  3.0  2.4   2.0  1.6  1.3  1.0  0 7  r0          A 0.2
*ource                                                                                      ...ni'  Estimt



SIERRA LEONE: FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Bo - Kenema (New Road): Estimated Average Daily Traffic, 1969-1993
Projected
Estimated  P/
1969                  1973           1979          1983           1993
Cars                             100                    140            230            313           438
Land Rovers                       16                      22            36             49           104
Light Vans                       161                    244            403            548         1,201
Buses and Lorries                101                     135           163            201           324
Tankers                           21                      37            57             73           144
rVWAT                 399                     578            889         1,184          2,211
1/ Assuming that the new road had been built, and the railway closed.
Source: Walter-Davies/SRDES
14



TABIE 16
SIERRA LEONE: FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Operating;Csts and Savings per Mile
(Leone centss, net of taxes)
A. Bo - Kenema Road                             1/
Existing Road-    Proposed Road    Savings       %
Passenger Cars                      9-65              5.35          4,30       45
Land Rovers                        13.00              8.95         4.05        31
Light Vans                         1J.'90             9.20          5.70       38
Trucks and Buses                   15.50              9.40          6.10       39
Tankers and Heavy Trucks           20.60             12.20          8.40       41
B.  Highway Maintenance   oa
I'aved Roads                      9mvel Roads
At 1968l69  ILt program
level of    ]LeveL of                  WLthout With
expenditure  expenditure  Savings  %  Project Project Savings  %
Passenger Cars           5.90         5.35        0.55  10  :11.00    8.30    2.70  25
Land Rovers              9.85         8-95        0.90  10   144.00   11.95    2.05  15
Light Vans              10.10         9.20        0.90  10   1L6.55   13.25    3.30  20
Trucks and Buses        10.35         9.40        0.95  10   17.50   13.45    4.05  23
Tankers and Heavy
Trucks                13.40       L1.20         1.20  10   24.00   17.30    6.70  28
1/   These cost figures relate to aLL of the existing road sections except
Koribundu -Blama;  the cost estimates for the latter sectian of the
present road vary slightly to reflsect different driving conditions.
2/  Vehicle operating costs in seventh year of maintenance program.
Sources Walter-Davies/SEDES



SIERRA LEONEs FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
1/
Highway Maintenance Program:  Economic Evaluation-
(in millions of leones)
Increasez        Total                      Benefits
Investment      in Current       Increase
Fiscal Year    Bxpenditures    Expenditures       in Costs      Paved Roads   Gravel Roads   Total    Net Benefits
(1)            (2)              (3)        (4)-(2)+(3)          (5)             (6)         (7)     (8)=(7)-(4)
1971/72          1.0              0.5             1.5             0.1             o.4         0.5        -1.0
1972/73          1.2              0.6             1.8             0.2             0.7         0.9        -0.9
1973/74          1.6              0.7             1.3             0.4             1.0         1.4        +0.1
1974/75          0.1              o.8             0.9             0.5             1.3         1.8        +0.9
1975/76           -               1.0             1.0             0.9             1.6         2.5        +1.5
1976/77           -               1.2             1.2             1.1             1.8         2.9        +1.7
1977/78           -               1.4             1.4             1.3             2.1         3.4        +2.0
Economic Rate of Return = 31%
Benefit/Cost Ratio       = 1.23
1/ All costs net of taxes.
2/ Maintenance costs do not include depreciation of equipment.
Source: Italconsult, Land Transport Survey
HJ



I
I
4
I
I



SIERRA LEONE: PROPOSED FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
MINISTRY OF WORKS
EXISTING ORGANIZATION
MINISTER OF WORKS
PERMANENT SECRETARY
PROFESSIONAL HEAD                             GENERAL MANAGER                             .  GENERAL MANAGER
F                                             F                                           ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S. L. ELECTRICITY CORPORATION  OUA VALLEY WATEE SUPPLY]
SENIOR ASSISTANT SECRETARY                                                                               i
DEPUTY PROFESSIONAL HEAD
ASSISTANF    I     PERSONNEL
ISUPECRIEENTA  I IOFMANAGER                                                                                                                                                                                  CHIEF
I GENERALEXECUT vE   I;ISENIORXECUTIVE||SENIORWI )                                                                                             SENIR             SENIOR                                     ACCOUNTANT
IE                                                        E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHTIVE  IENIN IEER                                        CHIFTCHIE
X"UT                                                                                 ENGINEER~~CIR  RCIEC     MCANCL             NINE
STAF  F                PERSR    !1 ONNF  CEL I   !                                                                                                          i                 I
CLPERKSTENDENT      OFFICER 2                                                                                        LABORATO j                          -|       Mo
ueMting        I                     I
j   Bxe7ding6                                                  1                     |~~~~~~I 
CHIEF  ENGINEER   I           | CLERK  OFFICERR 1            I AREA ENGINEER  I            IAREA ENGINEER    I  I AREA ENGINEER  I  I ENAIGNER
IWESTERN(FREETOWN)I   I BO          ISIKE                                         MAKENI         I I  P   LOKO       |  | I IE9Ty
SUC:ITALONUL ...    I5 -T
IORD E4916T(R)
MAY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ II7



,     ,  v         0                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I .      .,         'or                     v



13                      I                                                        N N         'N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAURITANIA
FR...--~ -a                                                                                                    U         J
(  ,,~~~~~r>.           Folabo      ~ ~~~~~~~~~KVOOAF~~~VLT
/   N         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U,N~
Li
t--9 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N'                                                       />q
SIERRA    LEONE    ~~MooONo                         = ,,      M  BURAK                     ) _  '/ NPve rNn    tWkllsl
i~~~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~                                                          ~           ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i1 T II7'  I  A Nolvr
LUNGIN  4 1'  3    p    LR<       I   ~                           MATOTOKA 12~ngbe .                 -     \    zO "SEAD       Invorno--
KABALA70             '                  [                                           13RD 29OU
go ~   ~           ONBAA                 r"    -"                                                          I-koK~W
B-b-~~~~~~~~od                      
9'~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..,
MAKENI ~     ~     ~      ,N(~.              Zrn,        ~       RO    LSS9CTO
SIERR       LEKO No                                               '>VUoeoMN'NolW'lCx  I
ROAD    NETWOR                                                                                                   PR~~IEY U/O,Od D/N~CNConoBURAKA
Scole  of Mies    ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~1                                                                                 CoATOOKAMruc,gliSFAn
NLU0NGI                                                               4                                                                          'dy&Egsen
2'                       12'                                                      N'      4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g.~ I,et,k(,rdI
?cNAY  970                                                                                                                                                                       lODT297



