CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 218 SL
Development Credit
Agreement
(First Highway Project)
BETWEEN
SIERRA LEONE
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 29, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 218 SL
Development Credit
Agreement
(First Highway Project)
BETWEEN
SIERRA LEONE
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 29, 1970


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 29, 1970, between SIERRA LEONE
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested ite Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide additional
assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan
Agreement) the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to three million seven hundred thousand dollars ($3,700,000)
(hereinafter called the Loan);
(C)   The Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable,
that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on
*       account of expenditures on the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of
the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made;
(D)   The Borrower has requested     the United Nations Development
Programme, (hereinafter called the UNDP) to provide a team of experts to give
technical assistance, and to carry out a feasibility study and detailed engineering
for certain parts of the Project and the UNDP has agreed to make an initial
allocation of $300,000 in respect of such request; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the


﻿4
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Section 5.01 thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated
January 31, 1969, as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements
supplemental to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(b)   "SLR" means Sierra Leone Railway, a departmental undertaking of
the Borrower;
(c)   "Italconsult" means Italconsult, a consultant to the Borrower;
(d)   "Road Traffic Regulations" means the regulations under the Road
Traffic Act, 1964, of the Borrower;
(e)   "MOW" means the Ministry of Works of the Borrower, and shall
include any successor thereto;
(f)   "MOW Program" means the program for improving the organization,
operations and functions of the MOW set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
and
(g)   "Leone" and the letters "Le" mean the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million five hundred thousand
dollars ($3,500,000).


﻿5
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1975 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April I and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
April 1 and October 1 commencing April 1, 1981 and ending October 1, 2020,
each installment to and including the installment payable on October 1, 1990,
to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound engineering, administrative and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
engineering, maintenance and management consultants acceptable to the Association


﻿6
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association for the purpose of
supervising the construction of the road included in Part I of the Project, the
detailed engineering included in Parts II and III of the Project and the feasibility
study included in Part III of the Project and to assist in the reorganization of
MOW and in the improvement of its highway maintenance operations included
in Part V of the Project.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Part I of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (i) the
goods and services (other than consultants' services) required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969, and in accordance with such other procedures supplementary
thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement or as shall be agreed
between the Association and the Borrower, and (ii) contracts for the procurement
of all goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
(except as otherwise provided in such Schedule) be subject to the prior approval
of the Association.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit against marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, construction and work schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications or additions thereto, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof


﻿7
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.06. The general design standards and the types of surfacing
(including pavement) to be used for the road included in Part I of the Project
shall be as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such standards shall be
modified from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of the
ministries or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the public highway system of
the Borrower to be adequately maintained and shall cause all necessary repairs
thereof to be made promptly, all in accordance with sound engineering practices
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the foregoing and for carrying out the Highway Maintenance
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be reasonably required
to ensure that the dimensions and axle-loads of vehicles using its public highway
system shall not exceed limits consistent with the structural and geometric design
standards of the roads used.
(c)   The Borrower shall promptly review its Road Traffic Regulations and
shall take all steps necessary, including legislative measures, for the revision thereof
in such a manner that the implementation of the Road Traffic Regulations, as
so revised, shall be achieved, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not
later than December 31, 1971.
(d)   The Borrower shall collect and record on a continuing basis in
accordance with appropriate statistical methods and procedures such technical,


﻿8
economic and financial information as shall be reasonably required for proper
planning of maintenance, improvements and extensions of its highway system.
(e)   The Borrower shall promptly review or cause to be reviewed the level
and structure of road user charges in force in the Borrower's territories.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cease to operate SLR and discontinue SLR's
operations not later than December 31, 1972 in accordance with the phased
program set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall implement the MOW Program substantially in accordance with the final report
of Italconsult.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall acquire all such lands, interests in land
and properties and all rights as may be necessary or proper for the construction
of the road included in Part I of the Project, and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, shall furnish to the Association, evidence satisfactory to the
Association prior to the award of contract for construction thereof that the
Borrower has acquired such lands, interests and rights and that such land is
immediately available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall recruit through arrangements (i) with the
UNDP, or (ii) with other sources acceptable to, and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to, the Association, a technical assistance team for assisting the
Borrower in the execution of Parts III and V of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of the ministries
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and


﻿0                                  9
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of
the ministries or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance
by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.


﻿10
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
That all the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement other than the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
shall have been fulfilled.
Section 8.02. The date February 1, 1971 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.02 (a), (b),
(d) and (e) of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Sution 9.03 of the General
Conlitions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿For the Borrower:
The Financial Secretary
The Ministry of Finance
Freetown, Sierra Leone
Cable address:
Minfin
Freetown
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
SIERRA LEONE
By /s / John J. Akar
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mohamed Shoaib
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of amounts
of such proceeds to each category, and the percentage of eligible expenditures
to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the Loan
Allocated (Expressed in        % of Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)            to be Financed
I.    Construction of about         3,800,000           65% of total expendi-
43 miles of road under                            tUres (such percentage
Part I of the Project                             representing the esti-
mated foreign exchange
component)
II.   Mechanical equipment          1,500,000           100% of foreign expendi-
for highway mainten-                              tures
ance
III.  Consultants' services:                            100% of foreign expendi-
tures
(a)  for supervision of         400,000
construction
(b)  for detailed engi-         500,000
neering of Bo-
Kenema and
Freetown-Waterloo
(rural) roads
IV.   Unallocated                   1000,00
TOTAL        7,200,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any member of the Bank (other than the Borrower) or of Switzerland;


﻿*                                 13
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category III (b) on account of expenditures
incurred after February 1, 1968 in an aggregate amount not exceeding $350,000
equivalent; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such percentage shall be
reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit or of the Loan will be withdrawn
on account of payments for such taxes.
(c)  in addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit shall have been withdrawn
or committed, no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account except under
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan then allocated to such
Category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated by the Association
and by the Bank or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the
Bank, by increasing correspondingly the unallocated amount of the proceeds of
the Credit and of the Loan;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,


﻿14
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association and by the Bank
or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the Bank, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan, subject, however, to the requirements for
contingencies, as determined by the Association and by the Bank or, after full
withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the Bank, in respect of any other
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
set out in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category
I shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan are available for
reallocation to such Category, the Association and the Bank or, after full withdrawal
of all amounts of the Credit, the Bank, may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust
the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under any such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
I.    The construction of a new two-lane bituminous surfaced primary
highway, approximately 43 miles between Bo and Kenema.
II.   The carrying out of the detailed engineering of primary highways:
(a)   approximately 43 miles between Bo and Kenema;
(b)   approximately 18 miles between Freetown and Waterloo (rural
section).
III.  The preparation of a feasibility study and the carrying out of detailed
engineering (if found to be justified) of approximately 5 miles of the urban section
of the primary highway between Freetown and Waterloo.
IV.   Purchase of mechanical equipment and spare parts for highway
. maintenance.
V.    Technical assistance for the reorganization of the Divisions of the
Ministry of Works concerned with highways and for the improvement of highway
maintenance operations.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1974.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts for Highway Construction and Improvement
1.   Prequalification of bidders as described in paragraph  1.3 of the
Guidelines referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement will be used for bidding
on all highway construction and improvement works in Category I of Schedule
1 of this Agreement, and at least forty-five days will be allowed for submission
of prequalification documents.
2.    Bidders will not be required to be registered in Sierra Leone as a
condition to participation in bidding. Should applicable laws or regulations require
registration or other similar formalities of a successful bidder, the Borrower will
furnish such bidder every facility to avoid any possible delay.
3.    Road construction and improvement under Category I of said Schedule
I will be carried out under a single contract on a unit price basis.
4.    Copies of invitations to bid, together with tender documents and a
list of prequalified contractors, will be sent to the Association and the Bank for
their approval before such tender documents are sent to prospective bidders.
Forty-five days will be allowed for submission of bids. Prior to award of any
contract, the Borrower will submit to the Association and the Bank for their
approval the proposed contract, together with an analysis of all bids received and
the consultants' comments and recommendations thereon. If it is proposed to award
any contract to a bidder other than the one quoting the lowest price, the reasons
for such proposal will be stated. A conformed copy of each contract will be
furnished to the Association and the Bank promptly upon its execution and prior
to the submission to the Association and the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit and the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
B.    Contracts for Purchase of Mechanical Equipment for Highway Maintenance
1.   With respect to goods under Category II of said Schedule 1, identical
or similar items of equipment will be grouped together wherever practicable for
purposes of bidding and procurement, and such groupings of items will be submitted
to the Association and the Bank for their approval before inviting bids.
2.    Before inviting bids with respect to goods under Category II of said
Schedule 1, information concerning the advertising coverage as well as the bidding


﻿17
documents will be submitted to the Association and the Bank for tieir approval.
After such approval has been obtained, bids will be invited, and the time interval
between the invitation to bid and bid opening, referred to in Sec.tion 3.1 of the
Guidelines, will be not less than forty-five days.
3.    Before awards of contracts are made with respect to goods under
Category II of said Schedule 1, the Borrower will send to the Association and
the Bank for their approval an evaluation of the bids received and the Borrower's
proposals concerning the contract and the award. Bids shall be evaluated in
accordance with Section 3.7 of the Guidelines, and will take into account the
advantages resulting from the standardization of equipment and the manufacturer's
spares and servicing facilities. If it is proposed to award the contract to other
than the bidder offering the lowest evaluated price, the reason for such an exception
to Section 3.9 of the Guidelines shall be promptly stated to the Association and
the Bank in writing. One conformed copy of each contract for the purchase of
such goods will be sent to the Association and the Bank promptly upon the
execution of the respective contract and prior to the submission to the Association
and the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
and the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards for Project Roads
Road
Design speed                                              50    mph
Minimum radius of curvature                             1,000   ft.
Maximum gradient                                            6   %
Maximum length of grade at 6%                             800   ft.
Right-of-way on each side of center line                  100   ft.
Pavement width                                            22    ft.
Shoulder width (not paved)                                  5   ft.
Axle load                                              20,000   lbs.
Structures
Design loading                                       B.S. 153, HA


﻿*                               19
SCHEDULE 5
Highway Maintenance Program
Current Expenditures and
Investments, 1970/71-1974/75
(in millions of Leones)
Current
Year                       Expenditure*                Investment
1970/71                           1.0                       0.1
1971/72                           1.4                        1.0
1972/73                           1.5                        1.2
1973/74                           1.5                       0.6
1974/75                           1.5                       0.1
Total             6.9                        3.0
*    Excluding expenditure on highway administration estimated to amount to
between Le 0.1 million to Le 0.2 million per year.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 6
Program for the Discontinuation of SLR's Operations
Completion of arrangements by the Borrower
for technical assistance for closure of
the SLR.                                               By December 1, 1970
Closure of services and commencement of
dismantling of railway line from Pendembu
to Kenema.                                             By April 1, 1971
Closure of services and commencement of
dismantling of railway line from Kenema
to Bo.                                                 By January 1, 1972
Closure of services and commencement of
dismantling of railway line from Bo to
Freetown.                                              By April 1, 1972
Dismantling of the entire railway line,
disposal of materials and equipment to
be completed and SLR's accounts to be
closed.                                                By December 31, 1972


﻿21
SCHEDULE 7
MOW Program
This program provides for the following improvements relating to the
organization, operations and functions of MOW:
(1)   an increase in the engineering staff, consisting of two senior road
engineers in headquarters and five road engineers in the area offices, together with
one senior mechanical engineer in headquarters, not later than July 1, 1971;
(2)  improvement of the area organizations for highway maintenance: in
two areas not later than July 1, 1971, and in further two areas, not later than
July 1, 1972, and in the remaining two areas, not later than July 1, 1973;
(3)  improvement of financial control by setting up specific budget
sub-heads and accounts for roads (separating them from those for other activities
of the MOW), and their subdivision into items for maintenance (routine, periodic
and special), minor improvements and construction, not later than July 1, 197 1;
(4)   preparation and execution of detailed programs for each of the years
covered by the Highway Maintenance Program referred to in Section 4.02 (a) of
this Agreement;
(5) replacement on a regular basis of worn-out mechanical equipment and
gradual improvement of mechanical workshops and road maintenance depots; and
(6)   establishment of an "Equipment Pool" not later than July 1, 1972
to improve the management and utilization of MOW mechanical equipment, and
to finance the repairs and replacement from funds derived from hire charges
allocated for the works in respect of which the equipment is used.


