OFFIC[A
LOAN NUMBER 2390 UNI
Guantee Agreement
(Gas Technical Assistance Project)
between
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated     A   46e, 3             1986


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2390 UNI
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    79A4-dAG1.3             , 1986, between
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA (hereinafter called the Guarantor)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (here-
inafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (hereinafter
called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower
a loan in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five million
dollars ($25,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor
agrees to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor


﻿-2-
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set
forth in the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Guaran-
tor and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any
priority over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Guarantor: (i) represents that, at the
date of this Agreement, no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed
in writing by the Guarantor to the Bank; (ii) undertakes that,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall
be created on any assets of the Guarantor or of any agency of the
Guarantor (including assets of the Central Bank of Nigeria, or of
any other institution performing the functions of a central bank
of the Guarantor) as security for any external debt, such lien
will, ipso facto, equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and
that, in the creation of any such lien, express provision will be
made to that effect; and (iii) further undertakes that the Gua-
rantor will, within the limits of its constitutional powers, make
the foregoing undertaking effective with respect to liens on
assets of any of the Guarantor's political subdivisions or of any
agency of any such political subdivision, and to the extent that
the Guarantor is unable, within the limits of its constitutional
powers to make such undertaking effective, the Guarantor will
give to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank. The
Guarantor shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any
such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not.
apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of pur-
chase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property or as security for the payment of debt
incurred for the purpose of financing the purchase of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.


﻿-3-
(d) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Guarantor or of any of its political subdivi-
sions or of any agency of the Guarantor or of any such political
subdivision, including the Central Bank of Nigeria or any
institution performing the functions of a central bank for the
Guarantor.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
The Permanent Secretary
Federal Ministry of Finance
P.M.B. 12591
Federal Secretariat, Ikoyi
Lagos, Nigeria
Cable address:                     Telex:
PERMFIN                           21248 NG
Lagos
For the Bank
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-4-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this     !    day ofN  4.91 , 198k.
FOR SECRETARY


