Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17981
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
PROJECT
(Credit 2505-IVC)
June 8, 1998
Human Development III
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
The CFAF is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of FF I to CFAF 100 following the January 12, 1994
devaluation of the CFAF from a ratio of FF I to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.
1993    US$ = 270 CFA francs
1994    US$ = 470 CFA francs
1995    US$ = 490 CFA francs
1996    US$ = 550 CFA francs
1997    US$ = 590 CFA francs
1993    CFAF I million = US$3,703.70
1994    CFAF I million = US$2,127.66
1995    CFAF I million = US$2,040.82
1996    CFAF 1 million = US$1,818.18
1997    CFAF 1 million = US$1,694.92
SDR I = US$1.34442 (Febniary 1998)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
-Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - Decembe,r 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                     African Development Bank
COPVRH                   HRMD Operating Committee
CPPR                     Country Portofolio Performance Review
DCGTx                    General Directorate for Major Projects
EPF                      Economic Policy Framework
ESAF                    Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU                       European Union
HIPC                     Highly Indebted Poor Countries Initiative
HRMD                     Human Resources Development Project
HRDMP                    Human Resources Development Management Support Project
IBRD                     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                      International Development Association
IMF                      International Monetary Fund
LIL                      Learning and Innovation Loan
MEF                      Ministry of Economy and Finance
MENFB                    Ministry of National Education and Basic Training
MESRIT                   Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
METFP                    Ministry of Technical Education and F'rofessional Training
MSP                      Ministry of Public Health
MTR                      Mid-term Review
PAGE                     Economic Management Support Project
PDSSI                    Integrated Health Services Development Project
PFP                      Policy Framework Paper
PNDEF                    National Education and Training Development Program
PNDS                     National Health Development Project
SA                       Special Account
TA                       Technical Assistance
Vice President:                                   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director:                                         Theodore Ahlers
Sector Manager:                                  fHelena Ribe
Task Team Leader:                                 Catherine Laurent



FOR OmcLAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
PROJECT
(Credit 2505-IVC)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                  ...................................................................1i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EVALUATION                                                                 .......................................1
1. INTRODUCTION.............................................................................................................................................
A. Macro-economic Situation and Country Assistance Strategy ....................................................................1
B. Bank's Role in the Health and Education Sectors ....................................................................2
2. HRMDP  OBJECTIVES .....................................................................3
A. Initial Objectives of the HRMD  Project ....................................................................3
B. Description and Project Components ....................................................................4
C. Legal Covenants and Special Agreements .....................................................................4
D. Evaluation of the HRMD  Project Objectives ....................................................................4
3. PROJECT  EXECUTION  AND  RESULTS .....................................................................5
A. Evaluation of Project's Success and Sustainability .....................................................................5
B. Summary of Project Costs and Financing Arrangements ....................................................................7
C. Project Implementation Schedule ....................................................................8
D. Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Project Objectives ............................                     ........................................8
E. Evaluation of the Borrower's and the Bank's Performance ....................................................................9
F. Evaluation of Project's Results ....................................................................9
4. SYNTHESIS OF PRINCIPLE CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE OPERATIONS ... 10
A. Principle Lessons of Project Execution ....................................................................                              10
B. Future Operations and Sustainability ....................................................................                                10
C. Lessons for Future Projects in Cote d'Ivoire ...................................................................                         10
PART  II:  STATISTICAL  ANNEXES ....................................................................                                            12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ....................................................................                                        13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .....................................................................                                    14
Table 3: Project Timetable ....................................................................                                             15
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ................................................................... 15
Table 5: Performance Indicators for Annual Review ...............................................................................           16
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project ...............................                                                                    18
Table 7 (A) Project Costs and (B) Financing ...............................                                                                 26
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants ..............................                       .27
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...............................                                                                       28
Table O: Bank Resources: Missions ...............................                                                                           29
Appendices: A. Completion Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Summary of the Government's Report
This document has a restincted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Implementation Completion Report
Republic of C8te d'Ivoire
Human Resources Development Management Support Project
(Credit 2505-IVC)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Human Resources
Development Management Project in the Republic of Cote d'Ivoire, for which credit
2505-IVC in the amount of US$6.7 million (SDR 4.7 million equivalent) was approved
on June 1, 1993, and made effective on December 22, 1993.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1997, compared with the original closing
date of December 31, 1996. Final disbursement took place on May 20, 1998, at which
time a balance of US$159,523.22 was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Catherine Laurent of the Africa Region, with assistance
from Ross Pfile, and reviewed by Helena Ribe, Sector Manager of AFTH3, and Jer6me
Chevallier,Technical Manager, AFTS3. The Borrower provided comments on the draft
report, which have been addressed in the final version.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission in December 1997. During this mission, interested parties attended an in-country
workshop at which project outcome was discussed in depth. At the time of the Mid-term
Review, discussions were also held on the status of implementation and finalization of
the project, the use of pre-investment funds, the appointment of a ministerial coordinator,
and an action plan to aid in the successful completion of the project. As is evidenced, the
project greatly benefited from the Borrower's participation at preparation, and throughout
the life of the project. The project also benefited from an average of two supervision
missions per year during its implementation.
The report is based upon material in the project file. The Borrower provided its
own evaluation of the project, a summary of which can be found in the Appendices. The
complete report is available upon request from the African Information Services Center.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
PROJECT
(Credit 2505-IVC)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.   Introduction. The Bank's involvement in the education sector in C6te d'Ivoire
ended in 1986 with the closing of the third education credit, and until the recently negotiated
(April 1998) Basic Education Project had remained absent from investments in the sector.
The Bank's first health project closed in 1994, and the second investment in the sector
(Integrated Health Services Development Project--PDSSI, Credit 2983-IVC) which was
approved in June 1996, was placed in the "at risk" category in June 1997 because of poor
project management and non-completion of the 1997 work plan. Previous experience in the
country has shown the importance of including the Ivorians as early as project preparation, in
order to overcome a lack of commitment to, and internalization of, the adjustment process
within the administration.
2.    Project Objectives. The HRDMP, to ensure a complementarity with its companion
project, the Economic Management Support Project (PAGE), was conceived to strengthen
the management capacities of the social ministries to implement the operational strategies
developed in the scope of the HRMD. The project aimed at increasing the competency level
in the health and education sector ministries, and included four components designed to
strengthen the capacity of these social ministries to:
(a) prepare and defend operating and investment budgets which ensure the quality of basic
social services;
(b) monitor and evaluate the services rendered, as well as the impact of reforms with a view
to future reforms;
(c) promote improvements in the quality of education and the management of primary
schools, in order to increase the level of learning, adaptation of education, and the link
between the cost-effectiveness of services; and
(d) support project management and the monitoring of technological transfers, as well as
create a pre-investment study fund which would finance the collection and analysis of
information and other studies to be identified.
3.   Implementation Experience and Results. At Project onset, the objectives may have
appeared ambitious because (i) management was not part of the ministries' culture, and (ii)
the Technical Assistance design placed great demands upon the beneficiaries. However, the
Project can be said to have fulfilled its objectives; the beneficiary ministries made enormous
progress in management and activity planning, as well as in accepting to consult current and



ii
future users. The Ministry of Public Health (MSP) and the Ministry of Higher Education and
Technological Innovation (MESRIT) were also able to prepare fundamental reforms which
improved services rendered, and the Ministry of National Education and Basic Training
(MENFB) is not far behind. Overall, Project outcome can be rated as "satisfactory".
4.    The Credit was originally approved for US$6.7 million. The total amount disbursed
was US$6,551,495.03, and US$159,523.22 was canceled. Government counterpart funds
totaled US$1.2 million equivalent. While the project was initially negotiated in August 1992,
it was not approved until 10 months later, June 1993, due to a strained relationship between
the Borrower and the Bank (CFAF parity problem). Following effectiveness, the Project
took another two years to find its implementation pace. However, it also suffered from
weaknesses such as fulfilling requests for Special Account (SA) replenishments, and
problems with counterpart funding. As a consequence, the Project was still classified as a
"problem project" in the beginning of 1996. The Project was originally foreseen to close on
December 31, 1996, but was given a one-year extension, and closed on December 31, 1997.
5.    The greatest challenge to project objectives was the interministerial implementation
of the Project: management was undertaken by the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF),
with use of Project services by three and then four different departments and autonomous
public institutions. The President's Report foresaw two additional risks: the quality of the
advice and training offered; and the commitment of the Ivorian administration to put the
achievements of the Project into use.
6.   In spite of some delay in Project start-up, the Borrower's performance was
satisfactory, considering the Project management and the execution of Project activities.
However, the Borrower's performance is less satisfactory if counterpart funding is taken into
consideration, given that funds were consistently late, sometimes by more than a year. The
Bank's performance was also satisfactory, notwithstanding changes in personnel and certain
delays in reaction time for procurement. The Bank's response to changes in the country
situation demonstrated flexibility and understanding which led to the overall successful
implementation of the project.
7.    Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned. On a
positive note, the technical assistance provided to the ministries helped to develop and
implement important reforms and to institute a real monitoring, programming, and resource
management capacity, while improving their use. The units responsible have proven to be
creative and have taken the initiative to use the pre-investment funds which were very
flexible. The interministerial management under the aegis of the MEF, which was originally
seen to be a potential hindrance, has proven to be an asset: it ensured as smooth as possible
access to all components which were placed in neutral territory. One negative aspect, other
than the frequent change of directors, was the absence of an Implementation Manual.
8.   In the health sector, the implementation of the management capacity at the MSP, as
well as the cost-recovery system, have laid the groundwork for the development of a primary
health care strategy in the scope of the PDSSI. In the education sector, discussions held with
the Bank and the other partners led to the adoption of the National Education and Training
Development Program (PNDEF), and a Basic Education Project was recently negotiated
(April 1998) by the Bank, with Government participation, which should permit, through



iii
better planning and programming of human and financial resources in the MENFB, both
improved efficiency and expansion of the system to the benefit of poor children.
9.    It will be necessary to continue to support the modernization and improvement of the
Government's tools and management and programming procedures. The institutional
budgets exist, if their directors are interested.
10.   All future interventions in these sectors must be assured of a complete understanding,
by the ministries' tearns, of the stakes and the objectives. If they must include
interministerial cooperation, it is essential that the management and coordination team be in a
position to inform any newcomer and to motivate its partners in the other ministries. Future
interventions can resort to national and international expertise as long as expected results and
penalties are clearly defined, with a schedule of stages and details of responsibility included
in the terms of reference.
11.   Future interventions must also pay close attention to the capacities of the ministries
and units who will be responsible for overall Project implementation. These actors must be
given the tools necessary at the onset of the Project. In this instance, the lack of an
Implementation Manual at the beginning of the project hindered its early implementation.
Future project design must take into account the fact that technical assistance is not the
correct means to address quality issues in basic service delivery. In this instance, quality
issues of the &coles temoins would have been addressed via a Learning and Innovation Loan
(LIL), if this lending instrument had existed at the time of project preparation/appraisal.
Future projects in the social sectors must also take into consideration the impact of the HIPC.
12.   The following specific lessons can be drawn from the overall success of this project:
* Project design must take into account the presence of qualified personnel in the civil
service who only need to undertake training in order to update their skills. As a result,
less expatriate consultation than originally foreseen was used because the
expertise/capacity required was found in-country.
* In this Project, the fact that the TA was not permanent led to a real transfer of knowledge
throughout Project life.
* Clear understanding with the Borrower that expert intervention would only take place
upon completion of specific tasks, and that sanctions would be made if these tasks were
not completed as agreed.
* Flexibility on the part of the Bank aided in Project success; consistent actions have been
retained in future operations.
* Future operations can build upon the TA experience gained through this Project, thereby
allowing for a consistent Bank's strategy in the sector.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
PROJECT
(Credit 2505-IVC)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EVALUATION
1. INTRODUCTION
1.   In June 1993, Credit 2505-IVC for US$6.7 million (SDR 4.7 million equivalent) was
approved by the Board, with Credit effectiveness taking place in December 1993.
2.    This Implementation Completion Report examines the Human Resources
Development Management Support Project (HRDMP) from both the Bank's (Part I and II)
and Borrower's (Annex B) perspectives. Statistical information can be found in Part II. The
report is based on the President's Report, documents found in the Bank's files, data received
from the Borrower, and discussions with Bank and Government representatives.
A.   MACRO-ECONOMIC SITUATION AND COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
3.   In January 1994, with the CFAF devaluation, the Government began to re-evaluate its
medium-term adjustment program. The 1994 adjustment program was supported by the IMF
in the form of an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) and through an IDA
credit. A new Economic Policy Framework (EPF) was approved in 1995, and a meeting of
the C6te d'Ivoire Consultative Group took place in June 1995. Cote d'Ivoire recently
approved a substantial reform program: elimination of nearly all the non-tariff barriers and
price controls, a decrease in customs tariffs, privatization of 37 enterprises, increased
competition, and modernization of the labor and investment codes. This policy, coupled with
confronting their debt problem, has allowed the country to grow.
4.    The priorities of the strategy proposed by IDA until the end of FY2000 are to assist
the Government in reaching overall and sustainable growth. The primary objective of the
strategy is poverty reduction, thanks to: (a) continued macro-economic policy which ensures
stability--notably through debt management and solid legislative and regulatory frameworks;
(b) development of the private sector and private investment; (c) more effective, monitored,
and innovative use of expenditures in the health, education, and infrastructure sectors; (d)



2
strengthening of human and institutional capacities; and (e) management which ensures
sustainability of the environment. To assist this strategy, the Bank has agreed to support
credits for projects in the agriculture and land tenure, transport, energy, urbanization,
education, health, and population sectors.
B.   BANK'S ROLE IN THE HEALTH AND EDUCATION SECTORS
5.    Education investments. IBRD approved three education credits in the 1970s, with
the last in 1979. Implementation, however, was unsatisfactory. These projects essentially
consisted of creating institutions for initial teacher training and technical and professional
training. At the end of the period, a less assertive approach appears to have been taken
because of (a) the high cost of implementating the reforrm and the lack of national consensus;
and (b) the weaknesses in the system, most notably its excessively high cost, weak internal
and external effectiveness, and a deficient administratioil, which was not taken into account
in any of the projects. There was no further agreement with Cote d'Ivoire on the diagnosis
and following the close of the third education credit in 1986, IBRD was absent from
investments in the sector. A Basic Education Project was negotiated in April 1998, with
Board presentation in June 1998.
6.    Health sector investments. A first health project (for an amount of US$22.2 million
equivalent) was approved in 1985 and closed in 1994. Its objectives were to improve nurses'
training, sector management, and direct the 1988 population census, and its outcome was
rated satisfactory. This project also had an overlap of thirty months with the HRMD. An
Integrated Health Services Development Project (PDSSI], Credit 2983-IVC) was approved in
June 1996 for an amount of US$40 million equivalent to support the National Health
Development Program (PNDS). It places priority on the minimum package of activities.
The project was placed in the "at risk" category in June 1997 because of poor project
management and non-completion of the 1997 work plan.
7.    Sectoral adjustment. The HRMD was approved in 1991, but the devaluation of the
CFAF led to a restructuring of the initially approved credit. A total of US$236 million was
loaned by IBRD and IDA, with an additional US$130 million from Germany, AfDB, and the
EU. The primary objective of the HRMD was to correct the unfavorable conditions revealed
by the basic social indicators, notably life expectancy, infant mortality, and primary
education enrollment, which placed the country's development efforts in jeopardy. To
achieve these objectives, the quality of public health and education services had to be
improved, especially at the primary level. The HRMD brought budgetary support to the
following areas: (a) monitoring of budgets and effectiveness of programs in the human
resources sector; (b) official adoption of a human resources development policy; (c)
improvement of financial sustainability and introduction of cost recovery in the health and
training institutions with monitoring of social transfers which favor secondary and higher
education students; and (d) improved implementation capacity through better management
and monitoring tools. The outcome of the HRMD are mixed (ICR no. 14841): budgetary



3
resources for the primary level decreased when they should have increased; cost recovery
was established, as well as the monitoring of the social transfers; the unit costs for education
were greatly reduced, particularly at the higher education level, where the number of students
doubled without the benefit of accompanying budget increases.
8.    Technical assistance. IBRD financed a technical assistance project (Technical
Assistance Project, Loan 2509-IVC) from 1981 to 1988. This experience showed the
importance of including the Ivorians as early as project preparation, as they will be ultimately
responsible for implementation, as well as the necessity of placing importance on long-term
capacity building. The Project Completion Report (PCR) (December 1989) concluded that
these objectives failed, largely because of a lack of commitment to, and internalization of, the
adjustment process within the administration. Finally, the PCR underlined the fact that the
project did not address the long-term institutional development problems.
2. HRDMP OBJECTIVES
9.    The HRDMP, a technical assistance project, was conceived to strengthen the
management capacities of the social ministries to implement the operational strategies
developed in the scope of the HRMD. The project was designed to ensure a complementarity
with the Economic Management Support Project (PAGE) which would strengthen the
capacity of the Ministries of Economy and Finance, Civil Service and Employment, and
Justice to implement the ongoing macro-economic reforms, which preceded the HRDMP by
a few months, and is nearing completion. The HRDMP was prepared in a participatory
manner, under the aegis of the HRMD operating committee (COPVRH).
A.   INITIAL OBJECTIVES OF THE HRDMP
10.   The project aimed at increasing the competency level in the health and education
sector ministries: Ministry of Public Health and Social Affairs which became the Ministry of
Public Health (MSP), the Ministry of Basic Education which became the Ministry of
National Education and Basic Training (MENFB), the Ministry of Technical Education and
Professional Training (METFP) which was recreated in March 1996, and the Ministry of
Higher Education and Scientific Research which became the Ministry of Higher Education
and Technological Innovation (MESRIT). According to the May 1993 President's Report,
the overall objective was to provide high-level technical assistance, with the goal of giving
on-site training and ensuring a knowledge transfer to local representatives. The project
concentrated on the following two areas: strengthening the work methods and planning,
programming, budgetary, monitoring, evaluation systems, and strengthening the capacity to
promote the quality and greater access to education and health, principally at the primary
level.



4
B.   DESCRIPTION AND PROJECT COMPONENTS
11.   The project included four components designed to strengthen the capacity of the
social ministries:
(a) prepare and defend operating and investment budgets which ensure the quality of basic
social services;
(b) monitor and evaluate the services rendered as well as the impact of reforms with a view to
future reforms;
(c) promote improvements in the quality of education and the management of primary
schools, in order to increase the level of learning, adaptation of education, and the link
between the cost-effectiveness of services; and
(d) support project management and the monitoring of technological transfers, as well as
create a pre-investment study fund which would finance the collection and analysis of
information and other studies to be identified.
C.   LEGAL COVENANTS AND SPECIAL AGREEMENTS
12.  In addition to the general conditions, the following actions had to be undertaken in
order to enter into credit effectiveness:
(a) selection, through competition, of consultants for Components 1 and 2;
(b) selection of a technical advisor for Component 3;
(c) appointment of a national coordinator for Component 3;
(d) selection of a technical advisor in the COPVRH for technology transfers; and
(e) deposit of CFAF 75 million in a Project Account opened in a commercial bank acceptable
to IDA.
13.   A reallocation of funds between project categories took place in January 1996, with a
second reallocation in September 1997. Additionally, the initial amount of the Special
Account (SA) was increased in December 1995.
D.   EVALUATION OF THE HRDMP OBJECTIVES
14.   The project objectives may have appeared ambitious at project onset because (a)
management was not part of the ministries' culture, and (b) the Technical Assistance design
placed great demands upon the beneficiaries. One objective which did not appear at project
appraisal was the contribution to poverty reduction. In fact, a poverty study for CMte d'Ivoire



5
became necessary after the CFAF devaluation, because the Borrower became eligible for
IDA funds. The country's surveys and report were financed through the HRDMP.
3.    PROJECT EXECUTION AND RESULTS
A.   EVALUATION OF PROJECT SUCCESS AND SUSTAINABILITY
15.   Benefits. According to the President's Report, the project had one primary benefit:
create the capacity in the Government to promote better service in the health and education
sectors, at the health facility and school level, as well as at the central level. While there is
evidence of creation or strengthening at the central level, the impact on service delivery can
only be seen in the &coles teimoins.
16.   Component 1. Prepare and defend operating and investment budgets which would
permit basic services to perform adequately. In order to achieve full implementation of this
component, four specific areas received support under the project:
*  Consultant services implemented at the beginning of the project allowed for initial
computerization of monitoring and programming of human and financial resources in the
beneficiary ministries. Late and three-phased provision of computer equipment
completed the technology transfer activities of this component.
*  With regard to personnel issues, the MENFB, in synergy with the Cooperation
franVaise's PARMEN project (Ministry of National Education Reform Support Project)
allowed for the creation of a real personnel management capacity (computerized
personnel files, etc.), a vast undertaking in a department which represents more than half
the civil service. The national public service management reform, under the aegis of the
PAGE, was built upon the MENFB experience, with the collaboration of the ministry
responsible for public service.
*  Budgetary nomenclature reform under the aegis of PAGE benefited from the experience
of the MSP supported by the HRDMP. The decentralization of financial resources to the
regional directorates of the MENFB was also implemented thanks to the project. The
budget estimates capacity at the ministerial level is finally recognized and fully utilized
by the MEF for macro-economic conditionalities which favor the social sectors included
in the PFP and the HIPC matrices. Therefore, the budget allocations and estimates for
1998-2000 have been significantly increased in the social sectors.
* Technical assistance furnished through the project allowed the MSP to implement a cost-
recovery system within the timeframe given in the HRMD.



6
17.   Component 2. Monitor and evaluate service delivery and the impact ofpolicy
actions as a basis for further strategic development. The primary beneficiary ministries were
the MSP (surveys of primary health care beneficiaries) and the MESRIT for their semi-
annual student surveys, as well as sub-sector development. The MENFB was able to
undertake follow-up studies, notably of cohorts, and observations of the first year of primary
education. But this component essentially was used in the quality of life (poverty) survey
and its acceptance by the Ivorians contributed significantly to the development and
acceptance of the Bank's support strategy.
18.   Component 3. Promote quality improvements in instruction and school-management
with the aim of increasing student learning, the relevance of education and the cost-
effectiveness of service delivery. The ecoles temoins component worked effectively and
successfully, but remained outside the normal activities of the MENFB until 1996. In the
beginning, 10 schools, one per administrative region, volunteered to participate in the
experiment and the diffusion of the initiatives taken at the school level to improve the quality
of education and learning. After the Mid-term Review (MTR), the number was expanded to
60 (6 per region). The results show an increase of 27 percent in admissions to junior
secondary school. Two major success factors in the component were: (i) the financial
management was independent of the MENFB, thus the crucial logistical support, given the
dispersion of the schools, was provided without delays, and (ii) continuity with the technical
advisor, while the coordinator remained throughout the entire project.
19.   Component 4. Supportfor project management andfor monitoring the transfer of
technology, as well as a pre-investmentfund tofinance information collection and analysis
and periodic studies to be identified.
*  Project management support sub-component: the project management unit
(administrator, accountant, and drivers) was situate,d within the COPVRH, at the MEF. It
was responsible for financing operating costs of all project activities, regardless of the
beneficiary. The General Directorate for Major Projects (DCGTx) provided technical
support, primarily for the bidding process (consultants and computer equipment).
*  Monitoring of technology transfer sub-component: the project introduced a new technical
assistance method, which was more demanding, and thus more difficult to implement and
monitor than permanent support. This new method. was designed and implemented
through alternating intervention phases of on-site technology internalization without
expert presence; final verification of the results by experts took place before the next step
of the transfer. The Government designated an advisor, the project administrator, who, in
turn, designated at least one counterpart per ministry in order to ensure monitoring of the
transfers. Day-to-day monitoring was the responsibility of the central administrative
directors.
* Pre-investmentfiund sub-component: (see Part II, Table 6) the three departments
responsible for education now benefit from a real programming and reform capacity. It



7
was also used to conduct studies for future investments in the education sector. The MSP
did not solicit access to these funds, as it was benefiting from other funding for the
PDSSI preparation.
(a) higher education: as a continuation of the reform and management improvements
in the system initiated under the HRMD, the MESRIT was able to: establish
Universities in Daloa and Korgho; reform the elitist tertiary schools and transform
them into a single institution; prepare, disseminate, discuss, and implement the degree
program reform; privatize management of some university restaurants; and
decentralize human and financial resources at the national public institute level
(b) basic education: establishment of a first decentralization of finance, personnel
and school mapping management to the regional level
(c) technical education andprofessional training: (began late, as the METFP was re-
created only a few months before credit closing), place the programming and
budgeting activities within this department.
20.   Sustainability. The technology transfer has succeeded since the capacity is used,
although technical as well as technological improvement within the beneficiary services
remains necessary. In the health sector, the cost-recovery system functions satisfactorily, and
the improvements in planning and management capacity of the MSP contributed to the
preparation of the PNDS. The support given to the ministry responsible for education led to
the development of a National Education and Training Development Program (PNDEF), and
the implementation of an analytical tool which allowed for an evaluation of internal
efficiency at the primary and secondary levels and the impact of reforms. Finally, the success
of the icoles temoins led the MENFB, in 1998, to increase to 600 the number of primary
institutions and to create the same network for 180 junior secondary schools.
B.   SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING AGREEMENTS
21.   Total project cost as estimated at evaluation was US$7.9 million, excluding tax and
duties, with US$4.9 million (62%) in foreign currency. Base costs are expressed in June
1992 currency. Detailed project costs in local and foreign currencies can be found in Part II,
table 7A.
22.   Original project costs had to be revisited because of the CFAF devaluation and the
extended life of the project: a reallocation of project funds between categories took place in
January 1996, at about the same time as an increase of the initial amount in the SA; a second
reallocation took place in September 1997. The IDA contribution was originally estimated at
US$6.7 million equivalent, with Government counterpart funds totaling US$1.2 million
equivalent. Estimated and actual costs are presented in Part II, table 7B.



8
C.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
23.   The project was identified in March, evaluated ill June, and negotiated in August
1992. It was not approved until June 1, 1993 due to the strained relationship between the
Borrower and the Bank (CFAF parity problem), and became effective on December 22, 1993.
The CFAF devaluation in January 1994 primarily affected the Government's counterpart
funding. The MTR took place in June 1995, and the credit was closed on December 31,
1997, after a one-year extension.
D.   ANALYSIS OF KEY FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT OBJECTIVES
24.   The greatest challenge was the interministerial implementation of the project:
management was undertaken by the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), with use of
project services by three and then four different departrnents and autonomous public
institutions. The President's Report foresaw two potential risks:
(a) the quality of the advice and training offered. The contracts with advisors and trainers
were to include monitorable performance indicators, and the Government was to cancel any
unsatisfactory contract. Contracts were executed satisfactorily, and none were canceled. In
fact, the real risk in this area was the difficulty encountered by the management unit and the
future beneficiaries to define the terms of reference and identify potential candidates, given
the specifics of expertise required. It is interesting to note that more technical assistance was
provided by nationals (62%) than was originally foreseen, which allowed for reduced costs
and discovery of true local expertise.
(b) commitment of the Ivorian administration to put the achievements of the project into use.
The Government commitment in the HRMD showed its interest in reforming key functions in
the administration of human resources, and the project was to support this process. In fact,
the management of the HRMD by the COPVRH within the MEF, was not an obstacle to the
appropriation of the project by the beneficiary ministries, even if the interministerial
committee never met. Actually, as the participants at the closing workshop pointed out,
except in rare cases, the central administration directors concerned with the financial
interventions of the project, did not show a great interest in the completed activities; the
reason was their frequent turn-over, from project effectiveness through implementation.
Interest was shown only within the directorates, which i.s advantageous for sustainability, as
these employees are less frequently subject to changes.



9
E.   EVALUATION OF THE BORROWER'S AND THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE
25.   The lack of an Implementation Manual slowed disbursements during the first two
years of the project. In spite of some delay in project start-up, the Borrower's performance
was satisfactory, considering the project management and the execution of project activities.
It took time for the team, which was unfamiliar with IDA procedures, to acquire experience,
and only after the fulfillment of the HRMD conditionalities were they fully able to undertake
their responsibilities. The payment method for technical assistance, based on services
rendered (by tranches) was one of two major factors which slowed disbursements during the
first year. The second was the ministerial restructuring in December 1993, which led to new
central administration directors during the project start-up period. Finally, pre-investment
study funds (US$1.5 million) were not used by the ministries responsible for education until
after the MTR in June 1995 because of the lack of previously established regulations.
Ministerial changes in January 1996, which created a specific portfolio for technical and
professional education, marginally affected project execution by adding new finance
management, personnel, and planning structures to the previous beneficiaries. The
Borrower's performance is less satisfactory if counterpart funding is taken into consideration,
given that funds were consistently late, sometimes by more than a year, which placed
payment to suppliers in jeopardy. A performance evaluation of the Borrower is given in Part
II, table 5.
26.   The Bank's performance was also satisfactory, notwithstanding changes in personnel
(three task managers in four years), and certain delays in reaction time for procurement. The
Bank's response to changes in the country situation demonstrated flexibility and
understanding which led to the overall successful implementation of the project. One
example of this flexibility was to name a co-task manager within the Resident Mission, who
had full authority to respond to the Borrower's requests; another was to increase the initial
amount of the SA.
F.    EVALUATION OF PROJECT RESULTS
27.   The project can be said to have fulfilled its objectives: the beneficiary ministries
made enormous progress in management and activity planning, as well as in accepting to
consult current and future users. The MSP and MESRIT were also able to prepare
fundamental reforms which improved services rendered, and the MENFB is not far behind.
28.   Noteworthy changes. The project took two years to find its implementation pace, as
explained above. But it also suffered from weaknesses which were evident in each CPPR of
the Cote d'Ivoire portfolio--essentially constant delays in fulfilling requests for SA
replenishments at the administrative level, and problems with counterpart funding. As a
consequence, the project was still classified as a "problem project" in the beginning of 1996.



10
4. SYNTHESIS OF PRINCIPAL CiDNCLUSIONS AND
FUTURE OPERATIONS
A.   PRINCIPAL LESSONS OF PROJECT EXECUTION
29.   On a positive note, the technical assistance provided to the ministries helped to
develop and implement important reforms and to institute a real monitoring, programming,
and resource management capacity, while improving their use. The units responsible have
proven to be creative and have taken the initiative to use the pre-investment funds which
were very flexible. The interministerial management under the aegis of the MEF, which was
originally seen to be a potential hindrance, has proven to be an advantage: it ensured as
smooth as possible access to all components which were placed in neutral territorv. One
negative aspect, other than the frequent change of directors, was the absence of an
Implementation Manual.
B.   FUTURE OPERATIONS AND SUJSTAINABILITY
30.  In the health sector, the implementation of the manlagement capacity at the MSP, as
well as the cost-recovery system, have laid the groundwork for the development of a primary
health care strategy in the scope of the PDSSI. In the education sector, discussions held with
the Bank and the other partners led to the adoption of the PNDEF, and a Basic Education
Project was recently negotiated (April 1998) by the Bank, with Government participation,
which should permit, through better planning and prograniming of human and financial
resources in the MENFB, both improved efficiency and expansion of the system to the
benefit of poor children.
31.   Overall, it will be necessary to continue to support the modernization and
improvement of the Government's tools and management and programming procedures. The
institutional budgets exists, if their directors are interestedL.
C.   LESSONS FOR FUTURE PROJECTS IN C6TE D'IVOIRE
32.   All future interventions in these sectors must be assured of a complete understanding,
by the ministries' teams, of the stakes and the objectives. If they must include
interministerial cooperation, it is essential that the management and coordination team be in a
position to inform any newcomer and to motivate its partners in the other ministries. Future
interventions can resort to national and international expertise as long as expected results and



11
penalties are clearly defined, with a schedule of stages and details of responsibility included
in the terms of reference.
33.   Future interventions must also pay close attention to the capacities of the ministries
and units who will be responsible for overall project implementation. These actors must be
given the tools necessary at the onset of the project. In this instance, the lack of an
Implementation Manual at the beginning of the project hindered its early implementation.
Future project design must take into account the fact that technical assistance is not the
correct means to address quality issues in basic service delivery. In this instance, quality
issues of the ecoles temoins would have been addressed via a LIL, if this lending instrument
had existed at the time of project preparation/appraisal. Future projects in the social sectors
must also take into consideration the impact of the HIPC.
34.   The following specific lessons can be drawn from the overall success of this project:
*  Project design must take into account the presence of qualified personnel in the civil
service who only need to undertake training in order to update their skills. As a result,
less expatriate consultation than originally foreseen was used because the
expertise/capacity required was found in-country.
*  In this project, the fact that the TA was not permanent led to a real transfer of knowledge
throughout project life.
*  Clear understanding with the Borrower that expert intervention would only take place
upon completion of specific tasks, and that sanctions would be made if these tasks were
not completed as agreed.
*  Flexibility on the part of the Bank aided in project success; consistent actions have been
retained in future operations.
*  Future operations can build upon the TA experience gained through this project, thereby
allowing for a consistent Bank's strategy in the sector.



PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table.3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Performance Indicators for Annual Review
Table 6:     Studies Included in the Project
Table 7A:    Project Costs
Table 7B:    Project Financing
Table 8:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 10:    Bank Resources: Missions



13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                     L                          -i
Sector Policies                                    []               L                 Li
Financial Objectives                               Li               Li
Institutional Development                          [                I                 [II
Physical Objectives                                U 0               0i
Povert Reduction                   L                                Li
Gender Issues                      [               I                []
Other Social Objectives            L               Li                0E
Environmental Objectives                           L                L                 I i
Public Sector Management                                            [] 0= 
Private Sector Development         L               L                Li
Other (specify)                    L               L                L                 L
B. Proiect Sustainability             Likely                  Unlikely                 Uncertain
i~~L nL
Highly
C. Bank Performance                    Satisfactory         Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                     E3                                                 Li
Preparation Assistance             L                                                  L0
Appraisal                          L                                                  iii
Supervision                        E                                                  Li
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                Satisfactory         Satisfactory               Deficient
Preparation                        L                                                  Li
Implementation                     L                                                  L0
Covenant compliance                                         Li                        Li
Operation (if applicable)                                   L                         Li
Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome               Satisfactory         Satisfactorv             Unsatisfactory



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Credit                              Purpose                         Year of      Status
l  approval
Preceding operations
Following operations
(Cr. 2637-IVC) Labor     The Labor Force Training Support Project will finance a  1994   Ongoing
Force Training           time-slice of an on-going Vocational Development
Training Fund (FDFP) program, which will subsequently
expand to include new client groups in the informal
sector, where the largest portion of the target group is
employed and growth is fastest. Its total cost of US$19.5
million will include three major components: (a) training,
retraining and apprenticeship; (b) training outreach
support; and (c) labor market monitoring eand
analysis.
(Cr. 2893-IVC) Integrated   The objectives of the Integrated Health Services  1996       Ongoing
Health Services          Development Project, within the framework of the
Development Project      govemment's National Health Development Plan, are to:
(1) expand access to health services and imaprove their
utilization; (2) make health services available on a
sustainable basis; and (3) improve the ability of the
Ministry of Public Health (MSP) to analyze health
problems, and to formulate, monitor and evaluate
policies, strategies and programs.
Basic Education Program    The project supports the sectoral strategy set out in       Approved by
the National Education and Training Development                  Board
Plan (NETDP). Over the next four years, the
program will (i) strengthen teaching at the primary
and secondary levels; (ii) increase access to basic
education; and (iii) strengthen management
capacity within the education sector. The program
would also strengthen the ties betweetn schools and
communities.



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
1  1    Date actual/
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned          latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                          2/25/92
Appraisal                                     4/92                  6/1/92
Negotiations                                                      8/24-26/92
Letter of development policy (if applicable)
Board presentation                            9/92                   6/93
Signing                                      10/12/92              6/14/93
Effectiveness                                 10/92                12/22/93
Project completion                           12/31/96              12/31/97
Credit closing                               4/30/97               4/30/98
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY1994    FY1995      FY1996       FY1997      FY1998
Appraisal estimate    1.55       2.95         4.37        4.74
Actual                0.14       0.88         2.17        3.59        4.04
Actual as % of
estimate              9%        29.8%        49.6%       75.7%       85.2%
Date of final                                                      May 20,
disbursement                                                         1998



16
Table 5: Performance Indicators for Annual Review
Key performance indicators in             End Year One                  End Year Two                  End Year Three                      Results
President's Report                                                                                                                       Year Five
Planning, Programming and          A coherence between the        Operating and investment budget  The use of budgetary tools and  Completed
Budgeting: The component would be   indicative budget plan (HRDP  proposals submitted to the     norms developed under the
considered a success if, at the end of  SECAL) developed for each  ministries of Finance and     project and the HRDP will have
implementation, ministry staff were  sector and the actual 1994   Planning for 1995 will have been   become the accepted means for
regularly using new tool and work  operating and investment budgets  prepared on the basis of the new    articulating the needs of the
budgetary methods to articulate their    submitted to the ministries of  system; personnel, operating cost  human resources ministries and
ministry's needs and demonstrate the  Finance and Planning will have    and investment norms established  demonstrating the impact of fiscal
budgetary implications of strategic  been demonstrated; the models    during the HRDP will have been   decision; the operating and
options and decisions in a rational  will have been used to       respected; budgetary models will  investment budget for 1996 will
manner; operating and budgetary norms  demonstrate the impact of all  have been used to demonstrate the  have been prepared using the new
which permit quality performance   revisions to the operating and  impact of all revisions to the  system.
would be in place and generally known   investment budgets proposed  proposed budgets.
and understood through the human   throughout the 1993 budget year.
resources sector.
Budgetary Monitoring and           (a) A systematic review of 1992    (a) Actual expenditure data for    (a) Actual expenditure data for  Completed
Performance Evaluation: The        actual operating and budgetary  1993 will have been available to   operating and investment budgets
component would be considered a    expenditures for all levels and  human resources decision makers  will be routinely collected and
success if: (a) for budget monitoring, at  geographic areas of the education   on a quarterly basis; actual  analyzed on a quarterly basis in
the end of ihe implemeniaiion period,    and heaith systems wiii have been  budgetary expenditure wiii have   the contexi of ihe foliowing
ministry staff were routinely using the    carried out by February 1993;  been communicated to the central  year's budget preparation process;
tools and systems set up under the  actual expenditure data will have   ministries on a quarterly basis;
project to monitor budget execution  been reflected in the 1994
quarterly and modifying execution  budgetary planning models;
accordingly; and
(b) for program performance, it had  (b) Preparations of Beneficiary    (b) Beneficiary assessments will   (b) Follow-up beneficiary  Completed
institutionalized regular Beneficiary  Assessments (preparation of  have been carried out for primary  assessments will have been
Assessments of the performance of the   surveys, texts, etc.) will have been  health and primary and secondary  carried out; findings of the 1993
health and education systems (beginning  finished at the beginning of the    education; the findings of the  beneficiary assessments will have
at the health center and school level)  1993-94 school year.      initial beneficiary assessments  been well disseminated and
and were using these assessments to                               will have been disseminated    analyzed in the context of
modify programs.                                                  within the MEN and MSPS and    continuing sector reform policy.
discussed at the level of the COP.



17
Table 5: Performance Indicators for Annual Review (cont'd)
Key performance indicators in              End Year One                      End Year Two                      End Year Three                     Results
President's Report                                                                                                                               Year Five
Quality Schools Initiative: The      At least 10 schools will have been  Experimental action programs will be   Education policy relating to school    Completed
component would be considered a      selected as part of the school  in place dealing with key school-level   effectiveness and operational
success if, at the end of implementation,  network; team members will be    issues such as girls' participation,  strategies will have been revised,
the demonstration schools' experience    accomplishing tasks as per their    grade repetition and dropout, teacher   reinforced or updated; at least 20
leads ministry staff to adopt       job descriptions with working    supervision, formative evaluation, the   more inspectorates will have been
modifications to existing central policies  groups meeting on a regular basis;  use of teaching materials, community   integrated into.the program.
and strategies which focus on teacher    inspectors will be routinely  participation in school finances, etc.;
and school quality and if the        involved in establishing the    inspectors will be regularly
participatory process of resolving local   agenda for improving school  supervising the application of these
quality issues was replicated.       performance (quality of teaching);  methods; results of studies undertaken
initial findings will have been  in the schools will be disseminated
disseminated throughout the    throughout the MEN and the COP;
MEN and discussed at the level of  they will be used by the COP to
the COP.                        propose new policy initiatives and by
l _____________________________                                      the MEN  to expand the program.
Management Support and Pre-          (a) Group/team work methods and  (a) Human resource ministry staff are   (a) Human resource ministry staff are  Completed
Investment Studies: (a) The         training seminars aimed at       able to use analytical tools and    routinely using analytical tools and
technology transfer and training aspects  increasing technology/skills  methods developed during the first  methods developed under the
of this Project would be considered a  transfer have been implemented;   project year with only periodic support  project;
success if, at the end of Project    consultants hired under the     from consultants;
implementation, ministry staff were able  project have been evaluated in
to use new tools, information and work   accordance with performance
methods to articulate their ministry's  criteria established in their
needs and justify their ministry's   contracts;
decision-making process, particularly in
the context of requests for operating and
investments resources;                                               (b) Requests for pre-investment
(b) the Pre-investment studies       (b) Requests for pre-investment    funding have been analyzed and acted   (b) The pre-investment fund is fully    Completed
component would be considered a      funding have been analyzed and    upon expeditiously;               disbursed;
success if requests for funding are well   acted upon expeditiously;
justified in terms of sector priorities and
well coordinated with human resource
ministry personnel;                                                  (c) The first year audit will have been
(c) project management activities will be  (c) Auditors will have been  completed and sent to IDA within four  (c) The second year audit will have    Completed
considered a success if IDA-specific  chosen for the 1993 fiscal year  months of the end of fiscal year 1993;   been completed and sent to IDA
implementation procedures such as    audit; all procurement actions will  preparations for the 1994 audit will be   within four months of the end of
procurement, disbursement, reporting  have been expeditiously executed.  underway.                       fiscal year 1994; preparations of the
and auditing are followed.                                                                               1995 audit will be underway.



18
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Year               Study                Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined   Status              Impact of Study
1997   Labor market study             Identify and define the priority labor markets   Canceled   Not relevant for Government policy.
according to the country's socio-economic
context with the aim of improving the
performance of the professional and technical
training system.
1997   Inventory                      Aims at establishing a precise inventory of  Completed  Use of the recommendations to
the Technical and Professional Training                influence policies on pedagogical
facilities. It will be necessary to transfer to        management, property, personnel,
internal competencies, the ability to develop          training systems, etc.
analyze and monitoring tools for the system
which will allow for improving internal
efficiency, and establishing reliable statistics
on the system and its evolution.
1997   Support to educ.ation statistics    Consolidation oifthe statistical infr-^anti-n    CIollpl--A teDl4  D ap-aci; is r3estored a
(Phase II)                    system developed under the September 1995-              considerably improved thanks to this
March 1996 phase.                                      support. The DPES now has the tools
which permit it to communicate with
the decision makers and partners in
the MENFB, one month after school
begins, the first overall data:
-production of information on
enrollment;
-more reliable enrollment statistics;
-increased responsibility of the
partners in the regional and
departmental directorates of the
MENFB.



19
Table 6: Studies Included in Project (cont'd)
Year               Study               Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined  Status             Impact of Study
1997   Support to education statistics   Follow-up and finalization of the activities  Completed  Availability of statistics for school
(Phase II)                    begun during Phase II (March 1996-March               years 1995-1996 and 1996-1997, as
1997).                                                well as those for the preparation of
1997-1998.
-Contribution to the preparation and
evaluation of the PNDEF
1997   Evaluation of the patients'   Beneficiary assessment of cost-recovery.  Completed  Use of essential medications,
reactions to cost-recovery in the                                                   particularly EGD, and standardized
health sector                                                                       treatments which have resulted in
cost reductions for the patients.
Health system efficiency.
1997   Study of professional         Undertake a study to identify the labor    Completed  Taking into account the design of the
integration                   markets and define actual job descriptions.           training.
The study specifically aims at:
-identifying employment characteristics of
those actually in the position;
-describing the training of those actually in
the position;
-measuring the appropriateness of the
training vis-a-vis the position.
1997   Study tour for establishing   Subregional study in Dakar on the AVU.     Completed  Participate in the AVU Project.
African Virtual University
(AVU) Project
1997   OSIS/publication Study        Publications.                              Completed  Attractive and practical publications
containing different types of analysis
and varied information.
1997   CPI Observation Study         Create a data base to allow for cohort     Completed  Obtained a data base. Statistics
analysis and internal efficiency of education.        provide reliable information on
school access. Survey of priority
interventions.



20
Table 6: Studies Included in Project (cont'd)
Year              Study               Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined  Status           Impact of Study
1997   Diagnostic survey on the     Favor growth of private education sector  Completed  Use of the study's recommendations
Private Education Sector     participation in the education and integration      for private operators in the sector.
of youth into the professional milieu, not only     Signed decree relative to the status of
through certification training, but through         private education vis a vis the State.
qualification training; redefine the                Evaluation of the receiving capacity
institutional and financial relationship            and analysis of the efficacy of State
between the State and the private education         financing. Establishment of new laws
sector.                                             redefining the institutional
relationship between the State and the
private sector. Improved use of the
agreement. Use of the ongoing
studies' recommendations.
1997   Improved Economic Model      The study consisted of data gathering and  Completed  This study greatly contributed to the
Study (CAPEC)               model building for economic analysis of the          preparation of the PNDEF, in
internal efficiency of the education system as      particular to the evaluation of actions
well as for budget projections over a ten year      to be financed by IDA. It allowed
spann together with impact of cost reduction        for:
policy measures.                                    -better visibility of the financing
policy of the education system (short-
medium-, and long-term);
-economic analysis of the Basic
Education Project;
-better internal efficacy with regard to
projections;
-analysis of the internal efficiency of
the education system.
1996   Promotion of Higher Education  Development and publication of a brochure    Completed  Information and awareness of the
Reform Study                 on Higher Education Reform.                         targeted public.



21
Table 6: Studies Included in Project (cont'd)
Year              Study              Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined  Status         Impact of Study
1996   Higher Education Software   Organize the start-up of budget management   Completed  -Verify the software with the
Study/Budget                software use at the University of Cocody to        specifications.
develop a projection and planning model            -Begin software use
-Use of the results in the development
of contractual agreements between
the State and the institutions.
1996   Material Inventory Study    Inventory the material in the PAGRH     Completed  Evaluate recurrent costs with a view
PAGRH Technology Inventory  Inventory the material in the PAGRH               to integrating them in the budget of
Study                                                                          the beneficiary Ministries at the end
of the Project.
1996   Evaluation of Technical     -Evaluation of the satisfaction of the users  Completed  -Better use of technical tools in the
Training Study             financed by the PAGRH.                              units;
-Identify additional beneficiaries of technical    -Acquisition of work autonomy
training as well as technology companies.          through the use of software;
-Growth in the number of PC users
-Satisfaction with the efficacy of
users following training.
1996   Master plan for Higher      Development of a Livre blanc on Higher             Reform of the pedagogical structures
Education                   Education degrees..                                and practices adopted. Follow-up on
the planning process.
1996   Maintenance in Higher       Improve maintenance in Higher Education  Completed  Distribution of the results to all
Education and Research      and Research Institutions.                         decision makers and managers in the
Institutions                                                                   Ministry. Information and awareness
of the heads of the Higher Education
and Research Institutions.
1996   Evolution of partners' opinions  Appreciation of the evolution of partners'  Completed  Use of the results in the Higher
on the University 1994 - 1996   opinions on the University 1994 - 1996         Education Reform.
1996   Girls' Education Determinants  Study on factors affecting girls' education.    Completed  -Establishment of a data bank on
girls' education to be used by
researchers
-Awareness of the problems posed by
girls' education in the northern
region.



22
Table 6: Studies Included in Project (cont'd)
Year              Study               Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined  Status           Impact of Study
1996   Nutrition Action Plan        Support the National Nutritional Committee   Completed  The National Nutrition Action Plan
(Ministry of Agriculture) to develop a              developed thanks to PAGRH
National Nutrition Action Plan.                     financing was presented as Cote
d'Ivoire's contribution to the World
Nutrition Summit in Rome in
December 1996.
At the national level, the action plan
is being implemented.
1996   Development of a             Define a mode of means of communication    Completed  Distribution to decision makers and
Communication System for the  and information to better integrate the            managers in the education/training
Education Sector..           education policies in Cote d'Ivoire.                sector of useful and usable
information.
1996   Study on Education Financing   1st phase: Inventory of existing data and  Completed  This study is the first step in the
studies, identification of missing or               development of satellite reports on
insufficient data, first definition of the          education: through implication of the
chapter and methodology of a national               ministries in the Project's objectives;
education report.                                   this study alloved tfor an
2nd phase: Training of two resource-persons         improvement in the statistics and
from the ministry, assistance with the              planning directorate of the MENFB
definition and the realization of the necessary     personnel capacity to finance the
surveys, sectoral or regional data collection       education sector. It also permitted:
available following phase 1.                        -obtaining data on private education;
3rd phase: Refinement of the methodology            -training of two resource-persons in
and construction of a first national education     the ministry, one of whom was
report.                                            transferred to Tax Directorate.
Improve the understanding of the financing          The difficulty is linked to obtaining
mechanisms and devaluate the impact of the          regional data. The persons identified
different financiers in the education sector.       do not always have the data. A draft
report was completed; the final report
is not yet available.



23
Table 6: Studies Included in Project (cont'd)
Year               Study               Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined  Status            Impact of Study
1996   Study on Optimizing Higher    Establish a new inventory, determine actual    Completed  Optimisation of building use in
Education Institution Facilities.  usage and develop a planning basis for the      university sites.
future, in the framework of the master plan
for higher education.
1996   Study on Internal Efficacy in    The actions necessary to improve internal  Completed  Distribution of the results to
Higher Education             efficacy in Higher Education Institutions             decisionmakers and managers in the
requires specific studies to better grasp the        Higher Education System (results
actual situation, in particular at the University    seminar held). Awareness of the
level where weak internal efficacy has been          directors of the university
noted.                                               departnents.
1996   Support to School Statistics  Continuation of Phase I.                  Completed  This study permitted the production
Support to School Statistics                                                       of information on the monitoring of
(Phase II)                                                                         school entry and more reliable school
statistics. It is necessary to note the
increased responsibility of the
regional offices.
1996   Preliminary Study for the     In the scope of the implementation of the  Completed  This study permitted the unblocking
Investment Action Plan       HRDP, the Government defined an objective             of a tranche of the HRDP. From this
of 90% enrollment rate by the year 2000.             point of view, its impact was to
The first reviews of the plan resulted in            contribute to the financing of the
delays in the study. This study was to               State budget.
propose an action plan to achieve this
objective, with regard to construction of
education facilities.
1996   Study on School Cooperatives   Identify the school cooperatives which   Completed  Findings integrated in the preparation
perform well, the conditions leading to their        of the Basic Education Project.
success and analyze their means of operation
and management, in light of other schools.



24
Table 6: Studies Included in Project (cont'd)
Year              Study               Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined  Status           Impact of Study
1996   Support to School Statistics  Development of a National Education     Completed  Thanks to support from the HRDMP,
(Phase I)                    Statistical Information System.                     this study helped to centralize and
standardize the information at the
Ministry.
1994   Support the School Mapping    Improved tools at the disposal of the local  Completed  First improvement in the mastering of
and regional offices, the awareness and             the school map.
training seminars.
1995   Study on internal efficacy of    Collect statistics on the new entrants,  Completed  Begin improvement of data anaylsis
school system                repeaters, and drop outs, and the exclusions        of the education system.
by sector and year in each institution;
calculate the average promotion, repeater and
drop out rates during the past five years;
calculate the loss, average study duration, etc.
rates; establish fluctuation diagrams, define
the projections for the student population for
the next five years.
i 99    Study of additionai resources    Analyze and propose uses for the Lycee  Canceied   Not reievant for Government policy.
for more efficient usage of the   infrastructure which will ensure financing,
Lyc&e Scientific at          maintenance, and quality of education at the
Yamoussoukro                Institution.
1995   Socioeconomic study of social   Grasp the attitude and behavior of the  Canceled   Not relevant for Government policy.
security beneficiaries       population with regard to paying for health
care insurance.



25
Table 6: Studies Included in Project (cont'd)
Year              Study               Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined  Status           Impact of Study
1995   Study of the cost of health  Evaluate the types of medical benefits    Canceled   Not relevant for Government policy.
benefits and the beneficiary's   provided in the hospitals and medical centers;
ability to pay               evaluate the average unit cost of medical
benefits; determine the cost rate, and the
means for taxation and payment.
1995   Study of the information system  Identify the insured populations; determine  Canceled   Not relevant.for Government policy.
and the management of the new  the financial equilibrium and the risk; control
subsector                   the demand and offer of care; ensure
flexibility in management.
1995   Study of project planning    Determine the conditions for the progressive    Canceled   Not relevant for Government policy.
implementation of the system.
1994   Socioeconomic study on Social  Identify resources necessary; evaluate the  Canceled   Not relevant for Government policy.
Security in CMte d'Ivoire    human, material, and financial resources in
order to develop a realistic and efficient
action plan; determine eventual strengths and
weaknesses in order to foresee necessary
adjustments to ensure its sustainability.



26
Table 7A: Project Costs
Item                 Appraisal estimate (US$M)    Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local   Foreign    Total     Local    Foreign    Total
1. Consultant Services                                3.3                           3.63
2. Equipment, Computers                               0.3                           0.82
3. Operating Costs              __. 1                                               0.62
4. Pre-Investment Studies                             1.5                           1.36
5. Refund P770/0-1-IVC        _                       1.0                           0.06
6. Unallocated                                        0.5                           0.00
SA-A  CAA A/C No. 467 037                                                           0.03
SA-P  Trans. from P770-0-IVC                        =                               0.03
TOTAL                                     6.7        =_=   6.55
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)       Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Source          Local      Foreign     Total      Local     Foreign     Total
IDA                      1.8        4.9        6.7        _                     6.6
Government               1.2        _          1.2        _                      1.2
Total            3.0        4.9        7.9                               7.8



27
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
STATUS
SELECTION                                         COVENANT                                         C = In Comp.                  COMMENTS
NO. OF                                                                                           CD = Compliance after Delay
CREDIT/LOAN                                                                                          CP = Conmp. with Partially
AGREEMENT                                                                                           NC = Not in Compliance.
NYD = Not yet due
4.01 (a)        The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect    C               None
in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources, and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
4.01 (b)        The Borrower shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in para. (a) of this Section    C               None
including those for the Specila Account and the Project Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association.
4.01 (b)        (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months  C               None
after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
4.01 (b)        (iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning said records, accounts and the  C              None
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
4.01 (c)        For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on       C               None
the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
4.01 (c)        (i) maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with para. (a) of this Section records and  C              None
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
4.01 (c)        (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit report for the fiscal  C        None
year in whcih the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
4.01 (c)        (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; and                       C               None
4.01 (c)        (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in para.  C               None
(b) of this Section and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the
_ _   procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation can be relied upon.



28
Table 9: Bank Resources: Stalff Inputs
Stage of               Planned                   Actual
Project Cycle
Staff       US$          Staff       US$
Weeks                    Weeks
('000)                   ('000)
Preparation to appraisal  N/A         N/A          14.6        37.7
Appraisal                 N/A         N/A           5.7         15.2
Negotiation through       N/A         N/A          17.1         45.6
Board approval
Supervision*              40.1        67.3         73.0        120.0
Completion*               17.0        23.2         16.3        26.2
TOTAL                    57.1        90.5         127.4       244.7



Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of        Month/   Number    Days         Specialized     Implemen.      Develop.                          Types of
project cycle      year        of        in        staff skills     Status       objectives                       problems
persons    Field     represented
Through appraisal      3/92         5        14                                                                                                      l
Appraisal through
Board                  6/92         3        13    PE, OA, ES
Board through          7/93         2        11    PE, 00                  I             I
effectiveness          11/93        2         2     PE, 00                 1  I          I      I
Supervision            5/94        2          6     PE/OS, MS             S              S        A number of cumbersome systems which confront project
management on the Borrower's side. Readjustments in
terms of nature, duration, and location of Technical
Assistance.
10/94       3         6     PE/OPS, MS             S             S
4/95        4        30    MS, FM, PE/OS,
SOO
Mid-Term Review        6/95         5        30    S, E, PA, FM, E         S             S
3/96        2         5     E, OS                  S             S        Although the delays experienced earlier are being
overcome, all activities will not be completed by Dec.
1996.
7/96        2               E, OS
4/97        4         5     PS, 2-E, DA                                   Disbursement problem likely if counterpart funds are not
available before June 30.
12/97       2         2     E, PE
Completion             2/98         3         5     E, PE, PA 
DA=Disbursement Assistant               OS=Operations Specialist
E=Economist                             PA=Programs Assistant
ES=Educational Specialist               PE=Principal Economist
FM=Financial Management Specialist       PS=Procurement Specialist
MS=Management Specialist                 S=Sociologist
OA=Operations Analyst                    SOO=Senior Operations Officer
O0=Operations Officer



PROJET D'APPUI A LA GESTION DES RESSOURCES HlUMAINES
MISSION DE CLOTURE'
DECEMBRE 1997
1.    Une mission de cl6ture du projet d'appui a la gestion des ressources humaines (PAGRH,
credit 2505-IVC) s'est deroulee en Cote d'Ivoire du 4 au 5 decembre 1997. La mission etait
conduite par Catherine Laurent, economiste, chargee du projet, et Rachidi Radji, economiste
principal. La mission avait pour objet de participer A l'atelier de cl8ture du projet organise par la
CMte d'Ivoire.
1. ATELIER DE CLOTURE DU PROJET
2.    Un atelier de restitution des resultats du projet, par les quatre administrations
beneficiaires (ministeres de la sante publique, de l'education et la formation de base,
1'enseignement sup6rieur et de l'enseignement technique et de la formation professionnelle) et
l'administration chef de file (ministere de l'economie et des finances) a ete organise les 4 et 5
decembre 1997 en Abidjan, par le secretariat permanent du comite des operations du programme
d'ajustement sectoriel de valorisation des ressources humaines (COPVRH). Les participants
etaient l'equipe qui sera chargee de rediger la contribution ivoirienne au rapport de fin
d'ex6cution du projet.
3.     Les principales conclusions des presentations et discussions seront refl6tees avec plus de
detail dans le rapport d'achevement, A la fois dans la partie redigee par l'IDA et dans celle
redigee par la CMte d'Ivoire. Quelques aspects meritent cependant d'etre d'ores et deja releves,
qui ont affecte soit positivement soit negativement le deroulement du projet, et pourront servir de
lecons pour de futurs projets. Les participants ont notamment soulign6:
- L'orientation du PAGRH. Initialement concu comme une assistance technique A la mise en
oeuvre du PVRH (pret 3428 et credits 2323-0, 2323-1 et 2323-2-IVC), le PAGRH a finalement
et6 taille sur mesure pour completer le projet d'appui A la gestiion de l'economie (PAGE) dans les
ministeres sociaux. Cela a abouti A centrer ses activites sur le renforcement institutionnel des
administrations responsables de la gestion des secteurs sociaux, ainsi que de l'administration
responsable du suivi de leurs budgets.
- La lenteur de mise en oeuvre de la composante 4, sous-composante Etudes de pre-
investissement, debloquee par la revue A mi-parcours effecituee en juin 1995, mais aussi son
utilite une fois operationnalisee, notamment pour la r6alisaition de l'etude sur l'evolution du
niveau de vie des menages, et d'autres etudes importantes clans le cadre de la preparation du
projet de developpement des services de sante integres (Cr. 2893-IVC), de la r6forme de
l'enseignement sup6rieur et d'un projet d'appui A l'education de base 6value en decembre 1997.
- Les resultats positifs enregistres dans le renforcement des capacites de gestion, au centre, des
directions responsables du personnel, de la planification et des affaires financieres pour les
secteurs sante et education, ainsi que dans les unites d6concentrees pour l'education de base,
meme si ce constat doit 8tre nuance, compte tenu notamment des faiblesses persistantes. En
effet, 1'ensemble des besoins n'a pas pu etre couvert et l'interet des responsables concernes n'a
pas toujours ete A la hauteur des investissements realises par (et au niveau) de leurs
collaborateurs.



- Les resultats positifs enregistres dans la categorie 3, Ecoles t6moins, reseau d'ecoles primaires
disseminees dans tout le pays, dans 1'experimentation d'approches innovatrices visant a
ameliorer la qualit6 de 1'enseignement dans les etablissements concernes (taux de promotion
porte de 30 a 38%).
- L'assistance technique financee sur le projet (71% du credit) a ete majoritairement une
assistance locale (62% des montants). Elle a aussi et, volontairement, conque comme un appui
temporaire et discontinu, afin de bien assurer le transfert des competences aux unites appuyees.
- Le credit, prevu initialement pour trois ans, a en realite, si l'on inclut l'avance de preparation
du projet, dure cinq annees, compte tenu de la prolongation en juillet 1996 jusqu'au 31 decembre
1997. II a fait l'objet de deux reallocations des fonds entre categories. II a souffert de ce que la
budgetisation des fonds de contrepartie n'a pas et revue en consequence, et leur versement a
toujours ete retarde, parfois de six mois.
- L'importance critique de la permanence de l'equipe chargee de gerer le projet au sein du
ministere de l'economie et des finances, du debut A la fin du credit, notamment pour la synergie
avec le cadrage macro-economique (DCPE, PIP, HIPC, revue des depenses publiques).
- La n6cessit6 pour la Cote d'Ivoire de prendre en compte dans son budget de fonctionnement
la releve de certaines activites prises en charge par le projet initialement, notamment la
poursuite des Ecoles temoins et le renforcement des directions centrales et regionales des deux
ministeres de I'education (MENFB et METFP) et des universites et EPN relevant du MESRIT.
II. ELABORATION DU RAPPORT DE FIN D'EXECUTION DU CREDIT
4.     Une lettre en date du 5 novembre 1997 a ete adressee par l'IDA au ministre de
l'economie et des finances, expliquant le processus et les responsabilites respectives de l'IDA et
de l'emprunteur pour le rapport de fin d'execution. L'atelier de d6cembre a et organise de facon
A preparer la contribution de l'emprunteur.
5.    Un calendrier a ete arrete: la contribution de l'IDA pour le rapport de fin d'execution
devrait etre disponible A la mi-janvier pour 1'emprunteur, tandis que la participation de celui-ci
devrait egalement etre communiquee dans ces delais a l'IDA. Les comptes du projet devant etre
clos fin decembre, une mission devrait etre effectuee par l'IDA vers la mi-fevrier 1998 pour
permettre d'achever 1'elaboration de ce rapport, qui devrait etre presente au conseil
d'administration de l'IDA avant la fin juin 1998.
Fait A Washington, le 12 janvier 1998
Catherine Laurent
Groupe Population et ressources humaines 3, AFTH3
Region Afrique



PROJET D'APPUI A LA GESTION DES RESSOURCES HUMAINES
(CREDIT N 2505-IVC)
MISSION DE RAPPORT DE FIN D'EXECUTION (FEVRIER 1998)
1.    Conformement aux disposition rappelees dans I'aide-memoire de la precedente
mission de cl6ture du projet d'appui A la gestion des ressources humaines, P.A.G.R.H.,
credit n 2505-IVC, en d6cembre 1997, une mission s'est deroulee en Abidjan du 22 au
27 fevrier 1998, afin de preparer le rapport de fin d'ex6cution du projet. Elle comprenait
Catherine Laurent, chargee du projet, et Ross Pfile, assistant de programmes.
2.    Les parties I et II du rapport, repr6sentant la contribution de la Banque, ont ete
e1aborees en collaboration avec 1'emprunteur. Elles sont annexees au present aide-
memoire. L'emprunteur aura donc A nous faire part de ses commentaires eventuels et A
nous fournir des complements d'information pour la liste des etudes, et nous
communiquer sa propre contribution d'ici au 15 avril.
3.    La mission remercie l'ensemble des personnes rencontrees et du temps qu'elles
ont pu lui consacrer.
Fait en Abidjan, le 27 fevrier 1998.
Catherine Laurent, chargee du projet



Human Resources Development Management Support Project
Summary of the Government's Report
The Human Resources Development Management Project (HRDMP) was conceived (a) to
continue World Bank support to the horizontal ministries; and (b) to assist, in a specific manner,
the administrations involved in realizing the ambitious reforms undertaken in the HRMD. The
HRDMP supported the implementation of essential components of the HRMD, and attempted to
correct certain structural weaknesses discovered in the HRMD.
Government was closely associated with project preparation, and it (a) identified the needs, (b)
defined the terms of reference, and (c) defined the work programs for technical assistance. It
should be noted that, at project conception, beneficiary services were few; their number increased
during project implementation.
The HRDMP permitted the creation of favorable conditions to improve management in the
beneficiary ministries through: (a) establishing or re-establishing the coordination and impetus
for internal reforms in the ministries responsible for human resources; (b) making reliable data
available, and ensuring their continued, regular production; (c) making available rational and
pertinent support for primary and secondary school teachers; (d) instituting monitoring and
execution of budgets by level and type of expenditure; and (e) implementing in all EPN of the
MESRIT budgetary management tools.
Borrower and Bank actions which delayed project execution include: (a) delays in receiving
non-objections from the Bank notably for computer equipment; (b) institutional instability; (c)
communication between the different partners in the ministries;and (d) availability of counterpart
funds.
During the in-country workshop in December 1997, the following recommendations to reduce
delays were made:
* With regard to communication difficulties, establishing electronic mail for internal and
external communication
*  With regard to budget, (a) planning activities taking into account the budget; (b) establishing
conditions for priority activities; and (c) pre-investment studies for the execution of the
action plan
*  With regard to project sustainability, (a) greater stability of those responsible for the project;
(b) development of project procedure manuals to preserve project memory; and (c)
distribution of project reports.
Lessons for future projects in C6te d'Ivoire include:
(a)   complete understanding of project objectives by the ministry directors' teams;
(b)   the coordination and management team should have the means to keep new arrival
informed, and motivate the partners in the other ministries; and
(c)   national and international expertise is possible only if the expectations and penalties are
clearly defined.



REPUBLIQUE DE COTE ]D'IVOIRE
Union - Discipline - Iravail
MINISTERE DE L'ECONOMIE ET DES FINANCES
COMITE DES OPERATIONS DU PROGRAMME DE
VALORISATION DES RESSOURCES HUMAINES
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET D'APPUI
A LA GESTION DES RESSOURCES HUMAINES : 1994 - 1997
Cr 2505 IVC, approuve par le CA de l'IDA en Juin 1993
SECRETARIAT PERMANENT DU COMITE DES OPERATIONS DU PVRH
Mai 1998



PREFACE: Identification du projet
La genese du Projet d'Appui A la Gestion des Ressources Humaines (PAGRH) fait
appel A deux elements historiques complementaires: (a) d'une part, la n6cessite de
prolonger l'appui de la Banque Mondiale aux ministeres horizontaux (Finances, Fonction
Publique, Justice ) A travers le Projet d'Appui A la Gestion Economique (PAGE) dans les
ministeres sectoriels dont l'importance des parts dans le budget de l'Etat exige qu'ils
contribuent de maniere significative A la mise en cauvre des reformes entreprises sur la
periode de 1990-94; (b) d'autre part, aider de facon specifique les administrations
impliquees dans la realisation des reformes ambitieuses entreprises dans le cadre du
Programme de valorisation des ressources humaines (PVRH).
Concemant l'aspect lid au PVRH, il convient de rappeler que le PVRH etait un
ensemble de reformes ambitieuses et complexes dont la mise en euvre de certaines
mesures exigeait soit un appui institutionnel d'accompagnement, soit des ressources
additionnelles qui n'etaient pas prevues dans le budget de l'Etat. Ces reformes visaient les
domaines et fonctions suivantes:
a) Contr6le de l'evolution des depenses (fonctionnement et investissement) du
secteur des Ressources Humaines.
b) Adoption de Politiques Gouvemementales permettant de mieux repondre aux
besoins des populations dans le secteur des Ressources Humaines.
c) Maitrise des depenses (faible croissance de la masse salariale, maitrise des
depenses de transferts sociaux, r6duction des couts unitaires...).
d) Amelioration de la gestion du personnel.
Au regard de la complexite du PVRH et A l'etat des institutions chargees de le
mettre en ceuvre, force est de constater que certains engagements de ce programme
avaient ete pris en surestimant la capacite des administrations chargees de la mise en
oeuvre des mesures avec satisfaction (stabilisation du nombre d'etudiants A 15 000,
scolarisation universelle projetee a 90% A l'horizon 2000, redeploiement du personnel
enseignant, medical et para-medical, etc.).
Ainsi, A la mise en vigueur du pret BIRD et du credit IDA associes au PVRH, le 8
Janvier 1992, l'on s'est rendu compte que le deroulement satisfaisant de ce programme
pourrait etre compromis si des appuis aux fonctions essentielles liees au processus de
gestion n'etaient pas identifies et les ressources afferentes mobilisees.
A partir de ce constat, le Gouvernement a engage des discussions avec la Banque
Mondiale, qui ont abouti, lors de la supervision du PVRH en Mars 1992, A l'identification
d'un projet d'appui dont les caracteristiques sont presentees ci-apres:
Le present rapport, qui fait partie integrente du "Rapport d'achevement du projet",
s'articule autour des points suivants:
a) description du projet.
b) conception, execution, realisation et impact du projet.
c) analyse critique de I'action de la Banque, du Gouvernement et de I'assistance
technique.



2
d) evaluation economique et financiere.
e) resume des principales conclusions.
I.    DESCRIPTION ET DEMARRAGE DU PROJET
I. 1 Historique:
L1.1I. Contextepolitique
Outre les conditions generales, les actions realisees pour l'entree en vigueur du
credit etaient les suivantes:
* selection sur une base competitive des consultants pour les composantes I et 2
*  selection du Conseiller technique de la composante 3
* nomination du Coordonnateur National
* selection d'un conseiller technique aupres du Comite des Operations du
programme de valorisation des Ressources Humaines (COPVRH) pour le
transfert de technologie
* depot d'un montant de 75 millions de FCFA sur le compte du projet ouvert
dans une banque commerciale acceptable par l'IDA.
Une reallocation des fonds entre les categories du projet a eu lieu en Janvier 1996
puis en Septembre 1997. Une augmentation du monitant initial du compte special a ete
rdalis6e en Decembre 1995.
r 1.2 Situation &conomique et sociale
Le PVRH a ete approuve en 1991, mais la devaluation du FCFA a conduit a une
restructuration des prets initialement consentis. L'objectif principal du PVRH 6tait de
corriger des tendances defavorables revelees par les indicateurs sociaux de base,
notamment 1'esperance de vie, la mortalite infantile et le taux de scolarisation primaire,
dont la faiblesse mettait en peril les efforts de developpement du pays. Pour cela, la
qualite de l'offre des services publics de sante et d'education devait 8tre amelioree, tout
comme la couverture de la population pour les niveaux primaires. Le PVRH a apporte un
appui budgetaire soumis A des progres dans les domaines suivants:
a) suivi de l'execution des budgets et de l'efficacite des programmes dans les secteurs
des ressources humaines;
b) adoption officielle d'une d6claration de politique de developpement des ressources
humaines;
c) amelioration de la perennite financiere en introduisant un recouvrement des couits
dans les etablissements de sante et de formation avec un contr6le des transferts
sociaux en faveur des etudiants du secondaire et du superieur; et
d) amelioration de la capacite de mise en ceuvre par de meilleurs outils de gestion et de
suivi.



3
1.1.3. Cadre institutionnel
Le PAGRH soutenait l'execution des composantes essentielles du PVRH du
Gouvernement pour lequel un pret de la Banque mondiale et un credit de l'IDA ont Wt6
approuves le 20 Decembre 1991. Le Gouvemement avait rempli toutes les conditions de
mise en vigueur du programme au 8 Janvier 1992. L'experience du PVRH a mis en
evidence certaines faiblesses structurelles que le PAGRH a tente de corriger.
La responsabilite de 1'execution du PAGRH incombait aux sous comites du
programme, qui existaient dans chacun des Ministeres techniques s'occupant des
Ressources Humaines. La coordination et la supervision interministerielles du
programme incombaient au COPVRH. II se reunissait chaque semaine pour informer le
Premier Ministre et le Ministre de l'Economie et des Finances de 1'etat d'avancement de
1'execution du programme et pour decider des mesures corrective 6ventuellement
necessaires. Le COPVRH etait charge aussi de la coordination avec les donateurs et les
bailleurs de fonds et veillait a la compatibilite du programme avec la situation macro-
economique. Le Secretariat Permanent du COPVRH, organe d'execution, a joue pendant
cette periode le r6le d'agence d'execution pour 1'ensemble des activites du projet.
1.2   Objectifs du projet
A long terme, le projet visait les objectifs suivants:
. renforcer les procedures de budgetisation, programmation et planification
fonctionnelle au niveau des ministeres techniques;
* suivre et evaluer l'impact des services educatifs et sanitaires aupres des beneficiaires
* am6liorer la qualite de la prestation des services educatifs et medicaux.
A court terme, il s'agissait d'aider les ministeres beneficiaires dans la mise en
ceuvre du PVRH.
1.3   Composantes du projet
Le projet avait quatre composantes:
* Composante 1: Planification, programmation et budgetisation.
* Composante 2: Suivi et evaluation par les ben6ficiaires.
* Composante 3: Initiative portant sur la qualite des Ecoles.
* Composante 4: Appui a la gestion et etudes de prdinvestissement.
Composante 1:    Renforcement   des   capacites   de   planification,   de
programmation et de budgetisation des ministeres techniques.
A travers cette composante, le PAGRH devait (a) renforcer les capacites des
ministeres mechniques, (b) apporter une assistance technique et former le personnel des
ministeres beneficiaires.
Concernant le renforcement des capacites des ministeres techniques, il s'agissait:
(i) d'analyser la structure des depenses (fonctionnement et investissement) en vue
d'identifier des gains d'efficience; (ii) preparer des budgets de fonctionnement et
d'investissement sur la base de priorites de depenses claires et coherentes et des normes
standards; et (iii) participer de maniere efficace a la preparation du budget et au processus



4
d'arbitrage, grace A la mise au point de modele de programmation budgetaire et de
normes d'exploitation.
Quant a l'assistance technique et la formation du personnel des ministeres
b6n6ficiaires les actions, elles devaient contribuer A: (i) l'elaboration et l'utilisation de
modeles de programmation budgetaire; (ii) l'etablissement de procedures d'exploitation
normalisees et de procedures interdepartementales et interministerielles de flux des
informations; et (iii) l'amelioration des methodes de travail.
Composante 2:    Renforcement des capacites de suivi et d'evaluation des
ministeres techniques.
L'objectif de cette composante etait de: (a) renforcer le suivi et l'evaluation du
processus budgetaire grace a la creation de procedures officielles regissant les flux
d'informations A l'interieur des administrations, y compris la preparation de rapports
trimestriels sur l'execution des budgets; et (b) renforcer le suivi et l'evaluation de la
performance des prestations de service par les ministeres.
Composante 3: Initiative portant sur la qualite des 6coles
Par cette composante, le projet devait apporter une assistance au ministere de
l'education nationale en vue de renforcer sa capacite A promouvoir la qualite et
l'efficacite dans les ecoles primaires grace a un programme de reseaux d'ecoles temoins.
Comlosante 4: Appui a la gestion et etudes de preinvestissement
Par cette composante, le projet devait appuyer le COPVRH pour ce qui est de la
gestion du projet et de la supervision du PVRH, et (b) determiner des etudes de
preinvestissement au cours de l'execution de projet.
II- CONCEPTION, EXECUTION, REALISALTION ET IMPACT DU PROJET
II. 1 Evaluation de la conception du pro jet
Le Gouvemement ivoirien a et etroitement associe A la conception du projet. Sa
participation s'est traduite par l'identification des besoins, la definition des termes de
r6f6rence et des programmes de travail pour l'appui technique.
II faut cependant noter que lors de la conception, les services beneficiaires
identifies etaient peu nombreux. Leur nombre s'est accru au cours de l'execution du
projet par suite des reorganisations et restructurations intervenues dans l'administration
ivoirienne.
1. 2 Principaux resultats obtenus dans chacune des composantes du projet
HL2.1 Composante 1: Renforcement des capacites d, Planification, de Programmation et
de Budgetisation des Ministres Techniques.
* Ministere de I'Education Nationale et de la Formation de Base (MENFB)
* optimisation du systeme d'information statistique grace a une assistance technique;
*  amelioration dans la maitrise de la carte scolaire;
* meilleure rationalisation de la gestion des ressources humaines du MENFB;



5
* mise en place d'une procedure de recensement des personnels du MENFB;
*  amelioration des capacit6s de gestion budg6taire au niveau central et au niveau
d6concentrd par: a) le recrutement d'assistants administratifs et comptables pour les
directions regionales de l'education nationale (DREN); b) la mise en place de
conferences budgetaires regionales et nationales; c) elaboration de normes et de
nomenclatures des depenses; d) elaboration de plans de charge de la gestion des
bourses scolaires;
* acquisition de micro-ordinateurs et formation A l'utilisation de ces materiels.
Ministere de l'Enseignement Technique et de la Formation Professionnelle
(METFP)
* transfert des acquis du PAGRH au METFP qui a ete cree pendant l'execution du
projet;
* formation des responsables d'etablissements A la methode d'elaboration des projets;
* information et sensibilisation des responsables d'etablissements sur: a) les nouvelles
orientations du ministere; b) les nouveaux projets et leur gestion; c) la dimension
entrepreneuriale; d) la maintenance.
Le projet a permis d'equiper le Cabinet, la Cellule d'appui technique, la Direction de la
Planification et la DAF (materiels informatiques et fournitures techniques).
* Ministere de l'Enseignement Superieur de la Recherche et de
l'Innovation Technologique (MESRIT)
*  appui au processus de budgetisation (DAAF) pour la conception d'un outil de gestion
budg6taire et l'implantation A titre experimental d'un progiciel A l'Universit6 de
Cocody;
* mise en place d'un dispositif de gestion technico-pedagogique;
* conception du systeme d'information pour l'enseignement superieur (SIVES)
: mise en place de base de donnees sur les scolarites;
* assistance A la gestion des ressources humaines;
* informatisation des scolarites des Universites.
* Ministere de la Sante (MSP)
* suivi comptable et budgetaire du recouvrement des cofits dans les formations
sanitaires publiques (h6pitaux generaux, CHR);
* suivi en temps reel du budget par la mise en place d'un systeme informatique central
(BGF);
* decentralisation de la confection du budget;
* acquisition de micro-ordinateurs et formation A l'utilisation de ces materiels pour des
personnels de la DAF et de la DRH;
* mise en place d'une procedure de recensement du personnel de la Sante;
* transfert de competence de l'assistance technique A la DAF;
* formation A l'utilisation de l'ensemble des outils de gestion du ministere de la sante
(recouvrement des couits, elaboration et execution du budget).



6
II.2.2 Composante 2: Renforcement des capacites de suivi et d'evaluation des ministeres
techniques.
* MENFB
* trois (3) enquetes ont et realisees: a) enqu8te de suivi de cohorte d'elves (CM2,
3me, 2n et terminale); b) enquete sur les bibliotheques scolaires et sur les couits des
manuels scolaires; c) enquete sur le rendement des eleves de CE2 et 36me. Toutes ces
enquetes ont fait l'objet de publications actuellernent disponibles A la DPES,
*  mise en place de l'observatoire du CP1.
* MESRIT
* plusieurs sondages d'opinion ont ete realises sur la reforme de l'Enseignement
Superieur et la politique des Bourses (1994, 1995, 1996, 1997);
* une etude d'opinion des chefs d'entreprises et des Cadres a ete realisee sur les besoins
en formation;
I12.3 Composante 3 : Initiative portant sur la qualite des ecoles
Au niveau de la recherche de la qualite, le PAGRH a axe ses efforts sur les ecoles
primaires. Ce qui a donne lieu A la mise en place du projet Ecoles-Temoins avec I'atteinte
des resultats suivants:
* mise en place d'equipes nationales form6es A l'elaboration, au suivi et 1'evaluation de
plans d'actions;
* accroissement de la participation des parents A la gestion des Ecoles temoins;
*  amelioration sensible des resultats scolaires dans les Ecoles temoins;
* une relative dynamisation des equipes Ecoles temoins et de leur encadrement;
*  maitrise des outils bureautiques par l'equipe nationale des Ecoles temoins;
* mise A la disposition de la coordination nationale des animateurs et des Ecoles
temoins de moyens logistiques;
* r6alisation de 4 etudes confides A des experts nationaux;
* mise en place des observatoires regionaux des Ecoles temoins;
*  production de syntheses thematiques concues comme outil methodologique a
l'implantation des innovations pedagogiques;
* transfert de competences de l'assistance technique A la coordination des Ecoles-
Temoins.
1L2.4 Composante 4: Appui Li la Gestion et Etudes de Preinvestissement.
* MENFB
*  une etude sur la deconcentration du MENFB.
*  4 etudes sur l'efficacite interne du systeme: a) etude sur le financement de
l'education confide A l'IREDU de Dijon; b) etudes sur les determinants de la
scolarisation confide au ROCARE; c) etude sur la communication inteme et exteme
du MENFB; d) Etude sur 1'enseignement primaire et secondaire prive;
*  une etude sur le ciblage des zones sous scolarisdes en vue d'interventions prioritaires.



7
* METFP
*  trois (3) 6tudes etaient prevues: (a) une etude sur 1'6tat des lieux; (b) une etude sur la
communication; et (c) une etude sur les filieres porteuses d'emploi.
*  sur ces 3 etudes prevues, seule l'etude sur le systeme de la communication a ete
realisee.
* MESRIT
*  des Audits budgetaires et operationnels ont ete realises sur les Universites, le CNOU
et les Grandes Ecoles;
*  des etudes sur le schema directeur de l'Enseignement Superieur:
*  la realisation d'un livre blanc sur l'enseignement superieur
*  la definition de l'architecture des formations universitaires
* mise en place d'un logiciel capable de dbfinir une programmation des moyens
*  implantation en cours d'un outil de programmation au sein des Vices Presidences a la
planification et a la programmation des Universites;
* diagnostic des problemes de maintenance dans toutes les structures du MESRIT;
*  des etudes d'implantation, definition des caracteristiques pedagogiques et le mode
d'organisation des structures dans le cadre de la mise en oauvre de l'enseignement a
distance;
* une etude sur le rendement interne de l'enseignement superieur;
*  une etude sur les filires porteuses;
*  une etude sur l'optimisation des locaux .
Concernant la formation en informatique, il convient d'indiquer qu'environ 84
cadres et personnel d'appui du Ministere ont beneficie d'une formation en informatique,
pour l'utilisation de logiciels de base (traitement de textes et tableur) et une douzaine de
cadres statisticiens, informaticiens ont beneficie d'une formation aux logiciels de base de
donnees et de traitement statistique (FOX-PRO, ARIEL, SPSS-PC). Ces formations ont
permis d'ameliorer sensiblement la capacite de gestion des services b6neficiaires.
Quant a l'appui logistique, il faut souligner que les services qui ont beneficie des
equipements informatiques sont la DESUP, la DAAF, les services administratifs des
etablissements de l'enseignement superieur. L'appui logistique a par ailleurs touche
l'organisation de seminaires, de missions, de fournitures techniques, de production et de
diffusion des documents.
II. 3 Coordination et gestion du projet
Responsabilites du coordonnateur. Le Coordonnateur informait le Ministre et
le Cabinet sur l'etat d'execution du projet, il assurait la liaison entre le projet et le cabinet
du ministere.
Relations entre le coordonnateur du projet et les directeurs techniques. Pour
certains projets, l'information n'a pas toujours circule au sein des Ministeres, ce qui a
entrain6 des incomprehensions et des frustrations.



8
Lecons a tirer pour les projets a venir:
* tenir des rapports periodiques pour mieux partager l'information,
* disposer de cahiers de charge des projets ou des missions,
* rapports suivis entre le coordonnateur et I'Admuinistrateur du projet,
* appropriation du proj et par les Directions technriques,
* assurer une plus grande stabilite des responsables de projet,
* elaborer un manuel de procedure pour preserver la mem6ire de projet,
* diffuser des rapports relatifs aux projets.
II. 4 Impact du projet dans la mise en ceuvre de la politique nationale de
developpement des ressources humaines.
Etant donnr que le PAGRH a contribue A la mise en ceuvre du PVRH, il aura
permis au Gouvernement de considerer les secteurs des ressources humaines comme
prioritaires pour l'allocation des ressources budgetaires et la definition de politiques
sociales. I1 a ete d'un apport appreciable dans l'amelioration de la capacite de mise en
ceuvre de la Politique nationale de developpement des Ressources Humaines notamment
dans la deconcentration de la Gestion budgetaire, Initiation et par perfectionnement dans
l'utilisation de l'outil informatique, dans l'acquisition d'equipement de gestion. I1 a
permis de creer les conditions favorables A l'amdlioration A la gestion des Ministeres
beneficiaires, par la:
*  prise (ou reprise) en main par les Cabinets Ministeriels charges des RH, du role de
coordination et d'impulsion des reformes internes;
*  disponibilite d'informations fiables sur les secteurs, avec la garantie de leur
production reguliere:
*  statistiques de l'enseignement superieur;
* statistiques de l'enseignement primaire/secondaire;
*  carte sanitaire en cours de finalisation;
* carte scolaire impulsee dans le primaire;
*  disponibilit6 de supports rationnels et pertinents de gestion des effectifs enseignants
du primaire et du secondaire, permettant un redLploiement et des affectations A dates
fixes;
*  instauration de reflexe de suivi de l'execution ides budgets par niveau et par type de
depense, avec une preoccupation etablie, d'ameliorer le taux d'execution des
depenses prioritaires;
*  mise en place dans l'ensemble des EPN du MESRIT d'outils de gestion budgetaire.
III ANALYSE CRITIQUE DE L'ACTION DE LA BANQUE, DU
GOUVERNEMENT ET DE L'ASSISTANCE TlECHNIQUE
Lors de l'atelier de presentation des r6sultats du PAGRH, organise en Decembre
1997, les representants des services beneficiaires oIlt donne leur sentiment sur le rible des
partenaires pendant le deroulement du projet. De I'analyse de leur declaration, il ressort
les points suivants:



9
I11.1 Les roles respectifs du Gouvernement et de la Banque Mondiale dans
l'identification et la conception du PAGRH.
Le PAGRH est un projet d'assistance technique dont la mise en place a ete
intimement liee aux insuffisances revelees dans le cadre de la mise en ceuvre du
Programme de Valorisation des Ressources Humaines. Ces insuffisances se rapportaient a
l'inexistence au niveau de l'administration de capacites reelles de conception, de
planification, de programmation de gestion budgetaire et de suivi.
L'idee du projet PAGRH a donc ete soumise par la Banque Mondiale a la CMte
d'Ivoire qui I'a acceptee. La preparation et la redaction des termes de references ont e
confiees au Secr6tariat Permanent du PVRH.
Certaines administrations etaient mieux preparees pour profiter des opportunites
offertes par le PAGRH. Ainsi, dans le cadre du PVRH le Ministere de l'Enseignement
Superieure avait deja fait un diagnostic par rapport aux etablissements d'enseignement
supeieur. Par ailleurs, dans le deroulement du projet, des modifications de profils des
consultants ont e  effectuees en fonction des revues periodiques et ont permis d'ajuster
les objectifs du PVRH.
I11.2. Les r6les respectifs du Gouvernement et de la Banque Mondiale dans le
suivi du projet (suivi quotidien, missions de supervision de l'IDA).
La premiere periode du PAGRH a vu le projet pilote par des comites ministeriels
comp6tents pour 1'ensemble des projets dans chaque Ministere. II en est resulte que
nombreux sont les responsables au niveau des diff6rents minist&es qui ignoraient
l'existence du PAGRH.
Par consequent, lors de la revue a mi-parcours, un coordinateur du PAGRH par
ministere a et6 mis en place.
La Banque Mondiale a effectue, en quatre (4) ans, huit (8) missions dont une n'a
pas fait l'objet d'aide memoire. Les delais de traitement de certains dossiers etait tres
longs. Mais, suite a la responsabilisation des representants locaux de la Banque Mondiale
a permis de reduire substantiellement ces delais.
III.3. Identification des principales decisions de ces deux partenaires, ayant
pu favoriser ou freiner 1'execution du PAGRH ( proc6dures, r6glementation,
tresorerie, etc.)
Les actions qui ont pu perturber 1'execution du PAGRH peuvent etre ainsi resumies:
*  les delais importants au niveau de l'avis de non objection de la Banque et de l'appel
d'offre pour l'acquisition de materiel informatique;
*  l'instabilite institutionnelle;
* la communication entre les differents partenaires n'a pas ete fluide entre les
Ministeres, d'abord entre le secretariat permanent des operations et les ministeres,
ensuite entre les coordonnateurs des ministeres et les beneficiaires;
* la disponibilite de la contrepartie ivoirienne en terme de tresorerie.



10
III.4. Les roles respectifs des differents partenaires dans la selection et
l'utilisation de l'expertise exterieure dans le cadre du PAGRH.
Le choix des consultants a ete d6volu a la CMte d'Ivoire. C'est ainsi que par
exemple, la Direction de la Planification du ministere de l'Education a passe un contrat
avec 1'ENSEA. Mais il arrive que le beneficiaire ne soit pas suffisamment outille pour
faire le choix.
Dans certains cas de consultations, ( audits ) il est precise la necessite d'expertise
extdrieure. De l'avis de la Banque Mondiale, cela releve de la recherche d'un regard plus
libre et plus objectif qui ne pouvait venir de l'exterieur afin de garantir l'independance
des consultants.
III.5. Recommandations
Par rapport aux actions qui ont freine l'execution du PAGRH, l'atelier a
recommand6:
Au titre de la communication: la mise en place de courrier electronique au niveau de
l'administration pour la communication tant au niveau interne qu'avec l'exterieur;
Au titre du budget:
T la planification des activites, de maniere A gerer rationnellement l'existant;
* la mise en place des conditions des reaffectations des ressources budgetaires A des
activites supposees prioritaires;
* la prevision dans le budget des Ministeres, d'un fonds de preinvestissement pour
1'execution des plans d'action.
Au titre de la perennisation des projets , outre ce qui precede:
* une plus grande stabilite des responsables de projets;
* l'elaboration des manuels de procedure;
* la diffusion des rapports relatifs aux projets.
III.6. Analyse critique de l'utilisation de l'expertise exterieure pendant
l'execution du PAGRH
Le contexte dans lequel le PAGRH a ete elabor6 montre qu'il s'agit d'un projet
pour la promotion et la vulgarisation du concept de transfert de competence. Cet objectif
a-t-il ete atteint ? Dans certains cas oui. Avec l'exemple des Ecoles Temoins ou encore
d'autres Directions Centrales. Dans d'autres cas par contre, le constat fait etat de blocage.
Dans le premier cas, comme facteurs favorables il y a eu:
*  I'attitude de l'administration;
* l'ouverture d'esprit de l'expert;
* la disponibilite de l'homologue;
*  la volonte d'appropriation du Projet par l'homologue.



11
Dans le second cas, le transfert des competences n'a pas ete effectif pour les
raisons suivantes:
* l'instabilite au niveau de la hierarchie de I'administration;
* le profil des homologues ne correspondant pas toujours a la description du poste;
* le peu de consideration pour I'homologue;
*  le manque de contr6le de 1'expert par l'administration;
* la mauvaise utilisation de l'expert (ex: comme conseiller technique);
* la retention de l'information par l'expert;
* le mauvais choix ou incompetence avere de certains experts.
Dans le non transfert des competences, les responsabilites sont partagees. La
forme expert/homologues doit etre maintenue et developpee.
111.7. Pour atteindre les objectifs recherch6s l'atelier a recommand6:
1) la designation de l'homologue avant l'arriv&e de l'expert afin qu'il se familiarise avec
le projet et qu'il commence la mobilisation des acteurs.
2) la motivation des homologues (Interessement, stages, formation complementaire par
rapport au profil de carriere)
3) le choix consequent de l'homologue (Profil adapte ai l'occupation naturelle)
4) le maintien de l'homologue jusqu'a la fin du projet.
5) le travail en etroite collaboration du responsable du service b6neficiaire, de
l'homologue et de l'Assistance Technique.
6) une evaluation periodique du travail de l'Expert par le service utilisateur.
7) la prise de dispositions necessaires pour la perennisation des acquis du projet.
(exemple: Rendre accessible la documentation et les outils developpes a la faveur du
projet; Faire en sorte que l'homologue soit reconnu et utilise comme un expert
national).
8) la prise en compte de cette fonction dans la Promotion de l'homologue.
IV EVALUATION ECONOMIQUE ET FINANCIERE DU PROJET
IV. 1 Cofit total du projet:
Initialement programme sur 3 ans (1994 - 1996), le credit IDA d'un montant de
4,7 millions de DTS a e  execute sur 4 ans (1994 - 1997). Si on y ajoute la durde
d'execution des travaux preparatoires finances sur le PPF (1993), on peut estimer la
duree totale d'execution du PAGRH a 5 ans. L'allocation des ressources par categorie de
depenses montre une pr6dominance des services de consultants (plus de 55%) suivi des
etudes (pres de 25%).
IV. 2 Pertes subies par 1'effet de la prolongation du projet par projet (4 ans
au lieu de 3 ans initialement prevus):
L'execution du projet sur 4 ans au lieu de 3 n'a pas cause de prejudices
particuliers a la ligne de credit.



12
Quant A la mobilisation des fonds de contrepartie elle a souffert des difficultes de
tresorerie de l'Etat sur la periode.
IV. 3 Cofits recurrents engendres par le projet sur les secteurs beneficiaires.
Parmi les activites du projet dont la poursuite apres F'achevement du projet
necessitait une prise en charge par le budget de l'Etat figuraient l'animation et le
fonctionnement du reseau des Ecoles-Temoins et l'entretien du materiel et des
dquipements (materiel informatique, vehicules, etc.).
La prise en charge de l'entretien du materiel et des equipements a ete confiee
systematiquement aux services beneficiaires A qui i] revient de prevoir dans le cadre de
leur budget de fonctionnement normal les ressources necessaires.
Concernant le reseau d'Ecoles Temoins, cette, precaution n'a pas ete prise au titre
de 1'exercice budgetaire de 1998.
IV. 4 Consequences pr6visibles de la fin du projet sur les structures
institutionnelles mises en place dans le cadre du projet.
Pour les besoins de realisation du PVRH (et par la suite du PAGRH), le
Gouvemement a mis en place le Comite des Operations dot6 d'un Secretariat Permanent
et des sous comites ministeriels. Apres l'achevement du projet, le Secretariat Permanent a
6t6 integre dans l'organigramme du Secretariat G6nfral du Ministere de l'Economie et
des Finances pour assurer les fonctions de coordination des politiques sociales avec un
accent particulier sur la surveillances des allocations de ressources aux secteurs sociaux.
Quant aux sous comit6s ministeriels, formes des Directions techniques dans chaque
Ministere, leur perennisation ne constituait pas un ob jectif en soit.
v   RESUME  DES  PRINCIPALES  CONCLUSIONS  ET  FUTURES
OPERATIONS
V. 1  Enseignements principaux de l'execution du projet
Sur le plan positif, I'assistance technique apportee aux Ministeres a servi A
concevoir et mettre en ceuvre des reformes importantes et a leur donner une reelle
capacite de suivi, de programmation et de gestion des moyens mis a leur disposition, tout
en ameliorant leur utilisation.
Les services beneficiaires ont fait preuve de creativite et d'initiative dans
l'utilisation du fonds de pre-investissement. Ce qui aurait pu etre un facteur de blocage a
et un avantage. La gestion interministerielle, sous l'egide du MEF, a assure l'acces a
toutes les composantes et un fonctionnement moins lourd.
Sur le plan negatif, on retiendra les changements institutionnels entrainant le
renouvellement frequent des Directeurs d'administration centrale et l'absence d'un
manuel d'execution.
V. 2 Futures operations et perennite
Pour la sant6, la mise en place de la capacite de gestion au MSP, ainsi que le
recouvrement des couits ont permis de developper les services de sante primaire, dans le



13
cadre du PDSSI.
Pour l'education, les discussions avec la Banque et les autres partenaires ont
conduit A I'adoption du PNDEF. La Banque prepare actuellement avec le Gouvemement
un projet d'appui A 1'enseignement de base, qui devrait permettre, grace a une meilleure
planification et programmation budgetaire de la part du MENFB, d'assurer A la fois une
meilleure efficacite du systeme et son expansion au profit des enfants defavorises.
Dans 1'ensemble, il sera necessaire d'apporter aux services b6neficiaires un
soutien pour la modernisation et F'amelioration de leurs outils et procedures de gestion et
de programmation.
V. 3 LeVons pour les futurs projets en C8te d'Ivoire
La realisation de futurs projets dans les secteurs des Ressources Humaines devrait
etre au prealable assuree d'une bonne comprehension des enjeux et des objectifs par les
equipes des Directeurs des Ministeres.
Dans le cas d'une coordination interministerielle, l'equipe de coordination et de
gestion devra 8tre en mesure d'informer au jour le jour chaque nouvel arrivant sur le
projet et de motiver ses partenaires au sein des autres Ministeres.
Le recours a l'expertise exterieure (nationale et intemationale) peut 8tre benefique
A l'Administration, pour peu que les resultats attendus soient clairement etablis avec un
calendrier des etapes et le detail des responsabilites des la formulation des termes de
rdf6rence.



