CREDIT NUMBER 2505 IVC
Development Credit Agreement
(Human Resources Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                      , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2505 IVC
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         -          , 1993, between REPUBLIC
OF COTE D'IVOIRE (the Booer) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS: the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Deve-
lopment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
(b)   "HRDP" means the Human Resources Development Program of
the Borrower supported by Credit No. 2323 IVC and Loan No. 3428 IVC,
both dated December 23, 1991;
(c)   "Operations  Committee" means   the  HRDP  operations
coMmittee of the Borrower established by the Borrower's Arr&t6 No.
926 dated December 4, 1991 and responsible for monitoring progress
in the implementation of the HRDP;
(d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;


﻿-2-
(e) "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(f)   "Technical Ministries" means the following ministries of
the Borrower in the Human Resources Sector: the Ministry responsible
for National Education (Ministgre de l'Education Nationale), the
Ministry responsible for Higher Education and Scientific Research
(MinistAre de 1'Enseignement Sup&rieur et de la Recherche
Scientifique), and the Ministry responsible for Health and Social
services (Minist&re de la Sant& et de la Protection Sociale);
(g)   "CAA"   means    the   Borrower's   Caisse   Autonome
d'Amortissement; and
(h)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"   means  the  project
preparation advances granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to letters dated September 22, 1992, and April 1, 1993,
sent by the Association and countersigned by the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to four million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 4,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a special deposit account in CAA on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account snall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
(c)   Promptly rfter the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Acco'ant
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service char e at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annu,n on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March I and September 1
commencing September 1, 2003 and ending March 1, 2028. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 1,
2013 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3,01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this


﻿-5-
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through the
Technical Ministries, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall entrust the Operations Committee with
overall coordination and monitoring of the Project. Among its
responsibilities, the Operations Committee shall select the proposed
activities to be carried out under Part D.2 of the Project and
forward them to the Association for review and approval.
(c)   For the purposes of the execution of Part C of the
Project, the Borrower shall select and thereafter maintain in
function a coordinator with qualifications, experience and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall open and
maintain in CAA an account in the name of the Project (the Project
Account) and make a one-time deposit of CFAF 75,000,000 into such
account which shall be at all times available to finance the
Borrower's contribution to the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) Not later than November 30 of each year
during the execution of the Project starting with November 30, 1993,
the Borrower and the Association shall exchange views on progress in
the implementation of the Project on the basis of the performance
indicators and execution program agreed upon with the Association.
(b)   Prior to any such exchange of views as specified in
paragraph (a) of this Section, and not later than October 15 of each
year, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a report on
Project implementation of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested.
(c)   Promptly  thereafter, the Borrower   shall take   any
necessary corrective measure agreed upon with the Association.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account and the Project Account
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii)    furnish  to   the  Association,  as   soon  as
available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as  the   Association  shall  have   reasonably
requested; and
(iii)    furnish   to   the  Association    such  other
information concerning said records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain,  or  cause   to  be  maintained,  in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and    accounts   reflecting    such
expenditures;


﻿-7-
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last w1thdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the
Special   Account  was   made,    all   records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and    other   documents)    evidencing    such
expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure that   such  records and  accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the technical advisors referred to under Section II of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and the coordinator referred to in
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, have been selected; and
(b)   the Project Account has been opened, and the deposit of
CFAF 75,000,000 thereinto has been made.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Economy, Finance and Plan is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Plan
B.P. V 125
Abidjan
Republic of Cate d'Ivoire
Cable address:                 Telex:
MINFIN                    23747 MINFIN
Abidjan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
By      O-Th 66
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Consultants'             2,250,000        100%
services
(2)   Equipment, computers       200,000        100%
and vehicles
(3)   Operating costs             70,000       50%
(4)   Preinvestment            1,000,000        100%
studies
(5)   Refunding of Project       700,000       Amount due pur-
Preparation Advance                       suant to Section
2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(6)   Unallocated                480,000
TOTAL               4,700,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Operating costs"
means office supplies, expenditures incurred in the preparation and
execution of field workshops and seminars, the salary of a
chauffeur, and vehicle maintenance and gasoline.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the implemen-
tation of key components of the HRDP, including: (i) strengthening
of budgetary procedures, planning and programming at the level of
Technical Ministries; (ii) monitoring and evaluation of the impact
of health and education services on beneficiaries; and (iii) im-
provement in the quality of health and education services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modificaticns thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Strengthening of the Planning, Programming and Budgeting
Capacities of the Technical Ministries
1.    Strengthening of the capacity of the Technical Ministries to:
(i)    analyze current spending patterns (operating and
investment   resources)   with   the   aim   of
identifying efficiency gains;
(ii)    prepare operating and investment budgets on the
basis of clear and coherent spending priorities
and standard operating norms; and
(iii)    participate   efficiently    in   the    budget
preparation and arbitrage process through the
refinement of budgetary programming models and
operating norms.
2.    Support to the Technical Ministries, including provision of
technical advice and in-service training for: (i) designing and
using budgetary programming models; (ii) establishing operating
procedures, standard operating norms, and inter-department and
inter-ministerial information flow procedures; and (iii) improving
work methods.


﻿- 12 -
Part B:     Strengthening of the Monitoring and Evaluation
Capacities of the Technical Ministries
1.    Strengthening of the monitoring and     evaluation  of the
budgetary process through the establishment of formal procedures for
information  flows   within  the  administration   including   the
preparation of quarterly reports on budget execution.
2.    Strengthening of the monitoring and evaluation of performance
of service delivery by the Technical Ministries through the
development of quantitative criteria, working group sessions and
workshops and periodic beneficiary assessments to design policy and
regulatory reform proposals, including the acquisition of computers
and office equipment for the planning and evaluation directorates of
the Technical Ministries.
Part C:     Quality School Initiative
Assistance to the Ministry responsible for national education
to strengthen its capacity to promote quality and efficiency in the
schools through a demonstration schools network program, including
the acquisition of vehicles, office equipment and materials.
Part D:     Management Support and PreInvestment Studies
1.    Support to the Operations Committee in project management and
supervision of the HRDP, including the acquisition of office
equipment and supplies.
2.    Other activities consisting of preinvestment studies and
training to be determined during Project Implementation.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:     Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of more than $10,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $400,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Items or groups of items for office supplies, computers and
software estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part B:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be


﻿- 14 -
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower   shall   employ  experts   and  consultants  whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association, including:
-     two technical advisors in budgetary programming and
pedagogic standards for the Ministry responsible for
Higher Education and Scientific Research;
-     two technical advisors in budgetary programming and
personnel management for the Ministry responsible for
National Education;
-     one technical advisor in budgetary programming for the
Ministry responsible for Health and Social Services;
-     one technical advisor in school management demonstration
and technical support for the Ministry responsible for
National Education; and
-     one technical advisor    in  technology transfer and
capacity building for the Operations Committee.
Such experts or consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to CFAF 70,00U,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shiall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 16 -
(ii)   Prior to, or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn    amount of the    Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 17 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent -that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit into the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit into
the Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General ronditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


