Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3532 VN
Development Credit Agreement
(Community-based Rural Infrastructure Project)
between
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 6, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3532 VN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 6, 2001, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
Page  2
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’means, collectively, all such countries." ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of any 
Sub-project, had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or 
(ii) right, title, or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural 
and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, 
temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, 
temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence 
or habitat adversely affected; and "Affected Person" means any of the Affected 
Persons.
(b)
"Category" means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c)
"Central Project Management Unit" and "CPMU" mean the unit established 
within the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning and Investment to manage the overall 
implementation of the Project, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A (1)(a) 
of Schedule 4 of this Agreement.
(d)
"Commune Project Coordinating Committee" and "CPCC" mean the entity to be 
established in each Project Commune in accordance with the provisions of paragraph B 
(6) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and, with the participation of the population of 
said Commune, responsible for identifying appropriate Sub-projects for said Commune 
and, on behalf of said Commune, executing the Sub-project Agreement with the relevant 
Provincial Project Management Unit and implementing the Sub-project in accordance with 
the terms and conditions set forth therein.
(e)
"Community Facilitators" and "CFs" mean persons contracted by the 
Provincial Project Management Units to assist each Project Commune, its population and 
Commune Project Coordinating Committee to carry out the community-based participatory 
process for the identification, planning and implementation of Sub-projects for said 
Commune.
(f)
"CEMMA" means the Borrower’s Committee on Ethnic Minorities and 
Mountainous Areas, and any successor thereto.
(g)
"District People’s Committee" means the local government at the district 
level.
(h)
"Ethnic Minorities Action Plan" means the plan prepared on behalf of the 
Borrower, dated January 10, 2001, and referred to in Section 6.02 (a) of this 
Agreement, as said plan may be amended from time to time with the prior concurrence of 
Page  3
the Association.
(i)
"Financial Management Manual" means the manual to be prepared and put 
into effect by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of paragraph B (4)(b) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said manual may be amended from time to time with the 
prior concurrence of the Association.
(j)
"MOLISA" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor, Invalids and Social 
Affairs, and any successor thereto.
(k)
"MPI" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning and Investment, and any 
successor thereto.
(l)
"Project Communes" means, collectively, communes within the Project 
Provinces selected from the lists of poor communes established by CEMMA and/or MOLISA 
in accordance with the Borrower’s programs of hunger eradication and poverty 
alleviation; and "Project Commune" means any of the Project Communes.
(m)
"Project Districts" means, collectively, districts within the Project 
Provinces which have within their respective jurisdiction three or more Project 
Communes, said Districts having inter-commune Sub-projects eligible for financing 
pursuant to the provisions of the Project Implementation Plan; and "Project District" 
means any of the Project Districts. 
(n)
"Project Field Manual" means the manual to be prepared and put into 
effect by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of paragraph B (5) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said manual may be amended from time to time.
(o)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the plan to be adopted by the 
Borrower for the implementation of the Project, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph B (4)(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said plan may be amended from 
time to time with the prior concurrence of the Association.
(p)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
(q)
"Project Provinces" means the thirteen provinces included in the list set 
forth in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such list may be amended from 
time to time by mutual agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
(r)
"Provincial Project Management Unit" and "PPMU" mean the unit established 
within the Department of Planning and Investment of each Project Province, to manage 
the implementation of the Project within said Province, pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph A (1)(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(s)
"Resettlement Policy Framework" means the Policy Framework for 
Compensation, Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons prepared on 
behalf of the Borrower, dated January 10, 2001, and referred to in Section 6.02 (a) of 
this Agreement, as said framework may be amended from time to time with the prior 
concurrence of the Association.
(t)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.
(u)
"Sub-project" means a specific investment project for the construction of 
small-scale infrastructure within a Project Commune, or for the construction of 
small-scale inter-commune infrastructure within a Project District under Parts A.2 and 
A.3 of the Project, respectively, utilizing the proceeds of the Credit.
(v)
"Sub-project Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between a 
Provincial Project Management Unit and the Commune Project Coordinating Committee of 
the relevant Project Commune, or between a Provincial Project Management Unit and the 
District People’s Committee of the relevant Project District, in accordance with the 
Page  4
provisions of paragraph B (7) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eighty-one million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 81,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on 
account of withdrawals made by a Project Commune or a Project District, as the case 
may be, under a grant to said Project Commune or Project District to meet the 
reasonable cost of works required for the Sub-project in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) for expenditures made (or, 
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for Parts A.1 and B of the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 2011 and ending June 15, 2041. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2021 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
Page  5
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through its Ministry of Planning and Investment with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
environmental and social practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Page  6
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than March 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Association shall agree, to prepare semi-annual Project management reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
Page  7
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar semester a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the Borrower’s decision 
establishing the Commune Project Coordinating Committees of the Project Communes shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated or repealed so as to affect materially and 
adversely the capacity of the Project Communes to carry out their respective 
Sub-projects and fulfill the objectives of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely the event specified in Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has taken all necessary action to enable the Commune Project 
Coordinating Committees to have the legal powers to enter into their respective 
Sub-project Agreements with the relevant Provincial Project Management Units and to 
implement such Sub-projects; 
(b)
(i) the Central Project Management Unit has been established within the 
Ministry of Planning and Investment in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A 
(1)(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) a Provincial Project Management Unit 
has been established within the Provincial Department of Planning and Investment of 
each Project Province in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A (1)(b) of said 
Schedule 4; 
(c)
the Borrower has adopted a project implementation plan and a financial 
management manual satisfactory to the Association in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph B (4) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(d)
the Borrower has established a computerized information management system 
satisfactory to the Association, and has provided appropriate training to the relevant 
project staff in the use of said system, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph A (2) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(e)
the project management staff of the Central Project Management Unit and 
the Provincial Project Management Units have completed a course of project management 
Page  8
training satisfactory to the Association in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph A (3) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(f)
the Central Project Management Unit has engaged an independent agency 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, to monitor the 
implementation of the community-based participatory process and evaluate the project 
impacts, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph C (14) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and
(g)
the Central Project Management Unit and the selected commercial banks 
through which the proceeds of the Credit will be made available to the Project 
Communes or Project Districts, as the case may be, have entered into written 
agreements satisfactory to the Association regarding the terms and conditions of such 
services.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
the Policy Framework for Compensation, Resettlement and Rehabilitation of 
Project Affected Persons and the Ethnic Minorities Action Plan have been duly 
authorized by the Borrower’s Prime Minister and are legally binding upon the Borrower 
in accordance with their respective terms; and
(b)
the Commune Project Coordinating Committees have the legal powers to 
enter into the Sub-project Agreements with the respective Provincial Project 
Management Units, and to implement the Sub-projects of the respective Project Communes 
in accordance with the terms of said Agreements. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Governor or any Deputy Governor of the State Bank of Vietnam 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
State Bank of Vietnam
49 Ly Thai To Street
Hanoi
Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
VIETBANK
412248
(84-4) 825-0612
Hanoi
NHTWVT
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
Page  9
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(1-202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam                                                                                
as of the day and year first above written.
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
By 
/s/ Le Duc Thuy
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By 
/s/ Sven Sandstrom
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
 (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works under 
   63,250,000 100%
Part A.2 of the Project
(2)
Works under 
   11,770,000 80% 
Part A.3 of the Project
(3)
Goods
    1,400,000 100% of foreign 
expenditures
100% of local 
expenditures 
(ex-factory costs); and 
75% of local expenditures
for other items procured
locally
(4)
Consultants’
    4,270,000 100%
services and training 
(5)
Incremental Operating
    1,210,000 90%
Costs
TOTAL
81,900,000 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
Page  10
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable expenditures incurred 
by the Borrower for staff field allowances, travel and per diem costs, including for 
the Community Facilitators; the cost of operation and maintenance of office equipment 
and consumables, and other costs directly related to the administration of the Project 
(which expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project).
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of : (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 1,600,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (3), (4) and 
(5) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after December 
31, 2000; and (b) payments for expenditures for works under Categories (1) or (2)  for 
any Sub-project until a Sub-project Agreement in respect of such Sub-project has been 
entered between the relevant PPMU and the Commune Project Coordinating Committee on 
behalf of the beneficiary Project Commune, or between the relevant PPMU and the 
District People’s Committee on behalf of the beneficiary Project District, as the case 
may be. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) works for commune Sub-projects under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (c) works for inter-commune 
Sub-projects under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (d) services 
provided by consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
each; (e) services provided by individuals under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each; (f) training; and (g) Incremental Operating Costs; all under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to reduce poverty in some 
of the poorest rural communes in thirteen selected Provinces by: (i) developing the 
capacity of these communes to plan and manage development activities in a 
participatory manner; (ii) providing essential community-based infrastructures to such 
communes; and (iii) generating employment and direct income for the poor population of 
such communes.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Provision of Rural Infrastructure
1.
Carrying out of a program to develop the capacity of the Project Communes to 
identify, plan and implement small-scale infrastructure sub-projects on a 
participatory basis.
2.
Construction of eligible small-scale infrastructure sub-projects selected by the 
Project Communes.
3.
Construction of eligible small-scale inter-commune infrastructure sub-projects 
selected by the Project Communes and implemented by the Project Districts.
Part B:
Project Management Capacity
Strengthening of the capacity of the central and provincial project management 
units to supervise the implementation of the Project, and monitor and evaluate its 
impacts, through the provision of technical assistance and equipment.
Page  11
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
List of Project Provinces
1.
Binh Dinh
2.
Binh Phuoc
3.
Binh Thuan
4.
Khanh Hoa
5.
Lam Dong
6.
Ha Tinh
7.
Nghe An
8.
Ninh Thuan
9.
Phu Yen
10.
Quang Nam
11.
Quang Ngai
12.
Thanh Hoa
13.
Thua Thien - Hue
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines)  subject to the modifications thereto 
set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A, and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country"  shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
Preference for domestically manufactured goods: The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 
2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the 
Page  12
territory of the Borrower. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of this Part C, works on 
inter-commune Sub-projects under Part A.3 of the Project, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $14,800,000, and works on commune Sub-projects under Part A.2 of the 
Project; and (b) goods other than vehicles, estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
(a) Goods other than vehicles, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $550,000 equivalent, and (b) 
approximately 35 motorcycles estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$50,000 equivalent,  may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract (a) up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $79,400,000 equivalent for commune Sub-projects under 
Part A.2 of the Project, and (b) up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,700,000 
equivalent for inter-commune Sub-projects under Part A.3 of the Project, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from at least three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
4.
Direct Contracting
(a) Works for commune Sub-projects under Part A.2 of the Project in Project 
Communes located in very remote areas and of difficult access, under contracts 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $3,900,000 equivalent, and (b) software and equipment which are of a 
proprietary nature, estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may, with the Association's 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
5.
Community Participation
Works required for commune Sub-projects under Part A.2 of the Project, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent, may be procured in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association. 
6.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Motorcycles may be procured from IAPSO in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Page  13
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
Except as provided in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph 2, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply 
with respect to:
(i)
each contract for works for inter-communes Sub-projects under Part 
A.3 of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more; and
(ii) 
each year, in each Project Province, irrespective of the amount 
thereof: (A) the first contract for works for inter-commune 
Sub-projects under Part A.3 of the Project, procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 1 or 3 of Part C above; (B) the 
first contract for works for commune Sub-projects under Part A.2 
of the Project, procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 1, 3  or 4 of Part C above; and (C) the first contract 
for goods procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
1, 2 or 4 of Part C above.
(b)
With respect to each contract referred to in clause (ii) of sub-paragraph 
(a) of this paragraph 2 procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2, 3 
or 4 of Part C above, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures 
or the execution of any contract under the procurement procedures 
for small works, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping or procurement of small works procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
Page  14
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,670,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for the design and implementation of training, monitoring and process 
monitoring activities,  procured prior to January 2004, estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, including services of community facilitators, of specialists to 
support the CPMU, provide specialized training, support the participatory planning 
process and participate in project monitoring and evaluation, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D: 
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan 
for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the 
Page  15
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Project Management 
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
establish and thereafter, throughout the period of project 
implementation, maintain the Central Project Management Unit within its Ministry of 
Planning and Investment, responsible for overall management of the Project, for 
inter-departmental and inter-agency cooperation and coordination, and for the 
monitoring and evaluation of Project impacts; said Unit to be provided with adequate 
resources, under the direction of qualified and experienced managers, and staffed by 
competent personnel in sufficient number, including without limitation a monitoring 
and evaluation team, a financial management team including project accountants and led 
by a chief financial officer, a field liaison team, a training coordinator, an 
engineer/procurement specialist, and an environmental and social safeguard officer, 
all under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)
cause each Project Province to establish and thereafter, throughout the 
period of implementation of the Project, maintain a Provincial Project Management Unit 
within the Provincial Department of Planning and Development, responsible for the 
management and supervision of the Project implementation within said Province, 
including engagement, supervision of and support to the Community Facilitators, and 
review and approval of Sub-projects for Project Communes or Project Districts; each 
such Provincial Project Management Unit to be under the direction of qualified and 
experienced managers, staffed by competent personnel in sufficient number, and 
provided with adequate resources, all under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association.
2.
The Borrower shall establish a computerized management information system 
satisfactory to the Association to ensure a prompt and efficient flow of information 
in regard to the implementation of the Sub-projects and support the Central and 
Provincial Project Management Units.
3.
The Borrower shall carry out training for all project management staff in 
accordance with a project management training plan satisfactory to the Association, 
including without limitation training in financial management.
B.
Project Implementation
4.
The Borrower:
(a)
shall prepare and adopt a project implementation plan satisfactory to the 
Association, which sets forth inter alia the training plan for Project management and 
staff at all levels, including training regarding ethnic minority issues; 
environmental protection and management measures; financial management guidelines; 
procurement guidelines and procedures; accounting, financial reporting and auditing 
systems and procedures; guidelines for carrying out a community-based participatory 
process; criteria for eligibility of Sub-projects and guidelines for preparation, 
approval and implementation of Sub-projects; and monitoring arrangements;
(b)
shall prepare and adopt a financial management manual satisfactory to the 
Association, to serve as reference and training manual to project staff at all levels 
who are responsible for the financial management aspects of the Project or any part 
thereof; said manual shall set forth, inter alia, the organizational structures and 
responsibilities in regard to financial management, fund flow arrangement, staffing 
and training requirements, financial accounting systems, internal control mechanisms, 
financial reporting requirements and procedures, auditing arrangements, and samples 
and forms; and
Page  16
(c)
shall not amend, waive or abrogate the provisions of said plan and said 
manual without the prior concurrence of the Association.  
5.
To guide the Project Districts and Project Communes in the planning, preparation 
and implementation of their respective Sub-projects, the Borrower shall, on the basis 
of the Project Implementation Plan, prepare and, thereafter, put into effect a project 
field manual satisfactory to the Association, to provide, inter alia, guidelines, 
samples and eligibility criteria in regard to the design, costs, procurement and 
contract management for Sub-projects; guidelines for financial management; procedures 
for the approval of grants to assist in the financing of Sub-projects; and operation 
and maintenance requirements in respect of each Sub-project.
6.
The Borrower shall ensure that each Project Commune shall establish a commune 
project coordinating committee with two representatives, one man and one woman, from 
each village within said commune; said committee shall undertake to identify 
appropriate Sub-projects for said commune with the participation of the commune 
inhabitants, plan the implementation of such Sub-projects, enter into Sub-project 
Agreements with the relevant PPMU, and supervise the implementation of the selected 
Sub-projects.
7.
For each eligible Sub-project, the Borrower shall cause the relevant Provincial 
Project Management Unit to enter into a Sub-project Agreement with the Project 
Commune, or the Project District, as the case may be, satisfactory to the Association, 
such Sub-project Agreement to record the mutual rights and obligations of the PPMU on 
behalf of the Borrower, and the CPCC on behalf of the Project Commune, or the District 
People’s Committee on behalf of the Project District, as the case may be, in respect 
of the execution of the Sub-project, including the construction methods; the 
procurement methods; the financing plan, including contribution by the beneficiaries, 
and the financial management procedures for the Sub-project; the requirements and 
procedures for monitoring the implementation of the Sub-project and reporting thereon; 
and the arrangements for the operation and maintenance of the commune or inter-commune 
infrastructure following completion of the Sub-project.
8.
To assist the Project Communes and Project Districts in the implementation of 
eligible Sub-projects, the Borrower shall provide grants to such Communes and 
Districts out of the proceeds of the Credit, in accordance with criteria and 
procedures acceptable to the Association and set forth in the Project Implementation 
Plan. 
9.
For any Sub-project which would give rise to Affected Persons, the Borrower 
shall cause the relevant PPMU in coordination with the relevant Project Commune or 
Project District, as the case may be, to: (a) prepare a resettlement action plan, 
satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with the principles and procedures set 
forth in the Resettlement Policy Framework; and thereafter (b) implement said plan in 
a manner satisfactory to the Association.
10.
The Borrower: (a) shall, and shall cause the Project Provinces, Project 
Districts and Project Communes to, implement the Ethnic Minorities Action Plan in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association; and (b) shall not amend, waive or modify the 
provisions of said Plan without the prior concurrence of the Association.
11.
For each Sub-project, the Borrower shall cause the Project Commune, or the 
Project District, as the case may be, to: (a) carry out an environmental screening; 
(b) on the basis of such screening carry out an environmental review, a limited 
environment assessment, or a full environmental impact assessment, as appropriate, in 
accordance with the guidelines of the Project Implementation Plan and the Project 
Field Manual; and thereafter (c) incorporate adequate mitigating measures into its 
Sub-project. 
12.
The Borrower shall cause the PPMUs to: (a) prepare and, through the CPMU, 
furnish to the Association for its review, by January 31 of each year beginning in 
2002, a list of contractors who shall have expressed interest in participating in the 
Project; and (b) make such list available to the Project Communes and Project 
Districts in order to assist them in their procurement activities.
C.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
Page  17
13.
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory 
to the Association the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof.
14.
For purposes of paragraph 13 above, the Borrower shall, inter alia, appoint an 
independent agency under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, to 
monitor in particular the implementation of the community-based participatory process 
in the identification and selection of proposed Sub-projects in the Project Communes.
15.
The Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association:
(a)
on or about March 31 and September 30 of each calendar year, commencing 
on March 31, 2002, semi-annual progress reports integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 13 of this Part 
C, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the preceding 
calendar semester (or in the case of the last such report furnished for each calendar 
year, during the preceding two calendar semesters), and setting out any additional 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the following semester or calendar year, 
as the case may be;
(b)
on or about September 30, 2003, a mid-term report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 13 of this 
Part C, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report, and setting out any additional measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the remainder of the project period; and 
(c)
after furnishing each of the reports referred to in sub-paragraphs (a) 
and (b) of this paragraph 15, review the same with the Association and, thereafter, 
promptly take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation"  means an amount equivalent to 
$6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 8,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
Page  18
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account[s];
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
Page  19
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
