                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001293



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-35320)



                                       ON A

                                       CREDIT


                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 81.9 MILLION
                      (US$ 102.78 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                     SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                       FOR A

          COMMUNITY BASED RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT



                               December 28, 2009




Vietnam Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
              (Exchange Rate Effective as of August 15, 2009)
                 Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong (VND)
                      VND 1.00 = US$ 0.0000561293
                        US$ 1.00 = VND 17,816

                 FISCAL YEAR: January 1 - December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBPP     Community Based Participatory Procedure
CDD      Community Driven Development
CEMMA    Committee for Ethnic Minorities and Mountainous Areas
CFs      Community Facilitators
CPCC     Communal Project Coordination Committee
CPMU     Central Project Management Unit
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DPC      District People's Committees
DPI      Department of Planning and Investment (Provincial)
DSTG     District Technical Support Group
FAO      Food and Agriculture organization
GoV      Government of Vietnam
HH       Household
ICR      Implementation Completion and Result Report
IDA      International Development Association
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS      Management Information System
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MOLISA   Ministry of Labor, Individual and Social Affairs
MPI      Ministry of Planning and Investment
NPV      Net Present Value
O&M      Operation and Maintenance
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PIP      Project Implementation Plan
PPMU     Provincial Project Management Unit
ROI      Return on Investment
VND      Vietnamese Dong

                      Vice President: James W. Adams
                    Country Director: Victoria Kwakwa
                     Sector Manager: Hoonae Kim
                Project Team Leader: Cuong Hung Pham
                   ICR Team Leader: Cuong Hung Pham
                              SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

          COMMUNITY BASED RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT


                                          TABLE OF CONTENTS



Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
                                                                                                                            i
   B. Key Dates                                                                                                             i
   C. Ratings Summary                                                                                                       i
   D. Sector and Theme Codes                                                                                                ii
   E. Bank Staff                                                                                                            ii
   F. Results Framework Analysis                                                                                            iii
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs                                                                                v
   H. Restructuring                                                                                                         vi
   I. Disbursement Graph                                                                                                    vi

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .......................................... 1

  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ......................................... 4

  3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................ 10

  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................... 15

  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................ 16

  6. Lessons Learned ...................................................................................................... 17
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ... 19

Annexes
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 20
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 21
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 29
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 34
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 36
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 37
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 38
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 52
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 53

  MAP                                                                                                                     55
A. Basic Information
                                                                          VN - COMMUNITY
Country:                Vietnam                 Project Name:             BASED RURAL
                                                                          INFRA.
Project ID:             P062748                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-35320,TF-23547
ICR Date:               12/29/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          SOCIALIST
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                 REPUBLIC OF
                                                                          VIETNAM
Original Total
                        XDR 81.9M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 77.7M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 81.9M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Planning and Investment (MPI)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date                Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/10/1999     Effectiveness:             03/15/2002       03/15/2002
Appraisal:            11/03/2000     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/26/2001     Mid-term Review:           01/09/2006       05/17/2004
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2007       06/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General public administration sector                                   8                     7
General transportation sector                                         23                   37
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                 23                   23
Irrigation and drainage                                               23                   21
Power                                                                 23                   12


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Decentralization                                                      14                   12
Improving labor markets                                               28                   24
Participation and civic engagement                                    29                   23
Rural services and infrastructure                                     29                   41

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                       Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Victoria Kwakwa                      Andrew D. Steer
Sector Manager:            Hoonae Kim                           Mark D. Wilson
Project Team Leader:       Cuong Hung Pham                      Christopher J. N. Gibbs
ICR Team Leader:           Cuong Hung Pham
ICR Primary Author:        Takayuki Hagiwara


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project objective is to reduce rural poverty in up to 600 of the poorest rural
communes (a commune in Vietnam is the lowest administrative unit comprising several


                                                ii
villages and is inhabited by some 3,600 people, on average) in 13 provinces in Central
Vietnam by:
  (a) increasing the capacity of those communes for decentralized and participatory
planning and management of development activities;
  (b) providing essential small-scale, community based infrastructure in these communes;
and
  (c) generating direct income for the poor by providing construction employment.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
No revision to the PDO was made.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from          Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval            Target        Completion or
                                               documents)           Values         Target Years
                Increasing the capacity of the communes for decentralized and participatory
Indicator 1 :
                planning and management of development activities.
Value                                                                           760 communes in
                                                                600
quantitative or No baseline value          540 communes                         115 districts, in 13
                                                                communes
Qualitative)                                                                    provinces
Date achieved 03/15/2002                   03/15/2002           12/17/2007      06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Providing essential community-based infrastructure for social and economic
Indicator 2 :
                benefits.
                                                                Community
                                                                members
                                                                decide the
                                                                exact number
                                                                of investment
                                           Community            sub-projects
                                           members decide through               Communal works:
Value                                      the exact number commune/villa 7,992
quantitative or No baseline value          of investment sub- ge meetings. Inter-communal
Qualitative)                               projects through Around 8,175 works :470
                                           commune/village subprojects          Total works: 8,462
                                           meetings.            were selected
                                                                by
                                                                communities
                                                                and more will
                                                                be added to
                                                                the list.
Date achieved 03/15/2002                   03/15/2002           12/31/2007      06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        There was no target value for this indicator, since the project was demand driven.
achievement)


                                                iii
                Generating income for the poor through employment in infrastructure
Indicator 3 :
                construction.
                                                                             Inter-communal:
                                                                             104,521 person
                                                                             days
                                                                             Communal:
                                                                             1,694,353 person
                                                                             days; Total:
                                                                             1,798,874 person
Value                                                                        days; Estimated
                                           No target            No target
quantitative or No baseline value                                            wages earned by
                                           established.         established.
Qualitative)                                                                 direct participation:
                                                                             VND 46,076
                                                                             million ($2.6
                                                                             million); Sales
                                                                             income from selling
                                                                             materials: VND
                                                                             33,030 million
                                                                             ($1.9 million)
Date achieved 03/15/2002                   03/15/2002           12/31/2007   06/30/2009
                There was no target for this indicator. It was unclear how much employment and
Comments
                other income could be generated at the time when the project was prepared.
(incl. %
                Around 1.8 million labor days were generated with an estimated income of
achievement)
                around VND 80 billion.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                              Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                approval                         Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                         Target Years
                (a) % of communes holding village meetings for sub-project selection.
Indicator 1 : (b) Women as % of total CPCC members.
                (c) % communes applying competitive bidding for small works.
                                                                              (a) 100% of
                                                                              communes hold
                                                                              village meetings to
                                                                              select sub-projects
                                                                              (b) Women % in
Value                                                                         CPCC: 30%; Ethnic
                                           No targets          No targets
(quantitative   No baseline value                                             minorities
                                           established.        established.
or Qualitative)                                                               representation: 48%
                                                                              (c) 100% of
                                                                              communes applied
                                                                              competitive bidding
                                                                              for procurement of
                                                                              works.
Date achieved 03/15/2002                   03/15/2002          12/31/2007     06/30/2009
Comments        There was no target for this indicator. Actual achievements include:



                                               iv
(incl. %        - 100% of communes selected sub-projects through village meetings.
achievement)    - 100% of CPCC include woman representation
                - 100% of communes adopted competitive bidding.
                Number of commune-level basic infrastructure schemes completed and being
Indicator 2 :
                used by number of people in the project target area.
                                                                8,175
                                                                                Total schemes
Value                                                           infrastructure
                                           No targets                           completed: 8,462;
(quantitative   No baseline value                               of different
                                           established.                         used by nearly 4
or Qualitative)                                                 types were
                                                                                million people.
                                                                selected.
Date achieved 03/15/2002                   03/15/2002           12/31/2007      06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        There was no target value for this indicator, since the project was demand driven.
achievement)
                Number of participants in training courses provided by the project and % women
Indicator 3 :
                and ethnic minority group members among total training course participants
                                                                                Total trainees:
Value                                                                           76,528
                                           No targets           No targets
(quantitative   No baseline value                                               Women: 30%
                                           established.         established.
or Qualitative)                                                                 Ethnic minority:
                                                                                38%
Date achieved 03/15/2002                   03/15/2002           12/31/2007      06/30/2009
                There were no target indicators. Training included community development and
Comments
                planning processes, management of sub-projects, environmental policy and
(incl. %
                resettlement, construction supervision and quality control, O&M, financial and
achievement)
                accounting, etc.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                            IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     12/20/2001         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     05/10/2002         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     12/02/2002         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     3.00
  4     05/19/2003         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     3.11
  5     06/19/2003         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     4.16
  6     12/17/2003         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     6.44
  7     03/19/2004         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     7.95
  8     06/15/2004         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   13.86
  9     12/17/2004         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   21.42
 10     06/10/2005         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   31.20
 11     12/22/2005         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   43.30
 12     07/09/2006     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            57.56
 13     07/12/2007         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   79.89
 14     07/14/2008         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   99.33
 15     06/30/2009         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  110.94



                                                 v
H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                            vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.1.1 Country Background. Poverty reduction has been a central goal of the Vietnamese
government and a driving force behind the economic reforms of the past decade. At the
time of appraisal, poverty was largely in rural areas and was much higher and deeper for
ethnic minorities than for the majority Kinh population. The poorest often lived in areas
which were remote, lack infrastructure, had difficult or no access to information and to social
and other services, and were poorly linked to markets. Narrowing these gaps was essential
for reducing their poverty.

Deficiencies in public administration and participation had led to a situation where only a
small share of capital development was received by the beneficiaries to whom it was aimed,
and the physical infrastructure developed did not match the beneficiaries' own priorities. The
reasons for this were generally rooted in: (i) weak administrative capacity, (ii) the lack of
transparency and accountability in the use of public funds at all levels, ( iii) and the
disconnect between decision makers and beneficiaries, due to weak consultative processes.

1.1.2. Government Strategy. Reducing rural poverty was among the highest priorities of
the Government which had a long-term commitment to assist in the development of the
poor. Major on-going programs included the National Target Program of Hunger
Eradication and Poverty Reduction, and the Socio-Economic Development Program for
Especially Difficult Mountainous and Remote Communes (Program 135). In those
programs, the Government promoted decentralization through a series of pertinent laws,
decrees and regulations. The Government's initiatives for decentralization and devolution
were yet to be fully operationalized particularly at grass-root level (e.g. communal level).
This was partly due to concerns about the weak capacity of the poorest communes to plan,
implement and manage their own development activities, but also reflected the long
tradition of centralized planning and decision making practice. For a long time, top-down
planning had been considered to be the best way to integrate political choices regarding
human needs and natural resource use efficiencies. But, actual experiences showed poor
results from this approach and this motivated processes of reform. Recognizing these
shortcomings in local planning policy, the GOV made a strategic decision to empower
local communities to be in charge of investment planning and management. The project
was designed to support this new direction.

1.1.3. Rationale for Bank Assistance. The project supported the World Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS: FY99-02) pursuing the two CAS goals of 'Investing in People
and Promoting Social Equity' and 'Accelerating Rural Development'. The project also
supported the CAS goal of 'Improving Public Administration, Transparency and
Participation' which called for greater decentralization and participation by civil society and
local communities in the identification, design, planning, fund management and
implementation of Bank-supported projects. The project complemented Program 135 and
other poverty targeted interventions. It gave the highest priority to capacity building at the

                                              1
local grass-root level, which enabled local authorities at the lowest administrative (e.g.
commune) level to take responsibility and ownership in planning, decision making and
implementing small-scale infrastructure investments. The Government wished to promote
more transparency in the use of public funds at the commune and village levels with
meaningful grassroots participation in decision making, but local communities often lacked
the needed capacity to manage the responsibilities they were delegated. The project was
used as a vehicle to bridge the gap of management capacity at grassroots level so as to
demonstrate an innovative way forward for the entire country for the coming years.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

1.2.1. The project's original objective was to reduce rural poverty in up to 600 of the
poorest rural communes in Vietnam in 13 provinces in Central Vietnam by:

   (a) Increasing the capacity of project communes for decentralized and participatory
       planning and management of development activities;
   (b) Providing essential small-scale, community based infrastructure in these
       communes; and
   (c) Generating direct income for the poor through providing construction employment.

1.2.2. The key performance indicators at the outcome level at appraisal were:

   (a) Increasing the capacity of the communes for decentralized and participatory planning
        and management of development activities;
   (b) Providing essential community-based physical and social infrastructure; and
   (c) Generating income for the poor through providing employment.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The PDO and Key Indicators remained unchanged during project implementation

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1 The project initially targeted 540 poor Communes and 93 Districts in central
Vietnam out of 611 communes eligible for project support. The communes selected for the
project were defined as "poor" based on the criteria established by the National Committee
for Ethnic Minorities and Mountainous Areas (CEMMA) for the Socio-Economic
Development Program for Especially Difficult Mountainous and Remote Communes
(Prime Minister's Decision No. 135/1998/QD-TTg) or the so-called Program 135, and/or
the criteria of the Ministry of Labor, Individual and Social Affairs (MOLISA). The project
was designed to allow for triggering further expansion of the targeted number of communes
at the Mid-Term Review. The estimated population of the 540 communes was 1.4 million
at the time of appraisal.

1.5 Original Components

                                             2
1.5.1   The project had three components:

Component 1: Strengthening Decentralized Planning and Implementation Capacity
(US$ 9.05 million). This component aimed at building capacity for local authorities in
participatory planning processes and implementation procedure. It also provided support
and assistance to project management at various levels including the Central Project
Management Unit (CPMU) established at the Ministry of Planning and Investment (MPI),
Provincial Project Management Units (PPMUs), District Technical Support Groups
(DTSGs), Communal Project Coordinating Committees (CPCCs). It provided a
comprehensive training package to communities in areas of participatory project planning
including identification of problems and opportunities, constraints and needs, management
and Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). This component supported information sharing and
campaigns to ensure widespread public understanding, transparency and accountability
through a range of public media channels, including the distribution of printed materials,
signboards, newsletters, and broadcasts by the mass media.

Component 2: Infrastructure Development (US$ 107.57 million). In this component,
sub-grants were provided to communities (80% total project cost was allocated to project
communes and 20% was allocated to project districts) to finance small-scale public
infrastructure investments based on priorities determined by the target communities. There
were two types of investment schemes:

   1. Commune-level works (US$ 87.29 million): funds were provided to communes in
      the range of US$ 21,000 - US$ 64,000 depending on the population of participating
      communes. A total of three grants (called budget cycles) were provided to each
      participating commune, which were triggered by demonstrated progress in the
      successful use of the previous grant. Funds were used to build or repair small-scale
      public infrastructure works (sub-projects) identified through a participatory
      planning process from a list of eligible works suggested by local villagers.
      Unskilled labor was mobilized to work on construction activities and paid locally.
      Beneficiary communes contributed 5% of total sub-project costs in the form of
      labor or in-kind or in-cash contribution.

   2. Inter-commune level works (US$ 20.28 million): funds were provided to finance
      larger infrastructure that benefitted two or more poor communes in the same district
      (called inter-communal work). The grant was equal to 20% of the combined value
      of commune grants in districts with three or more project communes. Inter-
      commune sub-projects were chosen by the project communes and implemented by
      the District People's Committees (DPCs). Eligible inter-communal sub-projects
      included transport, irrigation and electricity works, although the list was later
      expanded to include sub-district markets.

Component 3: Project Support Service (US$ 6.79 million). This component was used to
support operating expenses for a CPMU at the Ministry of Planning and Investment (MPI)
in Hanoi and the PPMU in the thirteen (13) participating provinces as well as DTSGs. Most

                                            3
staff were hired from civil societies, exceptions being for some key managerial positions
where staff were seconded from government offices and returned to their previous posts
after project completion.. There were 116 Community Facilitators (CFs) recruited based on
a competitive selection process and get trained to provide technical and management
support to the project communities. An external monitoring service from an international
consulting entity was hired to monitor the participatory planning and implementation
process.

1.6 Revised Components

The above-mentioned three project components were not revised during project
implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes

Some 220 additional communes within the original 13 project provinces were added to the
project after its Mid-term Review in May 2004. This was enabled by exchange rate gains
from SDR to US$, and to Vietnamese currency. In addition, there was one amendment of
the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) to extend the project closing date from
December 31, 2007 to June 30, 2009 to allow the full completion of investment works,
especially in the 220 additional communes.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1. Soundness of Background Analysis. The background analysis for the project was
sound and adequately addressed the conditions of Vietnam at the time of preparation and
appraisal. Participation of local beneficiaries at commune level in the planning process,
decision making, and implementation of small scale infrastructure investment was a new
approach and only a few projects had previously piloted this approach in Vietnam on a
small scale. The project design was adequately built on lessons from Bank supported
projects elsewhere in the region and beyond, plus also drew upon the experiences of other
donor-supported projects in Vietnam. The Vietnamese counterpart team visited similar
projects in the Philippines and Indonesia to learn lessons in design and implementation
aspects. The government strategies in rural development and poverty alleviation included
the promotion of transparency and decentralization. These were carefully incorporated into
the project design and yielded the anticipated positive outcomes. The PDO is clear and the
indicators were consistent throughout the project implementation period.

2.1.2. Project Design. There were three salient factors about the design of CBRIP. First,
the project design directly supported the decentralization policy of the Government through
enhancing the capacity of communities in participatory planning and management of
development activities. Second, the project responded to the priority needs of local people
and put them in the driver seat to decide the investments that were most essential to them,
thus increasing the sense of community ownership, and strengthening relations between

                                            4
local authorities and communities. Third, the project concentrated on extensive training and
capacity building of local entities to complement the decentralization policy of the
government. The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) was prepared during project
preparation to guide implementation. A set of Technical Guidelines and Operational
Manual with standardized documents were prepared and approved by the MPI for use
during project implementation.

2.1.3. The project design was weak in monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and financial
management. In terms of M&E, except for PDO indicator 1, the other two indicators did
not have target values (the absence of targets was justified in project preparation by the
dominant demand-driven approach. There were three irrelevant Key Performance
Indicators (KPIs) stated in the PAD, of which KPI 1.6 was inappropriate, and KPI 3.1 and
3.2 required a more careful design regarding methods for collecting data. 1 These three
indicators were:

    (a) Percentage of households which assess that their commune has strengthened the
        capacity to plan and implement development activities (KPI 1.6);
    (b) Number of local labor days generated (KPI 3.1); and
    (c) Amount of money paid to local laborers (KPI 3.2).

2.1.4 Assessment of Risk. Risks relating to procurement and financial management (FM)
were adequately identified and assessed during preparation and specific measures were
taken to mitigate them. The main risk identified was the failure to carry out procurement
properly by communities because of their limited experience as project owner and their
unfamiliarity with basic procurement rules and procedures. To mitigate this risk, the project
adopted a number of measures including extensive training to CPCC CFs, and procurement
staff at all levels, use of standard procurement documents, and establishment of a list of
interested and qualified contractors in each project province. This list was annually updated.
FM risk was related to the poor accounting practice at commune level. The greatest
concern was management of project accounts and proper use of funding at commune levels
due to weak capacity of CPCC accountants, as most of them had prior experience of
handling only modest levels of recurrent expenditure. To mitigate this risk, the project
developed a Financial Management Manual for use as training material as well as guidance
for daily-work by the accounting staff. The Manual stated procedures for sub-project
approvals, accounting and internal controls, forms of various accounting books, records,
statements, withdrawal application, accounting staff's responsibilities, auditing
arrangement and flow of financial information to and from various levels. Regular Bank
supervision missions also assisted with review and guidance to correct procurement and
FM practices. Another risk was concern about the sustainability of the investments due to
either poor construction quality or inadequate O&M arrangement. This concern was
addressed at implementation stage by engaging local villagers carrying out participatory
supervision. Each project participating commune established their supervision team


1
  The Project aimed to build communal capacity, but it was not necessarily a mandate for the Project to improve capacity
of each household within the communes (KPI: 1.6). All participating provinces were not able to follow data


                                                           5
consisting of 5 representatives who were supervising construction on a volunteer basis. By
doing this, the quality of construction activities has been significantly improved.
Communities also formed an O&M team within the benefited villages to be in charge of
O&M.

2.1.5. Adequacy of participatory processes: Consultations were held during project
preparation with a wide range of central ministries, local authorities and poor communities.
The project's approach was to entrust the communes with responsibility for planning and
decision making of small scale investment and to empower them as owners of their
subprojects. This approach was formalized by official decisions made by the Minister of
MPI and communicated to all project provinces. Communities were put in the driver's seat
to make decisions on public infrastructure investment through planning and implementation
processes. These processes were continued and strengthened during project implementation
with active participation of local villagers, including ethnic minorities and women in
village and commune meetings. In the early years of implementation, some provinces and
districts appeared reluctant to give full authority to communes over investments and they
often interfered in the planning process. Bank frequent supervisions noticed this issue and
helped correct it. After the first year of implementation completed, all project provinces
had followed this participatory planning approach.

2.1.6   No Quality at Entry review was conducted for this project.

2.2     Implementation

2.2.1 The project covered 760 communes and completed 8,462 schemes. Some delays in
implementation of the overall project were, however, noted. The following five factors
were identified as contributing to the delays: (a) inflation during late 2007 ­ 2008; (b)
frequent turnover of project staff at all levels and of CPCC members due to political public
election; (c) lack of an automated management information system (MIS); (d) unfamiliar
procurement procedures for communes and small-scale contractors (e.g. strictly following
IDA procurement procedures other than GOV's prevailing arrangements; (e) lengthy
Community-Based Participatory Process (CBPP) and procurement cycle management; and
(f) inappropriate financial management design for decentralization.

2.2.2 Inflation during late 2007 to 2008 severely slowed down implementation process.
It has led to an increase of work load at all levels - from CPMU to CPCCs and inevitably
caused the need to review specifications of the designs and materials to be used in
construction activities. As a result, some of tenders had to be redone as some contractors
who won the biddings did not honor the contracts due to the sharp price increase of
construction materials. Many sub-projects were combined with other government- funded
projects and/or downgraded the specifications. Solutions to the situation included: (a)
additional government financing (e.g. fencing of community halls, kindergartens, and other
projects financed by government), (b) shortening of planning time; (c) reduction of time gaps
between bidding and contracting; and downsizing infrastructure works in accordance with the
capital allocated.



                                             6
2.2.3 Frequent turnover of project staff and changes of project director at CPMU
due to reassignment or career promotion of staff at local level and retirement provision.
The project had to repeat capacity building training for new staff. In addition, due to the
election results in 2004 many of CPCC members had to be replaced. As a result, the project
had to rebuild institutional capacity. The changes of CPCC members who take leading
roles in CBPP also created delays in project planning, management and M&E processes.

2.2.4 Ineffective MIS envisaged at appraisal has affected M&E work. This led to the use
of simple Excel formats for manual data inputs. With a large number of communes
participating in subprojects, the manual input into Excel forms became very time
consuming and resulted in inconsistent and mishandling of data. The need for clarification
in data caused a loss of staff time at all levels and delayed delivery of progress reports,
affecting timely intervention of project management at provincial and central levels in
addressing implementation issues.

2.2.5 Unfamiliar Procurement Procedures for communes and small-scale private
contractors affected implementation at local level. It was the first time procurement
responsibilities were decentralized and mostly conducted at the commune level. In addition,
the project had to work with more than 4,556 small contracts with private sector companies,
making it difficult to manage the process given low capacity of local implementers. The
satisfactory performance in these aspects is noted. As described below, however, there
were issues to highlight regarding the project's procurement.

2.2.6 Low procurement capacity of private local contractors lengthened the
procurement process. The issue of lack of capacity to conduct procurement according to
both the national and Bank's guidelines at the commune level was gradually solved after
the project provided formal training and on-the-job training. The works (simple rural
infrastructure) were geographically dispersed in rural and remote areas and usually of small
value. These did not attract big and experienced contractors. The majority of the
contractors participating in the project were small or newly established private sector
contractors. They were not experienced in competitive bidding in general and in the Bank's
procurement procedures in particular. Documents prepared by some contractors were
inadequate and sometimes rebidding was unavoidable. The Bank's prior review threshold
was not clearly defined in the DCA and this caused confusion during implementation. The
significant number of prior review works by the Bank slowed down the pace of project
implementation due to the weak capacity of procurement performance by various
implementation entities.

2.2.7 Design of financial management was not adequate for decentralization. While
the project approach fostered decentralization it did not have a proper decentralized
financial management system. This caused time loss and reduced efficiency in
implementation. CPMU managed the IDA fund and did not control counterpart funds at the
provincial, district and communal levels. This situation created missing links in accounting
between CMPU and lower authorities. Lack of access to an on-line financial management
system by the lower authorities further contributed to inconsistencies in accounting figures



                                             7
and reports. As a result, CPMU was normally unable to prepare timely consolidated
financial reports for the Bank and GOV.

2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1 M&E Design. The project monitoring and evaluation system identified a large
number of indicators to track implementation progress, project outputs and impacts. Given
its demand driven nature, target values were set out for only one out of three PDO
Indicators. With a large number of implementation units (mainly at communal level), the
design of the M&E system relied on the establishment and operation of a computerized
MIS with an intention to provide project management entities with information relating to
project implementation for timely decisions. The system would capture all relevant
information on project activities from participatory planning at village and commune level
to disbursement status. A full description of the MIS needed for project M&E was provided
in PIP. Community Facilitators (CF) played a key role in collecting data, which would then
be inputted at PPMU and consolidated at CPMU level. Another key element in monitoring
project implementation was that local communities were enabled to oversee the
construction of infrastructure in their communes and discipline contractors.

2.3.2. M&E Implementation. Data and information were collected from all 760
communes by PPMUs based on inputs by CFs and fed into the system of about 28 Excel
forms manually which was time consuming and sometimes inaccurate. Changes of MIS
staff during implementation were an added problem for consolidation of data. Training was
provided to relevant project staff to run the system. Deficiencies in the original MIS
version set up in 2003 made it difficult to generate reports as desired and the system was
upgraded in 2006. But then, it appeared too cumbersome with a lot of steps needed to
operate it, leading to the use of Excel formats to record the status of project implementation.
Inconsistencies of data for the same subject were common and clarification caused a loss of
staff time at all levels, leading to a delay in delivery of implementation reports on time.

2.3.3 M&E Utilization. The outcome indicators were useful for project management.
They provided an overview of implementation progress of each component and in each
province. More attention and efforts were given to assist slower-performing provinces or
set off activities to solve implementation difficulties. Impact indicators on communal and
inter-communal works, trainees, or on creation of employment illustrated the benefits the
project brought to people. These reflected substantial changes arising from development
interventions through a participatory approach. This set of impact indicators should be
utilized and integrated into the GOV's overall assessment of local development programs
in the future.

2.4.   Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Procurement

2.4.1 In general, procurement performance is found satisfactory. The procurement
manual, which was an integral part of the operational manual developed under the project,

                                              8
was widely adopted at all levels and proved to be very useful and effective in safeguarding
compliance of the project's procurement performance. Comprehensive procurement
training were provided to implementing agencies at all levels and proved to be useful. They
understood and complied with procurement arrangements and procedures. Procurement
documents were well maintained and easily retrieved for post review. There were some
concerns on behaviors and signs of collusion, which resulted in disqualification of few
contractors from participating in project procurement. There was no major fiduciary
compliance issue that triggered sanction from the Bank.

Financial Management

2.4.2 Compliance with OP10.02 on Financial Management is moderately satisfactory.
The audit reports and audited financial statements were submitted to the Bank on time, and
the project management took longer time to implement the auditors' recommendations. The
internal controls were not adequately designed and maintained. There were delays in
submission of financial management reports and it took more time for the project to
synchronize financial data. Some required actions by IDA supervision took a long time to
be fulfilled such as liquidation of incremental advance or confirmation of payment made to
contractors to be informed to provincial PMUs for consolidation and report writing.

Environmental Management

2.4.3 Compliance with OP4.01 on environmental assessment is found satisfactory. The
environmental screening checklist that was prepared and agreed during the project
appraisal was used in all project localities. It categorized all infrastructure sub-projects into
four categories depending on the magnitude of environmental impacts. All eligible sub-
projects were screened with the environmental assessment processes and the checklist was
respected in certifying all sub-projects contracts. No major issue on environment was
encountered during implementation.

Social Safeguards

2.4.4 Compliance with OP4.10 on Indigenous Peoples was satisfactory. The project data
shows that ethnic minorities comprised a large proportion of the project's beneficiaries (for
example, the participation of women and ethnic minorities in project training accounted for
30%% and 37% respectively). The participatory approach in planning, implementation, and
monitoring of project activities ensured culturally sensitive interventions regarding ethnic
minorities. As part of project preparation, a social assessment was commissioned to
understand constraints of ethnic minorities. Results of the assessment were incorporated
into the project design.
  
2.4.5 Compliance with OP4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement was also satisfactory. The
project implemented the land acquisition and resettlement framework according to the
agreed policy. Public disclosure in local languages according to the policy was also carried
out at the community level and a grievance mechanism was put in place. The project file
contained documents which confirmed that. People affected by land acquisitions were

                                               9
compensated for losses at replacement cost and also provided with rehabilitation measures.
There was no case violating required compliances.

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1 This project was considered to be innovative when prepared. One of the key
objectives at the time of project preparation was to demonstrate a model approach for
decentralization to ensure participation of communes in development activities and to
increase transparency and accountability of the use of public funds. Therefore, the
emphasis of the project was more on piloting rather than mainstreaming the approach in
GoV since this was the first project to foster decentralization.

2.5.2 There was a request to the Bank from GoV to fund the second phase of the project
in 2009. The main aim of the second phase was to mainstream the proven decentralization
system into the activities of GoV. It was decided, however, that the Bank would not finance
the second phase but to provide support through Program 135-Phase II which supports the
poorest communes in the countries with development activities using the same
participatory approach. Lessons learned from this project have been incorporated into the
design of this Program. But there is concern that Program 135 is not directly managed by
this counterpart agency, and it is still uncertain how to build a mechanism to reflect and
utilize project experiences in the program.

3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1 Relevance of Objectives. The project objective remains highly relevant to the
development priorities of Vietnam. The project successfully demonstrated a model case of
decentralization approaches and the capacities of communes in planning and managing
development activities. However, the top-down approach still prevails in many ministries
and the impact of the project has not yet sufficiently percolated through to GoV's
administrative system, including the project's counterpart agency. The key agenda of the
project-to promote decentralization - remains relevant. Even after the completion of the
project, there is still a great need to improve infrastructure, as lack of basic infrastructure in
rural communities continues to hamper improvement of livelihood and economic activities
among the rural poor. Substantial progress has been made in recent years in reducing
poverty, and poverty rates have significantly been reduced in the country. Nevertheless,
disparities between the richer urban areas and the poorer rural areas remain. The Government
remains committed to address the disparity issues in the next Socio-Economic Development
Plan (2011 ­ 2015).

3.1.2 Relevance of Design. The overall design to reduce rural poverty through provision
of rural infrastructures via decentralized planning and implementation as well as
institutional development at the communal level is sound and still very relevant. However,
there was weakness in design of M&E and financial management as discussed in
paragraphs 2.3.1 and 2.4.3.

                                               10
3.1.3 Relevance of Implementation. The implementation processes adopted by the
project are still appropriate. This project is considered a model for reducing poverty
through promoting decentralization of rural infrastructure development activities. The
system created under the project increased capacity of target communes to take the leading
role in realizing their own priorities. It has also improved accountability and transparency
in the use of public funds. As a result, it has helped reduce opportunities for corruption
(there was no case of corruption reported to CPMU and the Bank). The project's
participatory approach that aimed to promote "grass-root democracy" was appropriate,
although the concept was new to the country (see Lessons Learned section).

3.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Satisfactory

Increasing the capacity of the communes for decentralized and participatory planning
and management of development activities

3.2.1 This outcome has been achieved. The completion of 8,462 schemes (including
7,992 at commune and 470 at inter-commune) in 760 communes and 115 districts
demonstrates that the project successfully promoted decentralization through CBPP, and
that the communes gained capacity to carry out participatory planning and management of
development activities. There are still large variations among communes regarding levels
of capacity to implement CBPP. Anecdotal evidence suggests that there are a number of
communes that may not be able to carry out CBPP independently. However, it is important
to note that the project was able to develop a commune-supporting system where the
provinces and districts provided assistance for the communes to take the leading role in
CBPP. This shows that the project was successful not only in developing communal
decentralized and participatory capacity, but also in changing from a "one-way top-down
approach (Provinces => District => Communes)" to a "two-way approach (Provinces <=>
District <=> Communes)" in planning and management of development activities.

3.2.2 The project has helped promote grass-roots democracy, ownership of the
infrastructure, and gender and ethnic minority mainstreaming through participatory
approach. According to the project data, for example, an average of 92% of households and
90% of ethnic minority participated in scheme selection meetings. Women's participation
in the decision making processes was ensured by their membership in the CPCC. Each
village had one woman as their representative in the CPCC. The data provided by the
project demonstrated that this principle was applied in reality. In order to avoid male
domination in scheme selection meetings, the project mandated that when a scheme
received an equal number of votes, the scheme that had more women's vote was given a
higher priority.

3.2.3 The project provided training and technical assistance to all levels of government
staff involved in the project. A total of 76,528 people received training provided by the
project, of which 2,500 were project staff at all levels and the remaining are people from

                                            11
communes. In addition to such formal training, staff from PPMUs and DTSGs provided on-
the-job training. Information on time spent for on-the-job training is unavailable. However,
anecdotal evidence shows that considerable time of the staff at PPMUs and DTSGs were
provided to support CPCCs. As a result of these training, efficiency for planning at CPCC
increased and on average, more than 15 days were saved in cycle 3 compared with cycle 1
in implementing CBPP at the commune level. 2

3.2.4 Providing essential, community-based physical and social infrastructure. A
total of 8,462 infrastructure schemes were completed. A case study on economic and
financial analysis presented in Annex 3 ­ Economic and Financial Analysis - shows that
this infrastructure improved rural basic services, including water supply, schools, health
stations, and roads, and also infrastructure that supported production activities including
irrigation and markets.

3.2.5 Quality of infrastructure constructed by the project was largely satisfactory. Less
than 5% of schemes constructed were affected by either low quality of construction, poor
design, or natural calamities. These were later rehabilitated using state budget. Given the
high incidence of natural disasters in the central coastal areas of Vietnam, such damage to
infrastructure is common.

3.2.6 There appears to be variable performance in setting up operation and maintenance
(O&M) among the communes. The current condition of infrastructure built under the
project, at least where the ICR Mission visited, in general, is well maintained. It is
important to note that many schemes were integrated into other government budgets, e.g.
schools are maintained by budgets from Ministry of Education, the maintenance of health
clinics is supported by Ministry of Health, and management of kindergarten is generally
run by the communal authority. Some of gravel roads constructed by the project have
already been upgraded to paved roads with financing from either Program 135 or other
government budget-supported programs. Other schemes such as community halls and
irrigation are maintained by users through both cash and in-kind contribution. However
some roads on hilly areas had been degraded rapidly due to heavy rain, or low quality
construction specifications of such roads.

3.2.7 Generating income for the poor through providing employment. Although
reliable data are not available, it is clear that a substantial amount of employment income
was created for the local poor in construction activities at the commune level. The CPMU
indicated that some 1.8 million person days of work was undertaken, generating some
VND 80 billion (US$ 4.5 million) in income for unskilled labor from the targeted
communes. Given weak record-keeping on employment at the PPMU level, the accuracy of
this aggregated estimate is doubtful. Nevertheless, anecdotal evidence does point to the
substantial employment of community members where only low level skills were required



2
          Up to three separate budget cycles were provided to each commune, triggered by progress of successful use of
the previous budget.


                                                          12
(e.g. for the construction of roads and irrigation canals.). Civil works tended to require
more skilled labor---for carpentry, welding, etc.

3.3    Efficiency

3.3.1 An ex-post analysis of selected sub-project schemes has been undertaken
comparing input costs and benefits. The input costs relate to construction and maintenance
costs, while the benefits stem from savings in vehicle operating costs and reduced travel
time, opening up of areas for economic activity, increased farm production by expansion of
farm areas, higher crop yields, reduced medical costs attributed to better hygienic
environment, and productive use of time saved. A case analysis was made for each selected
scheme and results computed by using aggregated weights based on investment for each
type of scheme. As shown in Annex 3, the investments appeared to be economically viable
for all of the sampled schemes.

3.3.2 Roads and community halls appeared to be in the greatest demand from the
communities, accounting for 35% and 27%, respectively, in the number of total schemes
implemented. These were followed by drinking water supply schemes (9%), irrigation (8%),
and school (7%). Other implemented schemes included construction of markets, clinics,
and fencing. It was observed that the roads constructed under the project were intensively
used by both community and non-community members with motorcycles and vehicles,
which generated substantial user benefits and time savings. However, the expected life of
such roads could be short due to erosion by rain, especially in the mountainous areas.

3.3.3 It can be concluded that economic returns on investment in the selected 12 cases are
sufficiently attractive. The EIRR is ranging from 17% to 23% depending on different types
of infrastructure built, and NPV and B:C is positive. The financial rate of return is higher
than the economic returns. In addition to the return rates derived on the basis of tangible
benefits, there are a number of intangible benefits like appreciation in property value (land
and houses) attributed to improved linkages with paved roads not accounted for in the
analyses. See Annex 3 ­ Economic and Financial Analysis for details.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

3.4.1 The project has achieved its PDO indicators. The estimated number of beneficiaries
was nearly 4 million people, comprised of more than 797,800 households. As far as direct
income generation, it is difficult to estimate the impact of the project quantitatively. Still,
there is no doubt that the project, directly and indirectly, contributed to the improvement of
people's living conditions and alleviated poverty in the project target areas.

3.4.2 This project helped set initial steps to promote decentralization and increasing
transparency and accountability in the use of public funds at the communal level. The
project successfully installed accountable and transparent operational procedures for
implementing community-based infrastructure development. As expected, capacity

                                              13
constraints among communal populations adversely affected the initial pace of project
implementation. However, most of the initial difficulties were overcome with the support
of PPMUs and DTSGs and through frequent visits to and on-the-job training for the
communes. Capacity developed under the Project, such as reading of scheme designs and
monitoring of civil works at the commune level, is now being utilized in other development
initiatives. As such, an overall rating of satisfactory is justified.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty Impacts

3.5.1 There were no baseline data available for the project, thereby limiting the scope for
gauging the impact of project's interventions on poverty. Data compiled by the Ministry of
Labor indicate a reduction in poverty rates in the Project target areas between 2006 and
2008, although it is not possible to isolate the distinctive role played by the Project in such
poverty reduction.

3.5.2 The schemes implemented under the project addressed local needs and have
substantially improved community access to social and economic services. The water
supply schemes, for example, has not only ensured safe and clean drinking water for
beneficiary households, but also helped to save women's time in fetching water. Women
are now able to spend more time on activities such as looking after their families/children
and engaging in income-generating activities. The same holds true for the kindergartens,
which have enabled women to engage in productive activities. Roads and bridges have
ensured improved access to social, market and other economic opportunities for local people.
It is assumed, therefore, that the infrastructure schemes have contributed to increased
disposable income levels of local communities through improved health status, time savings
and resources.

Gender Aspects

3.5.3 Efforts were made to mainstream gender issues throughout project intervention by
including women in decision making roles in CPCCs (village representatives at CPCC are
composed of one man and one woman) and by providing women greater power in scheme
selection. The project undertook a number of capacity-building training activities for
village representatives including women representatives. Anecdotal evidence shows that
women's voices were well reflected in scheme selection. The self-esteem of many women
has reportedly been improved due to their increased responsibility.

Social Development

3.5.4 Formation of CPCCs comprised of representatives of the villages and communal
governments served as the foundation for social and institutional development of
communities. All schemes were prioritized by villages first, and then final selection was

                                              14
made at CPCCs through consultative processes and voting. This approach exposed
beneficiaries to a democratic and bottom-up approach, which was new to the country when
the project was formulated. In addition, the project's comprehensive procedure of
completing a full cycle (CBPP) from identification to maintenance of infrastructure
provided opportunities for a communal society as a whole to develop its capacity to plan
and manage development activities. This was a significant achievement for the communes
and rural poor - who are often regarded as incapable in taking the lead role in determining
their development path. The project also promoted confidence building among certain
communal members, in particular women and ethnic minority groups, who are usually
marginalized in decision-making processes.

(b) Institutional Change/ Strengthening

3.5.5 A central pillar of the project was to strengthen rural institutions through promoting
decentralization. Increasing communal capacity to take the leading role in their
development activities was well implemented. In addition, as shown by the issuance of
Decree 79 on "Promulgating the Regulation on the Exercise of Democracy in Communes",
Vietnamese policy makers have learned much from the decentralization experiences and
models provided for under the Project. This also influenced the approach adopted by
Program 135, whose new design incorporates experiences and approaches developed under
the Project.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

3.5.6 A key unintended outcome of the project was communities' self initiatives and
increased voluntarism. As a requirement for any communal scheme, 5% of construction
costs were born by communities in cash or in-kind. Yet, many community members
provided further contributions for communal schemes, including free labor for monitoring
civil works, and providing pieces of land for widening roads, for irrigation channels and for
other schemes without any compensation.

3.6   Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(N/A)

4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

4.1      As shown in Program 135 and other rural development programs, including Rapid
and Sustainable Poverty Reduction Support Program slated for 61 poorest districts
(Resolution 30A/2008/NQ-CP on poverty reduction), the GOV is very committed to
continuing support for rural development and decentralization. It is likely, therefore, that the
capacity built in the target communes will be used and maintained, and other development
initiatives including Program 135 will benefit from active participation from the communes
under this project.



                                              15
4.2     However, there is one concern with regard to the role of MPI and DPIs in future
rural development. Although they will remain key players in the sector, a lack of a road
map to mainstream the project results into the national government system might lead to
ineffective use of capacity built at MPI, DPIs, and project communes, which do not have a
similar budgetary instrument to replicate the approach developed in the project. Although
there are assurances that Program 135 would replicate the approach, there are differences in
the service delivery mechanisms - including the fund flow and implementation steps.
Therefore, important elements of the project operation system may not be used in Program
135. Furthermore, CFs who played a major role in the project's participatory approach have
already left the project, although some of them have been recruited as staff members of
DPIs. There has been no case reported of the CFs continuing work under Program 135.

4.3     As noted by a resident UN agency staff member who replicated some of the key
elements of the project in a rural development project in another part of the country, "the
project was prepared almost a decade ago, but the design is still valid;". There are still big
challenges for the country regarding decentralization, notably concerning empowering
communities and increasing transparency in contracting procedures. In order to mainstream
the decentralized participatory approach that would also ensure accountability and
transparency in the use of public funds, there may still be a need for a similar project to
ensure sustainability of good practices.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank Performance

5.1.1 Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry. Bank performance in ensuring
quality at entry is rated `moderately satisfactory'. The project preparation was efficient and
included detailed implementation guidance and plans in PIP. The overall project design
was well focused on participatory community development and decentralization.
Implementation arrangements were carefully designed to empower communities with
active participation and full ownership of communal subprojects. However, a more
thorough design for M&E and financial management could have improved the project
performance in these areas. The absence of baseline survey data has constrained the ability
to measure the full impact of the project.

5.1.2 Quality of Supervision. Bank supervision is rated `satisfactory'. Good
recommendations have been provided through regularly conducted supervision missions.
The Bank's implementation assistance was responsive to changing policies and needs. For
example, given the justification of road surface specification in Bank financed Rural
Transport Project I and II, construction of gravel roads for short distance feeder roads in the
project design was regarded appropriate at the time of project preparation. However, as
seen in the Rural Transport Project III, the policy for the specification of rural road surface
changed to recommend paved roads with sections running through the center of communes
or nearby public services facilities such as school classrooms or health care clinics after the
review of rural road conditions. Responding to the change, in specific cases, the Bank also
allowed selective paving of road surfaces in the project. There are similar cases for other

                                              16
changes in infrastructure specifications and criteria such as schools in frequent and
disaster-prone areas.

5.1.3 Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance. Overall Bank
performance is rated satisfactory in the light of the above comments.

5.2    Borrower Performance

5.2.1 The Government performance in supporting project preparation and
implementation is considered `satisfactory'. The project was based on an appropriate
strategy of promoting democracy in communes, often termed as grassroots democracy
(Decree 29), promoting consultation, participation and transparency in public works at
commune level. The Government has made strong commitment to the project participatory
approach and provided support and guidance as well as legal ground to enable its
implementation. One of the examples is the Ministry of Finance (MOF)'s issuance of a
Circular that enables MOF to directly provide funds to communes.

5.2.2 Implementing agency's performance is also rated as `satisfactory'. The project
exceeded its targets in the number of target communes and has achieved all intended
purposes. This is a result of efforts of implementing agencies at all levels, especially at
commune level where most of implementing units performed the role of subprojects
owners for the first time. Although the performance of implementing units at commune
level was varied, with the assistance from provinces and districts, all were able to perform
their role as subproject owners. The implementation mechanism was carefully laid out by
the implementing agency ensuring linkages from the central level to the communal level. It
also successfully demonstrated an alternative approach to the long-standing top-down
planning and central management approach. This new way of doing public investment in
Vietnam required the implementer's initiative to influence policy makers from central to
grassroots levels in adopting the participatory approach. Implementing agencies cooperated
closely with the Bank during project supervision. Most of the action agreed during
supervision missions and recommendations in audit and procurement post review reports
were followed up or implemented in a satisfactory manner.

5.2.3 Supervision of construction work was done well at commune level with
communities playing an active role to ensure quality. The project has established about
1,990 community supervision groups and each group contained about four members. They
were trained with simple technique and skill to supervise construction in the commune,
including how to evaluate the quality and quantity of materials, and the quality of the
constructed infrastructure. They were very enthusiastic in doing this work and exercised
full ownership over the infrastructure. Their frequent presence at the work site minimized
deficiencies in the construction.

5.2.4 Rating for Overall Borrower Performance. Overall Borrower Performance is
rated satisfactory in the light of the above comments.

6.     Lessons Learned

                                            17
6.1     MIS and M&E Platforms should be designed and functional at the early stage
of the project implementation. The manual processing of data has influenced the project
throughout implementation. The absence of an automated MIS led to enormous staff time
undertakings to track project progress. . Lack of a verifying mechanism to confirm data
accuracy also created confusion at all levels. The data source is not organized in a way to
measure project impacts and makes it difficult to extract useful data. The counterpart
agency should be more active in establishing a good MIS at the early stage of project
implementation. The project should be provided with more technical assistance on M&E
throughout project implementation.

6.2      A practical approach is necessary to design and measure Key Performance
Indicators. Lack of a practical design to capture the indicator of "Generating income for
the poor through providing employment" caused unnecessary confusion among project
staff, especially at CPMU and PPMUs. The capture of such data could have been done if
the project prepared an arrangement for the contractors to report the figures as one of the
contract requirements. However, the approach suggested by the project design was for the
project (PPMUs) to be responsible for data collection and there was no detailed a
mechanism to capture such data. It is important for project designers to be practical in
setting up KPIs and that testing of data collection methods is conducted. Learning from
experience from good practice of other similar operations is also essential.

6.3      Gradual process in developing the participatory approach was key to its
incorporation in the government's bureaucratic system. The approach adopted by the
project can be criticized by people who have promoted more vigorous participatory
approaches. In the project, before village meetings, communal governments and communal
communist party leaders prepared a list of development priorities from which people at
village meetings would choose. In addition, no Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) report was
required in the project, as is common in other community based rural development projects.
However, the central pillar of this project's participatory approach was "Grass-roots
democracy" and the project's focus was to promote free voting in the scheme selection. This is
ambitious in Vietnam. The project preparation team's decision not to push a standardized
participatory approach, e.g. those developed in other parts of the world, appeared to be the
appropriate decision..

6.4     Decentralization of financial management could have enhanced the PPMUs
project management capacity. The financial flow was centralized at CPMU and funds
were sent to the communes directly from CPMU. This apparently reduced opportunities for
corruption as well as mishandling of funds at the provincial and district levels. It is also the
case, however, that such bypassing-fund-transaction system did not allow PPMUs to build
fund management capacity. At the same time, the work at CPMU's financial section to
make more than 15,000 transactions for financing 8,462 schemes to 760 communes became
a huge burden. This project was innovative in developing the capacity at the commune
level, but it did not help develop a decentralized model for the provincial and district to
build their project and financial management capacity. A more decentralized financial
management system should have been considered for projects which are implemented at

                                              18
the lower (district, commune) levels by setting up: a simplified FM procedure; delegation
of roles, responsibilities, and reporting; and an on-line accounting platform. In addition,
capacity building of FM at lower levels (district and commune) should be properly carried
out covering subjects necessary in support.

6.5     The project did not generate a clear road map to scale up the project outcomes
into the government's system. The project design clearly recognized the long-standing
top-down planning and management approach at the counterpart agencies. The design
includes an alternative mechanism to foster decentralization, but it did not demonstrate a
road map to scale up the project outcomes into the government's system. The project's
decentralized approach faced a lot of criticism during project preparation and it was already
difficult for the project preparation team to lay out a design to mainstream the decentralized
approach into national policy. The Project's decentralized approach was accepted by the
government because it was a project to first demonstrate success and then scale up on the
basis of the results. Lack of a design to scale up project outcomes at the national level
inhibits the counterpart agency from further integration of project achievements into the
government system. When preparing a pilot project as this one, it is important to conduct a
careful analysis and design concerning political circumstances, and include when and how
project outcomes would be integrated into national policy.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies (see Annex 7)

(b) Co-financiers (N/A)

(c) Other partners and stakeholders (N/A)




                                             19
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
                              Appraisal        Revised                    Actual/Latest        Percentage
        Components            Estimate         Estimate                     Estimate               of
                            (US$ millions) (US$ millions)                (US$ millions)*       Appraisal
 1. Strengthening of
 Planning and                   9.05             n/a                             9.3                6.6
 Implementation Capacity
 2. Infrastructure             107.57             n/a                          124.5               88.3
 Development
 3. Project Support             6.79              n/a                            7.3                5.1
 Services
        Total Baseline Cost    123.41             n/a                          141.03               100
 Physical Contingencies           0               n/a                            0                   -
 Price Contingencies              0               n/a                            0                   -
            Total Financing
                               123.41             n/a                          141.03               100
                   Required
Note: The figures for the column of `Actual/Latest Estimate' are derived using a weighted average of the
exchange rate of VND 16,650 for one US$.

(b) Financing
                                   Appraisal            Revised           Actual/Latest        Percentage
      Source of Funds              Estimate            Estimate             Estimate               of
                                 (US$ millions)      (US$ millions)       (US$ millions)       Appraisal
  Borrower                           16.81                  n/a                4.46               18.2
  Local Communities                   3.82                  n/a               25.67                3.2
  International
 Development Association              102.78                n/a               110.92               78.6
 (IDA)
 Total                                123.41                n/a               141.03               100




                                                     20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Strengthening Decentralized Planning and Implementation Capacity
(US$ 9.05 million)

1.1    Decentralized Planning and Implementation Capacity

This component aimed to develop decentralized planning and implementation capacity of
the government and project staff as well as commune members through (i) training to
government staff including central, provincial, district and communal governments; (ii)
support from Community Facilitators (CFs) who were also trained to interface with the
communities; and (iii) information campaigns to ensure widespread public understanding,
transparency and accountability. The expenditure incurred for this component was 10.4%
of the total project cost.

1.2    Number of Training Participants

It was a new experience for the majority of participating communal authorities to plan and
manage the entire process of infrastructure development. Training provided by the project
especially to the commune level including communal government staff and CPCC
members was a crucial element in project implementation. As a result, a total of around
76,528 persons (accumulative) were trained in 13 project provinces financed from IDA
source, of which 95 % of trainees were from the communal level. In addition to these
formal training, on-the-job training was given especially to communal government staff,
which played a major role in developing staff capacity.

1.3    Training Subjects and Participant classification

The project provided training that covered in general following ten subjects:

       · Community Development and Participatory Planning (CDPP);
       · Investment and Construction Management (ICM);
       · Environment Policy, Compensation and Resettlement (EPCR);
       · Monitoring of Construction and Maintenance (MCM);
       · Ethnic Minority Mobilization (EMM);
       · Financial Management and Accounting (FMA);
       · Management Information System (MIS);
       · Preparation of Bidding Documents (PBD);
       · Project Management (PM); and
       · Others including Community Facilitation Skills (others).

The focus of the project for communal government staff was given to community
development and planning process, subproject management, safeguards, construction
monitoring, and financial management and accounting, while its focus for provincial staff
was in MIS and project management.

                                             21
                                                                Table1. Training Participation




                                                                                                                                                                                           Number of Inhabitants
                                                                                                                                                          Number of Village Staff
                                                                                                                                      Number of Commune
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Proportion of Women and




                                                                                Number of Provincial




                                                                                                            Number of District
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ethnic Minority      Women and Ethnic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Participation (%)   Minority Participation




                                                                                    Officers




                                                                                                                                           Officers
                                                                                                               Officers
                                                         Number of    Total
                         Topic
                                                          Courses    Trainees




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Minority




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Minority
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ethnic




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ethnic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Women                         Women


IDA SOURCE
Community Development and Planning Process                    714      23,379                   257                       339                9,308                9,193                           4,282                          32                41     7,374      9,472
Subproject Management                                         303      10,126                   246                       179                5,639                2,977                           1,085                          29                40     2,924      4,035
Environmental Policy and Resettlement                         414      10,171                   169                       134                5,134                3,123                           1,611                          29                36     2,981      3,630
Subproject Construction Monitoring and Maintenance            639      16,705                          87                 127                5,697                6,804                           3,990                          31                41     5,254      6,804
Skills on Cooperation with Ethnic People and Policy on
Compensation and Resettlement                                   44      5,891                   108                              58          2,287                2,394                           1,044                          38                36     2,225      2,146
Financial and Accounting Management                           157       4,351                   220                       288                3,701                                   33                            109           23                27     1,002      1,192
Use of MIS and Related Software                                 10        369                   167                              13                189                                0                              0           29                 2      107                6
Procurement                                                   153       3,930                   213                       359                2,819                                  385                            154           14                35      569       1,383
Training of CFs                                                 30        494                   338                              37                119                                0                              0           15                 9       74               44
Project Management                                              22        434                          91                        69                274                                0                              0           11                17       46               72
Other training                                                  14        678                   125                       114                      439                                0                              0           17                 6      117               39
TOTAL                                                        2,500     76,528           2,021                      1,717                35,606            24,909                          12,275                                 30                38    22,673    28,823



1.4               People participation in Sub-project Selection

The project ensured decentralization in sub-project selection. As a result, all communes
hold village sub-project selection meetings, which led to high rate of participation by
households, women and ethnic minority people. The representation of households (HHs) in
sub-project selection was more than 70%, while women and ethnic minority participants
accounted for around 30% and 48% respectively.

                                           Table 2. People Participation in Sub-project Selection

                                                                                                                    1st Cycle                                                               2nd Cycle                                           3rd Cycle
                                                                                                                     No                                   %                                  No       %                                          No       %
   Total No. of households in the project area                                                                      768,568                                -                                796,314    -                                        730,991    -
   Total No. of women in the project area                                                                         1,470,069                                -                              1,525,653    -                                      1,364,278    -
   Total No. of ethnic minorities in the project area                                                               776,098                                -                                784,296    -                                        715,047    -
   Participating households                                                                                         559,769                               73                                580,808 73                                          515,893 71
   Women participants                                                                                               464,703                               32                                447,797 29                                          397,348 29
   Ethnic people participants                                                                                       358,464                               46                                380,585 49                                          346,130 48

1.5               Community Facilitators

A total of 116 community facilitators were recruited to mobilize commune members.
Anecdotal evidences gathered during the ICRR mission exhibit that CFs played a key role
in: supporting CPCCs, organizing commune meetings, selecting sub-projects, formulating
sub-project proposals, preparing reports, carrying out monitoring of sub-project
constructions, and setting up operation and maintenance mechanisms.



                                                                                                            22
It was observed, however, that some CFs were dismissed due to their poor performance and
some provinces faced high turn-over of CFs. Lack of CFs and CFs without proper training
caused problems in community mobilization and sub-project implementation. Female CFs
in general appeared to be very active, but nature of the work proved to be difficult for
female CFs due to long traveling time and mountainous and remote terrains, especially
during rainy seasons. Each CF was given a motorbike to improve mobility for their
facilitation work. On an average, one CF covered seven to ten communes with exceptions
in Quang Nam, Binh Dinh, and Khanh Hoa provinces.

1.6       Establishment of O&M groups

In order to promote community-based M&E of infrastructure constriction as well as
subsequent operation and maintenance (O&M), the project formed 1,990 community
supervision groups and 4,394 O&M groups respectively. These members were usually
trained in monitoring of construction and maintenance where they acquired skills to read
construction blueprints and mobilize community members for maintenance. Membership
per O&M group on average was about four including at least one female member. HH
contribution for infrastructure maintenance varied according to the types of infrastructure and
location. Majority of communities with a community hall where the ICRR mission visited,
for example, collect at least VND 5,000 per month for O&M. The collected funds were spent
for cost of utilities, security, and small-scale repairing service.

1.7       Outcome of Training

The project set "Time reduction in Sub-project Implementation Cycle" as a proxy indicator
to measure impacts of formal training. Time spent from "subproject selection (No.1) to
completion to liquidation (No.9)" indicates that the project was successful in this aspect
reducing a substantial time in its operation with two exceptions: No 3 and 5. As mentioned
earlier that CBPP played a major role in increasing transparency but at the same time the
process added multi-layers for examination and approval of plans; these contributed to
increasing days spent for these two activities.

      Table 3. Average Time spent for Project Proposal Submission to Liquidation ­ days

                                                                                   Difference between cycles
                                                          1st       2nd     3rd
No                      Description                                                1st &    1st &    2nd &
                                                         Cycle     Cycle   Cycle
                                                                                    2nd      3rd      3rd
      Village meeting on selection of projects to
1                                                            29       24      22        5        7         2
      completion of commune proposal
2     Submission of investment proposal to approval          18       14      13        4        5         1
      District investment proposal approval to
3                                                            80       90      82      -10       -2         8
      signing of budget allocation contract
      Submission of PPMU approved investment
4                                                            88       88      85        0        3         3
      report to Bidding appraisal
5     Sub-project selection to receipt of 50% advance        170     193     171      -23       -1        22
      Signing contracts with constructors to
6                                                            128     124     123        4        5         1
      completion & issue of completion certificate


                                                        23
      Completion of construction to completion of
7                                                           113   100     84        13   29   16
      disbursement report
      Disbursement to completion of Project
8                                                           133   113    101        19   32   13
      liquidation report
      Reception of 50% advance to reception of
9                                                           233   184    179        50   54    4
      100% of payment

1.8       Information Campaigns

Various modes of information dissemination and project awareness included production of
printed and audio visual material, broadcast of videos, and distribution of shirts and hats in
the project area as given in the Table below.

                        Table 4. Information Dissemination and Awareness

                          Modes of information dissemination       Number
                          Flyers                                        332,385
                          Posters                                        16,740
                          Panel hoardings                                33,111
                          Audio visual material                                42
                          Broadcast of videos                               140
                          Distribution of Shirts and hats                20,500



Component 2: Infrastructure Development (US$ 107.57 million)

2.1       Overview of Sub-projects Implemented

A total of 8,462 sub-project were completed in 13 provinces, of which 470 (5.6%) were
inter-communal and 7,992 (94.4%) were communal sub-projects. The project awarded
4,556 contracts. All communes that participated in the project experienced at least one
competitive bidding procedure. Reflecting project's demand driven approach, the types of
commune sub-projects varied widely. Popular sub-projects were: roads (35%), community
halls (27%), water supply (9%), and irrigation (8%). The remaining subprojects mainly
comprised of schools, markets, and electrification. Inter-communal works were mainly
roads, bridges and irrigation schemes.

In terms of number of sub-projects per province, Nghe An completed 1,218 sub-projects
(14.4% of total 8,462 sub-projects), followed by Binh Phuoc (12.6%), Quang Ngai (12.5%),
Quang Nam (10.7%), Khanh Hoa (10.25%) and Thanh Hoa (10%). The number of sub-
projects in Ninh Thuan province accounts for only 2.9%, which makes the province the
lowest among the 13 provinces in terms of number of sub-project.




                                                      24
                               Table 5. Infrastructure Investment

                          Infrastructure Type            Quantity of Works
               Roads                                                    2932
               Irrigation/storm and flood control                         651
               Water supply                                               781
               Power                                                      304
               Community hall                                            2322
               School                                                     563
               Kindergarten                                               432
               Health station                                              77
               Market                                                     101
               Other                                                      299
               Total                                                    8,462


2.2    Overview of Sub-project Investments

The total investment for 8,462 sub-projects was VND 2,195 billion, of which VND 445
billion (20% of the total) was spent for inter-communal works, while VND 1,750 billion
was spent for communal sub-projects. Average investment per work for inter-communal
subprojects was around VND 945 million against around VND 218 million for communal
works. In terms of province-wise investment, Quang Ngai took the largest share of
investment capital with VND 351 billion (16%), followed by Nghe An (15%), Thanh Hoa,
Quang Nam, and Ha Tinh (11% each). Binh Thuan's share was the smallest amongst
project provinces with nearly 3% of total investment.

2.3    Population Benefited

The project worked with 760 communes. Although there is no accurate data available for
the number of benefited population, out of the total population of 19.55 million for the 13
provinces, it is estimated that around 800,000 HHs with nearly 4 million people are
benefited by the project.

2.4    Investment Allocation amongst Beneficiary population

The allocation of funds to provinces as well as communes was generally made based on the
size of beneficiary population. The analysis of per-household investment illustrates that this
policy was in general applied. Average investment per beneficiary HH is around
VND574,000 (US$ 32), which more or less follows the project guidelines.




                                                    25
                 Table 6. Beneficiary Population and Sharing of total investment

                            No of       Investment                                   Population        Investment
                          Beneficiary                      Investment per Pop.
      Province            Population    VND (000)                                          (%)              (%)
                                                            VND
                                                            (000)          US$                           
Thanh Hoa                     455,275            251,443        552           31                 12               12
Nghe An                       564,955            335,476        594           34                 14               15
Ha Tinh                       535,330            241,492        451           24                 14               11
Thua Thien
Hue                           139,045             97,911        704           41                  4               5
Quang Nam                     458,170            240,834        526           30                 12               11
Quang Ngai                    594,775            351,140        590           38                 13               16
Binh Dinh                     107,525             77,900        724           41                  3                4
Phu Yen                       109,770             72,537        661           37                  3               3
Khanh Hoa                     181,725             93,407        514           29                  5                4
Ninh Thuan                    163,110             88,865        545           31                   4               4
Binh Thuan                    113,470             61,861        545           31                  3                3
Lam Dong                      145,550             71,932        494           28                  4               3
Binh Phuoc                    420,374            210,188        500           26                 11                9
       Total                3,989,074        2,194,986          574           32                 100          100


2.5       Quality of Infrastructure

Quality of constructed infrastructure is by and large satisfactory. According to the data on
quality assessment (not entire sub-projects were assessed) provided by the project, there are
five communal schemes damaged due to low quality. In addition, there are another five
schemes reported to be completely non-functional and 304 schemes damaged of which 12
are inter-communal and 292 are communal. These damages were mainly caused by natural
calamity like Xangsane storm in 2006 or the floods and storms frequently observed in
Central Coastal provinces of Vietnam, where occurrence of natural disasters is high.

                                Table 7. Quality Assessment of the Civil Works

                                                                                            Completed
                    Completed              Completed                  Completed                                Completed
                                                                                            projects but
                    projects but           projects but               projects but                           projects that are
                                                                                               partly
                 cannot be utilized     cannot be utilized          partly damaged                           of good quality
  Province                                                                                damaged due
                    due to poor            due to other               due to low                              and are being
                                                                                              to other
                   construction              reasons                     quality                                 utilized
                                                                                              reasons
                     IC      Commune        IC     Commune          IC   Commune            IC       IC      IC        Commune
Thanh Hoa        -           -          -                2      -        -                -        -          37            809
Nghe An          -           -          -                1      -        -                -             1     54          1,162
Ha Tinh          -           -          -          -            -        -                -        -          51            484
TT - Hue         -           -          -          -            -        -                     2       31     26            305

                                                           26
 Quang Nam     -          -         -       -            -           -          -           -             51      852
 Quang Ngai    -          -         -               2    -                 5            7        13       59      963
 Binh Dinh     -          -         -       -            -           -          -                 2       19      302
 Phu Yen       -          -         -       -            -           -          -           -             30      253
 Khanh Hoa     -          -         -       -            -           -          -               191       15      659
 Ninh Thuan    -          -         -       -            -           -                  1         7       20      219
 Binh Thuan           -         -       -           -        -              -           -        25       14      403
 Lam Dong             -         -       -           -        -              -           2        22       15      280
 Binh Phuoc           -         -       -           -        -              -           -         -       65      998
      Total           -         -       -           5        -             5        12          292   456        7,689

2.6       Community Contribution

The beneficiary communities were required to contribute 5% of the physical value of
physical infrastructure. On average, the communities contributed 4.8% of the costs ranging
from 5.2% in Khanh Hoa to 4.1% in Binh Phuoc province. In general, community members
provided their share in kind, especially with labor. In addition to the required contributions,
many community members donated their pieces of lands for widening roads, for irrigation
channels and for other schemes without any compensation when the size of the land is less
than 10% of its own total size. Furthermore, the beneficiaries also contributed in the form
of free transport of construction material as well as labor.

                              Table 8. Share of Community contribution

                                     IDA           Government            Community                Total
                               VND          %      VND           %       VND        %           VND       %
        A - Inter-communal      276.7       70.9   113.5      29.1          -         -       390.2       19.0
        Civil works             264.7       73.7    94.2      26.3          -         -       358.9       17.5
        Monitoring                6.4       98.9     0.1       1.1          -         -         6.5        0.3
        Management                5.6       63.6     3.2      36.4          -         -         8.8        0.4
        Others                    0.0          -    16.0     100.0          -         -        16.0        0.8
        B ­ Communal          1,474.7       88.9   109.0       6.6       74.3       4.5     1,658.0       81.0
        Civil works           1,414.7       91.4    59.0       3.8       74.3       4.8     1,547.9       75.6
        Monitoring               29.1       99.2     0.2       0.8          -         -        29.3        1.4
        Management               25.1       99.3     0.2       0.7          -         -        25.3        1.2
        Others                    5.8       10.5    49.6      89.5          -         -        55.4        2.7
              Total           1,751.4       85.5   222.5      10.9       74.3       3.6     2,048.1   100.0

2.7       Poverty reduction

It is not possible to isolate project's contribution for improving standard of living attributed
to the provision of infrastructure. In addition, there is no reliable baseline data to assess
project's impacts. Indicative figures on poverty reduction prepared by Ministry of Labor,
nevertheless, show that almost all participating provinces, where data are available,
decreased the poverty rate in 2008 compared with 2006. However, it is important to


                                                    27
mention that the poverty line and analysis method carried out by the ministry were changed
in year 2006, and therefore, it made difficult to assess the changes.

2.8    Employment generation

According to the data provided by the project, around 1.8 million labor days were
generated with an estimated income of around VND 80 billion (US$ 4.5 million) for
unskilled labor from the target communes. However, these figures were mainly derived
from estimations in all 13 provinces without clear evidence. Anecdotal evidence gathered
from PPMUs also revealed that record keeping for such income generation at each
construction site usually did not happen. Therefore, the reliability of the figures is low.
Nevertheless, the project did promote income generation through providing employment,
but there was a lack of a mechanism to capture such data. Interviews with beneficiaries
revealed that some of community members (not all) gained income through providing their
labor and selling construction material.

             Table 9. Indicative Figure on Labor, Cash and Wages Generated

                   Description           Inter communal           Communal           Total
       Labor generated ­ days                    104,521             1,694,353     1,798,874
       Selling materials VND (million)             2,588               30,442            33,030
       Wage VND (million)                          3,788               42,288            46,076
       Daily wage rate ­ VND                      36,240               24,960            25,610


Component 3:           Project Support Services (US$ 6.79 million)

The project was executed by MPI, DPI, District Governments, and Communal
Governments. At MPI and DPI, the project set up CPMU and PPMUs respectively. The
resources allocated to Component 3 were mainly used for project support services of these
government agencies in Hanoi and PPMUs in the 13 participating provinces. The
expenditure on different items is as shown in the table below.

                     Table 10. Expenditure on Project Support Services

                           Services           VND (billion)           % of total
             Project Support services                      14.9                  11.7%
             Consultancy services                          41.8                  33.0%
             Management                                    34.1                  26.9%
             Monitoring & Evaluation                       35.8                  28.3%
                            Total                      126.5                 100.0%




                                            28
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

3.1     Background

The project effectiveness based on an economic and financial analysis was judged on the
basis of data provided by the project, supplemented by field visits and discussion with the
beneficiaries. However, the field visits could only be made to only 12 schemes located in 5
provinces including Quang Ngai, Quang Nam, Khanh Hoa, Ninh Thuan and Binh Thuan
provinces. The schemes visited include: 3 roads; 2 irrigation schemes; 2 drinking water
supply; one bridge; and one flood water disposal drainage. In addition, one market, 2
kindergartens and 2 community halls were also visited to gather views of the communities
and see the level of maintenance and sustainability of the operation. Analysis included in
this Annex should be understood as a case study rather than a financial and economic
analysis of the project as a whole.

3.2     Methodology

Secondary data that were collected for all provinces from CPMU were organized by
scheme types with for various aspects including (i) number of schemes; (ii) cost; (iii) year
of implementation; and so on. The quantification of benefits for schools, and clinics as well
as multi-purpose infrastructure such as community halls is difficult due to absence of
relevant information for such analysis. As a case study, therefore, analysis is made for the
sub-projects of five infrastructure types including (i) roads; (ii) bridge; (iii) drinking water
supply, (iv) irrigation scheme, and (v) flood water disposal drainage. To assess economic
efficiency, an analysis on investment per unit was also made for all sub-projects based on
the data supplied by the project.

Beneficiaries' views on the project as well as the infrastructures were gathered through
interviews both in the field and at group meetings. The interview results were analyzed to
derive meaningful inferences in the light of efficiency parameters.

3.3     Assumptions for Analysis

Analysis has been made on the basis of beneficiary views gathered by group discussions
and secondary data (costs) available with the project for the schemes visited. Economic and
financial analyses was made for infrastructure schemes including drinking water supply
(DWS), roads, bridge, irrigation and flood water disposal, to have an idea of returns on
investment (ROI) using financial and economic prices. The assumptions made are:

      (i)     The life span is taken as 10 years for all subprojects except for roads and
              bridge for which the life is taken as 7 years and 20 years respectively;
      (ii)    The salvage value is taken as 10% except for bridge for which it is taken as
              `nil';
      (iii)   Community halls are used as the meeting place for villagers and the
              Agriculture Extension staff;



                                              29
         (iv)  Since the community halls are widely spread and are used for such group
               meetings, half of the average investment cost in community hall is added to
               the cost of selected scheme;
         (v)   The benefits accruing from irrigation schemes are not only the benefits from
               increased irrigation supplies but also have a major contribution of extension
               advice given by the technical staff3 of Agriculture Department;
         (vi)  Since the subprojects are implemented in earlier years and assessment is
               being made in 2009, the cost incurred is brought to 2009 level using an
               escalation factor of 11.5% per year, based on inflation figures from 2004
               onwards; and
         (vii) For Economic analysis:
                Financial costs are multiplied with Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of
                  0.9 for use in Economic analysis;
                Standard Wage rate (SWR) is taken as 0.75 for the unskilled labor; and
                Fuel cost is multiplied with 0.7 to account for the taxes imposed.

3.4         Types of Benefits

Although the schemes are small and low-cost investments, these have direct and indirect
benefits on communities in the form of increased employment opportunities, higher income,
better hygienic conditions and others. A summary of possible benefits that the people
receive from selected sub-projects are:

           Drinking Water Supply: availabilities of drinking water at or near the door steps
           leading to time savings and its productive use in other income generating activities,
           comparatively better quality of water with lesser chances of contamination, and thus
           savings in medical expenses on account of illness;

           Roads: easy access to paved road, opening up areas for other economic activities,
           savings in commuter time, reduction in transport/ haulage rates, productive use of
           saved time;

           Bridge: better and persistent linkage with the communities, no waiting for receding
           of flood water, commuter time saving, increased income by use of saved time;

           Irrigation scheme: Increased availabilities of irrigation water, higher yields,
           raising crops on barren or uncultivated land, double cropping in command area; and

           Drainage: Decreased damage to houses and property/ belongings.



3
    The Community halls are also used by the Agriculture Extension staff as a regular meeting place with the farmers of the
    area, for dissemination of improved farm practices/ technology. These community halls are also used for distribution of
    farm inputs and improved seeds in accordance with the government policies. The interaction of farmers and the
    Agriculture Department and timely availability of farm inputs/ seeds results in increased farm production.


                                                             30
3.5      Analysis for Selected Subprojects

Discussions were held with PPMU staff in the five provinces and beneficiaries of sub-
projects visited. The prime objective was to assess the magnitude of benefits in the light of
discussion with the beneficiaries. An analysis was made for 12 subprojects and results are
summarized as follows:

Drinking Water Supply

A drinking water supply sub-project was visited in Ninh Thuan province (Phuoc Chien
Commune), which provides benefits to 180 HHs. It connects the HHs with the piped water
supply form an existing reservoir constructed in 2003 with funding from some other
program. The other water supply sub-project is in Phong Phu Commune of Binh Thuan
province. This involved lifting water from a lake to the reservoir by pump, and laying
1,500 meter pipeline originating from the reservoir to the commune. Five water tanks are
constructed to store water and 2 wells are also dug. A person is deputed to open taps from
the reservoir at fixed time. The water supplied is comparatively of better quality and has
resulted in lesser incidence of water borne diseases. However, the water supplied is not
sufficient to meet HH demand, for 5-6 months in a year. The shortages are met by bringing
water on donkeys or in canes. As a result of nearby supply of water, the time consumed in
bringing water is reduced. Annual benefits are calculated as VND 80 million for Phuoc
Chien Commune and VND 133 million for Phong Phu Commune.

Roads

Three road sub-projects were visited one each in the province of Quang Ngai (Village 3 to
HOC), Nha Trang (Khanh Hoa) and in Ninh Thuan (Phuoc Chien Commune). The one in
Ninh Thuan is in the mountainous area with steep slope and has been paved now under
Program 135. All the three roads ­ previously narrow tracks - were widened to link villages
to main roads. This has led to opening up of areas for economic activity, savings in fuel
consumption and time, lesser transport costs for farm produce including shrimp fish, and
for farm inputs/ construction material. The financial benefits accruing annually are
estimated as VND 165 million for Village 3 to HOC, VND 216 million for Khanh Hoa, and
VND 355 million for Phuoc Chien Commune.

Bridge

In the mountainous area of Phuoc Chien Commune (Ninh Thuan province), a causeway
was transformed into a bridge under the project. Previously, the passengers had to wait for
7-8 hours a day to pass the causeway during rainy season (October to December). With the
construction of the bridge, time used for waiting has been released for initiation of
economic activity in the area. Benefits are estimated as VND 201 million annually.

Irrigation

Two irrigation scheme sub-projects were visited; one in Quang Nghi (B 8-11) involved
lining of the irrigation channel supplying water to 70 ha of farm area, and the other in
                                             31
Quang Nam relating to rehabilitation of water reservoir supplying irrigation water to 40 ha.
As a result of the investments, the water service areas of the former increased to 75 ha from
70 ha and the later 55 ha from 40 ha, respectively. In addition to the increase in the service
area, the cropping intensity and yields were increased. Also the cropping pattern was
changed in favor of high value crops for which water was a constraint before. Incremental
annual returns were estimated at VND 141 million and for Quang Ngai and VND 250
million for the reservoir.

Flood Water Drainage

Floods in a lowland area during monsoon seasons used to damage household belongings
and house structures. Construction of a 160 meter long channel in Cam Hoa (Khanh Hoa
province) now drains the flow of water to a river. The value of losses saved as a result of
investment is quantified as VND 140 million annually.

3.6        Returns by Infrastructure type

Benefits are calculated for each type of intervention on the basis of group discussion with
beneficiaries. The nature and extent of average benefits accruing for some infrastructure
schemes is given in Table 11.

           Table 11. Summary of Benefits from Different Infrastructure Sub-projects

   Subproject      Benefit Description                                 Value           Unit
  Water supply     Time saving/ HH/ day                                  1.17      female hours
                   Annual savings of medical expenses /HH                 9.0       VND (000)
  Road             Savings in transportation of farm produce            27.0      VND(000)/ton
                   Savings in transportation cost of fertilizer         1.67      VND(000)/bag
                   Savings in round trip fuel cost for the commuters     1.42     VND(000)/trip
                   Savings in Commuter time per trip/HH                 0.33          Hours
  Irrigation       Increase in Cropping intensity                         7%         Average
                   Increase in crop value                                195    VND(milliom)/Scheme
  Bridge           Productive time lost per annum per Scheme           4,015         days/year
                   Value of productive time lost                         201     VND (million) year
  Drainage         Average loss of HH belongings                          0.8    VND (million)/year
                   Houses damaged annually                                 20         %/year
                   Average loss to house structure                      3000        VND (000)

The financial costs are converted to economic costs using SCF of 0.9 to account for the
distortions in economy attributed taxes and subsidies. The results of analyses leading to the
assessment of cost effectiveness of the selected 12 cases shows that Economic Internal
Rate of Return (EIRR) is in the range of 17.4% to 23.0%. The aggregated returns form
investment in the selected irrigation and roads are 22.7% and 17.4% respectively. The
summarized results for various types are given in Table 12. The net present value (NPV)
and benefit: cost (B:C) ratio at 15% discount rate is positive for all type of subprojects. The
results for financial analysis are also positive. The NPV is slightly higher for financial
analyses for all subprojects.

                                                   32
                     Table 12. Summarized Results of Cost Effectiveness

                              Economic analysis                        Financial analysis
         CPI type
                     NPV at 15%    B:C at 15%          EIRR   NPV at 15%    B:C at 15%      FIRR
      Water Supply       93            1.16        22.2%          231           1.35        31.2%
      Roads             111            1.06        17.4%          356           1.17        21.9%
      Irrigation        245            1.20        22.7%          296           1.22        23.5%
      Bridges           257            1.36        22.1%          286           1.36        22.1%
      Drainage           91            1.21        23.0%          102           1.21        23.0%
      Others            160            1.20        21.5%          254           1.26        24.3%



3.7        Conclusion

It can be concluded that economic returns on investment in the selected 12 cases are
sufficiently attractive. The EIRR is more than 17% for all selected subprojects, and NPV
and B:C is positive. Also the financial rate of return is higher than the economic returns. In
addition to the return rates derived on the basis of tangible benefits, there are a number of
intangible benefits like appreciation in property value (land and houses) attributed to
improved linkages with paved roads not accounted for in the analyses.




                                                  33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
             Names                         Title                  Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
Christopher Gibbs         Sr. Operation Officer                 EASVS Task Team Leader
                                                                      Co- Task Team
Pham Hung Cuong           Operations Officer                    EASVS
                                                                      Leader
Hoi-chan Nguyen           Legal Consel                          EASVS Legal
Vu Thu Huong              Team Assistant                        EACVF General Assistance
                                                                      Financial
Omowunmi Ladipo           Financial Management Specialist       EAPCO Management and
                                                                      Disbursements
                                                                      Financial
Adbul Haji                Financial Management Specialist       EAPCO
                                                                      Management
                                                                      Financial
Xiaolan Wang              Financial Management Specialist       EAPCO
                                                                      Management
Nguyen Chien Thang        Procurement Officer                   EAPCO Procurement
Tosca Van Vijfeiken       Social Specialist                     EAPCO Social Development
Daud Khan                 Service Chief                          FAO
Josef Ernsberger          Natural Resource Economist             FAO
Yoshiko Ishihara          Sociologist                            FAO
Dietmar Kraatz            Rural Engineer                         FAO
Lars Hein                 Environmental Specialist               FAO

Supervision/ICR
Cuong Hung Pham           Senior Operations Officer             EASVS     Task Team Leader
Robin Mearns              Lead Social Development Specialist     SDV      Operations
Cuong Van Pham            Financial Management Specialist       EAPFM     FM
Lan Thi Thu Nguyen        Operations Officer                    EASVS     Social Development
Ly Thi Dieu Vu            Environment Specialist                EASVS     Environment
Hiet Thi Hong Tran        Procurement Specialist                EAPPR     Procurement
Thu Thi Le Nguyen         Operations Analyst                    EASVS     Operations
Takayuki Hagiware         Consultant                             FAO
Muhamnad Asif Khan        Consultant                             FAO



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                           USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                                     215.50
  FY00                                         38                          249.74

                                           34
  FY01                      30   118.98
  FY02                             9.89
  FY03                             0.00
  FY04                             4.41

                  Total:    68   598.52
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                      41    43.36
  FY03                      24    60.53
  FY04                      30    76.02
  FY05                      21    38.87
  FY06                      27    84.97
  FY07                      16    83.18
  FY08                      16    33.85
  FY09                      19     0.00

                  Total:   194   420.78




                           35
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results (N/A)




                                        36
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (N/A)




                                      37
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


Project Objectives

The overall initial project objective is to reduce poverty in 611 poorest communes in 13
Vietnam Central provinces. After Mid-term Review when gain from exchange rate across
SDR, USD and VND was available, 149 new project communes were added, raising the
total number of project communes to 760.

The Project's basic small-scale infrastructures in villages to be selected by villagers are for:
(1) meeting the most essential demands of villagers, and so their desire, (2) the construction
of small-scale works suits local people's capacity, thereby facilitating them to participate in
the construction (selling local building materials, direct participation in construction for
wage paid in cash), and to benefit when the works complete.

The Community Based Rural Infrastructure Project is a poverty reduction project in 13
Vietnam Central provinces (period of 2002-2009), funded by the International
Development Association (IDA). It takes new community driven approach for rural
development and poverty alleviation in some poor communes of Vietnam. The project was
designed and deployed for supporting Vietnam Government's efforts to reduce poverty in
mountainous, remote, especially difficult areas where the poorest communes of Vietnam
concentrate. It is intended to fulfill by providing basic infrastructures, building capacity for
communal and village staff as well as for inhabitants together with creating conditions for
raising income of project communities.

Its decentralizing and empowering approach by delegating funds and decision making
responsibilities to commune government and local communities during their project
implementation is the way towards providing communes with the capacities that facilitate
them to work as project owners and managers.


Disbursement

Total IDA disbursement by the whole project up to October 31, 2009 was SDR 77,690,060,
accounting for 94.86% of total credit of SDR 81,900,000 provided in accordance to the
Credit Agreement Cr. 3532-VN. Total IDA disbursement calculated in USD was USD
116.3 million, exceeding by 13.2% of IDA net commitment of USD 102.78 million thanks
to favorable exchange rate between SRD and USD.

Summary of Project Outputs

Component 1: Strengthening Decentralized Planning and Implementation Capacity
This component aimed at building capacity for implementing entities and communal
governments through training in participatory project planning, management and


                                              38
Monitoring and Evaluation. It also supported information campaigns to ensure widespread
public understanding, transparency and accountability.

Training

                                                            Number           Total      %               % ethnic
                    Training course                        of courses      trainees   women             minorities
  From IDA Source                                              2,500        76,528     29.6                 37.7
 Community Development and Planning Process                      714        23,379    31.54                40.51
 Subproject Management                                           303        10,126     28.9                 39.8
 Environmental Policy and Resettlement                           414        10,171     29.3                 35.7
 Subproject Construction Monitoring and
 Maintenance                                                       639      16,705      31.5                40.7
 Skills on Cooperation with Ethnic People and Policy
 on Compensation and Resettlement                                   44       5,891      37.8                36.4
 Financial and Accounting Management                               157       4,351      23.0                27.4
 Use of MIS and Related Software                                    10         369      29.0                 1.6
 Procurement                                                       153       3,930      14.5                35.2
 Training of CFs                                                    30         494      15.0                 8.9
 Project Management                                                 22         434      10.6                16.6


 Community Facilitators




                                                                                      Subprojects per
                                                                                      No of Commune
                 No of Project




                                                                      Disbursed
                  Communes




                                                        No of                                           Investment
                                           No of                    Investment to
                                 No of                Commune                                             per CF




                                                                                            CF
   Provinces                             Commun                       Commune
                                 CFs                 Subprojects                                           (VND
                                         e per CF                    Subprojects
                                                    Implemented                                           billion)
                                                                    (VND billion)

 Thanh Hoa        103             16       6.44        811               196.833       50.69               12.30
 Nghe An          113             17       6.65        1164              250.908       68.47               14.76
 Ha Tinh           88             11       8.00        484               189.664       44.00               17.24
 Thua Thien
 Hue               37             8        4.63        336                63.829       42.00               7.98
 Quang Nam        103            15        6.87        852               167.515      56.80                11.17
 Quang Ngai       103            16        6.44        983               221.480      61.44                13.84
 Binh Dinh         29             4        7.25        304                52.347       76.00               13.09
 Phu Yen           23             5        4.60        253                48.128       50.60               9.63
 Khanh Hoa         39             5        7.80        850                64.703      170.00               12.94
 Ninh Thuan        28             4        7.00        226                62.746       56.50               15.69
 Binh Thuan        23             4        5.75        429                44.587      107.25               11.15
 Lam Dong          28             4        7.00        302                46.510       75.50               11.63
 Binh Phuoc        43             7        6.14        998               132.973      142.57               19.00
    Total         760            116       6.55        7992              1542.22       68.90               13.30




                                                      39
People participation in Selection of Subprojects

         Participation in Selection of Subproject               1st Cycle        2nd Cycle        3rd Cycle

                            (2)                                      (3)            (4)                (5)

 Total Number of Households in Project Area                          797,135       758,379             668,780

 Total Number of Women in Project Area                           1,760,768        1,641,984           1,392,803

 Total Number of Ethnic Minority Households in Project
                                                                     287,048       274,221             239,843
 Area
 Total Number of Ethnic Minority People in Project Area          1,500,277        1,353,427           1,138,573

 Number of Households Participating in Communal
                                                                     747,136       693,858             607,850
 Subprojects Selection Meetings
 Number of Women Participating in Communal Subproject
                                                                     515,368       474,054             420,094
 Selection Meetings

 Number of Ethnic Minority People Participating in
                                                                     270,062       247,400             212,998
 Communal Subproject Selection Meetings
 Average Rate of Household Representatives Participating
                                                                      93.73%        91.49%              90.89%
 in Communal Subprojects Selection Meetings (%)
 Average Rate of Women Participating in Subproject
 Selection Meetings to Total Number of Participating                  64.65%        62.51%              62.81%
 Households (%)
 Average Rate of Ethnic Minority People Participating in
 Communal Subproject Selection Meetings to Total                      94.08%        90.22%              88.81%
 Number of Ethnic Minority Households (%)



Information Campaign

 No.                      Content                             Unit          CPMU          PPMUs          Total

  1    Standard Forms of Leaflets                            Sheets            62,100     270,285       332,385

  2    Standard Forms of Posters                             Sheets            10,500        16,740      27,240

  3    Standard Forms of Panels                              Sheets            15,000        18,111      33,111

  4    Films                                                  Film                  3           40            43
                                                           Number of
  5    Number of Film Telecasting                          Telecasting              7          136           143
       Other Information and Communication
       Activities (Loudspeakers, amplifiers,
  6    microphone, T-shirts with CBRIP logos, etc.)         Quantity            8,800        24,126      32,926

  7    Summary Records of Project                            Copies                 0          200           200


                                                      40
8    Blouse and Shirts with Project Logos           Quantity           0    20,500    20,500

9    Propaganda Document (Booklets) of Large Size   Copies         7,500        0      7,500

10   Propaganda Document (Booklets) of Small Size   Copies           300        0       300

11   Newsletters                                    Copies     1000/Issue
     Flysheets on "Community Based Rural
12   Infrastructure Project"                         Sheets      140,000             140,000

13   Flysheets on Project Results                   Sheets        70,000              70,000




                                              41
Establishment of Community Supervision and Operation and Maintenance Groups

                                         Total    Thanh    Nghe     Ha      TT.       Quang    Quang    Binh   Phu    Khanh    Ninh    Binh   Lam      Binh
     Participation           Unit
                                        Project    Hoa      An     Tinh     Hue        Nam      Ngai    Dinh   Yen     Hoa    Thuan   Thuan   Dong    Phuoc

Number of Community
                                         1,990      103     389     161         47      103      119     199    45       52     206      64    333      169
Supervision Groups
                            Group
Total Number of
Members in Community                     8,296      515    1,190    638         221     515     1,007    547    270     359     848     512   1,332     342
Supervision Groups         Individual
Total Number of Women
in Community                             2,028      206     243     199         46      103      341     149    119      91       4     128    333       66
Supervision Groups         Individual
Total Number of
Inhabitants in Community                 2,717      103     233     256         20       96      460     109    135      98       1     128    999       79
Supervision Groups         Individual
Number of Operation and
Maintenance (O&M)                        4,394      103    1,164    766         217     676      206     199    41       52     200      79    319      372
Groups                      Group
Total Number of
                                        17,713     1,442   3,608   2,398        665    2,028    2,163    748    288     335     816     474   1,595   1,153
Members in O&M Groups
                           Individual
Total Number of Women
                                         5,281      618     604     860         211     676      824     149    82      147       4     158    638      310
in O&M Groups
                           Individual
Total Number of
Inhabitants in O&M                       7,058      927     968    1,497        445     676     1,030    109    123     116       1     158    638      370
Groups                     Individual




                                                                           42
Component 2: Infrastructure Development (US$ 107.57 million). In this component,
grants were provided on a cost-sharing basis to finance small scale infrastructure
investments based on priorities of the target communities. There were two types of
schemes: commune works and inter-commune works.

Total subprojects

                            Number of Works                         Quantity (Total Designing Size)                  Total Signed Value ( VND Million)                 Actual Value
                                   Inter-                                              Inter-                                        Inter-                                  Inter-
    Subproject      Total                 Commune         Unit           Total                     Commune            Total                       Commune      Total                Commune
                                 commune                                             commune                                       commune                                 commune

Roads                  2932           396         2536    Km              3,801.01      1,148.55         2,652.46      1,034,083      387,845       646,238      845,864     294,279   551,585

Irrigation/storm
                        654            50          604                   17,857.91      3,038.40       14,819.51        213,659        39,342       174,317      187,276      28,143   159,133
and flood control                                         Ha
                                                       Benefited
Water supply            780            0           780   HH              65,975.00          0.00       65,975.00         99,244               0      99,244       82,447          0     82,447


Power                   304            15          289 Km (cable)           458.69         47.61          411.08         87,913        12,160        75,753       77,251      10,779    66,473


Community hall         2322            0          2322    m2            262,466.65          0.00      262,466.65        402,068                     402,068      363,463               363,463

School                  561            0           561    m2            120,052.66          0.00      120,052.66        179,689               0     179,689      161,503          0    161,503


Kindergarten            432            0           432    m2             53,871.60          0.00       53,871.60         91,582                      91,582       93,113                93,113
Health station
                            77         0            77    m2             12,199.30          0.00       12,199.30         24,762                      24,762       19,860                19,860
Market
                        101            7            94    m2             72,794.76      9,278.00       63,516.76         44,457         4,992        39,465       36,750       4,141    32,609
Other
                        299            2           297    m2             28,557.15          0.00       28,557.15         17,535           906        16,630       15,618        897     14,721


Total                 8,462          470         7,992                                                                2,194,992      445,245 1,749,747         1,883,146    338,239 1,544,907



Subprojects by Year

                             Inter-commune works                                        Commune works                                                          Total
        Year                               Value                                                  Value
                            Quantity                                                 Quantity                                             Quantity                     Value
                                           (VND                                                   (VND
                            (Works)                                                  (Works)                                              (Works)                   (VND million)
                                          million)                                               million)
 2002                                                                                        60      1643.5                                              60                        1643.5

 2003                                        3                   1339.5                            646                78248.1                            649                     79587.6

 2004                                       65              45259.2                             1470                 249980.4                        1535                      295239.5

 2005                                  139                  99456.1                             1934                 310261.8                        2073                      409717.9

 2006                                       68              44063.2                             1827                 381480.4                        1895                      425543.7

 2007                                  110                  87656.8                             1495                 355265.4                        1605                      442922.2

 2008                                       51            42195.18                                 446               123613.0                            497                 165808.19

 2009                                       34              18268.8                                114                44414.4                            148                     62683.2

 Total                                 470               338238.78                              7992                1544907.0                        8462                   1883145.78



                                                                                       43
  Household Contribution

    Household                     Total    Thanh    Nghe      Ha      TT.     Quang    Quang    Binh      Phu     Khanh     Ninh     Binh    Lam      Binh
                       Unit
   Contribution                  Project    Hoa      An      Tinh     Hue      Nam      Ngai    Dinh      Yen      Hoa     Thuan    Thuan    Dong     Phuoc
Number of
Households
                     Household   330,569   33,690   47,456   63,169    4977   43,068   48,811    2,520    4,391       0        0     8,726    1,456   72,305
Contributing their
5% in Cash
Rate of Households
Contributing their      %          41.43      37       42       59     17.9      47       41       12       20        0        0       38        5       86
5% in Cash
Number of
Households
Contributing their
                     Household   467,243   57,365   65,535   43,897   22830   48,566   70,144   18,985   17,563   36,345   32,622   13,968   27,654   11,770
5% in Working
Days or Materials
(Estimate)
Rate of Households
Contributing their
5% in Working           %          58.57      63       58       41     82.1      53       59       88       80      100      100       62       95       14
Days or Materials
(Estimate)




                                                                       44
Generation of Employment and Income for Local People
                                             Value of Earned by Local People (VND Million)
                  Number of Labor Days
  Subproject by
                      Generated
    province                             Total
                        (days)                          From Direct Participation    From Selling
                                                            in Project Work       Materials for Project
Thanh Hoa                     470,648       9,486                          6,435                3,051
 Inter-commune                       -             -                            -                    -

 Commune                       470,648       9,486                          6,435                3,051

 Nghe An                      272,618      18,349                          8,237               10,112
 Inter-commune
 Commune                       272,618      18,349                          8,237               10,112

 Ha Tinh                      174,203      11,356                          6,209                5,147
 Inter-commune                  36,094       2,871                          1,311                1,560

 Commune                       138,109       8,485                          4,898                3,587

 T.T Hue                       38,564       1,237                            833                  405
 Inter-commune
 Commune                        38,564       1,237                           833                   405

 Quang Nam                    399,693      20,086                         12,720                7,366
 Inter-commune                  59,840       2,985                          1,990                  995
 Commune                       339,853      17,101                         10,730                6,371

 Quang Ngai                   157,322       5,515                          3,812                1,703
 Inter-commune                       -             -                            -                    -

 Commune                       157,322       5,515                          3,812                1,703

 Binh Dinh                    125,500       2,546                          2,510                   36
 Inter-commune
 Commune                       125,500       2,546                          2,510                   36

 Phu Yen                        4,027            102                          54                   48
 Inter-commune
 Commune                         4,027           102                          54                    48

 Khanh Hoa                     82,873       6,633                          1,750                4,882
 Inter-commune

 Commune                        82,873       6,633                          1,750                4,882

 Ninh Thuan                     4,470            119                         119                     -
 Inter-commune
 Commune                         4,470           119                         119                     -

 Binh Thuan                    13,281            511                         446                   65
 Inter-commune

 Commune                        13,281           511                         446                    65

 Lam Dong                      36,013       2,161                          1,945                  216
 Inter-commune                   5,560           334                         300                    33

 Commune                        30,453       1,827                          1,644                  183

 Binh Phuoc                    19,662       1,006                          1,006                     -
 Inter-commune                   3,027           187                         187                     -
 Commune                        16,635           818                         818                     -

 Total Project              1,798,874      79,107                         46,076               33,031
 Inter-commune                 104,521       6,377                          3,788                2,588

 Commune                     1,694,353      72,730                         42,288               30,442



                                                       45
Component 3: Project Support Service. This component was to support the incremental
costs and operations of CPMU in Hanoi and 13 PPMUs as well as DTSGs.

                                           Actual Disbursement (VND million)
     No.            Category
                                            Total         IDA        Counterpart
             TOTAL                            280,131      128,257         151,874
        1    Equipment and Vehicles            66,274       43,829          22,445
      1.1    CPMU                              18,667        7,831          10,836
             Equipment                         10,883        1,941           8,942
             Cars                               7,784        5,890           1,894
             Motorcycles                          -
      1.2    13 PPMUs                          47,607       35,998          11,609
             Equipment                         13,341        9,995           3,346
             Cars                              31,761       23,821           7,940
             Motorcycles                        2,505        2,182             323
        2    Training                          55,911       50,380           5,531
      2.1    Domestic                          50,409       44,878           5,531
      2.2    International                      5,502        5,502
        3    Services                          25,829       23,183           2,646
      3.1    Local                             15,418       12,772           2,646
      3.2    Foreign                           10,411       10,411
        4    Operating Expenses               132,117       10,865         121,252
      4.1    CPMU                               5,544                        5,544
      4.2    13 PPMUs                         115,708                      115,708


Factor affecting implementation

      Long start up
      New community based approach
      Weak capacity at grassroots level
      Changes of project staff
      No technical assistance to assist implementation
      Unfamiliarity with procurement procedures


Project Impacts

1.          Introduction to Impact Analysis

The project is under the National Target Program for Poverty Reduction of Vietnam
Government's 10-Year Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy, 2001 -
2010. Therefore, its overall objective is to reduce poverty for 760 poorest communes in the
Vietnam's Central Region. Impact assessment of the project would be best measured by

                                               46
how it sustainable alleviated poverty in its project area. Yet this is difficult to precisely
measure for some reasons such as: the definition of `poor households' changed during
project implementation (in 2005) and comparisons of the old and new Poverty Lines are
problematic, and no impact evaluation was conducted during 8 years of project
implementation. As a result, it is impossible to measure the poverty reduction attributable
just to the CBRIP in its project area. Nevertheless, in qualitative aspect, it can be said that
CBRIP contributed to the success of the Government's efforts to reduce poverty in the
project area. Evidence for this is: (i) poverty rate in 760 project communes gradually
decreased, from 32.41% in 2001 to 24.51% in 2005, rated by old poverty line, and from
59.5% in 2006 to 35.1% in 2008, rated by the latest poverty line; and (ii) it is regulated that
communes under CBRIP project are those that are not currently covered by other ODA
projects or programs.

It is possible to measure by somewhat more quantitative and more detailed the impacts of
CBRIP project based on the followings: (i) Its appropriateness and its impacts on the
changes in institutions relating to grassroots democracy, decentralized planning and
investment; (ii) added value the project has brought to both physical works and capacity
strengthening; (iii) income of villagers increased after involving in the project; (iv)
objectives targeting the poor.

2.     Impacts of the Project on Vietnam Current Management Institutions

The greatest success and impact of the project on Vietnam institutions in 2009 is: "The
success in transfer of investment ownership to commune government", thereby it proved
with clear evidence that "the institution of decentralization and empowering" is
indispensable requirement of the sustainable development.

Experience gained by CBRIP contributed to the issuance of Decision No. 07/2006/TTg
dated January 10, 2006 by the Prime Minister on Approval of Socio-Economic
Development Program for Especially Difficult Communes in Ethnic Minority and
Mountainous Areas (known as Program 135), under which commune governments are
assigned to work as investment owners of 100% communal level works.

The community participatory approach, which was piloted and successfully implemented
under CBRIP, contributed to the renovation of socio-economic management methods
towards promoting decentralization, and to the shifting from top-down planning method to
the community-based approach that attaches with importance of all stakeholders to the
planning and management of development activities.

3.     Assessment of Appropriateness of Project Objectives, Design, and
       Implementation

Project Objectives. The appropriateness is reflected in its three main objectives, namely:
(1) Capacity building, (2) Providing small-scale infrastructure works, (3) Generating
employments to local people for poverty reduction.



                                              47
Three objectives of CBRIP well match with Vietnam Government's development
objectives as well as with commitment with international communities in 2000 Paris
Summit on Objectives of the Millennium for the period of 2001-2010. However, the
objectives of project have been limited just in small-scale infrastructure investment but not
yet diversified to other livelihoods activities for poverty reduction.

Design on Implementation Arrangements. Though some shortcomings, the design of
implementing small-scale infrastructure subprojects totally matches with managerial
capacity of communal government and communities; and the way to delegate them to make
decision, to organize and supervise the project implementation is both totally feasible and
matching with the desire of local people and commune government. For this, the following
indicators are evidential:

- The rate of households participating in subproject selection was above 90%, the
proportion of women participating in subproject selection to total number of households in
the project area was more than 62% and that rate of ethnic minorities people participating
in subproject selection to total number of ethnic minority households ranged from 88.8%
to 94.1%;

- The number of community supervision groups is 1,990 with total member of 8,296;

- The number of O&M groups is 4,394; with total member of 17,713.

4.     Project Implementation Process.

- Regarding community based participatory process, initial design involved 28 activities; it then
reduced to 14 activities in order to be able to apply the method of learning in doing, directly
working with learners to perform their real tasks, and conducting repeated trainings.

- Appropriateness of funding allocation criteria: with reasonabless, openess and
transparency, they are proved to be appropriate in term of remarkably eliminating
administrative intervention and significantly rejecting risks resulted from the low
educational level of CPCCs and people in communities.

- Appropriateness of procurement regulation: it is implied in strictly following the relevant
provisions of WB and Vietnam Government and in its conforming with educational level,
and thinking ability of commune and community cadres. Therefore, the project has
successfully implemented 4,556 procurement packages of infrastructure works, of which
only 19 post-review packages were revealed to misconduct procurement regulation.

- Appropriateness of project's supervision structure: With (1) community supervision, (2)
internal supervision, (3) independent supervision, (4) independent auditing, the supervision
structure conforms with Grassroots Democracy Regulation (Decree No. 79/2003/ND-CP
dated July 7, 2003 issuing the Regulation on Democracy at Communes).




                                               48
- Appropriateness of disbursement process: it is implied in the fund flow, which has gone
not only directly in the shortest way for timely disbursing funds to invesment owners but
also been under strict control by State Treasury. Therefore, the loss of investment funds has
been constrained.

- Appropriateness of training for capacity strengthening, especially for the capacity
building of commune and community cadres. This is reflected in: (i) Teaching materials
were not translated versions but were compiled to adapt and suit characteristics and
traditions of local people; (ii) Teaching methodologies were appropriate to individual
learner groups, especially for adult and low educational learners at commune and village
levels.

Value Added by CBRIP

 1.    Capacity Building

The first objective of the CBRIP is: Increasing the capacity of communes for decentralized
and participatory planning and management of development activities. The impact of this
activity has been seen in remarkably enhanced project management and implementation
capacity of all levels, of which clear evidences are: (i) duration needed for performing steps
of project implementation process gradually decreased across project cycles; (ii) the
managerial capacity to successfully implement complex procurement packages as national
competitive packages (with successful 216 NCB packages, including 44 NCB packages by
communal level); (iii) the capacity of financial management, financial report preparation,
payment and liquidation of complete works; (iv) the capacity of organizing and
implementing the construction supervision and O&M of 8,462 small-scale infrastructure
works; (v) the capacity for successfully liquidating 81.2% of total number of completed
construction contracts by one month before the credit closing date, etc. All the tasks have
ever done before by officials at commune and village levels. Furthermore, the knowledge
and capacity gained in the CBRIP has been used by communal cadres for managing the
construction works of other projects/programs such as Program 135 and for the formulation
of local socio-economic development plans. Through training courses, trainees became
aware of their role, position and brought into play their true individual rights regarding
democracy, etc. It is even more impressive given the fact that at the beginning, 50% of
cadres in mountainous, remote areas had not yet graduated lower secondary educational
level, just 30% of them graduated higher secondary educational level, 20% had primary
educational level, and even in some communes, some cadres were not fully conversant in
the national language.

2.     Small-scale Infrastructure

The added value brought about by implementing second project objective on small-scale
infrastructure construction to local people reflected not only in the 8,462 constructed works
but also in benefits such works brought about. Infrastructure works help local people to
save travel time, to better take care of their health, to increase time for production, thereby



                                              49
enhancing their income. It is evidential by survey data the CPMU collected during its field
trip over July 15-30, 2009, namely:

- Local people save travel time and better take care of their health: Travelling from houses
to commune centers took 3-5 hours in 2001 and a half of hour by motocycle now; Going to
school (by bycicle) took 2 ­ 3 hours in 2001 and below one hour now; + Taking water
home (one water load equivalent to 20 litres) consumed a half of an hour, even a half of a
day in some difficult area, in 2001, and now drinking water (from gravity-fed piped water
supply system) is available at nearby houses of 80% households in project area.

- Increasing time for production: Data in Social Assessement of the CBRIP, prepared by
Oxfam Hong Kong Consultants in 2000 show that time for production per labourer in
project area per year was 150 days (accounted for 41% of total one-year time). Survey data
(conducted during July 2009 by the CPMU) show better infrastructure conditions brought
about by completed construction works (including those in and outside CBRIP project on
local territory) helped to increase the amount of time for production to 186 days or up by
24%.

3.     Income and Employment Generation

CBRIP has impacted directly and indirectly on improving the living conditions and reducing
poverty in the project area. Local people participated in the project in the form of labor days
(which was totally 1,798,874 days) and in the form of providing local building materials,
from which the total income gained was VND 79,107 million, including VND 46,076
million from waged labor and VND 33,031 million from local material providing.

In addition to direct income, local people still gain indirect income brought about by project
infrastructure works, such as better prices of commodities due to better circulation (thanks
constructed roads), higher prices of land after completing a bridge or a road, higher crop
productivity owing to better irrigation system, etc. These indirect impacts cannot be
measured because necessary surveys, such as baseline survey, final surveys at the end, for
impact evaluation have not been conducted.

Lessons Learned from CBRIP

1. A clear roadmap for decentralization, management, monitoring and evaluation
accompanied with sufficient (financial, technical, consultancy and so on) support at the
begining and during the implementation of the project is required to ensure proper project
implementation progress and to form strong basis for timely assessing impacts and results
of the project as well as for preparing reports.

2. Sufficient attention should be given at the outset design of the Management Information
System (MIS) and the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) System to an integrated system
of appropriate standard tables and forms (just adequate to guide implementation, not too
ambitous to meet requirements posed by the project), and to the preparation of necessary



                                              50
baseline surveys and assessments as well as the compiling of impact evaluation reports
over the project life, etc.

3. Better information and communication strategy should be formed to institutionalize
learning lessons from the CBRIP in community participatory planning, subproject
construction and supervision in order to apply them to Program 135 and to socio-economic
development at both national, provincial and locals levels.

4. At the outset of technical design preparation, discussion with WB should be made to
harmonize procedures so as unecessary procedures on funds management and financial
management can be eliminated to provide better conditions for CPMU, PPMUs, DPMUs and
CPCCs during their project implementation.

5. Project management apparatus should be organized in such a way that facilitates
delegation to local governements in order to improve both their consensus on action plan
and their accountability for project management, hence to further increase their
responsibility as well as project effectiveness.

6. Norms of operational expenses (wage, field and travel allowances, and so on) for all
project staff (both project managers and other officials participating in holding project
implementation) should be adequately considered on the basis of reasonable criteria so that
the project can maintain its stable project apparatus with experienced officers, thereby
reducing costs for repeating training and enhancing project effectiveness.

7. For successful implementation of a newly piloting approach as community participatory
one, indispensable elements are: (i) training in advance and strictly adherence of designed
process; (ii) strengthening of necessary capacities to cadres at various levels, especially at
grassroots one, should not be bypassed just because of other pressures as those under
disburesement progress.

8. Technical specifications should be reasonably calculated to increase the life of project
infrastructure works; they should not be lowered just because of insufficient funds.
Specifically, with the project's technical specifications that specify that rural roads are
gravel (but not asphalt nor concrete) topping, some project's complete roads were
degradated heavily after only one to two raining seasons, making funds and labour of the
society wasted.




                                             51
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders (N/A)




                                       52
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   1. Central Project Management Unit (2007) Province Progress Report Guidelines
   2. Central Project Management Unit (2009) Report on Implementation Progress until
      June 30, 2009
   3. Central Project Management Unit (2009) Report on Implementation Progress in
      2008
   4. Louis Berger Group, Inc (2004) Process Monitoring Consulting Service Interim
      Report.
   5. Louis Berger Group, Inc (2004) Project Process Monitoring, First Annual Report
   6. Mekong Economics Ltd. (2007) Advisory and Implementation Support Services for
      the
   7. Strengthening of the Project Management Information and Reporting System, Final
      Report
   8. Socialist Republic of Vietnam and International Development Association (2001)
      Development Credit Agreement
   9. Provincial Project Management Units (2009), Project Completion Reports from 13
      Provinces.
   10. The Government of Vietnam (2000) Project Implementation Plan for the
       Community Based Rural Infrastructure Project
   11. The World Bank (2001) Project Appraisal Document (PAD) on a Proposed Credit
       in the Amount of SDR 81.9 Million equivalent to (US$ 102 Million Equivalent) to
       the Socialist Republic of Vietnam for a Community Based Rural Infrastructure
       Project
   12. The World Bank (2002) Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report.
   13. The World Bank (2004) Mid-term Review Mission Aide Memoire
   14. The World Bank (2007) Extension of Closing Date, Vietnam ­ Credit 3532-VN:
       Community Based Rural Infrastructure Project
   15. The World Bank (2007) Program Document for A Proposed First Program 135
       Phase 2 Support Operation for Communes Facing Extreme Hardship in Ethnic
       Minority and Mountainous Areas
   16. The World Bank (2007) Implementation Completion and Results Report for the
       Second Rural Transportation Project.
   17. The World Bank (2008) Implementation Completion and Results Report for the
       Northern Mountain Poverty Reduction Project.
   18. The World Bank, Supervision mission Aide Memoires # 1- 14 Archived
   19. The World Bank, Implementation Status and Result Reports (ISRs) # 1-14
       Archived

                                          53
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 37501
                                                     102°E                                      104°E                                     To 106°E                                              108°E                                     110°E
             VIETNAM                                                        To
                                                                          Kunming                              To
                                                                                                               Kaiyuan
                                                                                                                                         Babao

                                                                                                                                                                              To
  COMMUNITY BASED                                                                                                                                                             Tiandong               CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                     CHIN A
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE                                                                                                          Ha
                                                                                                                              Giang                   Cao Bang
       PROJECT                                                                           Lao Cai
                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                                                        5                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                          Nanning
                                                                       Lai Chau Town                  Re
                                                                                     1                  d                                       9
                                                                                                      3                                              Bac Can
                                                                                                                                  8                                                                                                        22°N
             PROJECT PROVINCES                  22°N                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                       Tuyen                 10 Lang                                     Hepu
                                                                                           Bla                      7                  Quang        Thai         Son
                                                                                 2            c   k              Yen Bai                            Nguyen
                                                                                                                                          13
             PROVINCE CAPITALS                                               Dien                     Son La               Viet Tri     12 Vinh Yen                  14
                                                                                                                                                          Bac Giang
                                                                             Bien Phu                                         11                                                15
                                                                                                      6                                                 Bac Ninh
             NATIONAL CAPITAL                               To                                                                        HANOI            17 Hai Duong             Ha Long
                                                         Muang Xai
                                                                                                                         Hoa Binh              16 18 19         Hai Phong
             RIVERS                                                                                                                               Hung Yen 20
                                                                                                                                        21
                                                                                                                                        Ha Nam 22 23
             MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                  Thai Binh
                                                                                                                                                     Nam Dinh
                                                                                                                                        Ninh Binh    25
             RAILROADS                                                                                                                         Ma    24                                                                                    20°N
                                                20°N                                                                            26
                                                                                        To
             PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                      Luang
                                                           LA
                                                            AO
                                                           LA O                      Prabang
                                                                                                                                                    Thanh Hoa

             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                        PE OPLE'S
                                                        PEO PLE'S                                                            27
                                                                                                                                                                                Gulf
                                                        DEM.
                                                        D EM. REP.                                                                                                               of                                             Hainan I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (China)
  PROVINCES:                                                                                                    A                       Vinh
                                                                                                                                                                               Tonk in
   1   Lai Chau         32   Da Nang




                                                                                                                    n
                                                                                                                                                      Ha Tinh
   2   Dien Bien        33   Quang Nam




                                                                                                                        n
                                                                                                                        n
                                                                                                                        n
                                                                                                                                         28
       Lao Cai




                                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                            a
   3                    34   Quang Ngai                                                                          To
                                                18
                                                18°N                                                                                                                                                                                       18°N
                                                                                                             Khammouan




                                                                                                                                m
                                                                                                                                m
                                                                                                                                m
   4   Ha Giang         35   Kon Tum
   5   Cao Bang         36   Gia Lai
   6   Son La           37   Binh Dinh                                                                                                                                   Dong Hoi




                                                                                                                                             C
                                                                                                                                                               29
   7   Yen Bai          38   Phu Yen




                                                                                                                                                o
   8   Tu Yen Quang     39   Dac Lac




                                                                                                                                                     r
   9   Bac Can          40   Dac Nong




                                                                                                                                                        d
                                                                                                                                                                                    Dong Ha
  10   Lang Son         41   Khanh Hoa                                                                                                     To




                                                                                                                                                             il
                                                                                                                                       Savannakhet                             30
  11   Phu Tho          42   Binh Phuoc
                                                               THAI
                                                               THA LAND
                                                               T HA ILA ND                                                                                                                    Hue




                                                                                                                                                                le
  12   Vinh Phuc        43   Lam Dong




                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                                                                                                                                                 e
       Thai Nguyen




                                                                                                                                                                         r
  13                    44   Ninh Thuan                                                                                                                                                   31
                                                                                                                                                                                                     32         Da Nang




                                                                                                                                                                             a
  14   Bac Giang        45   Tay Ninh           16°N                                                                                                                                                                                       16°N
  15   Quang Ninh       46   Binh Duong
  16   Ha Noi           47   Dong Nai                                                                                                                                                                               Tam Ky
                                                                                                                                                                                                     33
  17   Bac Ninh         48   Binh Thuan
  18   Hung Yen         49   T.P. Ho Chi Minh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Quang Ngai
  19   Hai Duong        50   Ba Ria-Vung Tau                                                                                                                                                                         34
  20   Hai Phong        51   Long An                                                                                                                                                              Ngoc Linh
                                                                                                                                                                                                  (3143 m)
  21   Hoa Binh         52   Tien Giang
  22   Ha Nam           53   Dong Thap                                                                                                                                                          35 Kon Tum
  23   Thai Binh        54   Ben Tre                                                                                                                                                                                       37
  24   Ninh Binh        55   An Giang
                                                14°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Central
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Centra l                          14°N
  25   Nam Dinh         56   Vinh Long                                                                                                                                                          Pleiku
                                                                                                                                                                                                              36                      Quy Nhon
  26   Thanh Hoa        57   Tra Vinh
  27   Nghe An          58   Kien Giang
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Highlands
  28   Ha Tinh          59   Can Tho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             38
  29   Quang Binh       60   Hau Giang                                                                                                                                                                                                 Tuy Hoa
  30   Quang Tri        61   Soc Trang                                                                         CAMBODIA                                                                                  39
  31   Thua Thien Hue   62   Bac Lieu
                        63   Ca Mau                                                                                                                                                                        Buon Ma
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Thuot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             41
                                                                                                                                                                                                40                                   Nha Trang
                                                                                                                                                                                          Gia Nghia
                                                12°N                                                                                           To                                                          Da Lat                          12°N
                                                                                                                                          Kampong Cham                         42
                                                                                                                 To                                                          Dong
                                                                                                                                                                             Xoai                             43             44
                                                                                                            Kampong
                                                                                                            Chhnang                                                                                                               Phan Rang-
                                                                                                                                                        45                                                                        Thap Cham
                                                                                                                              Mekong




                                                                                                                                                            Tay Ninh
                                                                                                                                                                                    47
                                                                                                                                                               Thu Dau46
                                                                                                                                                                  Mot                                48
                                                                                                                                                                               Bien Hoa
                                                          Gul f                                                                                              51
                                                                                                                                                                     49
                                                                                                                                                                          Ho Chi Minh City
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Phan Thiet
                                                                                                                                         53
                                                            of                                                                  55           Cao Lanh               Tan An           50
                                                        Th a i l an d                                                   Long Xuyen                      52          My Tho
                                                                                                                                                                                     Vung Tau
                                                                                          Phu                                            Vinh Long                  Ben Tre
                        VIETNAM                                                          Quoc                                           59            56
                                                10°N                                                              Rach Gia             Can Tho                      54                                                                     10°N
                                                                                                                                                                               lta




                                                                                                                                  58         60                     Tra Vinh
                                                                                                                                             Vi Thanh        57
                                                                                                                                                                             De




                                                This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                               61       Soc Trang
                                                the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                        g




                                                World Bank. The boundaries,                                                             62                               n
                                                                                                                                                                    ko
                                                                                                                                                    Bac Lieu
                                                colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                             Me
                                                                                                                    Ca Mau
                                                any other information shown                                                                                                           0         50         100       150        200 Kilometers
                                                on this map do not imply, on                                                 63
                                                the part of The World Bank
                                                Group, any judgment on the
                                                legal status of any territory,                                                                                                        0                  50           100             150 Miles
                                                or any endorsement or
                                                acceptance of such
                                                boundaries.
                                                                                            104°E                                                   106°E                                            108°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JANUARY 2010
