                                                                                                                97752
Vietnam: Community Based Rural Infrastructure Project                                                    April 8, 2011




 Vietnamese communities learn to own their development path:
 over two million people escaped poverty


Overview
In Vietnam, over two million people have escaped poverty thanks to a bottom-up, participatory
planning approach that provided small-scale infrastructure for poor, vulnerable communes and
income for local people through employment in its construction. The decentralized and
participatory planning and management approach for development activities by communities
introduced under this World Bank project was subsequently expanded into a Government-
funded national program.



Challenge
For a long time, top-down planning was seen as the way to
                                                                   More Results
implement political choices in efforts to improve living
standards in Vietnam. However, this led to the development

                                                                   8,462
of infrastructure that failed to match community needs,
largely as a result of weak administrative capacity, a lack of
transparency and accountability in the use of public funds,
the disconnect between the decision-makers and                     infrastructure facilities provided,
                                                                   generating 1.8 million days of
beneficiaries, and the lack of project-based planning and.         labor and income of about
                                                                   US$4.5 million

The new approach, which invited local beneficiaries to
participate in the decision-making process and the
implementation of local development projects, had not been        MORE INFORMATION
popular in Vietnam before. They neither knew how to                 Community Based Rural
participate in local decision-making processes nor had              Infrastructure Project
adequate capacity and experience in participating in
                                                                    Country Website
development activities. At the same time, the mechanism for
people’s participation was weak and guidance and                    Country Brief
information to help them take part in the decision-making           Country Partnership Strategy
process were not available.
                                                                    Data and Statistics

                                                                    Best Practice Note
In the early 2000s, the Government started its new policy to
pilot the decentralization of decision-making from the central
to the provincial level. There was skepticism over
management capacity at the lower levels in the government
administrative system. Development programs and activities
were often top-down with no participation from the grass-roots level, and the introduction of
new instruments with a bottom-up approach was only accepted with hesitation.

Approach
Recognizing these development challenges, the project established standardized procedures
and steps to guide the local people on how to take part in the decision-making process. It
established platforms for participation, such as local consultation meetings to identify and select
the needed infrastructure to be funded by the Project. Community facilitators were recruited to
help local people own their development decisions with budget allocated and publicly
announced.


Beneficiaries were trained to identify the necessary infrastructure, and monitor the quality of
local, small-scale development projects. For the first time, communal authorities were
designated to be the executing agencies of local development projects. Capacity-building
activities were conducted to ensure that they have the ability to manage the different aspect of
project implementation, including financial management, procurement management and quality
control at a level acceptable to the Bank.

Results
Between 2002 and 2009, the project increased the capacity for decentralized and participatory
planning and management of development activities in 760 communes across 115 districts in
13 central provinces. The project provided training and technical assistance to all levels of
government staff involved in the project. A total of 76,528 people received training provided by
the project, of which 2,500 were project staff at all levels and the remaining are people from 12
communes.


It has provided nearly 8,500 essential community-based infrastructure facilities for social and
economic benefits, of which 95% were constructed following communities’ decisions.
Employment in construction of infrastructure generated 1.8 million days of labor and income of
about US$4.5 million. Altogether, a total of 8,462 infrastructure schemes were completed. A
case study showed that this infrastructure improved rural basic services, including water
supply, schools, health stations, and roads, and also infrastructure that supported production
activities including irrigation and markets.


Because local residents, women included, had a say in deciding the community facilities
financed under this project, their sense of ownership was significantly increased, and thus, the
sustainability of the construction.

Voices


      Since the time of the late President Ho Chi Minh, I haven’t
   seen anything done the way he did, until this time. If everything
   is good like this, we don’t have to move around anymore.
               — Lau Dinh Chu, village chief from the H’Mong ethnic
                minority, Tham Luc hamlet, Muong Long Commune,
                    Ky Son District of the central Nghe An province


Bank Contribution
The Bank financed US$9 million to build capacity for local authorities in 760 communes (which
was up from 540 at the project design stage) in participatory planning processes and
implementation procedures. Within this package, training was provided to communities on
participatory investment planning. On small-scale infrastructure investments, the project used
US$108 million to fund over 8,460 works at village, commune, and inter-commune levels,
including irrigation systems, transport networks, sub-district markets and other necessary public
facilities.
Partners
The Vietnamese Government, acting through its Ministry of Planning and Investment as the
project partner, has made a strong commitment to the project’s participatory approach and
provided support and guidance to enable project implementation.

Toward the Future
Central government ministries and local authorities appreciated the project for its innovative and
effective approach, as decentralization to the grass-roots level had not been a common
practice. After project implementation was completed, the Government carried out a thorough
review and concluded that the participatory planning and management approach was the right
direction for a future program of the same type. Consequently, the Government asked the
Bank to fund a second phase of the project, aiming to mainstream the decentralization
arrangement into the government-funded program of activities towards poverty reduction and
rural development.
