Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7 153-AZ
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
FOR
THE AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
June25, 1997
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - manat
EXCHANGE RATES
Manats per US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AIOC      -  Azerbaijan International Operating Company
CAS       -  Country Assistance Strategy
DOD       -  Disbursed and Outstanding Debt
EBPRD     -  European Bank of Reconstruction and Development
EFF       -  Extended Funid Facility
ESAF      -  Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FBS       -  Family Budget Survey
FSU       -  Former Soviet tUnion
GDP       -  Gross Domestic Product
GRIF      -  Closed Investment Fund
IAS       -  International Accounting Standards
IB        -  International Bank
IBTA      -  Institution Building/Technical Assistance
IDA       -  International Development Agency
IDF       -  Institutional Development Fund
IDP       -  Internally Displaced People
IMF       -  International Monetary Fund
NBA       -  National Bank of Azerbaijan
PSA       -  Production Sharing Agreement
SAC       -  Structural Adjustment Credit
SDR       -  Special Drawing Right
SOCAR   -  State Oil Company of Azerbaijan
SPC       -  State Property Committee
STF       -  Structural Transformation Facility
TA        -  Technical Assistance
VAT       -  Value Added Tax
WTO       -  World Trade Organization
ZIF       -  Closed Investment Funds
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Director:      Yukon Huang, EC3
Division Chief:      Kadir Tanju Yurukoglu, EC3CI
Responsible:       Zeynep Taymas, Senior Economist, EC3CI



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC)
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:                The Republic of Azerbaijan
Amount:                  SDR 52 million
Terms:                   IDA terms, with 3 5 years maturity, including 10 years of grace
Implementing Agency:     National Bank of Azerbaijan
Objective:               The principal objectives of the SAC are: (i) to open domestic
markets to competition through trade liberalization; (ii) to further
reduce the role of state in economic and commercial activities;
(iii) to promote the development of a sound banking system; and
(iv) to protect the vulnerable groups from utility price increases.
Description:             The proposed Credit is to be disbursed in two equal tranches, over
a period of 9 to 10 months, upon satisfactory completion of Board
and second tranrhe conditions. The foreign exchange will be sold
in the auction market, generating local currency funds, which will
provide non-inflationary financing for the budget, as well as
helping to finance additional imports needed by the country.
Benefits:                The proposed Credit will support the Government's efforts to
accelerate structural reform mainly in the areas of trade
liberalization, demonopolization and privatization, and banking
sector reform, with a view to compensating for the time Azerbaijan
lost during the last couple of years, while making the transition to a
market economy.
Risks:                   Main risks are: (i) possible actions by the vested interest groups,
with a view to slowing/stopping reform measures that are likely to
reduce the scope for rent-seeking activities, and (ii) the very
limited availability of technical assistance, particularly in grant
terns.
Poverty Category:        The proposed Credit supports Government's efforts to mitigate the
negative impact of utility price increases on the poor households.
Map:                     IBRD 27426
Project ID Nurnber:      P-7153 AZ
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Contents
Part I. Recent Economic Developments and Prospects .............................................................1
A. Recent Economic Developments .............................................................2
B. Medium-Term  Economic Prospects .............................................................3
Part II. The Government's Economic Reform  Program  .............................................................5
A. Stabilization .............................................................6
B. Structural Reform  .............................................................6
-  Liberalization of Foreign Trade and Foreign Exchange Regimes                                             .6
- Demonopolization and Privatization                                                     .8
- Financial Sector Development .11
- Fiscal Management .14
- Poverty Monitoring and Social Safety Net .15
Part III. Bank Assistance Strategy and the Proposed Structural Adjustment Credit ................................. 17
A. Features of the Proposed Credit ............................................................                                     17
B. Benefits and Risks ............................................................                                                  23
Part IV. Recommendation ............................................................                                                           24
Attachment I  -  Letter of Development Policy
Attachment II  -  Policy Matrix
Attachment III -  Letter of Agreements of State-Owned Banks
Attachment IV -  External Financing Requirements and Sources, 1996-1999
Attachment V  -  Selected Economic Indicators
Attachment VI -  Key Processing Events
Attachment VII -  Status of Bank Operations






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC)
FOR THE AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
1.    I submit for your approval the following Memorandum and Recommendation on a
proposed Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) to Azerbaijan for the equivalent of
SDR 52 million, to continue the support begun by IDA under the Rehabilitation Credit
(FY95) for the Government's overall stabilization and reform program. The SAC has been
prepared within the context of a three-year Policy Framework Paper 1997-99, in parallel with
an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) and Extended Fund Facility (EFF) from
the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The proposed SAC is consistent with the "Base
Case Plus Two" scenario (strong performance) of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS-
IDA/R96-152/1) discussed by the Board of Directors on September 19, 1996. The proposed
Credit will be quick-disbursing, linked to policy conditionality specified for first and second
tranche releases.
2.    The principal objectives of the reform program to be supported by the proposed SAC
are: (i) to open domestic markets to competition through establishing non-discriminatory
trade and investment regimes; (ii) to further reduce the role of the state in economic and
commercial activities through dismantling of major ministries and concerns, and
privatization; (iii) to promote the development of a sound private banking system, a
prerequisite of which is the restructuring and privatization of the four large state-owned
banks; and (iv) to establish a compensation scheme in order to mitigate the unfavorable
impact of residential gas and electricity price increases. The first three objectives of the
Program will also contribute to improving overall governance in the economy.
Part I. Recent Economic Developments and Prospects
3.    Since its independence, Azerbaijan has been going through a very difficult period. In
addition to the usual transitional problems, the country had to deal with an undeclared, but
costly, war. As a result, nearly 20 percent of Azerbaijan's national territory remains under
occupation, and about 900,000 people (out of a population of 7.5 million) are refugees or
internally displaced persons. In the early years of independence, the country was also beset
by political instability. In the span of two years, there were four changes of government.
The political instability and fragile external security condition have not provided an
environment conducive to focusing on the serious economic challenges facing the country.
The current President H. Aliev, who was confirmed in his position by an election held in
October 1993, now has firm control of the government apparatus, despite past coup attempts.
Moreover, in light of recently improved prospects for a peaceful settlement of the Armenian
conflict, the Government is better placed to focus on the implementation of a strong
economic reform program.



- 2 -
A. Recent Economic Developments
4.    Trends in Output. Azerbaijan's GDP declined in every year since 1988 until 1996.
By the end of 1995, measured GDP was only a third of its 1988 value. Although official
statistics fail to include most informal sector activities -- which in the case of Azerbaijan may
be quite large -- there is no doubt that the declines in output and incomes have been rather
severe, as compared to the other republics of the Former Soviet Union (FSU). This is mainly
because, in addition to the usual decline in interrepublican trade after the breakup of the
Soviet Union, Azerbaijan faced the depletion of old oil fields, the negative impact of the
conflict on Nagorno-Karabagh, and the cut-off of transport links due to fighting in
Chechnya. Output may have bottomed out, however, as preliminary official estimates for
1996 indicate a GDP growth of 1.3 percent.
5.    The most distressing developments were in the oil and gas sectors whose output
continued to decline, owing to growing problems with infrastructure and poor production
practices. To reverse the decline, SOCAR (Azerbaijan's state oil company) signed a
thirty-year production sharing agreement (PSA) with a consortium of international oil
companies to develop the oil fields of Chirag, Azeri, and Guneshli, which are all located
offshore in the Caspian Sea. Two additional agreements (for the large Shakh Deniz and
Karabagh structures) have also been concluded with other international oil consortia.
6.    Fiscal and Monetary Developments. The fiscal situation deteriorated rapidly after
independence. The consolidated budget, which ran a small surplus in 1991, registered
deficits in excess of 10 percent of GDP in 1993-94, mainly on account of military
expenditures, the burden of refugees, and the drastic contraction in tax revenues. During the
same period, inflation was very high (about 1600 percent in 1994), driven by excessive
monetary expansion and lack of confidence in the new currency. Starting January 1995, the
Government embarked on a strong macroeconomic stabilization program supported by the
IMF's Structural Transformation Facility (STF), a Rehabilitation Credit by IDA (August
1995), and a stand-by arrangement (October 1995). Since then, substantial progress has been
made in restoring financial stability. In 1995, budgetary deficit was held to 4.3 percent of
GDP, and inflation fell to 85 percent during the last quarter. The situation further improved
in 1996, as budget deficit is estimated at 2.7 percent of GDP, and annual inflation at 19
percent. The exchange rate, determined by the auction market stabilized in 1995, and the
manat appreciated vis-a-vis the US dollar by about 8 percent in the course of 1996.
7.    Balance of Payments Situation. In 1995, both imports and exports fell below the
levels of the previous year, reflecting the continuing decline in output and the tight credit
policy. However, imports from the AIOC petroleum expansion program offset some of the
decline in import demand from other sources. Consequently, the current account deficit
increased from US$121 million in 1994 to US$311 million in 1995 (11 percent of GDP).
The current account deficit continued to widen in 1996, reaching over 20 percent of GDP,
mainly as a result of large oil investments. Rapidly rising imports were largely financed by
the international oil consortium, including an oil bonus of US$122 million (an up-front
payment by the oil consortia at the time of contract signing). As a result, Azerbaijan's gross



- 3 -
foreign exchange reserves have increased from virtually zero at the end of 1994, to reach
US$275 million by end-September 1996, or about 2.5 months of imports, excluding the
operations of the oil consortium.
8.    Progress on Structural Reform. Performance on structural reform has not been as
satisfactory as progress on stabilization. Nevertheless, important steps were taken in 1995
and 1996. The Government liberalized most prices; domestic producer prices of cotton and
oil were raised to world market levels. The exchange rate was unified with the
discontinuation of the system of differentiated surrender requirements at below market rates.
Both domestic and foreign trade regimes were substantially liberalized with the abolition of
the state order system, export and import quotas, licensing requirements, as well as the
removal of direct government control of oil product trade. A foreign exchange auction
market was established, and the scope of the export contract registration scheme was
substantially reduced.
9.    The implementation of the privatization program, however, prepared in close
cooperation with IDA (within the context of the Rehabilitation Credit), did not start until
mid-1996. In July 1996 the President dissatisfied with the slow pace of reforms, dismissed
some top level government officials. Since then over 10,000 small-scale enterprises have
been privatized, and the pace of small-scale privatization continues unabated. Also,
preparation for mass privatization has been completed. Regarding the framework for private
business activity, however, legislation critical to a successful transition to a market economy
needs either to be enacted (Civil Code), or modified (Secured Transactions Law) in order to
foster an environment conducive to sustained private sector development. Despite all these
shortcomings, a vibrant private sector has emerged in almost all sectors of the economy.
10.   In the agricultural sector, notwithstanding the absence of an adequate legal framework
until recently, agricultural lands in most regions were being worked by former state and
collective farm workers as though they had been privatized with clear physical demarcation.
In this process, over 2,500 private family farms have been established. A Land Reform Law,
passed in July 1996, has provided further momentum and clarity to privatization of
agricultural land. This law establishes the rights to sell (with no initial moratorium on land
sale), lease, inherit, and mortgage the land. Significant portions of the production of fruit,
vegetables, meat and milk are now being undertaken by the private sector. Also, increases in
the domestic procurement prices for wheat and cotton have resulted in improved supply
response for these commodities.
B. Medium-Term Economic Prospects
11.   Azerbaijan's medium-term prospects are promising, thanks to the country's rich
petroleum resources and its potentially strong private sector. Currently, however, the country
faces very serious constraints, and it is unlikely to regain the per capita consumption levels of
1993 before early next decade. The pace of development of Azerbaijan's petroleum
resources is the major variable in the country's medium-term economic outlook. The three
PSA contracts signed with foreign oil companies specify about US$15 billion in total



- 4 -
investments over the next twenty years. The country's prospects for economic development
depend heavily on the successful realization of these contracts1, and the implementation of
appropriate policies to manage a potential Dutch disease syndrome.
12.   From the standpoint of its impact on the economy, one can divide Azerbaijan's oil
expansion program into three stages.
Stage I: The current stage, in which the economy benefits from oil-related
investments, but no major favorable impact is foreseen on the balance of payments
situation.
Stage II: Starting around the year 2000, oil exports will be at very high levels, but
Azerbaijan will keep only about one-third of the profits. This is because half of the
total profits will be used for capital recovery by foreign investors.
Stage III: After the year 2005, by which time the foreign investors would have
completed the recovery of their invested capital, Azerbaijan's share of profits will rise
to about five-sixths, providing comfortable balance of payments and fiscal positions.
13.   The country will have to continue to go through a rapidfiscal adjustment, until
Stage II, when oil exports provide adequate revenue to the budget (in the form of royalties
and profit taxes). The Government's fiscal goals aim at increasing budgetary revenues to a
level sufficient to finance most current expenditures, which will be restructured through
downsizing of budgetary organizations and employment reduction. Budgetary savings
achieved in this process will be used to narrow the gap between government and economy-
wide wages, with a view to paying competitive salaries to qualified civil servants. At the
same time, a major tax reform, and strengthening of tax administration are being undertaken
with assistance from the IMF. The budget deficit, which is expected to decline consistent
with the IMF-supported stabilization program (see Attachment IV), will be financed mainly
by external resources.
14.   The development of Azerbaijan's vast oil fields will require significant imports,
causing the current account deficit to be in the order of 20 percent during 1996-1999.
Although oil exports are projected to triple during the same period, this increase will not be
sufficient to fully compensate for the imports related to oil field investments, and the oil
consortium's front-loaded recovery of expenses incurred during the exploration and
development phases. Excluding oil-related operations, Azerbaijan's current account deficit is
expected to be between 6 and 9 percent of GDP in 1996-97. The increase in exports (cotton,
nonferrous metals, and light industries) will be more than offset by the surge in imports
owing to overall economic recovery, increase in public investment expenditures, and the
elimination of the exchange rate undervaluation.
The pipeline route through which to export the early oil is still subject to uncertainties, and political manipulation by
Azerbaijan's powerful neighbors.



- 5 -
15.   Azerbaijan is, therefore, likely to face large financing needs in the period ahead, close
to US$4 billion over 1997-99 (see Attachment IV). These financing needs will be met
mainly by inflows of direct private investment of about US$3 billion, and by about
US$500 million of official project loans and grants. In addition, Azerbaijan will need
exceptional finances for an estimated US$3 16 million during the Stage I of the oil
development period. These financing requirements are expected to be mostly covered by
disbursements from the Fund under the EFF and ESAF, amounting to US$185 million, the
proposed SAC of US$70 million, and non-project grants of about US$20 million from the
European Union.
16.   Azerbaijan is classified as a low-indebted country; its total and publicly guaranteed
external debt ("DOD" disbursed and outstanding, including short-term borrowing and IMF
drawings) is about US$560 million end-1996, about 16 percent of GDP. Moreover, gross
official foreign exchange reserves were equivalent to about half of DOD. Total debt service
in 1996 is estimated to be about 10 percent of exports of goods and services. Although,
Azerbaijan is expected to run large current account deficits in the years to come, these will be
financed mainly by direct foreign investment related to oil development, rather than external
borrowing. Except in 1997, when a bunching of loan repayments is projected to increase
debt service payments to about 23 percent of export earnings, debt service ratio is projected
to be less than I 1 percent during 1998 to early 2000s.
Part II. The Government's Economic Reform Program
17.   The Government's economic reform program got off to a slow start as compared to
many countries of the FSU, because of reasons briefly explained above. There is, now, a
renewed strong commitment to implementation of economic reforms. This was confirmed,
on several occasions, by the President of the country. The Government drafted together with
the IMF and the World Bank, the three-year Policy Framework Paper (1997-99), distributed
to the Board on January 17, 1997, which foresees the continuation of the country's
remarkable achievements on stabilization and acceleration of structural reforms.
18.   The inflow of foreign exchange from expanding oil exports is expected to offer new
opportunities for Azerbaijan. But it can also create potentially serious problems, in the form
of loss of competitiveness, and crowding out of the non-oil sectors of the economy. The
Government will have to pursue a strategy leaning toward saving (particularly saving abroad)
rather than spending, complemented by a liberal, open trade regime, and policies that
encourage competition and efficiency in non-tradable sectors. These would tend to attenuate
the real appreciation of the manat, and facilitate a sustainable adjustment to the appreciated
rate. At the other end, policies that result in increased public expenditures and/or shelter non-
viable domestic enterprises from competition, would intensify real exchange appreciation,
and increase the risk that the economy would develop along dual lines. That is precisely why
the cornerstone of the three-year PFP's strategy is the maintenance of a liberal trade regime,
and the achievement of budgetary savings when oil resources flow to the country. The PFP
also emphasizes an accelerated program of structural reform to establish the necessary
framework for the development of a competitive private sector in the non-oil economy.



-6 -
Against this background, the measures under the SAC aim at introducing greater competition
and flexibility to the economy before the onset of the "oil boom," and reducing the
discretionary power of the state to help improve overall governance.
A. Stabilization
19.   The Government's stabilization efforts, as mentioned above, have been remarkable.
The stabilization program for 1997 envisages to reduce the annual inflation rate to below
10 percent. To that end, broad money expansion will be 27 percent, taking into account the
anticipated decline in the velocity of money. The overall general government fiscal deficit
will be limited to 2 percent of GDP, with zero cumulative central bank financing in 1997.
The fiscal deficit in 1997 will be financed mainly by the use of the manat counterparts of the
oil signature bonuses, and the disbursements from the proposed SAC. As part of the general
fiscal reform, the tax system will be restructured by shifting the tax incidence toward
consumption. The tax base will be broadened by eliminating remaining exemptions in
valued added taxation (VAT), through the application of the invoice method in VAT
collection, and the inclusion of retail traders into the VAT net.
20.   The conduct of monetary policy has been restrained by the limited policy instruments
and the lack of a well-functioning market. The National Bank of Azerbaijan (NBA) will start
open market operations in treasury bills by mid-1 997, as part of its strategy for phasing out
credit auctions as the primary source of bank liquidity. Until instruments for open market
operations are fully developed, all refinance credit will be allocated through auctions whose
frequency will be increased to at least twice a month. The Government and the NBA will
refrain from guaranteeing or directing domestic credits, while keeping the refinance rate
positive in real terms.
B. Structural Reform
21.  In Azerbaijan, there has been a growing divergence between structural changes
happening on the ground, and the establishment of the necessary legal and institutional
framework that is supposed to support them. Since the break up of the FSU, the various
governments-- impeded by the ongoing conflict and political instability-- were unable to
pursue reforms in a convincing way, whereas the private sector in commerce, services and
agriculture moved along, despite fuzzy property rights. While the Government has already
implemented the initial measures for transitional economies, such as trade and exchange
liberalization, abolishing price controls, the adoption of a privatization program, etc., the bulk
of the actual implementation (in particular the privatization of medium and large scale
enterprises), and the most difficult decisions will have to be compressed into the next two
years or so, to compensate for time lost during the early stage of transition.
22.   Liberalization of Foreign Trade and Foreign Exchange Regimes. Further
liberalization of trade and exchange regimes is a critical element of Azerbaijan's economic
strategy. Considerable progress has already been achieved in this area. In 1995, the
exchange rate was unified, and surrender requirements were abolished, thereby removing



-7-
implicit export taxes through a multiple exchange rate practice. The explicit export tax on
the differential between export prices and controlled domestic prices (mainly cotton and
gasoline) has also been largely eliminated in line with the closer alignment of domestic prices
to world market levels. Export duties to secure the availability of domestic inputs (e.g., raw
leather, ferrous metals, copper, etc.), or some consumer products (food products,
pharmaceuticals) have also been eliminated. The mandatory registration of strategic export
contracts by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations -- which has been a source of rent-
seeking behavior -- has been abolished, and an ex-post registration scheme has been put in
place for monitoring purposes only.
23.   On the import side, the Government does not have any quantitative restrictions. The
current tariff system includes both ad valorem and specific tariffs. The simple average tariff
rate is 6.2 percent, and the weighted average is less than 2 percent. Specific tariffs, designed
to avoid fraudulent customs declarations (underinvoicing of imports), cover about 6 percent
of imports. The tariff structure is dispersed with a maximum rate of 60 percent. Tariff
coverage, albeit increasing over the last three years, remains small at 21 percent. The
Government has introduced an import tariff rate of 15 percent in the 1997 Budget, and it has
eliminated tariff exemptions on investment goods, and raw materials and intermediate
products, replacing them with a rate of 5 percent. The Government has also unified excise
tax rates on similar domestically produced and imported goods.
24.   There are, thus, no tariff barriers which constitute an impediment to efficient external
trade development. There have been, however, exclusive or special privileges accorded to
state-owned foreign trade organizations, which used to control about 50 percent of the
country's total exports, mainly resulting from Azerbaijan's high concentration of exports on
cotton and oil products. At the same time, state trading organizations have also engaged in
importing for state needs, in the absence of clear guidance for state procurement. These
trading organizations are attached to the various ministries, and often have constituted
monopolies in their fields: Agroincom under the Ministry of Agriculture has had a defacto
monopoly in the export of cotton, while Azerintrade under the Ministry of Trade has a
monopoly in the state's procurement of imported food products. Similarly, Azerbintorg and
Azershargticaret under the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations are involved in imports
of various products on behalf of the state. The trading monopolies are not the result of any
law or government stipulation, but are enforced through moral suasion and relatively easy
access to working capital needed. Because of their current role as representatives of the
Azerbaijani government in international contractual obligations, some of them, such as
Agroincom, cannot be immediately liquidated. Therefore, the Ministry of Agriculture has
issued a Decree stating that Agroincom would no longer take contracts for the 1997 harvest,
and will be privatized no later than in October 1997, after having honored its current
contracts. At the same time, the SPC has completed the privatization of Azerintrade,
Azerbintorg and Azershargticaret, and a clear understanding has been reached on how to
consolidate the current obligations of these organizations.
25.   In order to bring overall transparency to state procurement, a Presidential Decree has
been issued on mandatory competitive bidding procedures for the procurement practice of



- 8 -
state-owned agencies. To make this Decree effective, a State Procurement Regulatory
Agency has been established. With the assistance of an IDF grant, the Government will
design the institutional arrangements for administration of public procurement, issue detailed
regulations and procedures, and hold various workshops to introduce the new public
procurement system.
26.   Despite current efforts to liberalize foreign trade, there is some protectionist thinking
within the Government, though this is not yet translated into specific measures. There is a
real danger that when the pressure from the Bretton Woods Institutions wears off, and oil
money flows to the country, the Government could adopt protectionist policies to insulate its
inefficient industries from external competition. It is, therefore, very important to
institutionalize the current relatively liberal trade regime, and start undertaking systematic
changes in laws, rules and regulations with a view to joining the World Trade Organization
(WTO). These measures should embrace all areas covered by the Uruguay Round
Agreements, i.e., all aspects defining the conditions governing access to and presence of
goods, services, and investments. The challenge, however, is that in the current institutional
setup, in which various ministries deal with different aspects of foreign trade policy, a
comprehensive approach to trade liberalization would not be possible. Therefore, the
Government has established a Ministry of Trade and of Foreign Economic Relations whose
operating principles include: (i) centralization of foreign trade policy formulation,
(ii) separation of sectoral interests from policy making functions, and (iii) the capacity to
undertake a comprehensive assessment of costs and benefits of proposed trade measures, and
monitoring their subsequent impact, especially on competition. The Ministry also includes a
task force and a department of WTO to pursue accession to WTO.
27.   Demonopolization and Privatization. Under the Rehabilitation Credit, with close
cooperation with IDA, the Government adopted a comprehensive Privatization Program in
October 1995. The Program covers virtually all small-scale enterprises, and most medium
and large sized enterprises. Most small enterprises have been transferred to existing staff, or
auctioned publicly through uniform procedures. Under the current Program, the shares of
enterprises being offered for vouchers will be distributed as follows: (i) 50 percent to the
general public through voucher auctions, (ii) 15 percent to be sold to existing employees (for
vouchers), (iii) up to 10 percent for open sale through cash auctions or to strategic investors
including foreigners, and (iv) 25 percent to be retained by the state in closed investment
funds (ZIFs and GRIFs). The Government has recognized that keeping a certain share of
enterprises systemically under state ownership would run counter to the principles of
privatization. Therefore, a Presidential Decree has been issued stipulating that the shares of
GRIFs will be offered for sale, immediately after corporatization, and that no ZIFs will be
established.
28.   Until recently, implementation of the Privatization Program has been slow, despite its
parliamentary approval more than two years ago. Since August 1996, however when the
current Chairman of the SPC was appointed, privatization efforts have accelerated. Recently,
the Government has, also, been able to achieve a hard budget constraint on the enterprise
sector. This was made possible by the following actions: (i) budgetary subsidies to



-9-
enterprises have been totally eliminated, in the context of the fiscal adjustment program
supported by the IMF; (ii) state-owned banks have not practically lent to enterprises (since
October 1996 to April 1997), as part of an agreement within their restructuring plans, and
now lend only to clients that are current on their loans, and; (iii) a new Presidential Decree
has been issued, imposing penalties for non-observance of financial commitments.
29.   For the privatization to proceed smoothly, the concerns (old sectoral ministries), and
the commercial and business functions of various ministries need to be abolished. These
include the Ministries of Trade, Agriculture, Material Resources, Foreign Economic
Relations, Economy, and the Concerns for Bread and Wheat, Consumer Goods, Transport,
Food Processing, Construction, Furniture, Poultry, Building Materials, and Wood Products.
These organizations continue to own and manage enterprises, while at the same time
performing regulatory functions in their respective sectors. By virtue of their authority to
regulate public, as well as emerging private sector competitors, they have the potential to use
this authority to restrict competition, and impede private sector development. Moreover,
these organizations, by holding on to the enterprises under their supervision, prevent the
provision of a steady and commercially attractive supply of enterprises to be privatized. (It is
only after the abolition of the Concern for Services that the SPC was able to privatize a large
number of small-scale enterprises).
30.   The Government has already abolished the Bread Complex, and replaced it with a
much downsized Agency for Strategic Wheat Reserve. The mandate of the Wheat Reserve
Agency, is to maintain one to two months' supply of the domestic wheat demand, in case of
drastic supply cuts and other emergencies. The Agency is not permitted to procure wheat
from the domestic market, and thus cannot influence the market through its procurement
operations. Although, medium to large-scale enterprises (elevators and storage facilities) are
temporarily under the control of this Agency, these will be transferred to SPC and will be
offered for sale in the first waves of voucher and cash auctions. Before end- 1997, the SPC
intends to complete the privatization of all industrial bakeries.
31.   The Government has also issued the necessary decrees abolishing the following
concerns: Goods for People, Food Industry, Furniture, and Poultry and transferred their
enterprises to the SPC for privatization. AzerContract (previously Ministry of Material
Resources), and the old Ministry of Trade will not be kept as going concerns. The
Government has designated a limited number of warehouse enterprises from these two
ministries to service the special government agencies whose procurement will be centralized.
All other enterprises under these ministries have been transferred to SPC for privatization.
The Government has also adopted a plan for the reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA), retaining only its regulatory and supervisory functions. The MOA has already
transferred 200 enterprises to SPC, and the remainder will be corporatized and transferred to
SPC before end- 1997. (An enterprise is considered to have been transferred, when all the
forms specified by the SPC for this purpose are approved according to the Privatization
Program, duly completed and submitted). This process will continue to provide a steady,
and commercially attractive supply of enterprises for mass privatization, which would have
not otherwise been released for privatization by their respective ministries/concerns.



-10-
32.    The implementation of the work program in preparation for mass privatization has
been completed, and the SPC has started the mass privatization process. The SPC has
designated a list of 400 medium- or large-scale enterprises (drawn mainly from enterprises
previously under concerns/ministries mentioned in para. 29) for sale through voucher or cash
auctions. The SPC has already conducted 3 voucher and 1 cash auctions, resulting in
51 percent private ownership in 80 companies. In order to contribute to the liberalization of
the cotton sector, all of the ginneries have been offered for sale. The SAC program will
support further implementation of the Government's privatization program by monitoring the
time-bound targets for the privatization of medium and large-scale enterprises. The SPC's
program is to offer for sale at least 400 enterprises before the end of 1997.
33.   In order to establish clear ownership rights, and to provide transparent share exchange
and registration, the SPC issued a decree for establishment, licensing, operation and
supervision of one central depository for securities. The existing Law on Securities and
Stock Exchange will also need to be substantially amended or replaced by a new law in
order to include all the necessary elements for the establishment of a modem capital market.
The new law would cover definition of securities, operation of securities' markets, licensing
of market professionals, public offering and trading of securities, standard of conduct for
securities' investment business, disclosure requirements for public offerings, trading and
market professionals, and improper trading practices, takeovers and mergers. The
Government will submit to the Parliament a new Securities Law providing for a
comprehensive securities' regulatory system, including a Securities Commission as the
institution for its implementation. The Government will establish a Securities Commission,
and transfer to it the supervision responsibility of existing market professionals and
institutions (including depositories and registries).
34.   Unless land under the enterprises is clearly and fully privatized (shown on the balance
sheet as an asset and registered with a survey, with full ownership, freely transferable, and
subject to possible mortgage), the main economic benefits of privatization would be seriously
compromised. The property rights of the new company would be incomplete and unclear,
still subject to administrative interference from a state-owner/lessor. Banks would be denied
the most obvious basis for secured lending, and market-based transactions would be limited.
Critically, the land privatization will permit a valuable asset to be unlocked for restructuring
and recapitalization. Enterprises could divide land and sell parts of it to cover debts, or
finance restructuring. While the new Land Reform Law provides a very liberal regime for
agrarian land (para. 10), how the urban land under the enterprises is to be treated is in need of
clarification. The President issued a decree stipulating that all enterprises, objects, housing,
and companies privatized or to be privatized shall have uninterrupted and unrestricted use of
the land that had been transferred to them. When a method for the evaluation of land is
completed, a Presidential Decree will be issued establishing the norms, ways and means for
privatizing land under objects, enterprises and housing already privatized, or to be privatized,
while permitting subdivision and transfer of land. The owners of privatized objects on such
land will have the right of first refusal to own the land. A system of land privatization,
including necessary mapping and surveying, norms for valuation and means for issuance of
ownership certificates will be established. In line with the needed changes in the regulatory



- 11 -
framework for urban land use, the Municipality of Baku will establish an automated land
registration system for Baku which will ensure quick and inexpensive issuance of documents,
certifying ownership and mortgage of land.
35.   Financial Sector Development. The banking sector in Azerbaijan is dominated by
four large state-owned banks (Savings Bank, Agroprom Bank, Prominvest Bank, and
International Bank) accounting for over 80 percent of outstanding loans and households
deposits. There are also 120 private and foreign banks (as compared to 260 banks at the end
of 1995), many of which are in the process of being consolidated, as a result of increased
capital requirements and stricter application of prudential regulations by the National Bank of
Azerbaijan (NBA). Weaknesses in the banking sector include low level of capitalization,
lack of adequate banking skills at all levels, and the poor quality of the state banks' loan
portfolio. The confidence in the banking system is shaky, despite positive real interest rates,
and the Government's recent provision of liquidity support to the Savings Bank with a view
to protecting small depositors. Moreover, the legal infrastructure for commercial activities is
incomplete, especially with respect to seizure and liquidation of collateral, and
implementation of bankruptcy procedures.
36.  In close cooperation with the Bretton Woods Institutions, the NBA has made
substantial progress in developing a reform program for the financial sector, the focus of
which is twofold: (i) to establish the necessary conditions for the development of an efficient
and stable commercial banking system; and (ii) to implement a major restructuring plan for
each state-owned bank, with a view to its privatization. On both fronts, implementation is
underway. With the enactment of the new Banking Law, clear guidelines are established for
the entry and exit of the banks, and the supervisory powers of the NBA. NBA is working
toward the introduction of internationally acceptable accounting standards and applications
for banks. Issues regarding related lending, ownership structure, exposure limits to
borrowers, information disclosure requirements, appropriate guidelines for loan
classifications and provisioning and other prudential requirements for banks are being
resolved through new prudential rules and improved supervision of the NBA. To further
consolidate the banking sector, NBA will increase the minimum capital requirements for the
existing banks to US$1 million by end-1997.
37.   The implementation of restructuring programs for each of the four state-owned banks
started in September 1996. These restructuring plans are designed to prevent any further
banking crisis from emerging, by containing the deposit taking and lending activities of the
banks, until they achieve solvency through loan recovery and injection of private capital. In
line with the agreed programs, NBA has appointed supervisory committees for each bank,
and specified the restrictions on their banking activities in a Letter of Agreement. The audits
of the four banks have also been undertaken as of December 30, 1996. All the banks have
established internal debt workout units to recover their nonperforning loans. A recently
issued Presidential Decree (October 1996) authorizes the banks to negotiate with their
nonperforming borrowers new loan agreements, in which the banks could forgive part of the
interest overdue, and restructure their loans based on additional collateral and/or some
principal recovery.



- 12 -
38.   The detailed restructuring plans for the four state-owned banks are presented in
Attachment III. According to these plans, the strategy for each bank is as follows.
39.   Savings Bank. The Savings Bank, is insolvent and illiquid. Its situation has
considerably worsened in the last two years because of its careless lending, and deposit
taking at very high interest rates (in order to compete with the charity organizations, now all
bankrupt). As a response to an acute liquidity crisis, Savings Bank has already benefitted
from liquidity support loans extended by the Ministry of Finance in the amount of manat
15 billion. These funds were to be used only to satisfy deposit withdrawal requests and to
pay off interest arrears on deposits. The Bank has already announced through public media
that deposits can be freely withdrawn. The Bank's management has been replaced, and its
lending activities stopped, its loan recovery effort stepped up (with the understanding that
recovered loans and new deposits can be lent only through the credit auctions and
government securities). The Bank has already closed over 100 small branches, and will
continue to close more unprofitable branches. The deposit interest rates have been lowered.
40.   After the audit report, it has become clearer that the Savings Bank does not have a
role to play in the banking sector in Azerbaijan, and that, in fact, its continued existence as
such may be detrimental for the development of a viable rural bank. There are several
reasons for this. First, the Savings Bank is not performing any function that cannot be
performed by another bank. Second, by diverting rural deposits and fee-based services away
from Agroprom Bank, the Savings Bank reduces the possibilities for Agroprom Bank to
become viable. Third, the Savings Bank does not have the skills for direct lending, and there
is already an inadequate supply of government paper relative to the demand of Savings Bank.
Fourth, the Savings Bank has no comparative advantage and, indeed, has much higher costs
relative to total deposits than other banks. Therefore, the Letter of agreement signed with the
NBA will undertake a considerable downsizing of this Bank, including closing all rural
branches, and a sizable reduction in the number of staff, branches and deposits. If this
drastically downsized and mostly urban bank does not prove to be profitable by the end of
1997, it will be liquidated. If the Bank is profitable, the NBA and its shareholders will
submit a time-bound business plan to IDA for the privatization of the Bank.
41.   International Bank. The International Bank (IB) is the only bank among the four
state-owned banks, which enjoys credibility among the general population. The Bank has
also managed to achieve positive net worth (as of March 1997). Under the restructuring
program, NBA's deposits will be withdrawn from the IB by end-1997 (until now, the IB had
the privilege of holding a large part of the country's foreign exchange reserves, and paid the
NBA an interest rate below the market rate). The IB's asset growth is restricted to lending
against full collateral, and investment in government and central bank securities. The Bank
will not have access to central bank refinancing until it meets all prudential standards. On the
other hand, the IB is allowed to take household deposits, and a budgetary allocation is made
for repayment of government guaranteed loans. These would compensate, to some extent,
for the withdrawal of NBA's deposits from the IB. The critical issue for the IB is not to
overextend and unduly expose itself while trying to offset the downsizing resulting from the



- 13 -
withdrawal of NBA's deposits. The privatization of the Bank will start in early 1998, with
possible assistance from EBRD before end-1998.
42.   Prominvest Bank. Under the restructuring program since October 1996 (in the span
of five months), the Prominvest Bank has made some progress in improving its financial
situation, especially by collecting 40 percent of the principal of the overdue loans. In
accordance with its action plan, the Bank will aim at further improving its financial situation
through improved loan recovery, prudent lending to clients current on their loans, and closing
unprofitable branches. The deposit taking restriction will be lifted for branches that would not
be closed. The Bank will continue not to have access to central bank financing until it meets
NBA's prudential regulations. Credit decisions will be centralized in order to avoid the
politically motivated credit decisions by local branches. An 1997 IAS audit will be
undertaken in order to assess the profitability and the capital adequacy of the Bank. If the
Bank does not make satisfactory progress in implementing its program, NBA will impose on
the Bank all the needed remedial actions. If the Bank has achieved profitability, the NBA
and the shareholders will submit a plan to increase the capital adequacy of the Bank to
8 percent with private capital before end-1998.
43.   Agroprom Bank. Agroprom Bank is insolvent, experiencing sporadic liquidity
problems. Nonetheless, this Bank, through its extensive network, plays a role in the
financing of agricultural production, and in the provision of payment-related and other
services in remote areas. Its role in rural areas will become more important when all the rural
branches of the Savings Bank are closed. But the Bank would need considerable downsizing
(especially in urban areas), reduction in operating costs, far more conservative and
disciplined lending, and a drastic change in its mode of operations, with a view to converting
itself into a viable rural bank. Despite its relatively difficult financial situation, the SAC
program does not foresee a liquidation scenario for Agroprom Bank, because it is very
unlikely that other banks will expand to rural areas, nor can any new rural bank be
established anytime soon.
44.   Under the restructuring program supported by the SAC, the Bank will restrict lending
activities to: (i) crop financing on a self-liquidating basis (i.e., by chattel mortgage of
produce stocks, assigning export contracts to the Bank, banker's acceptances); (ii) financing
of working capital requirements against collateral of agricultural enterprises that have no
overdue loans, (iii) investment in government and central bank securities, and (iv) credit to
small private farmers, as a non-risk taking agent on behalf of the Government, using funds
provided by international financial institutions. Access to NBA refinancing credit is
restricted, and strictly limited to harvest refinancing. The Bank will be allowed to collect
household deposits in rural areas only, with the requirement that it invests in government
paper equal to the amount of household deposits collected. A technical assistance team
experienced in managing/restructuring agricultural finance institutions will be put in place,
with direct involvement in credit decisions. NBA will closely monitor the implementation of
the Action Program detailed in Attachment III and, if deviations occur, corrective actions will
be taken immediately.



- 14 -
45.   The recommended liquidation/restructuring/privatization strategy for the state-owned
banks will have to address part of the bad debt problem in the banking sector. While
wholesale forgiveness of the bad debts is certainly not a feasible option because of the moral
hazard problems that it would create, in certain cases, such as the farm debt, this may be the
only viable solution. The timing of bad debt write-offs is equally important in order not to
give the wrong signals to state-owned banks. The Program does not foresee that a resolution
regarding bad debts be reached before October 1997, that is, not before the banks have
provided satisfactory evidence of their commitment to implementing their action plans. On
the other hand, the budget will inevitably have to assume the fiscal costs associated with
government guaranteed loans, which concern particularly the International Bank (about
US$60 million). After October 1997, the state budget will have to take responsibility for
directed nonperforming loans of the state-owned banks. This will be done through
government bond issues to pay for the liabilities of these banks to NBA, which funded the
bad loans. The government bond issue to the NBA could be about I to 2 percent of GDP.
The short-term fiscal implications of this scheme would be modest, as the budget would be
affected only by interest payments on long-term government bonds.
46.   For banks (whether state-owned or private) to be able to function properly, and more
generally for the private sector to further develop, an appropriate legal framework for
commercial activities has to be in place. Clear rules for exchange and means of enforcement
are not yet established. The new Civil Code, under preparation, will have to be enacted as
soon as possible to clarify at least basic private contract rights, and permit orderly,
predictable and speedy enforcement. Considering that the adoption of a Civil Code may take
some time, a Law for Secured Transactions will be enacted, stating how different forms of
property (immovable as well as movable) can be used as collateral for loans, and establishing
clear priorities for lenders. The Law will also provide for simple enforcement measures
based on an automated registration database. A new Bankruptcy Law has been enacted,
taking into account the current arrears situation in the country. The banks will now be in a
position to initiate bankruptcy procedures for major clients who are not current on their loans.
An impediment to banks' efforts in improving their financial situation has been the current
system of priority payment scheme out of enterprise deposits. Within this scheme, wage and
tax arrears take precedence. This system prevents intermediation through banks, as
enterprises avoid any recorded commercial activity. It also makes it impossible for banks to
recover their overdue loans. Therefore, the system of priority payments out of enterprise
bank accounts will be abolished before October 1997. Also, the NBA will issue instructions
stipulating that, effective January 1, 1998, the banks will not pay new dividends to their
shareholders, unless in compliance with NBA's prudential regulations relating to capital
adequacy and liquidity.
47.   Fiscal Management. Improved fiscal management will become increasingly
important, as the Government will have to put in place a system to allocate increased
government revenues to best possible use. Current processes and procedures limit the policy
usefulness of the budget. Budget construction is based on outdated personnel and facility
norms, remnants of the Soviet system. Protected categories f'or wages and staffing make it
difficult to move away from the current system. The budget is incomplete, because it does



- 15 -
not incorporate various extra-budgetary funds of sectoral ministries (for example, for the
Ministry of Health it is estimated that 60 percent of expenditures are handled through extra-
budgetary funds). The budget also fails to hold spending units accountable. A balance is
required in the effective management of resources by establishing greater flexibility in the
allocation across line items, and more (reasonable) control over extra-budgetary funds.
Better control over obligations is also needed. The treasury system controls the disbursement
of cash, but no controls exist over the commitment of funds, resulting in significant arrears.
48.   Mitigating the above-mentioned difficulties would require revisions in budgetary
planning and execution. The Government will undertake a comprehensive review of the
budget process with a view to making the following changes: (i) allowing the sectoral
ministries to replace line-item norms and regulations with line-item requests based on their
judgment as to the most effective composition for service delivery; (ii) incorporating the
usage of all extra-budgetary funds in the revenue and spending proposals of ministries and
spending units; (iii) ensuring that budget submission by ministries and agencies display
expenditure classification by ministerial and spending units, and by activities within these
units (in addition to functional classification); (iv) establishing an effective treasury system to
provide obligation control over expenditures in addition to disbursement control, integrated
with the procurement system; and; (v) allowing ministries and agencies to make mid-year
budget adjustments between various line items. The IDA-financed Health Project for FY98
will ensure that appropriate budgetary procedures are put in place for the health sector.
49.   The very tight budgetary situation of the last couple of years has practically wiped
out any allocation for public investment. This situation has contributed to a deterioration in
the country's basic infrastructure such as roads, supply of energy, etc. When Azerbaijan's
budgetary situation improves as a result of increased revenues from oil resources in the
medium term, the budget will have the possibility of allocating greater resources to public
investment. Then, however, there is the risk (as experienced in many other oil-rich countries)
that budgetary resources be wasted on investments of dubious economic value in publicly
owned and operated utilities (e.g., power, water, telecommunications, gas, transportation). In
order to develop a healthy pipeline of public investment projects and avoid those of dubious
economic value, the Government has submitted to IDA a three-year public investment
program including that of public utilities.
50.   Poverty Monitoring and Social Safety Net: There is a high level of poverty in
Azerbaijan presently. The Poverty Assessment found that over 60 percent of households
were poor, and around 20 percent were very poor at the start of 1996. Economic
developments in the interim suggest that the situation is unlikely to have improved
significantly. At the same time, the composition of the poor is likely to change rapidly as a
result of ongoing reforms, the inflow of oil revenues and associated exchange rate and
employment effects, and the eventual return of internally displaced people to their raions of
origin. As a result, improving the effectiveness of the social protection system, and
strengthening poverty monitoring capacity are high priorities, which are reflected in the PFP.
The need to improve targeting of social protection is made more urgent by the projections of



- 16 -
continuing fiscal constraint. Overall, social protection expenditures as a share of GDP are
low (around 5 percent of GDP), and projected to remain so until at least 1999.
51.   Relative to many FSU countries, Azerbaijan has already made considerable progress
in reforming its social protection system. Since independence, there have been significant
reforms to social assistance, with the elimination of consumer subsidies on food, and
introduction of a targeted cash compensation payment which is provided to non-working
pensioners, and on a means-tested basis to households with children. In addition, targeting of
the compensation payment has been gradually improved, particularly by changing the income
period for eligibility assessment from the previous year to the previous quarter in 1996. The
Government is committed to continued improvements in targeting social assistance. This
will be supported by recently approved revisions to the questionnaire and sample frame of the
Family Budget Survey (FBS), which is the main official instrument for monitoring living
standards. These reforms will substantially improve the relevance and representativeness of
official living standard data, and assist the Government in further refining its targeting
criteria for social assistance. The approved revisions to the FBS are to be introduced during
1998.
52.   Although reform of the pension system started later, there has been substantial
progress in the past year. The Parliament has recently approved the Law on Social Insurance
which includes increases in normal pension ages (by two years for men and women, to be
phased in over a four-year period), a reduction in the number of early retirement provisions,
and cuts in the level of working pensions. In addition, the Government is committed to
introducing individual pension accounts, with an eye to future development of a multi-tier
pension system.
53.   An element of the social protection system that has remained unreformed to date is
the untargeted subsidies on a range of residential utilities and transport services, and
entitlements to privileged tariffs for a wide range of social groups. Official estimates are that
more than 60 percent of households currently enjoy one or more privileges, and that the
annual value of privileges at current tariffs is over 2 percent of 1996 GDP. Against this
background, the Government has decided to improve the targeting of subsidies on communal
services by replacing untargeted subsidies with increased cost recovery, and introducing
compensatory measures for households whose privileges are eliminated. The Government is
committed to both full cost recovery on all residential communal services, and the
elimination of cross subsidies from enterprises to households by the end of 1997. These
represent the last major price alignments, and involve substantial increases from the 1996
price levels, which were around 30 percent and 40 percent of marginal costs for residential
gas and electricity, respectively. At the same time, the Government is determined to take all
the necessary measures to mitigate the negative social impact of such reforms.
54.   A high level Working Group, established in 1996, has made proposals for both
rationalization of the privilege regime, and introduction of mitigating measures for those
whose privileges are withdrawn. Privileges on communal services and transportation have
already been eliminated, with the exception of war veterans, families of Nagorno-Karabagh



- 17 -
victims, and IDPs who were found to have, in the Poverty Assessment, poverty rates well
above the national average. The Government has introduced the following measures in order
to mitigate the unfavorable impact of the elimination of privileges on vulnerable groups:
(i) for Group I and II invalids, the privileges will be replaced by a monthly cash
compensation payment of manat 14,000, with funds channeled through the Disability Fund,
and paid from local social protection offices; (ii) for single pensioners, there will be an
increase in pension of manat 20,000 per month, and (iii) for teachers, wages will be increased
by 30 percent (the rationale being that privileges were given to teachers initially because of
their relatively low wage structure). The financing sources for the mitigation measures have
already been identified, and will be incorporated in the last quarter of the 1997 Budget.
Part III. Bank Assistance Strategy and the Proposed Structural Adjustment Credit
55.   The Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), dated August 27, 1996,
supports the Government's efforts to accelerate the design and implementation of policies
and programs to facilitate Azerbaijan's full transition to a market economy, in a way
conducive to using Azerbaijan's oil potential to achieve sustainable growth and poverty
reduction. In Azerbaijan, the poverty gap is such that improved targeting and increased
resources would not be sufficient to close this gap in the absence of growth, especially in the
non-oil sectors of the economy. To that end, the Bank is expected to support reforms --
through policy advice, ESW, and a combination of adjustment and policy-based investment
lending operations -- intended to ensure that: (i) economic efficiency and competitiveness are
enhanced, particularly in the non-oil tradable sectors of the economy; (ii) the business
environment, especially for small-scale enterprises, is improved; and (iii) increased public
resources are directed to basic economic and social infrastructure and to improvement of the
social safety net, rather than to inefficient economic activities.
56.   The general objective of establishing a policy and institutional framework conducive
to efficient and equitable private sector led growth would require fulfillment of specific goals
including: (i) putting in place a macroeconomic framework for managing a possible "Dutch
disease"; (ii) implementing an equitable and transparent privatization program;
(iii) undertaking financial sector reform to establish an enabling environment for the
development of private banking, and the restructuring/ privatization of state-owned banks;
(iv) completing the legal and institutional framework needed to nurture the country's
entrepreneurial tradition; (v) reorganizing the public sector (ministries, agencies, concerns,
etc.) in line with the requirements of a market economy; and (vi) assisting the Government in
improving the allocative efficiency of public resources. The proposed SAC would support
the achievement of these goals.
A. Features of the Proposed Credit
57.   Borrower and Credit Amount. The proposed SAC of SDR 52 million (equivalent
of US$70 million) would be made to the Republic of Azerbaijan represented by the Ministry
of Finance. Disbursements under the proposed SAC will be made to NBA, and an account of
the Ministry of Finance at the NBA will be credited with the manat equivalent of the official



- 18 -
exchange rate (as determined by the latest auction). The Government will, thereby, receive
noninflationary budget support. The Credit would be on standard IDA terms, with a maturity
of 35 years, including ten years of grace period.
58.   Disbursement and Procurement. The proposed Credit would be disbursed in two
equal tranches. The first tranche would become available upon Credit effectiveness, and the
second tranche six to nine months later, based on review by IDA of the implementation of the
adjustment program as a whole, and the fulfillment of the specific second tranche conditions
outlined below (para. 61). Under the simplified procedures, procurement will be done
directly by importers using their normal practices. A Procurement Decree satisfactory to
IDA has been issued by the President, and procurement guidelines and regulations are being
developed within the context of an IDF grant. All imports, except the items contained in the
World Bank's standard negative list, and imports funded from other medium and long-term
financing sources, are eligible for funding from the Credit. NBA will be responsible for the
ex-post review of the Credit.
59.   Management, Reporting and Auditing. The overall coordination of policy
measures is being undertaken by the Prime Minister, himself, who has been holding periodic
meetings with high level government officials to assess progress in implementation. This
practice is expected to continue during the implementation period of the SAC. The Bank's
Resident Representative will also participate in these meetings on a regular basis. To
coordinate and to monitor day to day implementation of SAC measures, a "SAC Unit" will
be created in the NBA. Each institution will designate a govermnent official responsible for
the SAC who would report to the NBA and the Resident Mission. The NBA was chosen for
this task because of the importance of the financial sector component in the SAC. The SAC
Unit at the NBA, based on information from the various agencies involved in the
implementation of this loan, will prepare the Borrower's Contribution to the Project
Completion Report within six months of the closing date.
Monitorable Actions and Tranche Release Conditions
60.   Conditions of Board Presentation. Key actions completed prior to Board
presentation are as follows:
Trade Liberalization
(1)   The Government to issue a decree establishing a new Ministry of Trade and
Foreign Economic Relations with clear terms of reference, including implementation of the
Government's foreign trade policy, coordinating the Republic's obligations associated with
accession and membership in the WTO, and ensuring the consistency of foreign trade
measures with the Republic's commitments under international treaties.
(2)   The Government to provide satisfactory evidence to IDA that the state-owned
trading organizations Azerintrade, Azerbintorg, and Azershargticaret have been privatized
according to the approved methods of privatization.



- 19 -
(3)   The Ministry of Agriculture to issue a decree prohibiting Agroincom from
making new contracts for the upcoming cotton harvest, spinning Agroincom off the Ministry
of Agriculture, and transferring it to the SPC by October 1997 for privatization.
(4)   The Government to take all the necessary measures to make the Presidential
Decree on State Procurement effective, in particular the establishment of the State
Procurement Regulatory Agency with clear functions promulgated by the Cabinet of
Ministers.
Demonopolization and Privatization
(5)   The Government to promulgate an Act according to which, in the course of
privatization, objects subject to privatization shall be transferred to the full ownership of
physical or legal entities together with the right of full use of the land on which such objects
are located until such time when the mechanisms, ways and means, and responsible authority
for privatization of such land is resolved by relevant legal measures. The Act will also
provide that when the legal measures for privatization of land (as per the Second Tranche
Condition #1) are enacted, the owners of privatized objects on such land will have the right
of first refusal to own the land.
(6)   The SPC to issue a normative act establishing and setting out the authorities,
procedures, forms of activities and duties, and means of supervision of a central share
registry which will be independent from the companies whose shares are registered, and
whose records will be the conclusive legal proof of ownership of shares in companies.
(7)   A Plan of the Cabinet of Ministers to be submitted to IDA for the restructuring
of the Concern for Auto Transport, including the list and schedule for the transfer of its
enterprises to SPC for privatization, and the establishment of a new Ministry of Transport
with regulatory functions only.
(8)   The Cabinet of Ministers to submit to IDA a proposal on which warehouse
enterprises of the old Ministry of Trade and Azercontract will remain state-owned for
servicing state procurement of special government agencies whose procurement will be
centralized. The remaining enterprises of these two institutions to be transferred to the SPC
for privatization. (An enterprise is considered to have been transferred when all forms
specified by the SPC for this purpose are duly completed and submitted to SPC).
(9)   A Presidential Decree to be issued to liquidate: Concern for Goods for People,
Concern for Food Industry, Concern for Furniture, and Concern for Poultry.
(10)  A plan of the Cabinet of Ministers to be submitted to IDA for the
reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture, including the list and schedule of enterprises to
be transferred to SPC (at least 200 enterprises to be transferred to SPC before July 24).
(11)  The SPC to designate at least 400 companies (drawn mainly from the
enterprises previously under the supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture, the old Ministry



- 20 -
of Trade, Azercontract, and the Concerns for Goods for People, for Auto Transport, for Food
Industry and for Poultry). The SPC to conduct at least 3 voucher and 1 cash auction,
resulting in no less than 51 percent private ownership in at least 80 enterprises.
(12)  The SPC to offer for sale at least 51 percent of the shares of cotton ginneries
(exclusive of employee shares of 15 percent) according to the Country's accepted methods of
privatization.
(13)  The Government to issue regulations, stipulating that the shares, initially
allocated for GRIFs and ZIFs in the Privatization Program, will be sold to private entities.
Financial Sector Development and Bank Restructuring
(14)  A Presidential Decree to be issued on the main directions of the banking
sector reform, also stating the need for a considerable reduction in the number of branches
and staff of Agroprom, Prominvest and Savings Banks; the same Decree is also to permit the
state-owned banks to sell assets of the branches that will be closed under their restructuring
plans.
(15)  A new Bankruptcy Law to be enacted, and clear and transparent
implementation procedures to be established. (The Law to contain transitional interim
measures which take into account the existing arrears problems).
(16)  The NBA to provide satisfactory evidence to IDA that the work has started on
a new chart of accounts based on international accounting standards for all commercial
banks, with the objective of converting the accounts of at least five banks into international
standards by mid-1998.
(17)  Savings Bank. A Letter of Agreement, satisfactory to IDA, to be signed
between the Savings Bank and the NBA, requiring that the Bank abide by all NBA
regulations and decrees, and be considerably downsized, in accordance with the quantitative
quarterly targets specified in this Letter of Agreement (Attachment III), and the business
plans agreeable to IDA.
(18)  International Bank. The Bank's shareholders and the NBA to sign a Letter
of Agreement, including the principles of privatizing the Bank by mid-1998; and the Bank to
submit a business plan, agreeable to IDA, to further improve its financial situation, in
preparation for its privatization.
(19)  Prominvest Bank. The Bank to sign a Letter of Agreement (satisfactory to
IDA) with NBA in order to restructure and improve the financial situation of the Bank
through downsizing and other cost reduction measures in accordance with the quarterly
quantitative targets specified in this Letter of Agreement (Attachment III), and the business
plans agreeable to IDA.



- 21 -
(20) Agroprom Bank. The Bank and the NBA to sign a Letter of Agreement for
implementing the restructuring of the Bank with the objective of strengthening the financial
position of the Bank so that it can continue to perform rural banking functions, while
minimizing risk and achieving viability. The Bank will submit a business plan, agreeable to
IDA, incorporating a step-by-step action plan to administratively downsize and restructure
the Bank, and discipline its future lending, as per the quarterly quantitative targets specified
in the Action Plan of Attachment III. The Bank to actively seek the technical assistance
required for the implementation of the business plan with an international consultant/bank,
experienced in managing/restructuring agricultural finance institutions.
Public Expenditure Management
(21)  The Government to submit a three-year public investment program
satisfactory to IDA, including that of public utilities.
Social Safety Net
(22)  The Govermnent to present to IDA the design and the financing sources for
the energy compensation scheme.
61.   Second Tranche Conditions. The second tranche of the SAC will disburse upon
completion of the following conditions:
Demonopolization/Privatization
(1)   The Government to issue a decree satisfactory to IDA, establishing the
responsible authority and the mechanisms, in the context of privatizing enterprises, for the
transfer of ownership of land in possession of such enterprises. The Decree will permit
existing occupants to retain possession and use of land without the need to pay the price of
the land until it is transferred to another owner.
(2)   The SPC to designate at least 600 companies (in addition to 400 companies
designated earlier) for sale through voucher and cash auctions; the SPC to conduct auctions
resulting in 51 percent private ownership (excluding 15 percent employee share) of 500
companies (in addition to 80 enterprises privatized earlier).
(3)   The Government to fully implement the Decree of the Ministry of Agriculture
on Agroincom dated May 30, 1997, and the Plan of the Cabinet of Ministers on the
restructuring of the Concern for Auto Transport dated June 23, 1997, in a manner satisfactory
to IDA.
(4)   The Government has prepared, on the basis of principles satisfactory to IDA,
and submitted to Parliament a new Securities Law.



- 22 -
Financial Sector Development
(5)   Savings Bank. An IAS audit to be completed and submitted to IDA for the
period ending December 31, 1997 and for the last quarter of 1997 prepared in accordance
with International Accounting Standards by a qualified international accounting firm
verifying the drastically downsized Bank's profitability during 1997 and the last quarter of
1997, and its compliance with all targets to be achieved by the dates specified under the
Letter of Agreement between the Bank and the NBA.
a) The Bank will comply with all the quarterly targets specified in the Letter of
Agreement.
b) If the Bank is not profitable, the NBA will withdraw the license of the Bank, and
submit a plan (satisfactory to IDA) to complete the liquidation of the Bank.
c) If the Bank is profitable, the shareholders will submit a plan to NBA (satisfactory
to IDA) to privatize the Bank.
(6)   International Bank. An IAS audit for the period ending December 31, 1997
by a qualified international accounting firm verifying the year-end capital adequacy, the
compliance of the Bank with the Letter of Agreement and its business plan, including a
progress report on its privatization will be submitted to IDA. The Bank has to be in
compliance with the provisions and targets specified in the Letter of Agreement, and the
business plan (Board Condition # 18).
(7)   Prominvest Bank. An IAS audit for the period ending December 31, 1997 by
a qualified international accounting firm verifying the profitability during 1997 and the last
quarter of 1997, the year-end capital adequacy, and the compliance of the Bank with all the
targets to be achieved by the dates specified under the Letter of Agreement between the NBA
and Prominvest Bank, will be submitted to IDA. Compliance with the quarterly quantitative
targets, specified in the Letter of Agreement, must be satisfactory to IDA. Accordingly,
a) If the Bank is not profitable, the NBA will take all the necessary actions
satisfactory to IDA (which may include, depending on the progress to date, and the
nature of the Bank's remaining problems, agreement on a revised business plan with a
view to achieving viability before end- 1998, proceeding with privatization, or starting
liquidation procedures);
b) If the Bank is profitable and in compliance with the targets, the shareholders will
submit a plan to NBA (satisfactory to IDA), to achieve minimum capital adequacy of
8 percent with private capital, by end- 1998.
(8)   Agroprom Bank. An IAS audit for the period ending December 31, 1997 by a
qualified international accounting firm will be undertaken, verifying the Bank's income
statement during 1997 and the last quarter of 1997, the year-end capital adequacy, and the
compliance of the Bank with all the targets to be achieved by the dates specified under the



- 23 -
Letter of Agreement between the NBA and the Agroprom Bank. Compliance with the
quarterly quantitative targets, must be satisfactory to IDA. If the Bank is not profitable,
and/or has not achieved positive equity, it will submit to NBA a revised business plan,
satisfactory to IDA, to achieve financial viability by end- 1998.
(9)   The Government has prepared a Plan, satisfactory to IDA, on assuming the
responsibility for certain non-performing loans of Prominvest and Agroprom Bank, and
completed the implementation of this Plan.
(10)  The Borrower to enact a law on secured transactions, satisfactory to IDA.
B. Benefits and Risks
62.   Benefits. The proposed SAC will support the Government's efforts to accelerate
structural reform, with a view to compensating for the time Azerbaijan lost during the last
couple of years, while making the transition to a market economy. The main objective of the
measures contemplated under the SAC is the establishment of the necessary legal and
institutional framework for further development of Azerbaijan's burgeoning, yet potentially
very promising private sector. Currently, most "private" enterprises exist within an extra-
legal and quasi-informal sector. Unclear definition of property rights, rigid restrictions on the
use and leverage of property, and overlapping regulations by various authorities create an
environment in which the goals of private sector development, and efficient financial
intermediation cannot be fully achieved. The measures supported under the SAC, in
particular the establishment of clearer property rights through privatization, the enactment of
critical laws (such as the Bankruptcy and Secured Transactions) needed for the economic
agents to operate within clear market principles, and the restructuring/privatization of state-
owned banks, are all expected to nurture a favorable environment for private sector
development. These measures are expected to be effective in fostering a more balanced
development (i.e., the non-oil sectors of the economy) in order to avoid a possible Dutch
disease in the future. Also, measures aimed at reducing the state's involvement in economic
activities, and establishing clearer rules of the market economy, would reduce the scope for
unjustified gains and corruption.
63.   Risks. The greatest risk in such an ambitious program for Azerbaijan would be the
resurgence of political instability and the resumption of hostilities with the Republic of
Armenia. Although the dispute over Nagomo-Karabagh is no nearer a final solution,
ongoing negotiations at an international level make a resumption of fighting unlikely.
Moreover, President H. Aliev's regime has provided the necessary political stability needed
for the implementation of economic reforms.
64.   A possible second risk may result from the fact that the program supported under the
SAC will inevitably hurt many vested-interest groups. This is particularly true with regard to
eliminating the commercial and productive functions of the ministries, and abolishing those
concerns whose main functions have been to enrich a few bureaucrats. These vested-interest
groups are likely to oppose the changes proposed in the SAC. Although this may somewhat
slow the progress in implementation, it is unlikely to throw the Program off-track, as long as



- 24 -
the President and the Prime Minister remain convinced of the need to reform, and continue to
give clear signals as to the direction of these reforms. A third risk is the Government's
limited technical capacity to design and implement the relatively complicated second
generation of reforms contemplated under the SAC. This is further exacerbated by the fact
that in Azerbaijan, unlike other FSU countries, technical assistance is not abundant. Also,
the long tradition of self-reliance has resulted in a mentality of "we can do it," with little
outside consultation, even when such assistance is available. There are, however, signs that
this mentality is changing. Also, the delay in the implementation of the Institution Building
and Technical Assistance Credit (IBTA) has helped in tailoring the various components of
the Credit to the newly emerging TA requirements.
Part IV. Recommendation
I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of the
International Development Association, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
it.
James D. Wolfensohn
by Caio K. Koch-Weser
AAtachments
Washington, D.C.
June 25, 1997



Attachment I
Page 1 of 10
Azarbaycan  Respublikasinin                                    PRIME-MINISIER
BA$  NAZIRI                                        of Azerbaijan Republic
B.,k, >.*h 1,vr,ii i j'  rideks 3i7T066 1el. ; 92-41-61. 92-46W13     Haku, sl I.eirnntov, 68.
'rik.    49.163 kH-tPK, F~aks 924161, .17
24 ..      06           l                                                           '7  i I  34/5-I72
NMr. Jsmes D. Wolfeusohn
I' fesident
The World Bank
ISIS H Ssreet, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433 U.s>.A.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
I .    At the beginning of 1995, the Government of Azerbaijan embarks d on an
ambitious stabilization program, and startea 1j undertake systemic reforms rfn several
fronts toi trao,aform  the economy, support.:. by the IMF. the World Bank   d other
bilateral and multilateral donors. As .a result inflation has been sharply re<..ced; our
currenc, is stable: and prices give ciearer 5';.adls to economic agents. At tht  ame, we
recogniz.- that progress in changing *tructures arid institutions has been rt:lat, ly slow.
Within the context of the policies ouii,ned n-i the Policy Framework Paper (199o-97), the
Govern-ment intends to continue i:3 satist.ctory performance on stabilization, wriile at tlic
same ti.ai accelerating structural rt-orms in order to compensate for the time lost durinSg
the early stage of transition. We wc.tild iikT to summnarize below the progress  , date in
implemtenting our reform program, anid the actions planned in the near futur;. most Of
which ale to be supported by the IDA-financed Stiuctural Adjustment Credit.
Liberalization of Trade
2.    The key building block of our medium term strategy is to establish and sustain a
liberal foreign trade regime. To date we have a unified exchange rate regime and the
domestic currency is fully convertible. I he ut,itied rate applies to both current ar J capital
transact.ons, without restrictions  Jn  bor.a iafde, current transactions by  esidenits.
Conseq.Lently, exchange requiremenew  ikve ceased to be the source of distortiom  'i foreigi
trade tranisactions. Imports are free Lt quiintitat1ve restrictions. Tarifts are now -'le majoi
instrunint of k.zerbaijan's foreihn tvxe X;r,ocy.  The Government has introduced zi
uniforn, tariff structure with the r. .. of I. percen'. levied on imports of goods for final
consumption. Capital equipment, ra  r mevorials 3ntd intermediate products hp e a tariff
rate of ' percent.



Attachment I
Page 2 of 10
3.    As a small developing, natural-rcsource based economy, we belz.ve that Azerbaijan
has a lot to gain from liberalization of4 its fu:igin it-ade policy and exchange rate regime.
Major steps have already been tak;.:n to streamline the foreign trade and exchange rate
regimes and increase their transparency. In order to take advantage of opportunities
offered by international markets and lock in liberal foreign trade reforms and thereby ease
the transition costs, we have made a decision to seek accession to the World Trade
Organization (WTO). This decision has spurred efforts to review foreign trade institutions
and policy from the point of view of their consistency with WTO requirements as well as
their impact on domestic economic activity. We view the WTO-accession as a catalyst to
the reform effort in both the external sector and complementary policy spheres as covered
by the Uruguay Round Agreements.
4.    Recognizing the importance of instit:tions for fostering Azerbaijan's rei!liegration
into world markets, the Government has decided to establish a new Ministry of Trade by
merging the appropriate departments Lnmd k'nctions of the existing Ministry ol Foreign
Economic Relations and the Mb 'str-       r,.'e.  rhis Ministry will be responsible r(f
implem.,i-,Ling Azerbaijan's foreign 'cade p)cy. fo, e comprehensive assessmenl of costs
and benefits of proposed foreign tradte mta-i>res (inciuding their impact on corl ,,etition).
for enhzrncing competition in dornestic. markets, aA;d for all obligations associc .ed with
accession and future membership in the "vTO. An WTO Working Group ,,as been
established to collect all information reievant to WTO  membership. revi. sV WT0-
consistency of existing regulations and policies, and prepare proposals to brinp  then] in
line with both the WTO requirements and best international practices.
5.    In line with our efforts to further liberaiize the foreign trade policy, we believe that
the state should no longer be directly involved in foreign trade activities. Therefore, we
corporatized   Azerincom, Azerbintorg, and Azershaqticaret, and  completed  their
privatization. As for cotton exports, a directive by the Ministry of Agricullture has been
issued prohibiting Agroincom from making new contracts for the upcomintg cotton
harvest, spinning Agroincom off 'he Ministry of Agriculture, and transferring it to the
SPC by October 1997 for privatizatio.n. At Ihe same time, the Government will ensure thut
no organization (private or public) will hv-.e any (d:e jure or de facto monop' ly in the
export of cottons.
Demor.i .,ofiz2tion/P. . fatization
6.    The Government is commitned to a broad b-ased public participation I ocess in
privatization which should be transparent anri .?.r. and contributes to economic -ecovery.
Since August 1996, the implementation of our privatization program has accelerated.
Over 10,000 small-scale enterprises have been privatized, and the Government .ntends to
complete the privatization of all small scale enterprises, before the end of 1 H97. The
preparation for mass privatization is proceeding well. All relevant ministries and concerns
are in the process of releasing the data and documentation of the enterprises unider their
supervision to the State Property Committee (SPC). The corporatization process has been
facilitated by the printing and distribution of standard corporatization packages to all
enterprises. The Government has establisbltd a specilic schedule with a list of criterpristeN
to provide a continuing supply of potentially viable enterprises for voucher auctions. The
proceduies for voucher auctions have been finalized with help of technical ;ssistance
financed under Institution Building end Technical Assistance (IBTA) Credit. 'I  ^ foreign



Attachment I
Page 3 of 10
investor will be able to participate in the voucher auctions by buying one prixatization
'option" per invested voucher, sold at a nominrd price (to be reviewed by the SPC
periodically).   There will be no restrictions on the use of these options during
privatization. To date, the SPC has conducted 4 voucher and 3 cash auctions, which have
resulted in majority private ownership in 100 medium and large-scale enterpr-ises. Before
the end of 1997. the Government will offer foi sale at least 400 companies. Nineteen
cotton ginneries have been offered for sale, ds well.
7.    To establish clear ownership rights and to provide transparent share exchange and
registration, we have established a share register which is not owned or controOed by the
corporationi whose shares they register. In order to accommodate the clearinsg and
settlement of the voucher auctions, and for secondary share trading, we have issued a
decree for and established and provided for license supervision of one central depositoly
for securities. For the establishment of a modern capital market, in the course of 1997, the
Government intends to submit, through cxisting legislative procedures. to Parliamcnt a
new L,rv on Securities and Stock Exonangc. This Law will provide for a complrehensive
securities requlatory  system. includin;  ..n  executive body  as the  insti tttion  for
implementation. The new Law wil, -over defi11ition of securities, operation o ;ecurities
markets, licensing of market professionals, public offerings and trading o' fcurities,
standard of conduct for securities investment business. disclosure requirements tor public
offerings, trading and market professionuls irid funIs, improper trading pra.-tices, and
takeovers and mergers.
8.    The Privatization Program  r-rovides for the establishment of ZlFs all  GRIFs,
closed state-owned investment funds which together will not receivc more thar 45 percent
of shares of each medium  and large corporation in the privatization process.  Ihe
Government recognizes that holding state-owned shares in closed investment funds would
run counter to the principles of privatization. Therefore, a Presidential Decree has been
issued stipulating that the shares of GRIFs will be offered for sale as well, imimediately
after corporatization. The Government will not cstablish any ZIFs.
9.    The Government recognizes that unless the land under the enterprise jF iearly and
fully privatized (full ownership value shcwn oni the balance sheet as an sset, and
registered with a survey, freely transftvabit ..ji  with the possibility of mt' . age). the
main econonmic benefits of privatization  t;i o. srriou.*y compromised. The n. vly private
company's ability to finance restructuring v ill be se erely reduced, and the b.:;,Tks will be
denied the most obvious basis for secured lending. In order not to delay the pl ivatization
process, the Government has issued a Resolution stipulating that all enterpri ts, objects,
housing, and companies privatized or to be privatized shall have uninlel upted anid
unrestricted use of the land that had been transferred to them. When a metlod for the
evaluation of land is completed a Government Decree will establish the norms, ways and
means for privatizing land under privatized objects, housing and companies (no later than
end-1997). With this Decree the creatiou of a system for privatization of land under
privatized enterprises, including map.ping and surveying, norms for valuation and means
for issuance of ownership certificates will have been completed. The Decree tvill permit
subdivision and transfer of land. 1! will also permit the owners at the time of r - vatization
to retain possession and use of land withou: . he need to pay the price of the l; -.1 until ii is
transferred *o another owner.



Attachment I
Page 4 of 10
10.   In addition to these gerter.i! a-ions related to privatization. the fGovernment
intends to streamline the role of certain ministries and concerns, by elimmnating their
commercial functions and making their functions consistent with those similar institutions
in a market economy. To that end, specific actions will be undertaken for the Ministries of
Agriculture, Azercontract (previous Ministry of Material Resources), and the old Ministry
of Trade, as well as the Bread Complex, and a group of concerns/shirkets, as briefly
outlined below.
11.   Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).  The Government has adopted a o'an for the
reorganization of this Ministry, retaining only its regulatory and the supervisot y functions.
No manufacturing, processing, or service activities are to remain under the MOA, with the
exception of services related to extension animal and human health ancd safety, ancl
environmental protection. The MOA has already transferred about 200 entie;i r ises to the
SPC for privatization, and the ramLiA1er o. ts enterprises will be transf4rtd to SPC.
befoj, end- 1997.
i 2.   4zerConiract (previous Afinis,v,j    M'Aernul Resources) and ihe Ministry ut Trade.
With Wte grauual elimination cC i-he os. C . rder ;ystem. the interrepublican and clearing
agreLl. ents, and increased role o. the p 1 -ate sei.tc in domestic trade, trading volume of
the Nlinistry of Trade and the Ministry ot Material Resources has fallen draotically. The
Ministry of Material Resources, which has large industrial warehouses along sectoral lines
at the national level, and smaller combined warehouses at the regional levels, has been
recently converted  into a joint stock company  (Azercontract).   The t: iovernment
recognizes, however, that there is no need to keep Azercontract and the Mini-i !y of Trade
as going concerns. The Government will keep s limited number of warehouse enterprises
of these two institutions, to service special ,o"ernmeuw agencies whose procuremnent will be
centralized.  All other enterprises of Aze.rontract and the Ministry of TLa.,de will be
transferred to SPC for privatization. While retail and wholesale trade is being privatized.
the Government will take all the necessar' -neasures to ensure fair trade practices. safety
and consumer protection.
13.   The Bread Complev. Thv Guve   ir>: has already liquidated the Bread Complex.
and rei aced it with a Strategic ,Ih.,at 4i servc  -.i icy, hi order to interven: in case of-
emerg_.ncies and drastic wheat supiv shortages. 'he enterprises (storage i k iities, graii
elevat:.,ts, large-scale bakeries, etc., vre'.Iously ander the Bread Complex  i,cve been
tianskrred to SPC for privatizatien. ex+.'pt for , few elevators to keep the str;, . gic wheat
reserves. The privatization of sniali scale bakeries will be completed before O~iober 1997.
The mandate of the Wheat Reserve Agency is to maintain wheat reserves equix, *nt to one
to two months' supply of the national der;..--d  rhe Agency is not permitted !o procure
wheat from the domestic market, annd tha,. c4 -rot in,'uence the domestic man. .t through
its procuren i.nt operations.
14.   The Concernv. All enterprises urder the following concerns: ConsurAcr Goods,
Food Processing, Construction, Poutry, Building Materials and Wood Products will be
corporatized, and submitted to the SPC for privatization before October 1997.  The
holding concerns themselves (Coods fo, People, for Food Industry, Furniture, and
Poultrv) have been abolished. As 'or the Conceru for Auto Transport, its liquidation will
not be possible until the establishment ot a Ministry of Transport and Comiuinications
which will take over its safety inspet..ion, licensirg, and other regulatory fuuv tions. A



Attachment I
Page 5 of 10
study on the Demonopolization of thez Construction Industry will be undertaken (being
financed under the IBTA Credit), and its tecommendations will be implemented in the
course of 1998.
Financial Sector Development
15.   The Government's objective is to develop a private, efficient and stable financial
sector supporting the longer-term growth and development where savers and investors are
adequately served throughout the country. We believe that the reforms required to
achieve these longer-term goals will need to be phased over a number of years-, given the
emerging nature of the mar-ket-orienited institutions in Azerbaijan and the limiteci
implementation capacity. At the same time, financial sector deepening and diversification
can be successful only if an enabling policy and regulatory environment is in place. T'he
growth and viability of the financial system also depends on the performance of the real
sectors
16.   The Government's strategy for the financial sector reform  in Azerbaijar contains
the following key elements: (i) creation of a policy and regulatory environmen :orlducive
to the sound growth of a competitive and efficicrI financial sector. (ii) implei ':ntingk al
infrastructure for the banking sector where Stai,!Jty an-I efficiency can be mainn.ined; and.
(iii) restructuiing and eventual pr;vatizatioa, .A'ne fu.r state-owned banks th. dominate
the banking sector. Our general approach to the restructuring of state-owned ,eainks is to
adopt and implement all the necessary measures to improve the financial viabiiity of these
banks. Those banks that establish financial viability will be privatized, and those which
fail to do so after a certain period of time will be liquidated. We are of the view that the
restructuring of Agroprom Bank will take longer than that of other banks, and its
liquidation may not be an early option because of the public utility functions that this
Hank performs in rural areas. A recent Presidential Decree cleairly outlines our atrategv in
this area.
17.   For financial institutions to be able to function  properly. an  ai.'proprlate
framework for commercial activities has to be in place. The new Civil (:iJe, undier
preparation will be enacted as soon as possible to clarify at least basic priv.  contract
rights, and permit orderly, predictaale .nd  > eedy ;nforcement.  Consider: IL that liie
adoption of the Civil Code may take sorne n.-, a X ..w for Secured Transact ns. statink,
differe,it forms of property (immovabie 1S we1J as rutovable) can be used as e. iateral for
loans, and establishing clear prior .ies tbr (c,;J,tors, will be enacted. A regi. try system
(based on automated computer teci.nolqgy) will be put in place for the creditot to he ahle
to find out what other secured claims, other lenders and lessors have on the prop. rty of the
potential borrower. A new Bankruptcy L_aw hias been enacted, taking into account thle
transitional problem of arrears. An impedimnent to banks' efforts in improving thieir asset
quality and earnings has been the current system of priority pavment schelime out of
enterprise deposits. Within this scheme, wage and tax arrears take precedence over overdue
loans.  The system  prevents intermediation through banks, as enterprises avoid any
recorded economic activity. The system of priority paymcnts out of entertrise bank
accounts will be abolished before October 1997.
18.   With the enactment of the new BanLi;iw Law, clear guidelines for the eti-rv and exit
of the banks, and the supervisory powerf of t!,e Na.ional Bank oif Azerbaijak  (NBA) arc



Attachment I
Page 6 of 10
established. NBA is working toward the introduction of internationally acceptable
accounting standards and applications for ihe banks. Thc revised chart of accounts and
standards for the banks will be issued by NBA, no later than October 1997. The accounts
of all commercial banks will be fully converted into IAS by end-1998. Efforts are also
underway with the assistance of the IMF to establish appropriate guidelines for loan
classification and provisioning and other prudential requirements for the banks.  The
Government has amended the tax law, for up to 60 percent of the loan loss provisions ol
the banks to be tax deductible over three years. In October 1997 ihe NBA will issue
instructions to the banks, stipulating that ef,ective January 1, 1998, the banks will not
declare or pay new dividends unless they are in compliance with the NBA's prudential
regulations relating to capital adequacy and liquidity. In order to consolidate the banking
sector, the minimum paid-in capital lor the existing and new banks will be raised to US$1
million by end-1997. NBA will also impriove its supervision capability with assist tnce
under IBTA Credit. A modern ard efficie;.t clearing and settlement svstem is expected to
be in place by mid-1998 with the support of IBTA.
19.   T he Government's objective is the development of an efficient banking sector %aich
will require a level playing field for the private banks, and the restructuring/privatization
of the state-owned banks. A detailed restructuring plan developed in close coperation
with IDA and the IMF is being implemented since October 1996. These restlucturing
plans, in the light of the audit reports (as of end 1996) and developmenits to Jate, have
been modified in March 1997, as suinmarizec oi;!ow
20.   Savings Bank: Since the implementatiun of the restructuring plan. the mainagellent
of the Bank has been changed; the Bank publicly announced the free withdrawal of the
household deposits, and has already closed over 100 small branches; loan recovery efforts
have been stepped up, but about 80 percent of the bad debt portfolio has little prospects of
being recovered. The Government recognizes that the Savings Bank has no useful rcle to)
play in the Azerbaijani economy, and, in fact, its continued existence, as is, mav be
detrimental to another rural bank becoming viable.  Therefore, the revised restructurirng
plan of the Savings Bank foresees a drastic downsizing of this Bank, coIt Aistinr, of
significant reduction in the number of branches and cash offices, the level of house&old
deposits. and the number of employees. Tlhe Bank will not do any lending, anti will I lace
its excess liquidity in the government paper. Accordingly, the Bank will lower i i; deioosit
interest rates reflecting the risk of government paner it holds as its assets. Ar  AS  udil
for the period ending December 31,1997, as wcl! as an income statement for thx: last thiee
months of 1997 will be undertaken. If the downsized bank is not profitahle. NBA will
withdraw the license of the Bank, and place it under receivership. with a plan to coniplete
its liquidation by June-1998. If the drastically downsized Bank is profitable. N I.s an.' the
shareholders will submit a time-bound business plan for further dowmizimng and
privatizing the Bank by endc-1998, without merging it with another bank.
21.   Prominvest Bank's action plan aims at improving the viability of the Bank through
loan recoveries, prudent lending, reducing operational expenses. and closing unprofitable
branches.  Prominvest will lend only to its viable and current clients, against collateral.
Lending decisions will be centralized in order to avoid undue local political influenlce. The
Bank will not have access to central bank financing until it meets the NBA prudential
requirements. An IAS audit for end 1997 will be undertaken. verifying the profitability
and the year-end capital adequacy of the Bank. If tile Bank is not profitable. Mid has not



Attachment I
Page 7 of 10
achieved positive equity, NBA will take all the necessary actions, which .1ay inelude
(depending on thc progress to dale and thc nature of the Bank's remaini:t- problems),
agreement on a revised business plan with a view to achieving viability before end-199&,
proceeding with the privatization of the Bank. or starting the necessary procedures to
liquidate the Bank. If the Bank is in coaipliarce with the targets specified ir the l,etter of
Agreement signed with NBA, and profitable, the shareholders will submil a plan to
achieve 8 percent capital adequacy through private capital by end- 1998.
22.   International Bank has made importanit progress under its restructtring/action
program, and has already achieved positive net worth. The Bank will continue to
implement its tiniebound action plan u vier the supervision of NBA, including transferring
the foreign currency government reserves. and the exchange accounts of the banks to NBA
by end 1997. No later than September 1997, the Bank will also start the implementation
of its institutional improvement program, including technical assistance required in
preparation for privatization.  In the meantime, the International Bank uill not have
access to central bank financing ,'ntil it meets the NBA prudential requi-ements. To
follow up on the progress, an 1997 l,S A,.dit wiil be undertaken verifying tI . ownership
structure alnd the capital adeqiacy of tin' ?h.aSk.  The Bank will  mecw  prudential
requiremen s, and be privatized b y rmid-Vi 
23.   Agroprwrn Bank  plays a cole :n .he f!!lancing of agricultural produci ion and the
provi;ion uf banking services in :he ru-  .reas of Azerbaijan. Until viab, altemnative
rural Timance mechanisms are estdioiished. Agroprombank's branch network  i,eds t) bL
used {or crop finance and rural bLrnkitig needs. We believe that the role of Agropirom
Bank will be increasingly importunt in r iral areas when the rural branches of the Savings
Bank -Ire liquidated. The propos ..I restructuring program foresees that the Bank continue
lending to meet rural finance needs on a self-liquiieating basis, and act as an igent for the
other donor funded agricultural creCit lines. The Government's intention is te rC-criginleI
the Agroprom Bank with a view to making it an effective commercial bank providing rIulal
financial services and products. At the same time, we recognize that this will require
considerable downsizing, reduction in operating costs, far more consui ative and
disciplined lending, and a drastic iXhange in the f.ank's mode of operations. T t refore, the
shareholders first concern is to strength-71l tbh  man.s gement of the AgroPro,uIbank. To
that end, an international management tear, ito assY-t the national team) wil[ )e in place
to help with the Bank's restructu2i:.lg ar'd nanagement. An IAS audit for e 4- 1997 will
be undertaken to assess the finiancl ,i situ il; of tthe Bank. If the Bank has l i t achieved
profitability, a time bound action olan will b4e drawn towaid achievinlg vi; i!ily. and
meeting all pru iential requirements h%y ewi 1 99t.
24.     ic Government is awa   oi t-  fac, thait the restructuring  and  eventual
privati7tion plans for the statc-owned  a;iks will nave to address tne stock :-, the bad
debt problem.  We recognize that some of these bad loans were made 4uiden  the
instruLtions of the government, in the form of ditected credits, or government yuaranteed
loans. On I ie other hand, we thini. that too early a resolution of the bad debt problems
may give the banks the wrong signals, and create mn.ral hazards problems. We, therefore,
would like to see some progress and concrete rCsUlLs achieved in the implementation of the
banks' restructuring programs, before w? proceed with any debt write-offs. By enid-
September 1997, we will make a final decision withi respect to what portion of the bad
loans, the Government will assume responsibility for. Once a decision has beeli taken on



Attachment I
Page 8 of 10
the amount of bad loans to be assumed by t1h ebudget, this will be done through long-term
govcrnment bond issues to the NBA  which would not, in any case, exceed the amount of
the liabilities of these banks to NBA. But no conversion will take place. if the banks have
not satisfactory complied with their restructuriiig plans.
Fiscal Management
25.   The Government believes that our current practices in the areas of public
procurement, treasury management and budget planning need to be improved.  A
Presidential Decree has been, already, issued on mandatory competitivc: bidding
procedures for the procurement practice of state-owned agencies, and a State F .)curement
Regulatory Agency has been established by the Cabinet of Ministers. Before the end of
1997, the Government will announce the iis:i,ition3l arrangements for admin-,rration of
public procurement, issue detailed  regulati-.Ins and  procedures, and  h.   vaarious
works 'ps to introduce the new pablic -rs u4rent system. Some initial 1: -gress has
been nmide in setting up the treasui  but furtlher steps will be taken to extend    trtdsury
management system across regions, ndi corisoldate all budgetary funds in   a single
treasury account at the NBA.
26.   In order to improve our oudge- planning and execution processc., we will
undertake a comprehensive review of the budget process with a view to: (i) allowing the
sectoral ministries to replace line-item norms and regulations with line-item requests based
on their judgments as to the most etfective composition for service delivery; (ii)
incorporating the usage of all extra-budgetarv f unds in the revenue alw spending
proposals of ministries and spending units;, (iii) ensuring that the budget sul etiission by
ministries and agencies display cxpendituie classification by ministerial a-d! spending
units, and by activities within these units (in additnon to functional classif: &;tion); (iv)
enabling the treasury system to provide obligation cuntrol over expenditures iin addition tc
disbu-sement control, integrated with the p   -.:.ement system: and: (v) allowit- ministries
and al cncies to make mid-year budget adjustments between various line items
27.   'ihe ve-y tight budgetary situation If tie last couple of years. has practically wiped
out an / allocation for public investmeni. lnis situation has contributed to a deterioralionr
in the country's basic infrastructure alch as roads, supply of energy. e?tc.  Whei
Azertlaijan's budgetary situation l.nproves as a result of increased revenilas from oil
resources in the medium-term, the budget will have the possibility of alloca.iing greater
resources to public investment. Then, there is. however, the risk (as experletiied in many
other oil-rich countries) that budgetary resources be wasted on investments of dubious
economic  value  in  publicly  owned   an'}  operated   utilities  (po0 .r.  water.
telecommuunications, gas, transportation.. i. order to develop a healthiy pipeline of public
inves'men! projects, and avoid white ele,Pct7At3 in th * future, we have designe6 a three-year
public investment program (PIlO includinir that of public utilities. We will deriodicall"
upda'i! this PIP, and ensure its satisfactory iinplementation.
Poverty Monitoring anid Social Safety Net
28.   Azerbaijan  has already  mad&  conside.able progress in  reforming  its social
protecion system. Since indepe-tdence. tlhere h, ve been significant reforrms to social
assistance, with the elimination cf consumer .mnsidies on food, and intrlduction of a



Attachment I
Page 9 of 10
targeted cash compensation payment which is provided to non-working pensioners, and
on a means-tested basis to househlolds with children.  In addition, targ,ting of the
compensation payment has been gradually improved, particularly by changing the income
period for eligibility assessment from the :nrevious year to the previous quarter effective
January 1997. The Government is committed to continued improvements in Largeting of
social assistance.  This will be supported by recently approved revisions to the
questionnaire and sample frame of the Family Budget Survey (FBS), which is the main
official instrument for monitoring living standards. These reforms will substantially
improve the relevance and representativeness of official living standards data, and assist
the Government in further refining its targeting criteria for social assistance.  The
approved revisions to the FBS are to be introduced during 1997-98.
29.   Although reform  of the pension system  started relatively late, there has been
substantial progress in the past year, and the Parliament approved changes to the Pension
Law. This Law includes increases in normal pension ages (by two years for men and
women, to be phased in over a four yeai period), a reduction in the num  er of early
retirement orovisions, and a 50 ' . cut in pc-;nsir'. f(- working pensioneers. In addition.
the Government is committed to ht intrd,v..on os :ndividual pension accowits, with an
eye to futu.r. development of a n'ulti-tier ;   s3;,em.
30.   An element of the social prutectio; ivstetr. that has remained unreforme. ' to date is
the untargeted subsidies on a range of residential utilities and transport services, and
entitlements to privileged tariffs for a wide ranige of social groups. Official estimates are
that more than 60 percent of households currently enjoy one or more privileges, and that
the annual value of privileges at cturrent tariffs is over 2 percent of 1996 GDP. Against this
background, the Government took the dcxision to improve the targeting of subsidies on
communal services (electricity, gas and water) by replacing untargeted subsidies with
increased cost recovery, and introducing compensatory measures for households whose
privileges are eliminated. The Government is committed to both full cost recovery on all
residential communal services, and the elimination of cross subsidies from enterprises lo
households by the end of 1997. These represent the last major price alignments. and
involve substantial increases from the 1996 price levels which were around 30 percent and
40 percent of marginal costs for residenti:l r.s anei electricity respectively. il the same
time, the Government will take u,easure_ to t, it:gate the negative social impt .t of suci
reforms.
31.   A high level Working Group was established in 1996 to address the issues of
privileges on communal services andjrans;or:-. and develop a scheme to mitigate the social
impact c, the rationalization of prtvileges. IThe Government is committed to rationalizing
the privilege regime, while providing social protection for poor households. To that end.
privileges on communal services and transportation for certain groups were eliminated
effective July 1, 1997. The following measures are introduced in mitigation: (i) [or grcoup I
and II invalids, the privileges are replaced by a monthly cash compensation payment of
M. 14,000; (ii) for single pensioners, an increase in their pensions of M.20,000 per month is
granted; (iii) for teachers, a wage increase of 30 percent is accorded. A number of other
groups will retain their privileges after Julv, i997, notably IDPs, WWII and Afghan war
veterans, and families of Nagorno-Karabagh victims. IDPs (147,000 households) account
for the bulk of those who will retain their privileges. and were found in the Poverty
Assessment to have the poverty rates well above the national average.



Attachment I
Page 10 of 10
32.   The sources of financing for the compensation payments and wage increases are: (i)
an increase in the excise tax on petroleum products; (ii) the new turnover tax or the retail
and service sectors; (iii) reduction in personal customs duty exemptions to $200; (iv)
elimination of import tariffs exemptions on raw materials and investment goods; and (v) a
reduction in budgetary allocations to thc Cabinet of Minister's Reserve Fund. The sources
and levels of available financing were discussed witi, IMF in May 1997. and have been
included in the revised revenue forecasts.
Artur Rasi-zade



Attachment II
Page I of 7
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC)
POLICY MATRIX
OBJECTIVES                   ACTIONS INTRODUCED                               ACTIONPROGRAM                           TIMING
Trade Liberalization    Ex-ante registration of strategic exports abolished.  The SPC to privatize the following state-trading  SAC Board
organizations: Azershargticaret, Azerintrade, and
Import tariffs set at 15 percent, with 5 percent rate   Azerbintorg.
on capital goods and raw materials.
The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) to issue a decree  SAC Board
All export duties eliminated.                prohibiting Agroincom from making new contracts,
spinning Agroincom off the MOA, and transferring it
to the SPC for privatization by October 1997.
There will be neither de jure, nor defacto monopoly   Continuous
on exports of cotton.
Establish a Ministry of Trade and Foreign Economic  SAC Board
Relations to formulate foreign trade policy within the
context of accession to WTO.
The Cabinet of Ministers to take all the necessary  SAC Board
measures to make effective the Presidential Decree
on Procurement, in particular the establishment of the
State Procurement Regulatory Agency with clear
functions.
Demonopolization/       Over 10,000 small-scale enterprises privatized.  Complete small-scale privatization.         End-1997
Privatization
About 80 percent of vouchers distributed, and  SPC to designate 400 companies, and conduct at least SAC Board
preparation for mass privatization completed.  3 voucher and I cash auctions, resulting in 51 percent
ownership in 80 companies.



Attachment II
Page 2 of 7
OBJECTIVES                  ACTIONS INRIBODUCED                            AC31 NlIkORAM
SPC to offer for sale at least 51 percent of the shares   SAC Board
Demonopolization/                                                 of cotton ginneries (exclusive of employee shares of
Privatization                                                      15 percent) according to the Privatization Law.
(continued)
SPC to designate at least 600 companies (in addition   Second Tranche
to the 400 mentioned above), and conduct auctions
resulting in 51 percent private ownership (excluding
employee shares of 15 percent) of 500 companies.
The Government to promulgate an Act by which, in   SAC Board
the course of privatization, objects subject to privat-
An Agrarian Reform Law provides for free use,    ization shall be transferred to the full ownership of
sale and mortgage of agricultural land.    physical or legal entities together with right of full
use of the land on which such objects are located
until such time when the mechanisms, ways and
means, and responsible authority for privatization of
such land is resolved by relevant legal measures.
The Government to issue a decree satisfactory to  Second Tranche
IDA, establishing the responsible authority and the
mechanisms, in the context of privatizing enterprises,
for the transfer of ownership of land in possession of
such enterprises.
The following concerns to be liquidated: Concern for SAC Board
Goods for People, Concern for Food Industry,
Concern for Furniture, and Concern for Poultry.
A plan of the Cabinet of Ministers to be submitted to  SAC Board
IDA for restructuring the Concern for Auto
Transport, including the list and schedule for transfer
of its enterprises to SPC for privatization, and
establishment of a new Ministry of Transport with
regulatory functions only.
The Cabinet of Ministers to submit to IDA a proposal SAC Board
on which warehouse enterprises of the old Ministry



ALta=hzntIT
Page 3 of 7
OBJECTIVES                  ACTIONS INTRODUCED                             ACTION PROGRAM                         TIMING
Demonopolization/                                                  of Trade and Azercontract will remain state-owned
Privatization                                                     for servicing state procurement of special
(continued)                                                        government agencies whose procurement will be
centralized. The remaining enterprises of these two
institutions to be transferred to the SPC for
privatization.
A plan of the Cabinet of Ministers to be submitted to  SAC Board
IDA for reorganization of MOA, including the list
and schedule of enterprises to be transferred to SPC.
The Government to complete the implementation of   Second Tranche
the Decree on Agrincom and the Plan for the
Restructuring of Auto-Transport.
The Government to issue regulations, stipulating that  SAC Board
the shares, initially allocated to GRIFs and ZIFs in
the privatization program, will be sold to private
entities.
Bread Complex abolished. A Strategic Wheat  The Strategic Wheat Reserve Agency will not   Continuous
reserve Agency created to hold emergency wheat   purchase in domestic markets, and will not interfere
reserves equal to one to two months of national    with pricing policy.
demand.
The SPC to issue a normative act establishing and  SAC Board
setting out the authorities, procedures, forms of
activities and duties, and means of supervision of a
central share registry which will be independent of
the companies whose shares are registered, and
whose records will be the conclusive proof of
ownership of shares in companies.
The Government to prepare, on the basis of    Second Tranche
principles satisfactory to IDA, and submit to
Parliament a Securities Law.



Attacbment 11
Page 4 of 7
Demonopolization/      .                                          A new Bankruptcy Law, satisfactory to IDA, to be    SAC Board
Privatization                                                     enacted taking into account the current arrears
(continued)                                                       problem.
A law on Secured Transactions, satisfactory to IDA,   Second Tranche
to be enacted.
Establishing an        The Central Banking Law, and the Banking Law    A Presidential Decree to be issued on the main  SAC Board
Efficient Financial   adopted                                     directions of the banking sector reform, stating the
Sector                                                            need for a considerable reduction in the number of
branches and staff of Agroprom, Prominvest and
Savings Banks; the same Decree also to pernit the
state-owned banks to sell assets of the branches that
will be closed under their restructuring plans.
NBA to start the work on a new chart of accounts  SAC Board
based on intemational accounting standards for all
commercial banks, with the objective of converting
the accounts of at least five banks into international
standards by mid-1998.
The Government to abolish the system of priority  October 1997
payments out of the banks' accounts.
NBA to issue instructions to the banks stipulating that October 1997
the banks, effective January 1, 1998, will not declare
or pay new dividends unless they are in compliance
with the NBA's prudential regulations relating to
capital adequacy and liquidity.



Attachment II
Page 5 of 7
Establishing an                                                    Savins Bank:
Efficient Financial    NBA has started the implementation of       *  A Letter of Agreement satisfactory to IDA to be   SAC Board
Sector (continued)     restructuring plans of the four state-owned banks  signed between the NBA and the Bank requiring
since October 1996.                            that the Bank abide by all NBA regulations and
decrees, and be considerably downsized, as per
the quarterly quantitative targets in this Letter of
Agreement (Attachment III), and the business
plans agreeable to IDA.
*  An IAS audit for the period ending December    Second Tranche
31, 1997 to be submitted.
*  The Bank to comply with the targets specified in  Second Tranche
the Letter of Agreement.
If the Bank is not profitable, the NBA will  Second Tranche
withdraw its license and submit a plan
(satisfactory to IDA) to liquidate the Bank.
*  If the Bank is profitable, the shareholders will    Second Tranche
submit a plan (satisfactory to IDA) to the NBA
to privatize the Bank.
Intemational Bak
*  The Bank's shareholders and the NBA to sign a   SAC Board
Letter of Agreement, including the principles of
privatizing the bank by mid-1998; and the Bank
to submit a business plan, agreeable to IDA to
further improve its financial situation, in
preparation for its privatization.
*  An IAS audit for the period ending Decem'r er    Second Tranche
31, 1997 as well as a progress report on
privatization to be submitted.
*  The Bank to comply with the provisions and  Second Tranche
targets specified in the Letter of Agreement, and
the business plan approved by IDA.
PromivgstBank
The Bank to sign a Letter of Agreement (satisfactory  SAC Board
to IDA) with NBA to restructure and improve the
financial situation of the Bank through downsizing
and other cost reduction measures (Attachment [II),
and the business plans agreeable to IDA.



Attachment II
Page 6 of 7
Establishing an                                                   *  An IAS audit for end- 1997 to be submitted.  Second Tranche
Efficient Financial                                               *  The Bank to comply with quarterly quantitative   Second Tranche
Sector (continued)                                                   targets specified in the Letter of Agreement.
*  If the Bank is not profitable and has not achieved  Second Tranche
positive equity, the NBA will take all the
necessary actions satisfactory to IDA (which
may include, depending on progress to date, and
the nature of the Bank's remaining problems
agreement on a revised business plan to achieve
financial viability before end- 1998, proceeding
with privatization, or starting liquidation
procedures).
*  If the Bank is profitable, the shareholders will    Second Tranche
submit a plan to NBA (satisfactory to IDA), to
achieve minimum capital adequacy of 8 percent
with private capital by end-1998.
Agw=mbank
*  The NBA and the Bank to sign a Letter of  SAC Board
Agreement (satisfactory to IDA) incorporating a
step-by-step action plan to administratively
downsize and restructure the Bank, and
discipline its future lending, (Attachment 111).
*  An IAS audit for end- 1997 to be submitted.  Second Tranche
*  The Bank to comply with quarterly quantitative   Second Tranche
targets specified in the Letter of Agreement.
*  If the Bank is not profitable, it will submit to  Second Tranche
NBA a revised business plan (satisfactory to
IDA) to achieve financial viability by end-1998.
The Government to implement the Decree on the  Second Tranche
Assumption of the Responsibility for Certain
Nonperforming Loans of Prominvest and Agroprom
Bank in a manner satisfactory to IDA.
Improved Fiscal       Law on the Administration of Public Finances  The Ministry of Finance to integrate all government   May 1997
Management            introduced.                                 spending agencies' accounts in a single Treasury
account.



Attachment ll
Page 7 of 7
The Government to submit a three-year public  SAC Board
investment program.
Social Safety Net     Consumer subsidies on food eliminated.      Continue to refine targeting mechanisms for  1998
compensation payment.
Targeted cash benefit introduced to compensate
for food subsidy removal.
Income period for means test calculation reduced
from previous year to previous quarter.
Social Compensation   Working Group proposals submitted on measures   Finalize proposals on measures to mitigate effects of  SAC Board
to mitigate impact of privilege removal and price   privilege elimination, including identifying financing
liberalization.                            sources.
Poverty Monitoring    Reforms to Family Budget Survey (FBS) sample   Complete introduction of revised FBS, including new  1998
and questionnaire approved.                sample frame.
Ensure that results of revised FBS are used in  1998-99
improving targeting criteria for social assistance
programs.
Pensions              Law on Social Insurance, containing increase in    Start gradual increase in normal pension ages to 62    1998 Budget
normal pension ages, reductions in early   years for men and 57 years for women.
retirement provisions, and cut in level of working
pensions, approved.                        Reduce level of working pensions relative to non-  1998 Budget
working pensions.
Introduce individual pension accounts.       1998-99
PFP agreement to introduce mandatory second tier  Adopt implementation timetable for second tier  1998
pensions.                                  pensions.



Attachment III
Page 1 of 16
Agreement on Measures for the Reorganization of the Prominvest Bank, concluded
between the National Bank of the Azerbaijan Republic,
the Prominvest Joint-Stock Commercial Bank,
and the Control Committee
The National Bank of the Azerbaijan Republic (NBA), in the person of Chairman of the
Board E. Rustamov, the Azerbaijan Industrial Investment Joint-Stock Commercial Bank, in the
person of Acting Chairman of the Board 0. Heidarov, and the Control Committee, in the person of
Acting Deputy Chairman of the Board A. Akhundov, in accordance with the Laws of the Azerbaijan
Republic "On the National Bank of the Azerbaijan Republic," dated June 10, 1996, and "On Banks
and Banking in the Azerbaijan Republic," dated June 14, 1996, have agreed upon the following:
Article I
The National Bank will do the following:
1 .    After the Prominvest Bank's capital adequacy ratio is brought into compliance with
the National Bank of Azerbaijan standards and loan/deposit ratios, and the Bank complies with the
targets indicated in Article 2 of the Agreement, NBA will provide the Bank with access to
centralized resources.
2.    As of September 1, 1996, until restructuring measures have been completed, the
payment of interest on loans made before January 1, 1996, will be temporarily suspended.
3.    In exceptional cases, with a view to normalizing settlements, overdraft operations
will be permitted up to a limit for short periods.
4.    With a view to ensuring liquidity, it will make appropriate use of required reserves
placed with the National Bank.
5.    NBA will provide instructions regarding the Committee's activities in the control
and management of the Bank, as needed, and it will monitor its activities.
Article 2
The Prominvest Bank will do the following:
1.    It will impose comprehensive limits on financial and operating costs (construction
operations, acquisition of fixed assets, transportation costs, business travel expenses, etc.).



Attachment III
Page 2 of 16
6/30/97    9/30/97    12/31/97   3/31/98
2. Net reduction in number of branches  2          5         10         11
(cumulative)
3. Cumulative amount the Bank could spend   3     4.5        5.5        6.6
for the wages/salaries plus operating expenses
per quarter (billions of manats) - - excluding
the expenses associated with branch closures,
and SWIFT and NBA Clearing Centers
4. Cumulative collections on the gross  21         25        71         75
principal amount of loans due on 156 billion
manats as of March 1, 1997, at least (in
billions of manats)
5. Gross Loan to Deposit Ratio, not to exceed   140%  120%   100%      90%
6. Bank management will sell the fixed assets
of the closed branches.
* The Bank will adopt and start implementing prudent credit policies and procedures, approved by
NBA, by July 1, 1997. The Head Office Credit Committee will be in place by July 1, 1997.
* The Bank is allowed to lend under the following conditions:
a) It has in place prudent credit policy and procedures, approved by NBA, where there is a
Head Office Credit Committee in place authorizing all lending decisions centrally.
b) It will lend only to those borrowers that have repaid on time and/or are current on their
outstanding obligations to the Bank.
c) It will be in full compliance with the above target Loan/Deposit ratios.
d) Most of the new lending will be collateralized with proper registry of the collateral so that
there will be no future problems on seizure of collateral (any legal and regulatory imperfections will
be taken into account in reviewing the compliance of the Bank).
*  The Bank will classify its existing branches into those that are viable and those that will be
closed. Thereafter, those branches that will not be closed can collect deposits, including
household deposits. Branches to be closed will not be allowed to collect new deposits.
*  The Bank will not pay out any undistributed dividends nor declare new cash dividends (preferred
and common stock) until it meets the prudential requirements of NBA of minimum capital
adequacy under IAS and liquidity.



Attachment III
Page 3 of 16
*  By June 15, 1997, the Bank will submit a detailed business plan to NBA, agreeable to IDA,
congruent with the timing and conditions of this Agreement, with the aim of strengthening the
financial position of the Bank and preparing it for privatization in 1998.
*  The Bank will start work on converting its account plan and standards to IAS by
September 30, 1997.
*  The Bank will start work on an internal management reporting system by June 1, to be
implemented by September 30, 1997.
*  The Charter of the Bank, will be amended prior to December 31, 1997, to remove any references
to minimum ownership shares for the Ministry of Finance or any other shareholder.
* An LAS Audit for the period ending December 31, 1997, by a qualified international accounting
firm also verifying the profitability during , the last quarter of 1997 and year-end capital
adequacy ratio will be submitted to ANB. According to this audit, if the bank is in compliance
with the Business Plan submitted and the Letter Agreement, and is also profitable during the last
quarter of 1997, the Bank will submit, with the approval of the shareholders, a plan to NBA to
achieve minimum 8% capital adequacy ratio through private capital by June 30, 1998.
Article 3
The following authorities and responsibilities will be assigned to the Control Committee:
1. Members of the Control Committee will attend meetings of the Board of the Azerbaijan
Prominvest Bank, voice their opinions, and make suggestions concerning issues being discussed.
2. It will raise with the Bank's Board the question of closing or selling branches that are
operating at a loss.
3. In connection with its analysis of the Bank's operations, it will receive informational,
reference, and reporting data from the central office and branches.
4. When necessary, it will perform audits at offices and branches of the Bank.
5. It will raise with the Bank's Board the question of dismissing officers of branches who
have permnitted violations in the implementation of measures outlined in the Agreement.
6. It will provide regular progress reports to the National Bank management.
7. It will coordinate implementation of all measures outlined in the Agreement with the
National Bank management and will issue relevant instructions to the Bank's management.



Attachment III
Page 4 of 16
Article 4
Amendments and revisions to this Agreement may be made only with the mutual consent of
parties.
Article 5
Any disputes and disagreements which may arise in connection with the Agreement will be
resolved through mutual understanding and when necessary through negotiations between the parties
at the management level.
Article 6
The Agreement shall remain in force until all of the restructuring measures have been
completed.
The Agreement shall enter into force on June 23, 1997, and on the effective date of this
Agreement, the Agreement of August 30, 1996 shall become null and void.
The Agreement shall be executed in three copies. All three copies shall be equally binding.
Chairman of the Board      Acting Chairman of the Board      Acting Deputy Chairman
of the National Bank       of the Azerbaijan Industrial      of the Board of the
of the Azerbaijan Republic   Investment Joint-Stock          National Bank,
Commercial Bank                   Chairman of the
Control Committee
/signature/ /official sealU      /signature/
E. S. Rustamov             0. Heidarov                       A. Akhundov



Attachment III
Page 5 of 16
Agreement on Reorganization of the Savings Bank
between the National Bank of Azerbaijan, the Joint-Stock Commercial Savings Bank,
and the Supervisory Committee for Reorganization of the Savings Bank
The National Bank of the Azerbaijan Republic, in the person of Chairman of the Board E. S.
Rustamov, the Joint-Stock Commercial Savings Bank, in the person of Chairman of the Board A. M.
Allakhverdiyev, and the Supervisory Committee for Reorganization of the Savings Bank, in the
person of its Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the Board of the National Bank A. K. Melik-
Aslanov, in accordance with the Law of the Azerbaijan Republic "On Banks and Banking in the
Azerbaijan Republic," have agreed upon the following:
Article 1.
The National Bank will do the following:
- It will decree that the Savings Bank can add no new deposit clients before December 31,
1997, and for those branches listed for closure (Annex to this Agreement), the Bank will not take
incremental deposits from existing clients;
- It will monitor that the Savings Bank invest only in government paper or in the interbank
market with banks that have positive capital in accord with NBA standards;
- It will monitor the general operation of the Savings Bank and Supervisory Committee, and
it will provide relevant instructions for their operation;
- Every two weeks it will receive from the Savings Bank a report on the Bank's performance,
and on the basis of these reports will issue relevant instructions for the Bank's restructuring,
compliance with which will be mandatory;
- If the Savings Bank does not achieve profitability measured under international accounting
standards, for the three months ending December 31, 1997, the National Bank of the Azerbaijan
Republic will initiate a program to liquidate the Savings Bank;
- It will restrict the foreign exchange license of the Saving Bank so that the bank is allowed
to only buy and sell foreign exchange at the local market.



Attachment III
Page 6 of 16
Article 2.
The Savings Bank undertakes to carry out the following for the purpose of its reorganization
and rehabilitation:
- it will submit a report on its operations to the National Bank of the Azerbaijan Republic on
the Is and 15th of each month;
- the Savings Bank will substantially reduce interest rates paid on each of its deposit
products and ensure that it is paying no higher interest rate for any product than is the lowest paying
major competitor, with the intent to minimize the average cost of funds;
- the Bank will meet the following quantitative targets:
a) it will reduce the number of employees to;
2500 by June 30, 1997,
1700 by September 30, 1997,
1300 by December 31, 1997,
500 by March 31, 1997.
b) it will reduce the number of branches and small offices to;
80 branches and 300 small offices by June 30, 1997
55 branches and 200 small offices by September 30, 1997
30 branches and 75 small offices by December 31, 1997
20 branches and 20 small offices by March 31, 1998
c) it will lower the maximum amount of household deposits to;
51 billion Manats by June 30, 1997
41 billion Manats by September 30, 1997
30-35 billion Manats by December 31, 1997
20 billion Manats by March 31, 1998
d) it will reduce monthly operating costs in line with the closure of the branches and staff
reductions;
e) it will increase cumulative collections on existing loans by;
1.5 billion Manats by June 30, 1997
2.0 billion Manats by September 30, 1997
3.0 billion Manats by December 31, 1997
3.0 billion Manats by March 31, 1998
* The Bank will set up a small Loan Collection and Asset Disposition Unit at headquarters by June
1, 1997, which will have responsibility for managing and collecting all loans that are not
forwarded to the courts. As part of its asset disposition function, this unit will be responsible for
liquidating all other assets associated with closed branches of the Bank. The Bank should take



Attachment III
Page 7 of 16
measures to sell all owned real estate associated with branches that are closed within three
months of the date of closure of that branch;
*  The Bank will not do any lending operations and will place its excess liquidity, after paying off
all depositors as the branches close, in government paper. In special cases where the supply of
government paper is insufficient to absorb the idle funds of the Bank, the Savings Bank can
place them with commercial banks that meet the prudential requirements of NBA.
*  The Bank will not accept any private or public enterprise deposits and/or settlement accounts for
any type of enterprise. The branches that will stay open will continue servicing pension
payments, utility bill collections, acting as an agent for the State Lottery and servicing for the
National Budget.
*  The Bank will coordinate with the management of the National Bank its implementation of
measures specified by the Agreement.
*  The Bank will follow the below principles for deposit payoffs of closed branches:
*     It will announce to public the closure of the branches and the depositors to collect
their deposits with the branches slated for closure.
-     For closed rural branches, while some depositor accounts may be shifted to other
Savings Bank branches, the majority will be either paid-off in cash or transferred to
Agroprombank with corresponding liquid assets.
*     For closed urban branches, those deposits that are not repaid in cash or transferred to
another Saving Bank branch will be transferred to another bank with positive capital under
NBA standards (excluding Agroprombank) with corresponding liquid assets or, sold to
another bank.
-      The Bank will not transfer more than 50% of its remaining deposits to any one bank
before December 31,1997. Thereafter, it can sell up to 30 billion Manats in deposits to any
one bank.
*  The Bank will not merge with any other bank.
*  The Bank will submit a business plan incorporating the quantitative targets specified in this
Agreement to NBA by June 15, 1997.
* An IAS Audit for the period ending December 31, 1997, by a qualified international accounting
firm verifying also the profitability during the last quarter of 1997 and year-end capital adequacy
ratio will be submitted to NBA.



Attachment III
Page 8 of 16
- If the bank is profitable according to this IAS Audit, bank will provide a plan, in agreement
with its shareholders, for further downsizing as appropriate and for privatizing more than
51% ownership without merging into another bank, by mid-1998, to NBA.
Article 3
The following authorities and responsibilities will be assigned to the Control Committee:
1. Members of the Control Committee will attend meetings of the Board of the Savings
Bank, voice their opinions, and make suggestions concerning issues being discussed.
2. It will raise with the Bank's Board the question of closing or selling branches that are
operating at a loss.
3. In connection with its analysis of the Bank's operations, it will receive informational
reference, and reporting data from the central office and branches.
4. When necessary, it will perform audits at offices and branches of the Bank.
5. It will raise with the Bank's Board the question of dismissing officers of branches who
have permitted violations in the implementation of measures outlined in the Agreement.
6. It will provide regular progress reports to the National Bank management.
7. It will coordinate implementation of all measures outlined in the Agreement with the
National Bank management and will issue relevant instructions to the Bank's management.
Article 4.
Amendments and additions to the Agreement shall be made by mutual agreement among the
parties.
Article 5.
Disputes arising from the Agreement shall be resolved by mutual understanding or when
necessary by negotiations among the parties at the management level.
Article 6.
The Agreement shall remain in force until all of the reorganization measures have been
completed. With the consent of the parties this term may be extended.
The Agreement shall enter into force on June 23, 1997.



Attachment III
Page 9 of 16
The Agreement shall be executed in three copies. All three copies shall be equally binding.
Chairman of the Board     Chairman of the Supervisory       Chairman of the Board
of the National Bank      Committee, Deputy Chairman        of the Joint-Stock
of Azerbaijan             of the Board of the National Bank  Commercial Savings Bank
/signature/                     /signature/
E. S. Rustamov            A. K. Melik-Aslanov               A. M. Allakhverdiyev



Attachmtent IT
Page 10 of 16
Addendum No. 1 to the Agreement on the Restructuring of the International Bank,
Concluded between the National Bank of the Azerbaijan Republic
and the International Bank of the Azerbaijan Republic
Joint-Stock Commercial Bank
With a view to increasing the effectiveness of measures to restructure the International Bank
of Azerbaijan, the Parties (the National Bank and the International Bank) have agreed to make the
following additions to the agreement of August, 27, 1996, signed by the National Bank of the
Azerbaijan Republic (NBA) and the International Bank of the Azerbaijan Republic Joint-Stock
Commercial Bank (IBA):
* The Supervisory Committee for the International Bank of Azerbaijan will participate in all the
meetings of the Board of IBA, and express its attitude to the issues discussed and decisions
made. The Supervisory Committee has the right of veto over the decisions of the Board.
*  The IBA will not merge with any bank with over five branches.
i  The IBA will attempt to maximize the portion of 1997 dividends as stock dividends rather than
as cash dividends.
*  The IBA will start to implement the institutional improvement programs, including technical
assistance, in preparation for its privatization.
*  The IBA will start work on converting its chart of accounts and standards to IAS and will
prepare a plan to complete its implementation by December 31, 1997.
*  The program containing the principles of privatization and the strategy of privatization of IBA,
which were approved on the meeting of shareholders of the International Bank of June 25, 1997
will be ready by the end of 1997 and will start to be implemented by mid-1998.
*  The shareholders of the IBA will submit a business plan to NBA by the end of June 1997.
*  By July 15, 1997 IBA will present a plan on minimizing the administrative expenses and keeping
them at that level. The Supervisory Group will control implementation of the plan.
* IBA will raise the question with the Government o honoring its guarantees outstanding to the
bank which would be due in 1997.
*  IBA will present the date on its foreign currency position, credit portfolio, financial indicators
and other operations to the national Bank at the determined order and time



Attachment III
Page 11 of 16
* An audit in accordance with international standards of accounting for the period ending
December 31, 1997, by a qualified international accounting firm verifying the ownership
structure and capital adequacy ration of the bank will be submitted to NBA. The IBA will be in
compliance with all of the principles of privatization by mid- 1998 and the business plan.
* Taking into account the Protocol between NBA and IDA concerning the transfer of NBA
deposits to foreign accounts, the IBA will meet the targets specified in this protocol and any
other amendments to the said Protocol.
*  The Agreement signed by the Parties, including this Addendum, shall remain in force until all
restructuring measures are completed.
For the National Bank                   For the International Bank of the
of the Azerbaijan Republic              Azerbaijan Republic Joint-Stock Commercial Bank
Chairman of the Board                   Chairman of the Board
E. S. Rustamov                          F. N. Akhundov
June 25, 1997                           June 25, 1997



Attachment III
Page 12of16
Agreement on Measures for the Reorganization of Agropromuba&l,.
Concluded between the National Bank of the Azerbaijan Republic,
Agroprombank of the Azerbaijan Republic Joint-Stock Commercial Bank,
and the Supervisory Committee
The National Bank of the Azerbaijan Republic, in the person of Chairman of the Board lE. S.
Rustamov, Agroprombank of the Azerbaijan Republic Joint-Stock Commercial Bank, in the person
of Chairman of the Board M. G. Musayev, and the Supervisory Committee, in the persorl of First
Deputy Chairman of the Board of the National Bank, A. S. Guliyev, in accordance with the l aw of
the Azerbaijan Republic "On Banks and Banking in the Azerbai jan Republitc" of June 1 Q 196, have
agreed upon the following:
ARTICLE I
The National Bank of the Azerbaijan Republic will do the following
1. Agroprombank will not have access to NBA funds during 1997 and will, thereaftel-, have
access only on a seasonal basis and if the Bank has positive net worth under NBA prudentVal
standards.
2. Until the reorganization measures have been completed, no interest will be required for
loans made before January 1, 1996.
3. In exceptional cases, with a view to normalizing settlemiients, ove.-draft ;,peratiiiv. wi Il be
permitted for short periods up to a limit.
4. Based on the audit submitted by the bank under Article 2, it will take all necessarv
measures for the Bank to achieve financial viability.
7. The Control Committee and the Agroprombank management will provide the nxecessary
instructions and will also monitor their implementation.
ARTICLE 2
Agroprombank of Azerbaijan Joint-Stock Commercial Bank will do the following:



Attachment III
Page 13 of 16
1. It will meet the following     6/30/97    9/30/97    12/31/97   3/31/98
quantitative targets for the quarters ending:
a) Net reduction in number of branches    10        20         25         25
(cumulative)
b) Cumulative administrative expenses    35.9                  8.8        11.7
(billions of manats) - excluding the fees paid
to clearing centers and expenses to be incurred
in branch closures
c) Gross Loan to Deposit Ratio           230%       200%       160%       120%
d) Cumulative collections on the gross   90         180        200        220
principal amount of loans due on 520 billion
manats as of January 1, 1997
e) Noninterest income (cumulative, billions of  2   5.5        10.0       16.0
manats)
f) Average interest charged on new lending    average at least 2% p.a. increase in all lending
rates
g) The cumulative reduction in the net value    1.0  2.0       3.0        4.0
recorded for the fixed assets will be (in billions
of manats, starting from 34.9 billion)
2. It will reduce the number of employees by 400 staff units from the staff size as of April 1,
1997 by December 31, 1997.
3. It will accept household deposits only at rural branches, while urban branches can
continue to accept deposits from enterprises. Branches to be closed during 1997 shall be identified by
June 1, 1997, and these branches will not take additional deposits.
4. The Bank is allowed to lend under the following conditions:
a) It has in place prudent credit policy and procedures, approved by NBA, which includes
the formation of a Credit Committee. A member of the Technical Assistance team will sit on the
Credit Committee;
b) The Bank will lend only to those borrowers who have repaid on time and/or are current
on their outstanding obligations to the Bank;
c) It will be in full compliance with the maximum Loan/Deposit Ratios;
d) Most new lending will be collateralized with proper registry of collateral so there will be
no future problems;



Attachment III
Page 14 of 16
e) The Bank, with technical assistance, will analyze existing loans, identify non-performing
loans, collections, and provisions. The Bank will then make recommendations as to types of lending
that should continue and be expanded, and submit these to NBA and IDA. Until these
recommendations are approved, new loans will be limited to a maximum of 120 billion manats, to
borrowers that have repaid their loans in the agricultural sector, primarily for the cotton harvest.
f) The Bank will act as an agent of the Government for the risk-free off-balance sheet loans
granted by international financial organizations to farmers.
g) Any other lending that does not meet the above criteria will be done under Government
Guarantee where the Bank will act as an agent for these risk-free off-balance sheet loans.
7. The Bank will provide the Supervisory Committee with information about its operations
on the first of each month.
8. It will step up work by the credit commission to collection overdues.
9. The Bank will not declare or distribute any dividends to founders until it meets prudential
requirements of NBA of minimum capital adequacy and liquidity.
10. The Bank will increase investments in Government andlor NBA paper by at least the
amounts by which the household deposits will increase. In cases where there is not sufficient supply
of Government and NBA paper, the Bank will place these funds with banks that meet the capital
adequacy requirements of NBA.
11. The Charter of the Bank, will be amended prior to December 31, 1997, to remove any
references to minimum ownership shares for the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Agriculture or
any other shareholder.
12. The Bank will submit a business plan to NBA, identifying its strategy for turning the
Bank into viable financial institution and meeting the Letter Agreement conditions, by June 15,
1997. This plan should foresee a substantial increase in noninterest income, an increase in the
number of fee-based nonbanking products, and also an increase in interest rates for new lending by at
least 2 percent.
13. The Bank will sign a contract and start a technical assistance program with the help of
an international bank or consulting firm, experienced in managing and restructuring agricultural
finance institutions, to play an active role in assisting in the management of the Bank and in
implementing the business plan.
14. The Bank, with technical assistance, will start work on converting its account plan and
standards to IAS by September 30, 1997.
15. The Bank will start work on an internal management reporting system by September 30,
to be implemented by December 31, 1997.



Attachment III
Page 15 of 16
16. An audit prepared under international standards of accounting for the period ending
December 31, 1997, by a qualified international auditing firm will be submitted by the Bank to NBA.
17. The Bank will prepare a business plan for 1998 taking into account the audit results and
submit to NBA.
18. It will provide support for the normal operation of the Supervisory Committee.
ARTICLE 3
The following rights and responsibilities of the Supervisory Committee shall be established:
1. Members of the Supervisory Committee will attend meetings of the Agroprombank
Board, voice their opinions, and make suggestions concerning issues being discussed and decisions
that are made.
2. It will receive information, documents, and reports needed to analyze the Bank's
operation.
3. It will perforn inspections as necessary.
4. It will make periodic reports to the NBA management.
5. It will coordinate with the NBA management all measures provided for in this Agreement
and it will obtain the approval of the Agroprombank management for their implementation.
ARTICLE 4
Amendments and revisions to this Agreement may be made only with the consent of all
parties.
ARTICLE 5
Disputes and disagreements which arise will be reviewed jointly and when necessary will be
put forward for discussion by the managers of all the parties to the Agreement.
ARTICLE 6
The Agreement shall remain in force until all of the Bank reorganization measures have been
completed.
The Agreement shall enter into force on June 23, 1997.
The Agreement shall be executed in three copies. All three copies shall be equally binding.



Attachment III
Page 16 of 16
Chairman of the Board      Chairman of the Board             Chairman of the
of the National Bank       of Agroprombank                   Supervisory Committee,
of the Azerbaijan Republic    of the Azerbaijan Republic     First Deputy Chairman
Joint-Stock Commercial Bank       of the Board of the
National Bank of the
Azerbaijan Republic
/signature/ /official seal/      /signature/
E. S. Rustamov             M. G. Musayev                     A. S. Guliyev
i 1997                     , 1997                            , 1997



Attachment IV
Azerbaijan - External Financing Requirements and Sources, 1996-1999
1994   1S5  n2    199           I22      I99    12997-9
Total
(in US$ millions)
Requiremens                                113    759   899    998        1,150    1,701    3,849
Financing of the non-interest current
account deficit, excluding official transfers    190    385   707    724  984    1,531    3,239
Scheduled interest                         3       7    21      26        27        40       93
Scheduled amortization                     0     29    70    106          63        49      218
IMF repayments'                            0      0      0       0         0        17       17
Reduction in external payments arrears (+)  -81    76   -25        0         0         0        0
Increase in gross official reserves          2    261   125    142          76        64      282
Resources                                  113    464   729    840        1,056    1,637    3,533
Official project grants                   71      81    75      59        20        15       94
Official project loans                    54      14    19      86       151       176      413
Private direct investment (net)2          22    275   601    639         922    1,433    2,994
Other private capital (net)3             -34     93    34       56        -37       13       32
Financing Gap                                0    295   170    158          94        63      316
ExcpionalFinancing                           0    295   170    123          94        59      276
Use of IMF resources                       0    101   108       81        69        40      185
World Bank policy-based credit             0      30    31      35        20        15       70
Other bilateral and multilateral assistance  0    72     0       7        10         4       21
Debt rescheduling or cancellation          0     92    31        0         0         0       31
Residual Financing Gap                       0      0      0      35         0         4       40
Including repurchases.
2 Including oil signature bonuses.
3Including errors and omissions.



Attachment V
Azerbaijan - Selected Economic Indicators, 1994-1998
1994      1995     1996      1997      1998     1998      1999
al        Asal   Egimahd  Proje       Pr d t             Prjtcted
National Accounts (percentage change)
Real GDP                               -18.1    -11.0       1.2       5.1      7.6       7.6       8.4
Real GDP per Capita                   -19.1    -11.6        0.4       4.3      6.8       6.8       7.6
Real per Capita Consumption            -9.0      -9.3       0.2       2.3      2.7       2.7       3.2
Consumer Price Index (period average)    1,664.4    411.7  19.9      9.1       6.5       6.5       6.2
Foreign Trad
Merchandise Exports (in US$ millions)   682      680        850      962      1,397    1,397     18.02
Merchandise Imports (in US$ millions)   845      955      1,650     1,455    2,157     2,157     2,594
Current Account (in % of GDP)           -8.3    -11.2     -23.0    -16.0    -19.0    -19.0    -24.0
Export Volume (percentage change)       -8.0     -4.0      15.0      6.3      40.7      40.7     28.7
Import Volume (percentage change)     -24.0    -16.0       29.5      10.2     34.7      34.7      18.7
Public Finance (% of GDP)
Revenues'                              24.5      15.2      16.2      16.9     18.4      18.4      19.4
Taxes                                10.4       9,7      12.6      12.4     13.3      13.3      13.9
Expenditure'                           36.0      19,5      18.9      18.9     19.9      19.9      19.9
Government Consumption               24.8      10.7       9.7      10.1      10.2     10.2      10.1
Transfers & Subsidies                 10.6      4.8       7.9       7.0      7.0       7.0       7.0
Capital Expenditures                  0.6       0.6       0.5       1.4      2.2       2.2       2.3
Overall Deficit                       -11.4      -43       -2.7      -2.0     -1.4      -1.4     -0.5
Domestic Financing                     11.4       0.2       0.0      0.9       0.7       0.7      0.2
Foreign Financing'                      0.0       4.0       2.8       1.1      0.7       0.7      0.3
External Debt (% of GDP)                 --      15.1      16.3      15.8     16.1      16.1      15.6
Public Sector External Debt Service      --       2,5       2.6       3.0      1.7       1.7       1.6
Memo Items:
Exchange Rate (manat/US$)             1,457    4,416      4,305     3,947    3,749     3,749     3,562
Nominal GDP (in US$ millions)         1,843    2,777      3,431    4,350     5,262     5,262    6,423
Source: Azerbaijani authorities, staffs of the IMF and the World Bank.
Revenue and expenditure figures in 1994 and 1995 are not comparable with later years because of the
abolition of Foreign Exchange Fund in early 1995.
Including signature bonuses from oil consortia.



Attachment VI
fimetable of Key Project Processing Events
Time for Preparatioin:                       One year and four months
Identification Missioni.                     January 15, 1996
Preappraisal M;issior:                       October 21. 1996
Appraisal Mission.                           March 10,1997
Negotiations:                                May 19, 1997
Board Presentation:                          July 25, 1997
Expected FffectPvelless.                     August/September 1997
The SAC team members consist of Z. Taymas, J. Saba, 1. Artemiev, E. Ulgenerk, P. Murgatroyd, B. Kaminski, P. O'Keefe, S.
Sen Gupta, and ). Barlas. There was a relatively large time period between the identification and the preappraisal missions,
because the implementation of structural reforms had come to a standstill. The preparation of the SAC resumed only after the
Government's demonstration of continued commitment to reform in the fall of 1996. The active dialogue with the Government
on SAC related policy issues, however, has been continuous.



Attachment VII
Status of Bank Group Operations in Azerbaijan
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Original Arnount in US$ Millions            Between actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                              and expected
Project ID    Credit No.  Year       Borrower               Purpose            IBRD          IDA   Cancellation Undisburs  Disbursements
s         ed          a/
Number of Closed Loans/credits: I
AZ-PE-8288   C27510      1995  GOVT OF AZERBAIJAN   BAKU WATER SUPPLY                   0.00    61.00        0.00     50.46          19.05
AZ-PE-8282   C27080      1995  GOV'T OF AZERBAIJAN   PETROLEUM TA                       0.00    20.80        0.00     18.42           4.67
AZ-PE-8283   C27690      1996  REPUB. OF                INSTITUTION                     0.00    18.00        0.00     10.86          -1.84
AZERBAIJAN              BUILDING
AZ-PE-40544  C29330      1997  AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC  FARM PRIVAT.                        0.00    14.70        0.00     14.19           1.97
AZ-PE-8287   C29230      1997  AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC  GAS REHAB                           0.00    20.20        0.00     19.62           1.52
Total                                                                                   0.00   134.70        0.00    113.56
Active Loans     Closed Loans         Tota
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):           10.38            61.42            71.80
of which has been repaid:               0.00             0.00             0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:          134.70            65.00           199.70
Amount sold         :                      0.00             0.00             0.00
Of which repaid    :                     0.00             0.00             0.00
Total Undisbursed    :                   113.56             0.00           113.56
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio
Performance (ARP), a letter based system will be used (HS = highly satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, IU = highly unsatisfactory): see
proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-90 1), August 23, 1994.
c. Following the FY94 ARPP, "Implementation Progress" will be reported here.



Attachment VIII
Azerbaijan at a glance                                                     Page 1 of 2
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                       Central    Low- 
Azerbaijan     Asia  Income    Development diamond'
Population mid-1995 (millions)                     7.5       488   3,188                Life expectancy
GNP per capita 1995 (USS)                          480     2,240     460
GNP 1995 (billions USS)                             3.6    1,093    1,466
Average annual growth, 1990-95
Population (%)                                      1.0      0A4      18    GNP
Labor force (%)                                     1.8      0.6      119    per
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                      capita
Poverty: headcount index (% of pooulation)
Urban population (% of total population)            54        65      28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                    71        68      63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)            26        23      68
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)           ..        .      38               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)               ..       ..      66
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                 3         .      35         Azerba'
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  89     97     105            e aqan
Male                                              91        97     112          Low-income group
Female                                            87        97      98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985      1994    1995     Economic ratios
GDP (billions USS)                          ..      ..       3.9      3.6
Gross domestic investmenVtGDP                ..   28.3      13.7    16.2              Openness of economy
Exports of goods and non-factor serviceslGDP  ..     ..    56.9    26.9
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   ..   37.5       0.1    -0.4
Gross national savings/GDP                   ..      ..      5.3      3.2
Current account balance/GDP                 ..       ..     -8.4   -13.0      Savings                    Investment
Interest payments/GDP                        ..     ..       0.2      0.3
Total debtUGDP                               ..      ..     16.3    10.1
Total debt servicelexports                  ..       ..      0.0      0.2
Present value of debUGDP                              ..
Present value of debt/exports                .       ..       ..       ..                Indebtedness
1975-84 1985-95    1994      1995 1996-04
(average annual growth)                                                        - Azerba yen
GDP                               50.4   -12.1   -15.7    -13.3                   Low-income group
GNP per capita                    43.9   -13.2   -16.4    -14.1
Exports of goods and nfs            ..      ..   -7.4    -59.1         ..
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1985      1994    1995      Growth rates of output and investment(%l
(% of GDP)
Agrculture                                  ..   25.2         ..             30
Industry                                    ..   47.0                        15
Manufacturing                              ..   36.9         ..         ..  o                              - -
Services                                    ..   27.9         ..       ..   315           91                94
.30
Private consumption                          ..   42.8      68.2    90.4
General govemment consumption                ,,   19.7      31.8    10.0
Imports of goods and non-factor services     ..     ..      70.5    43.4                 -GDI   , GDP
(average annual growth)                1975-84 1985-95      1994    1995     Growth rates of oxporta and Imports (%)
Agriculture ... ..       
Industry                                    ..      ..        ..            -lo     90   91   92   93            9s
Manufacturing                              ..      ..        ..      ..
Services
.30
Private consumption                          ..     ..    -12.3    15.0    40
General govemment consumption                ..      ..   -15.2   -72.8   -50
Gross domestic investment                    ..      ..     41.3      2.6    so0 T
Imports of goods and non-factor services     ..     ..    -13.2   -46.6
Gross national product                    50.4   -12.1    -15.7   -13.5                -Exports *-Imports
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estmates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Attachment VIII
Page 2 of 2
Azerbaijan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    19U       1094    1119      Infatin I%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                     2000
Consumer prices                                             1,864.4   411.7   ism
Implicit GDP deflator                       -0.2    -7.5   1.327.7   608.7    eo-o
Govemment finance                                                               500
(% of GDP)                                                                       o -------    --
Current revenue                                               33.9    14.3              so   s1   92   93   94    a
Current budget balance                                       -11.4    -0.3
Overall surplus/deficit                                      -12.1    -4.1                -
TRADE
1975    1985      1994    1996       Export and Impotlevels (mll. US$)
(millions US$)
Total exports (fob)                                            682     612      W500
Petroleum products                                           208      256    1200
Cotton                                                        99      110
Manufactures                                                                   900
Total imports (af)                                             845     955        o
Food
Fuel and energy 3
Capital goods                                                            ,                  1*1*1          ll   l
Export price index (1987=100)                                                        n 0   o 90     02  93    4   95
Import price index (1987=100)                                                                 Epons ulmpons
Terms of trade (1987=100)                     ..                               ___
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976    1985      1994    1905 
(millions US$)                                                                  Current account balane to GDP rtio (%
Exports of goods and non-factor services                       819     784
Imports of goods and non-factor services                     1,015    1,267
Resource balance                              ,               -198    -483      4
2
Net factor income                      ,                         0       -6     0- ---------'= 
Netcurrenttransfers                                    ,        75     110    -2   0    o0    t   n92      904   5 9
-4
Current account balance,                                                        ,4
before official transfers                                    -121    -379     4
Financing items (net)                                          123     539
Changes in net reserves                                         -2    -160      u
.emo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)           ..      ..         2     263
Conversion rate (ocaaVUS$)                                  1,456.9  4,416.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    1986      1994    11985
(millions USS)                                                                  Compositon of total debt, 12S4 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                           113
IBRD                                                           0
IDA                                                            0
Total debt service                            ,0 ,                                     oD
IBRD                                                           0                    14                   -124
IDA                                         .                  0       ..142
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            ..                                                 / 6
Official creditors                                           8S                          \ 88
Private creditors                                              0
Foreign direct investment                                      0
Portfolio equity                                               0                               9E
World Bank program
Commitments                                                    0              A - IBRD                    E - Blateml
Disbursements                                                  0              B - IDA    D - Otwr mnlasl   F - Puivate
Principal repayments                                           0              C - IMF                     G- Short-term
Net flows                                                      0
Interest payments                                              0
Net transfers                                                  0
Intemational Economics Department                                                                                 315/97
Note: Estimates for economies of the former Soviet Union are subject to more than the usual range of uncertainty






43'5
T. Thim_~__)RUSSIAN
E 0 R G I A                       Booken              FEDERATION                                                        AZE:RBAIJAN 
T. TTh     N                                                     o S... Rio,                                                 0   MWWlaANDch
d e          M ENM\-                                                                                                  L
AghAoO      t          '                                                                4 Kur i
OKelbejer ,;e;)    _.,!   iJ4 -
i.% Aghch4~  >ghjubedi               tA   SS  pSE  cCASPIAN                             SEA    *e         .
LLJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
l   tenumn                        ,                KhDj.N 9i                                                                                                          W       AAHTN
<  t    <          \ ~~~~~~Vehin   K6.j.<_                                                yo
0    <                                 }          t               <                             |      r      /      FeDe^llON   .        rA        0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A*4AN&, 06  MA"NW00 
*x; xJ I S L A M I C R E P U B|t C  F R A N ~~~~~~~~~,                                                               ow   -... REI1ERAJi 40
RUSSIAN
Ch                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEDERATION 
_  }l ?jSRINARB E IAQXISLAMIC    REPUBI    OF  IRAN t
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ARMENIAZ  BUN~
IJ~,SYRIAN ARAB REF[  IRAQ  ISLAMIC REP. OF IRAN    I~









IMAGING
Report No  P        7153   AZ
Type P           RK



