Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                   FE  COpy
Report No. 3297-IN
INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TAMIL NADU EXTENSION PROJECT
March 25, 1981
Education and Agricultural Institutions Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00        =        Rupess (Rs 8.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AAO    -    Assistant Agricultural Officer
AO     -    Agricultural Officer
ADA    -    Additional Director of Agriculture
ADA    -    Assistant Director of Agriculture
AEO    -    Agricultural Extension Officer
APC    -    Agricultural Production Commissioner
BDO    -    Block Development Officer
DDA    -    Deputy Director of Agriculture
DEA    -    Department of Economic Affairs
DOA    -    Directorate of Agriculture
DOE    -    Directorate of Agricultural Extension (GOI)
DOH    -    Directorate of Horticulture
DRD    -    Directorate of Rural Development
DTC    -    District Technical Committee
DVAO   -    Divisional Agricultural Officer
DYAO   -    Deputy Agricultural Officer
GOI    -    Government of India
GOTN   -    Government of Tamil Nadu
HYV    -    High Yielding Varieties
ICAR   -    Indian Council of Agricultural Research
IRRI   -    International Rice Research Institute
JD     -    Joint Director of Agriculture
TNAU   -    Tamil Nadu Agricultural University
SDAO   -    Subdivisional Agricultural Officer
SMS    -    Subject Matter Specialist
SWC    -    Scientific Workers Conference
T&V    -    Training and Visit System of Agricultural Extension
VEW    -    Village Extension Worker(s)
VLW    -    Village Level Worker(s)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND                ....................                           1
A.    Introduction .................................                   I
Agriculture in India .........................                   I
Agricultural Extension .......................                   2
Existing State Projects ......................                   3
B.   The State of Tamil Nadu ......................                    6
General Description ..........................                   6
Agriculture Structure ........................                   6
Agricultural Production ......................                   6
Agricultural Services in Tamil Nadu ..........                   7
Marketing ....................................                   9
II.   THE PROJECT ........................................                   10
A.  General Description ...........................                   10
B.  Detailed Features .............................                  10
The Extension Methodology .....................                  10
Incremental Staff Requirements .12
Training .13
Housing .14
Transport .14
Equipment .14
Operating Expenses .15
Monitoring and Evaluation .15
III.  COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING    .                   .15
A. Cost Estimates .15
B. Proposed Financing .16
C. Procurement .17
D. Disbursement and Audit .17
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .......................                    18
Extension Service .................................                   18
Input Supplies ....................................                   19
State Level Coordination ..........................                   19
Linkages between Extension and Research ....            .......       19
Monitoring and Evaluation .........................                   21
V.    BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  ....            .............      22
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .............                    23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEXES
1 - Table 1       Summary of Project Costs
Table 2       Incremental Staff Salaries
Table 3       Civil Works
Table 4       Incremental Vehicles and Equipment
Table 5       Incremental Operating Costs
Table 6       Training Costs
Table 7       Horticulture Extension
Table 8       Horticulture Extension                                             f
Table 9       Requirement of Extension Staff by Year
Table 10      Staff Requirements
Table 11      Requirement and Availability of Extension Staff
by Subdivision
2 - Training
3- Table I        Implementation Schedule
Table 2       Estimated IDA Disbursements
4   Table 1       Economic Analysis
Table 2       Economic Price for Paddy
CHART -  World Bank - 22284
MAP
IBRD 15429



INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01      The proposed project would be the tenth in a series of IDA-assisted
projects designed to reorganize and strengthen agricultural extension in
India. 1/ Under the project, the Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN) would
reorganize its extension service to provide farmers, on a regular and system-
atic basis, with up-to-date advice on farming practices best suited to their
specific conditions and capable of having an immediate impact on production
and income. This would be achieved by strictly programmed visits from regu-
larly trained field staff, supported by professional advice from the Department
of Agriculture (DOA) and from research. 2/ The project was prepared by GOTN
with assistance of staff of the Bank's Resident Mission in India.  Appraisal
took place in October 1980. This report is based on the findings of the
appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. C.P.R. Nottidge, R.J.G. Le Breton
(IDA), T. Lohavisvapanich (FAO/CP), d.M. Mathur and G.R. Galgali (Consultants).
Agriculture in India
1.02      The area of India is 3.29 M km  of which 55% is cultivable and
about 25% of net cultivated area irrigated. India's population of over 650 M
is growing at an annual rate of about 2%. National income has grown at about
3.5% per annum since 1950, and the per capita GNP reached US$190 in 1979.
Although average per capita income has increased, in general, there has been
little change in the living standards of the vast mass of urban and rural
poor, conservatively estimated at 300 M people with incomes below the poverty
line of US$79 per capita per year. Thus, GOI's development plans give priority
to alleviating poverty and creating employment, especially in rural areas.
1/   The nine previous projects are described in the following appraisal
reports:
Assam Agricultural Development Project, Cr. 728-IN.
West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project, Cr. 690-IN.
Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project, Cr. 737-IN.
Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project, Cr. 712-IN.
Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project, Cr. 761-IN.
Orissa Agricultural Development Project, Cr. 682-IN.
Composite Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Haryana,
Gujarat and Karnataka), Cr. 862-IN.
Kerala Agricultural Extension Project, Cr. 1028-IN.
Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project (Appraised in October 1980)
2/   The main principles of the proposed extension reform are described in
Agricultural Extension: The Training and Visit System (World Bank, 1977).



- 2 -
1.03      Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Indian economy and contri-
butes about 40% of GNP. It engages about 70% of the labor force and provides
the base for about 60% of India's exports.  During the last decade, GO! develop-
ment plans have emphasized agriculture and sought to raise foodgrain production
by increasing the use of irrigation, fertilizers, plant protection chemicals,
and seeds of improved varieties. In support of this, GOI has modernized and
expanded its agricultural credit institutions and accelerated the development
of irrigation. More recently, increased attention has been givei- to the estab-
lishment of improved extension services and upgrading the research capabilities
needed to support this extension effort.
1.04      These efforts appear to be bringing significant results.  Over the
past decade foodgrain production has grown at about 2.75% p.a., sufficient to
meet consumer demand, eliminate imports (which had averaged nearly 5 million
tons per year for the 15 years preceeding 1976) and lower real foodgrain prices
to consumers. At the same time India was able to build up sufficient buffer
stocks of rice and wheat to cope with the 1979/80 drought with comparative ease,
and to export about 0.5-0.6 million tons of rice in 1980/81. While these devel-
opments are very encouraging, great efforts will be required to maintain this
pace. Moreover, per capita production of a number of other important crops,
including cotton and oilseeds, has fallen during the period. Furthermore, India's
agriculture is particularly susceptible to the vagaries of weather and foodgrain
production can vary as much as 20% between successive years. Although expansion
of irrigation facilities to reduce this variation remains a priority, GOI recog-
nizes that the bulk of India's cropped area and over half of its farmers, cannot,
in the foreseeable future, benefit from water-intensive agricultural technologies.
Moreover, although much appropriate research is available, yields under rainfed
conditions have shown little or no improvement over this period-- a fact which
prompts this project's emphasis on rainfed as well as irrigated farming.
Agricultural extension
1.05      State Governments have direct responsibility for agricultural exten-
sion; they operate through their Departments of Agriculture (DOA), generally
with the cooperation of other state departments, including Community Develop-
ment. While organization varies between states, in states where extension ser-
vices have not been reorganized through the type of project appraised in this
report, the extension service is generally headed by the Director of Agriculture
who reports to the Secretary of Agriculture. He is assisted by staff located at
state, zonal and district levels.  The Collector (the senior representative of
the civil administration at the district level) coordinates activities between
the various agencies of government, with the District Agricultural Officer (DAO)
representing DOA. Below the district level, Agricultural Extension Officers
(AEO) generally report on routine matters to the Block Development Officer (BDO),
an official of the state Community Development Department. In some states,
locally elected councils (panchayats) also play a role and the BDO are respon-
sible to these bodies. Given the multitude of local activities and lack of
direct administrative control by DOA, AEO are often diverted to non-agricultural
activities. The village level worker (VLW), a multipurpose worker and generally
an employee of the Community Development Department, is supposed to spend 75-80%
of his time on agricultural extension under the direction of the AEO. However,
the VLW is administratively responsible to the BDO and the lack of a well-defined
agricultural program, combined with the demands of his other activities, generally
result in his spending very little time on agricultural extension. The same is
generally true of the AEO. What little extension work is done is neither planned
systematically, nor supervised adequately.



- 3 -
1.06      Over the years, dissatisfaction with the effectiveness of the
multi-purpose worker for increasing agricultural production has led to the
development of a variety of special programs focusing on particular crops,
areas, or techniques. Staff employed under these schemes are usually under
the administrative control of various subject matter departments of DOA.
In a given state, such schemes usually cover only a few districts and only
part (e.g., one crop) of the farmers' operations. These schemes have tended
to dissipate extension efforts in many uncoordinated directions and divert
attention and resources from the need to reform the main line extension
agency.
1.07       In addition to the organizational problems mentioned above, the
extension service often suffers from inadequate and outdated staff training.
There are usually too few staff to cover the farming community adequately and
they lack sufficient mobility to reach farmers systematically and regularly.
Furthermore, government-owned housing is scarce and rented accommodation hard
to come by in rural areas where extension workers need to be based. Linkages
with research have been tenuous and irregular. All these factors have hampered
effective extension work. They have resulted in a general stagnation in agri-
cultural production, with most extension personnel having low status, low pay
and poor morale.
1.08      With yields in irrigated and rainfed areas remaining at levels well
below potential, GOI has become increasingly concerned with improving agricul-
tural extension. A new system of extension--the Training and Visit System
(T&V)--based on frequent and regular farm visits by full-time, and adequately
trained extension personnel was developed in 1974 with IDA assistance. Under
this approach, a substantial portion of the multipurpose VEW is transferred
from Community Development Departments to DOA to work exclusively on agricul-
tural extension. The results from the Chambal Irrigation Project in Rajasthan,1/
where the system has been in operation since 1974, were so encouraging that the
approach has been subsequently adopted in ten states under projects discussed
below.
Existing State Extension Project
1.09      The Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 737-
IN, US$13 M, effective in February 1978), was an outgrowth of the favorable
results obtained with the new approach to agricultural extension pioneered
under the Chambal Command Area Development Project (Cr. 562-IN, effective
September 1975) and the Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project
(Cr. 502-IN, effective December 1974). The Government of Rajasthan is pre-
sently reorganizing and strengthening extension and supporting adaptive
research to serve 2.9 M of the state's 3.7 M farm families in 17 districts
where an immediate potential for improving agricultural production exists.
Project implementation has picked up rapidly. Farmers have responded favor-
ably to the system, and adopted new practices like seed treatment, basal
dressing with fertilizers, and intercropping with kharif pulses which have
helped them to grow a good crop even under drought conditions. There is now
a need for more intensive work by researchers to develop more sophisticated
1/   This covered about 84,000 farm families and 360,000 ha of which about
two-thirds is irrigated.



-4-
technological packages since farmers have developed confidence in the exten-
sion staff and are highly receptive to new techniques and skills.
1.10      As a result of experience with improved extension activities in the
Chambal Irrigation Command Area, Madhya Pradesh requested IDA assistance in
extending the reorganization of agricultural extension services to cover both
irrigated and rainfed areas in 15 of 45 districts in the state (Cr. 712-IN,
for US$10 M, effective September 1977). Progress was good in the early stages
of the project, but slowed down later due to frequent changes in project
management. The major problems noted by the various early supervision missions
were staff shortages, slow construction of buildings and houses, inadequate
liaison between research and extension organizations and slow implementation
of the T&V system, although district phasing had proceeded as planned. Despite
this, there has been considerable improvement during the past year and almost
all posts have now been filled. Having overcome cumbersome bureaucratic ten-
dering procedures, the building program is now gaining momentum. Liaison
between research and extension has been well established resulting in a sub-
stantial involvement of research workers in training extension staff and with
greater emphasis being given to resolving farm related problems within the
overall research program. At a recent survey, 75% of contact farmers were
aware of the day of visit of the VEW and almost all could identify him by name.
About 81% of contact farmers have adopted at least one of the recommended
practices.
1.11      In project districts, there has been a 300% increase in the use of
clean and graded seed, a 35% increase in the planting of seed of improved
varieties and a 28% increase in the use of seed dressings. Fertilizer use,
both under rainfed and irrigated conditions, has increased by 66% over 1976/77
levels (as compared to 48% in other districts of the state) and the use of
soil testing facilities increased by 69%. In October 1980, IDA appraised a
project to extend the T&V system to cover all districts of the state.
1.12      Eastern India, including Assam, Bihar, Orissa and West Bengal, is
the country's "rice bowl." Despite its high potential, foodgrain yields are
low and production has barely kept pace with population growth. The stagna-
tion of agricultural production has been partly due to the inability of the
extension service to give meaningful advice to farmers; similarly, research
has failed to focus on the majority need for simple, low cost means of improv-
ing production.  Orissa was the first state to reorganize its agricultural
extension service throughout the entire state (Cr. 682-IN, for US$20 M, effec-
tive June 1977). Virtually all of the state's 3.4 M farmers are now covered
by the program and according to the most recent supervision mission, good
progress has been made and farmers have responded well and have accepted,
on a widespread basis, new practices for increasing production, e.g., intro-
duction of mustard as a new crop, seed treatment, and use of manually operated
seed drills. In addition, the supervision mission has reported favorably on
the way extension messages are reaching even the remotest villages.
1.13      During the preparation and appraisal of the West Bengal Agricultural
Development Project (Cr. 541-IN, effective August 1975), which supports minor
irrigation development in a portion of the state, one of the major constraints



was identified as a lack of effective agricultural extension. Consequently,
the project included a component to strengthen extension in six districts
along the principles established in the Chambal and Rajasthan Canal Areas.
The initial impact of extension reorganization was so favorable that the state
decided to expand the coverage. This was provided in Cr. 690-IN, for US$ 12 M,
effective August 1977. Initially, the project was highly promising: 2,400
multipurpose workers were transferred from the Community Development Department
to the control of DOA and were trained in the dissemination of specific messages
for farmers and, together with DOA technical staff, worked with farmers in
identifying and solving field problems. In the latter part of 1977, however,
a new Government of West Bengal (GOWB) suspended its earlier decision to place
the Village Extension Worker (YEW) under the administrative control of DOA
pending a thorough review. This drastically reduced the ability of VEWs to
visit farmers regularly, and extension operations came to a virtual halt in
most of the state. GOWB has now re-established the single line of command,
placing all extension staff under DOA, thus removing the major obstacle to
project implementation. Although recruitment and training of new VEW has
started, the tempo of work has not yet reached former levels due to an injunc-
tion being brought against the Government by some staff transferred from the
Community Development Department. The injunction was partly lifted in January
1981 allowing newly recruited VEW to $tart field work.
1.14      Under the Assam Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 728-IN, for
US$8.0 M, effective September 1977), Assam became the third state in the
eastern region to reorganize its extension service. The project now covers all
of the approximately 1.9 M farm families in Assam's plains districts. In the
first districts covered, improved farm practices such as transplanting of
paddy, use of HYV paddy, increased area and higher yields of HYV wheat and
increased consumption of fertilizers resulted. In the more recently covered
districts, the effects of extension work are already starting to be seen. -
Unfortunately, in view of political unrest in Assam, it has not been possible
to supervise the project since November 1979.
1.15      Under the Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr.
761-IN for US$8 M, effective May 1978), through a reorganization of existing
staff, some 9,000 VEW were to reach all of Bihar's 7.6 M farm families. However,
very little progress has been made so far with the reorganization. Ihe posts
of Director of Agriculture and Additional Director of Agriculture (Extension)
remain vacant and the extension system is operating in only 5 of 31 districts.
The persistent delay by the Government of Bihar in filling key posts and
general commitment to the project is of great concern. More recently, govern-
ment has expressed renewed commitment to the project and some staff have been
appointed. IDA and GOI are following the situation closely. The state govern-
ment has been alerted that unless significant progress is made by March 31,
1981, IDA will have to reassess its involvement in the project.
1.16      The Composite Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 862-IN for US$25 M)
became effective in December 1979. Under this project, the governments of
Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka have undertaken the reorganization of extension
services in their states. The project also includes strengthening of the capa-
bility of the Directorate of Agricultural Extension of the Government of India
(GOI) in order that it may assist all states in the implementation and opera-
tion of the reorganized extension system. Extension activities are going well
in Haryana and Karnataka. In Gujarat, the quality of extension work is not



- 6 -
uniform. While in some districts its impact is highly effective, in other
districts it has suffered from inadequate supervision by the State DOA. The
State Government has been urged to remedy the situation.
1.17      The most recent project, the Kerala Agricultural Extension Project
(Cr. 1028-IN for US$10 M) became effective in June 1980. Recently, there have
been changes at the top administrative and political levels in agriculture with
the result project implementation has made little progress. A recent supervi-
sion mission discussed project proposals with the new officials and agreed on
a modified program for implementation. Field work has begun in three districts
and will start in the remaining districts in May, 1981
1.18      The beneficial results of the system are not being achieved with
equal success in all areas due to local problems. The decision to transfer
control of considerable numbers of multipurpose extension workers to the
Department of Agriculture and assign them to work exclusively on agriculture
requires a major political commitment and reorganizational efforts. It has
been difficult for some state governments to make this decision and maintain
it once made. In addition, the absence of timely financial sanctions, tardy
staff recruitment, and protracted procedures for acquisition of land have
sometimes slowed progress, although these problems have now been overcome in
most states. Encouraged by the impact which the Training and Visit system
of extension is having in areas where it has been successfully operating,
GOI is seeking to bring about similar reorganization throughout all states
in India. The GOI Directorate of Agricultural Extension (DOE) has taken the
initiative to help states overcome initial difficulties. Although these
projects are demanding in terms of IDA supervision, their great potential
for sustaitned increases in food production and improved incomes for the rural
sector justifies continued IDA participation.
B. The State of Tamil Nadu
General Description
1.19      Tamil Nadu, situated in the south of the Indian sub-continent,
occupies an area of about 130,000 km . Its estimated population of 46.8 M
million (1979) represents about 7% of the Indian total. The State's per
capita income in 1977/78 was Rs 1,036 compared to an all-India average of
Rs 1,189. About 60% of the working population is engaged in agriculture
which accounts for 43% of the State's GDP. The State is divided into 15
districts, subdivided into 151 taluks.
1.20      The State has two main geographical regions; first the coastal
plain 50-100 km wide which runs from Madras to Cape Comorin and from the Bay
of Bengal to the Eastern Ghats (hills) with mainly sedimentary soils and an
average rainfall of about 1,200 mm. The second region being the central pla-
teau lying between the Eastern and Western Ghats with mainly red soils on
crystalline rock formations and with an average rainfall of about 800 mm.
The Western Ghats are the watershed for the main rivers flowing into the Bay
of Bengal of which the Cauvery is the most important. There are three main
seasons; the SW monsoon from June to September (maximum month 100 mm of rain);
the NE monsoon from October to December with the heaviest rainfall (maximum
month 700 mm) and the dry season from January to May with little rain.  Tem-
peratures range from 250C in January to 31.5 C in June.



-7
Agriculture Structure
1.21      The net sown area is about 6.3 M ha (48% of total area), while
a further 3.6 M ha (28% of total area) is classified as pasture, fallow
or cultivable waste land. About 2.9 M ha (46% of net sown area) is irrigated
of which the most important source is tanks (38%) followed by canals (36%) and
wells (26%).
1.22      Farm holdings in Tamil Nadu are small and often fragmented.  Eighty
percent of holdings are up to 2 ha in size (representing 36% of farm land),
16% range between 2 and 6 ha (32% of farm land) with the balance of 4% (52%
farm land) above 6 ha.  There is a high proportion of tenant farmers who at
present have relatively limited rights and who generally are unable to mort-
gage the lands they farm. A ceiling has been placed on individual land
ownership and operational farm units are often greater than statistics would
imply because of divided ownership among many members of the same family.
Nonetheless, the small size of farms is an important factor in the sta te's
agricultural economy.
Agricultural Production
1.23      Although paddy is the state's most important single crop (repre-
senting about 36% of cropped area), rice production, which in 1977/78 amounted
to 5.9 M tons, is barely adequate to meet local consumption demands and in
drought years must be imported from other states. The remainder of the
cropped area is divided among cereals (27% of cropped area), oilseeds--
mainly groundnuts (16%), pulses (6%), cotton (4%), sugarcane (2%), and a
variety of other commercial and subsistence crops (9%). The total production
of cereals and pulses averaged 7.1 million tons over the three years to
1977/78, while of the commercial crops, 1977/78 production of sugar (jaggery)
was 1.02 M tons, cotton 686,000 tons and oilseeds 1,018,000 tons.
Agricultural Services in Tamil Nadu
1.24      Extension Services.  At present, most field level extension work
is carried out through several special crop schemes under the Directorate
of Agriculture, notably for paddy, cotton, coconut, tobacco, sugarcane and
pulses. These schemes were established in the early 1970s because GOTN found
that the previous system, which relied entirely on multipurpose Village Level
Workers (VLWs) under the control of the Directorate of Rural Development, could
not carry out regular intensive extension work. While this approach made an
impact in the limited areas of its operation, some problems have emerged:
(a)  the coverage per unit is limited.  Thus, given the available
staff, only a relatively small proportion of the state's
farmers (about 10%) could be reached;
(b)  frequent regular training was not a feature of the system;
(c) separate staff for different crops led to duplication of
efforts by the agricultural department and high operating
costs;



(d)  farmers, who normally grow a variety of crops, had to
consult several different sources for advice;
(e)  the number of "units" in a district grew too large to be
effectively supervised by District staff;
(f)  extension staff at the units lacked mobility, became office-
bound due to growing paper work and became input supply
agents, rather than agents of technological change; and
(g)  there was no regular systematic contact between the exten-
sion staff and the farmers.
In addition, the Directorates of Horticulture and Oil Seeds (recently formed)
provide advice to farmers, the former department being solely responsible for
all agricultural extension activities in Nilgiris District where tea, coffee,
deciduous fruits, spices and vegetable crops constitute the main crops grown.
During the past decade, much emphasis has been laid by the Directorate of
Agriculture on the introduction of high yielding varieties, developing and
advocating packages of agricultural practices and increasing the use of fertil-
izers, plant protection chemicals, weedicides and mechanized land preparation.
More recently, the emphasis on increased production shifted to the area approach,
wherein intensive farming practices were introduced for the specific needs of
each of the agroclimatic zones, e.g., Drought Prone Area Program, Integrated
Dryland Area Development Program, Intensive Agricultural Development Program
and the Intensive Agricultural Area Program. Despite these efforts, the annual
growth in food grain production over the last 10 years has been less than 5%
and that of commercial crops has widely fluctuated with seasonal conditions.
Moreover, yields from rainfed crops are still a cause for concern although
production could be increased considerably through the adoption of improved
husbandry practices.
1.25      Training.  The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU), established
in 1971 at Coimbatore and employing some 1,500 staff, is the primary agricul-
tural training institution in the state. In 1979, it awarded 331 B.Scs, 128
M.Scs and 22 Ph.Ds in agriculture and allied fields. TNAU's Extension Wing
provides in-service training to extension service staff at its main campus and
at research stations. The Directorate of Agriculture is represented on the Exten-
sion Education Council chaired by the Vice Chancellor of TNAU, which meets to
develop training programs as required. There are also two training centers
currently operating in the state, one in Coimbatore district, and the other in
Madurai District, with a total capacity for training of about 140 students.
At present, these centers are used primarily to train multipurpose Assistant
Agricultural Officers/Demonstrators and who are generally employed on special
crop development schemes. The State Agricultural Institute at Kudumiamalai
trains farmers and departmental staff and has facilities for training in use
of agricultural machinery.
1.26      Research.  Responsibility for agricultural research in Tamil Nadu
rests primarily with the Directorate of Agriculture and is conducted on its
25 research stations located throughout the state. The main areas of work
are in the paddy, coconut, groundnut, cotton and sugarcane crops. Research
is largely concentrated on the stations, although limited work is done on



-9-
farmers' fields in a few villages surrounding the various research stations.
In addition, TNAU carries out research including research into horticultural
crops, farm machinery, food processing and livestock. Research is undertaken
on farms located at the two main campuses at Coimbatore and Madurai and at
10 outreach stations and subcenters. Government has decided that full respon-
sibility for agricultural research will be transferred to TNAU (including the
transfer of the research stations), once agreement can be veached on terms and
conditions of services for DOA staff working in research who wo_ld also be
transferred. DOA is also represented on TNAU's research advisory committee.
These formal relationships are supplemented by numerous informal contacts.
The working relationships between DOA and TNAU are good and productive.
1.27       Credit.  The cooperative apex institution for short and medium-term
agricultural credit is the Tamil Nadu State Cooperative Bank which works through
16 District Cooperative Central Banks and about 4,800 village agricultural
credit societies located at the District and Village levels, respectively.
Long-term credit is provided by the Tamil Nadu Central Land Mortgage Bank
through Primary Land Mortgage Banks. Commercial Banks also provide Et growing
volume of credit to agriculture. Due to a reluctance in farmers to repay
past loans, seasonal advances, over the past two years have declined substan-
tially. However, the amounts of fertilizers and pesticides sold have not
declined as farmers have resorted to cash purchase of their needs.
1.28      Input Supplies.  Tamil Nadu, one of the more highly developed states
in India and with a good transportation network, is well served by its input
supply system. For fertilizer, there are over 13,700 selling points, about
evenly divided between public sector cooperatives and private dealers. Few
farmers have to travel more than 3 km for their fertilizer supplies. Plant
protection chemicals are sold from about 8,000 outlets. DOA is directly
involved in the production of seeds and the production and distribution of
planting material of tree crops. HYV paddy foundation seed is multiplied on
DOA farms; nucleus seed being supplied by TNAU. Registered growers multiply
foundation seed to produce certified seed. DOA staff carry out field inspec-
tions and quality control tests while distribution to farmers is from DOA
depot and seed stores located at Panchayat Unions.
Marketing
1.29      Under the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce Market Act (1959), regu-
lated markets have been established throughout the state for the sale of most
agricultural produce. At each of the 230 markets, farmers' produce is auctioned,
officially weighed and immediate cash payment made for produce bought. Daily
information is given to growers on prevailing prices, demand and amounts of
individual crops being delivered. In addition to private buyers, the Tamil
Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation purchases paddy at prices established by
Government.



- 10 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
2.01      The five year project seeks to achieve early and sustained increases
in agricultural production throughout Tamil Nadu's 15 districts through the
reorganization and strengthening of the extension services of DOA and the
Directorate of Horticulture (Nilgiris District only). The project would support
this reorganization by
-    establishing a single line of command between full-time
village extension workers (VEW) and extension headquarters;
-    consolidating staff from the special crop schemes of DOA into a
single unified service;
-    incorporating regular in-service training as an integral
part of extension activities;
-    improving the working linkages between extension operations
and agricultural research activities;
-    developing regular monitoring and evaluation procedures; and
-    providing the additional staff, operating expenses, equipment,
vehicles, training facilities, and rural housing required
to implement these reforms.
introduction of the reorganized extension service would be phased over a
two year period, with eight districts (including Nilgiris District) being
covered in the first year and seven in the second year.
B. Detailed Features
The Extension Methodology
2.02      Under the project, Tamil Nadu's agricultural extension service would
be reorganized and intensified throughout the state, following the T&V pattern
adopted in other Indian states over the past three to four years. The project
would systematically and regularly provide farmers with up-to-date advice on
farming practices best suited to their specific conditions and emphasizing proven
practices. This would be brought about by organizing extension field staff so
that they visit farmers regularly and receive systematic training and technical
support from DOA and from research institutions. Each Village Extension Worker
(VEW) drawn from the cadres of Assistant Agricultural Officers and Demonstration
Assistants, would be assigned to work with a number of farm families. The
number would vary depending on local conditions, population density, cropping
intensity and accessibility. In most parts of Tamil Nadu, road communications
are good, and this would permit an average farm family: VEW ratio of 800:1.
However, available statistics probably understate the number of farm families
in Tamil Nadu as the current estimate of 3.81 M effective farm families is



- 11 -
based on figures derived from the 1971 population census. In any event, the
actual number of effective operating families will vary from around 600 in
sparsely-populated areas to about 1,500 in a few densely-settled coastal areas
where coconut is virtually the only crop and communications are good. Contin-
gency provision is made in project costs to provide for 300 additional VEW, if
in the course of project implementation, GOTN and IDA determine that more inten-
sive coverage by VEW is warranted. As assurance was obtained during negotiations
that GOTN and IDA would review progress of project implementation by March 31,
1983 to determine if the number of field staff (VEW) should be increased.
2.03      To reach his farmers systematically, the VEW would divide them into
eight smaller groups each of about 100-150. He would visit each group regularly
on a fixed day of the week in a two-week cycle. During his visit, the VEW
concentrates his efforts on about 10 contact farmers selected from each group,
involving as many other farmers as possible. By the concrete results he
achieves with contact farmers, the VEW can spread his recommendations more
effectively to all farmers. During each visit the VEW would concentrate his
efforts on only a few strategically-selected recommendations relevant for that
particular phase in the crop cycle. Initially, the emphasis would be on low
cost improvements which the majority of farmers can afford. The VEW would be
supervised and helped in his work by an Agricultural Officer/Deputy Agricultural
Officer (DYAO), the former would usually hold a B.Sc. degree in agriculture. One
DYAO would normally be responsible for about six to eight VEW and would spend at
least four days a week visiting them in the field. Once in each two-week period
VEW would receive a full day of intensive training in recommendations for that
period. Thus, every two weeks VEW would spend eight days in visiting each of his
eight groups and one day in training. One day might be spent by the DYAO meeting
together with all his VEW in the field or at headquarters to review progress and
identify topics to be raised at the next training session. The remaining working
days in the two-week cycle would be devoted to trials on farmers' fields, making
up missed visits and occasional, but limited office work.
2.04       To provide regular training, continuous technical guidance and
supervision of field work, between six and eleven agricultural subdivisions
would be established in each district under the charge of a Divisional
Agricultural Officer (DVAO), who would have full time responsibility for
supervising 6-10 DYAO in his areas and ensuring effective extension opera-
tions.  A subdivision would comprise one or a number of taluks.  The DVAO would
have a technical staff of three Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) (one each in
agronomy of field crops, plant protection, and training/communications). SMS
would spend one-third of their time in training groups of VEW once each fort-
night (para 2.06), one-third of their time in field visits providing technical
support and guidance to VEW, and one-third of their time in building their
own stock of knowledge through a regular dialogue with research workers, carry-
ing out simple field trials in farmers' fields, and attending short training
courses. At the district level, a team of three SMS (generally in the same
specialities as at the subdivisional level) would be established to provide
greater depth of support to SMS teams at the subdivisional level and/or to
cover specializations not covered by those at the subdivision. They would
also divide their work between teaching, field visits and gathering knowledge.
The Joint Director (JD) in charge of the District will have direct responsi-
bility for extension operations throughout his District. To free the JD for



- 12 -
frequent field visits so necessary to review extension operations effectively,
one Deputy Director of Agriculture would take over responsibility for reporting
on scheme implementation, attending coordination meetings at district level,
regulatory functions, and input supply arrangements. Staff at DOA headquarters
would also be strengthened to provide more effective support to field operations
(para 4.02).
Incremental Staff Requirements
2.05      Staff required to implement this reform would be met by redeploying
staff already with DOA and DOH, transferring staff from Directorate of Rural
Development and hiring new staff. Detailed breakdown of staff requirement and
availability by year, district and subdivision are given in Annex 1, Tables 8
and 9. The table below summarizes staff available and required by category.
Assurances were obtained that GOTN would fill incremental staff positions accord-
ing to or earlier than the schedule shown in Annex 1, Tables 2, 7 and 9. As the
tables indicate, some 4,777 VEW are required. This requirement would be met by
redeploying about 1,090 Assistant Agricultural Officers (AAOs) and 1,214 Demon-
stration Assistants already with the DOA and now utilized for special crop and
area schemes, merging them with 1,122 VLW, to be transferred from the Directorate
of Rural Development (DRD) and hiring about 1,351 new recruits. As a condition
of invitation to negotiations, GOTN has issued a government order transferring
513 VLW positions from the DRD to DOA.
Extension Staff Requirements - DOA
Total        Number    Incremental
Required    Available   Requirement
VEW                      4,777         3,426         1,351
DYAO                       645           467           178
SMS (SUBDIV)               297           201            96
DVAO                        99            60            39
SMS (DIST)                  57            13            44
DYAO (TECH)                 57            55             2
JD                          14             2            12
SMS (HQ)                     7             7             0
DYAO (HQ)                    2             0             2
Asst. DA (HQ)                1             0             1
ADA (EXTN)                   1             1             0
New posts would have to be created and filled by GOTN for 1,351 VEW, 178 DYAO,
96 subdivisional SMS, 39 SDAO, 44 District SMS and 12 JD.  New VEW posts would
be filled by promoting Demonstration Assistants or by direct hiring of those
passing out from the state training institutions (para 2.07). The outturn from
TNAU is sufficient to meet the need for graduates. Additional staff (1 DDA, 4
SMS, 5 DYAO and 40 VEW together with the necessary support staff) would also
be recruited for the Horticultural Directorate (Annex 1, Table 7). The extension
service would be directed in its day-to-day operations by a full-time Additional
Director of Agriculture who would work exclusively on this job. Assurances were
1/ In Tamil Nadu VEW are known as AAO and the AEO as AO/DYAO. DVAO is generally
of the rank of Asst. Director of Agriculture.



- 13 -
obtained that the VEW would be used exclusively for agricultural extension and that
their emolument would not be adversely affected as a result of the reorganization.
Training
2.06      The project would support a variety of in-service training
programs for extension staff. The most important of these are outlined
in Annex 2. Central to the entire extension support and an integral
part of it is the fortnightly training session during which VEW would be
trained in groups of about 30 by subdivisional SMS, assisted by the DYAO
and drawing on the district SMS as well as specialists from nearby research
stations.  The entire training effort would be focused on making these fort-
nightly sessions as effective as possible. Training would be practical and
concentrate only on the few specific recommendations relevant to farming
operations in the coming fortnight. Ample time would be provided for VEWs,
to carry out the recommendations and to practice how they would convince
farmers to adopt them. They would also have an opportunity to raise and
discuss problems encountered in the past two weeks. On alternate weeks VEWs
would meet with their DYAOs to review progress. Other inservice training
courses for VEW include a pre-season workshop/training session for each major
season and about one special short course per year on a particular technical
topic.
2.07      Newly recruited VEW would have generally received two years training
at one of two institutions located in Madurai and Coimbatore districts. The
average intake at each institution is from 40-70 and with a total output of 80-
140 annually. Currently, there are more than 800 persons from these institutes
registered at employment exchanges throughout Tamil Nadu. These, together with
promotions from the Demonstration Assistant cadres and the anticipated number
qualifying from Sri Ramakrishna Vidyalaya and Ghandigram Rural Institute would be
sufficient to fill new posts created during the first three years_of the project
and fill vacancies arising from retirement, transfer, etc. In addition, in-service
training (three month period) and refresher training (two month period) would
be given at the State Agricultural Institute to those Demonstration Assistants
promoted to VEW and who had received their training some while before their
promotion.
2.08      Higher level staff would require a range of training programs as
well.  Each month DVAO would meet with SMS and DYAO  for a one day training
and planning session during which the main points of emphasis and schedule
of activities for the coming two fortnights would be determined. Before
each season, training sessions would be held at the district level for DVAOs.
Also, before each season there would be a workshop at the zonal research
station attended by JD, DVAO and SMS. During this session research workers
at the zonal station together with DOA staff would review the previous sea-
son's research results, specify recommendations and plan the coming season's
research and field trials programs (paras 4.05-4.11). While the fortnightly,
monthly and orientation training of VEW and DYAO by SMS would be a major fea-
ture of the project, additional and more specialized training would be imparted
to various categories of extension staff. This more specialized training
(details are in Annex 2) would be conducted at the State Agricultural Institute,
located at Kudumiamalai and which would be enlarged and improved under the
project.



- 14 -
2.09      Improving the training of SMS is crucial to the success of the
project. One primary vehicle for this would be a monthly workshop held at
the research station designated in each main agro-climatic zone for this
purpose. The workshop would be attended by all SMS in the zone together with
TNAU, DOA and DOH staff and headquarters SMS. The main objective is to review
results achieved, modify recommendations as necessary to suit prevailing
field conditions, review findings and progress of field trials and develop
suggestions for future research topics and field trials. In addition, special
short-term practical courses in production technology and extension methods
would be organized for SMS both at TNAU and at all-India institutions. A
limited number of scholarships at TNAU would be provided for DOA staff who
perform well. Before the introduction of the extension system in a given
district, an orientation course of about three to four days duration would be
organized by senior DOA staff. This would explain the new system and its
procedures in detail, assist district staff in designating geographic areas
of responsibility for VEWs, demonstrate by example how contact farmers should
be selected, and outline major initial impact points. Further details are
given in Annex 1, Table 6.
Housing
2.10      Under the reorganized extension service, extension workers would be
required to make regular and frequent visits to their farmers' groups. Conse-
quently, it is necessary for them to live in or near their areas of work.
At negotiation GOTN provided assurances that VEW and DYAO would live in or
near the areas assigned to them. Since housing is difficult to find in some
areas of Tamil Nadu and as a result of a preliminary survey, the project would
provide housing for about 20% of VEW and DYAO (1,750 houses). An assurance was
obtained that GOTN would furnish to IDA, at regular intervals (through DOE),
information on progress in locating sites for housing to be financed under the
credit. Details are given in Annex 1, Table 3.
Transport
2.11      Effective extension requires a high degree of mobility both to enable
field level staff to meet farmers regularly and to enable technical and super-
visory staff to make frequent personal visits in order to provide the direct
guidance needed. The entire system thus depends on a high degree of personal
contact between all levels of the extension hierarchy. To facilitate this, the
project would provide various modes of transport for different levels of staff,
one car for each JD and one 4 wheel drive vehicle or van for each district level
SMS and DVAO. VEW would be provided loans on attractive terms to purchase bicy-
cles. Similar loans would be provided to DYAO and SMS to purchase scooters or
motorcycles. Assurances were obtained from GOTN that loan terms and conditions and
travel all mileage allowances would be sufficient to ensure the purchase and use
of these vehicles. The project would also provide four-wheel drive vehicles
at subdivisional and district levels, and a limited number of sedans at
district and headquarters levels. Details are given in Annex 1, Table 4.



- 15 -
Equipment
2.12      The project would provide simple dependable audio-visual equipment
to support the training sessions and to enhance field operations. Emphasis
would be on low-cost, simple aids such as charts and flipcharts which exten-
sion staff can design themselves and modify to fit local conditions. The
Information wing of DOA would assist the extension service by using its existing
printing and photographic equipment supplemented by equipment provided under the
project. Furniture and office quipment would also provided as necessary.
Details are given in Annex 1, Table 4.
Operating Expenses
2.13      DOA's operating expenses would increase with the implementation of
this project. Of particular importance would be the availability of funds and
materials for printing diaries, field note books, charts and instructional
materials, materials for practical demonstrations at training sessions, seeds
and other inputs for field trials and materials for preparing simple visual
aids. Adequate funds would also be provided for incremental vehicle operating
costs and travel allowances. Further details are given in Annex 1, Table 5.
Monitoring and Evaluation
2.14      The project would provide for the establishment and operation of a
monitoring and evaluation system specifically designed to provide project man-
agement with current information on the effectiveness of the extension system.
The methodology used would be similar to that described in World Bank Staff
Working Paper No. 272 "A System of Monitoring and Evaluation Agricultural
Extension Projects." This system would supplement direct personal supervision
by each level of project management (paras 4.01 and 4.02). Details of staffing
are given in Annex 1, Tables 2, and 9-11. Assurances were obtained that
GOTN would undertake monitoring and evaluation in a form acceptable to IDA and
that results would be forwarded (through DOE) to the Association at least once
a year.
III. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
3.01      Detailed cost estimates inclusive of taxes and duties and based on
incremental costs for carrying out the project over a five year period are
given in Annex 1, Tables 1 to 8. The following table summarizes the costs:



- 16 -
Rs M                    US$ M/a
% Foreign
Category             Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
Incremental Staff Costs  115.9    -         115.9  14.5       -      14.5
Civil Works                 76.5    -        76.5   9.6       -       9.6
Equipment & Vehicles        21.3   10.0      31.3   2.7      1.2      3.9       32
Training                    22.4    1.9      24.3   2.8      0.2      3.0        8
Incremental Operating
Costs                       25.3   13.0      38.3   3.1      1.6      4.7       34
Total Base Cost            261.4   24.9    286.3  32.7       3.0    35.7
Physical Contingencies    10.6    1.1        11.7   1.3      0.2      1.5
Price Contingencies         60.8    6.0      66.8   7.6      0.8      8.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST         332.8   32.0    364.8  41.6       4.0    45.6         9
/a   Converted at the rate of Rs 8.0 = US$1.0.
These costs include about US$5.9 M in duties and taxes and an estimated
US$ 4.OM in foreign costs. Physical contingencies of 5% have been applied to
civil works, equipment, training, and operating costs and to meet the possible
need of 300 VEW (para 2.02) to readjust the farm families:VEW ratio. Price
contingencies have been applied in accordance with current Bank estimates
of expected inflation rates in India (1980: 10%, 1981-83: 7% per annum; 1984
and onwards: 5%) and compounded accordingly.
B. Proposed Financing
3.02      Finance to cover project costs of Rs 318 M (US$39.7 M), including
contingencies, but net of taxes and duties would be provided as follows:
Amount
Source               US$ Million           Percentage
IDA                     28.0                 70.0
GOTN/GOI                 11.7                30.0
Total                    39.7               100.0
The proposed IDA Credit of US$28.0 M would be to GOI on standard terms and
conditions and would finance about 70% of project costs, net of taxes and
duties, but including estimated foreign exchange costs of US$4.0 M. IDA funds
would be channeled through GOI to GOTN in accordance with GOI standard arrange-
ments for IDA assisted state development projects. The balance of project
financing, beyond IDA financing, would come from state government sources and
GOI. GOTN has made adequate budgetary provision for the operation of the
first project year.



- 17 -
C. Procurement
3.03      The main items to be financed are: vehicles including cycles and
motorcycles; equipment; houses for VEW and DYAO; training; project monitoring;
incremental staff; and incremental operating costs. Civil work contracts
(US$9.6 M), for 1,750 houses, would be small and dispersed, both geographic-
ally and over time; therefore, they would not be satisfactory for international
competitive bidding. Contracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding following local advertisement. There are numerous qualified local
contractors to carry out such work. Arrangements for preparing tenders and
overseeing construction were discussed during negotiations. All contracts
for civil works, equipment and furniture estimated to cost $100,000 or more
would be reviewed by IDA both before bids are invited and contracts awarded.
3.04      153 motor vehicles (US$1.3 M) of various types would be required
under the project. They would be purchased in small quantities overtwo
years and would be widely dispersed in rural areas. As adequate maintenance
and availability of spare parts would be of paramount importance, thi would
necessitate purchase of locally made vehicles of types already used by govern-
ment departments. Thus, procurement would be according to existing government
procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA. Motorcycles and bicycles (US$0.8 M)
would be purchased by individual staff from loans provided by the state
government and refinanced under the project.
3.05      Orders for purchase of minor equipment and furniture (US$1.8 N)
would be bulked wherever possible and purchased according to established local
bidding procedures, except where valued at less than US$50,000 when they would
be purchased by prudent shopping through normal trade channels. Assurances
on procurement procedures mentioned in paras 3.03-3.05 were obtained at nego-
tiations.
D. Disbursement and Audit
3.07      Disbursement under the Credit would extend over six  years and would
be made against:
(a) 100% of cost of training;
(b) 80% of the cost of civil works, equipment and vehicles; and
'4
(c) 25% of the total eligible staff costs. 1/ The percentage
is calculated to bring total IDA disbursements to about 70%
of the project cost.
3.08      Disbursement against expenditures for staff costs, training, locally
procured vehicles and equipment costing Rs 150,000 or less, and payments under
1!   Total extension staff costs eligible for partial disbursement would be the
following agricultural and horticultural staff: yEW, DVAO, DYAO, SMS, JD
& ADA at village, subdivision, district and state levels and staff of the
monitoring and evaluation unit.



- 18 -
civil works contracts for one or more progress payment(s) not exceeding Rs 300,000
under Item (b) above would be against certified statements of expenditures, the
documentation for which would not be submitted to IDA for review but would be
retained by GOTN and DOA. These documents would be available for inspection by
IDA during the course of project review missions. Disbursement against all other
items would be fully documented. Certificates of expenditures would be audited
by GOTN independent auditors once every year and a report submitted to IDA promptly
thereafter. All disbursement applications would be forwarded and processed through
the Department of Economic Affairs. Schedules of implementation and project dis-
bursement are presented in Annex 3, Tablesll and 2.
3.09      Assurances were obtained that separate accounts would be kept of
expenditures made under the project.  These would be audited annually for each
fiscal year, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied
and the audit report submitted to IDA as soon as available.  In addition, cer-
tified accounts would be submitted to IDA within nine months of the end of the
fiscal year.  Such reports and audits would show, intet alia, that the funds
withdrawn were used for the purpose intended that goods have been received or
or work performed, and that payments have been made. All reports would be
submitted by GOTN to the Department of Economic Affairs for onward transmission
to IDA.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Extension Service
4.01      The project would introduce fundamental improvements in the organi-
zation and management of extension operations in Tamil Nadu. By establishing
a single line of control from extension headquarters to VEW (see chart for
the organizational pattern), field level staff become directly accountable
to their supervisors both technically and administratively. Each would follow
a fixed schedule of visits to specific groups of farmers, which is known to
farmers. Each DYAO would supervise about 5-8 VEWs, spending at least four days
a week in the field assisting and guiding them. The DVAOs provided under the
project would each be responsible for ensuring that DYAO in their respective
subdivisions are working effectively. To do this, DVAO would need to spend
about five days a week in the field, including attending fortnightly training
sessions. SMS at the subdivision provide essential technical support as des-
cribed in para 2.04. DVAO is directly responsible to the District JD. Normally
a JD would have six DVAO in his charge. The Horticultural Directorate in
Nilgiris District, would establish a similar organization.
4.02      The DOA headquarters organization would be streamlined to provide
effective management and technical support to the extension service as a whole.
While overall responsibility for general agricultural development in the state
rests with the Secretary for Agricultural and the Directors of Agriculture
and Horticulture, the ADA (Extension) would be responsible for the day-to-day
operations and management of the extension service both technically and admin-
istratively. Subject to the policy directions of the Secretary and Director of



- 19 -
Agriculture, the Additional Director of Agriculture (Extension) would be respon-
sible for training and management of extension personnel. He would visit the field
frequently to check on the effectiveness of extension operations. ADA (Extension)
would have a technical support staff of seven SMS at headquareters (one each for
main crops grown throughout the state, plant protection, adaptive research and
training, and water management). These SMS would be responsible for improving
the technical quality of the extension service in their areas of specialization.
They would help promote linkages between extension SMS and research work being
carried out in Tamil Nadu and elsewhere, develop and interpret field trials in
their areas of specialization, organize training programs and serve as a clearing
house of technical information. ADA (Extension) would also be assisted by a small
administrative and accounting staff to help keep records of project expenditures and
prepare progress reports, etc. The Director of Horticulture would also be assisted
by SMS and who would promote linkages between extension and research.
Input Supplies
4.03      Since extension staff at the lower levels will not be responsible for
the distribution of fertilizers and plant protection chemicals, it is proposed
to keep these activities outside the purview of the extension service but within
that of DOA. At district level JD will continue to coordinate requirements
but at taluk and subdivisional levels, this activity will be catered for by
separate input staff (Divisional Agricultural Officer (Inputs) and Deputy
Agricultural Officer (Inputs), respectively). As a separate seeds organization
is to be established responsible for all aspects of seed production and distri-
bution, the above staff will liaise with their counterparts in that organization.
The public sector network would supplement the already substantial network of
private and cooperative input supply points.
State Level Coordination
4.04      Coordination at State Level between extension, research and allied
agencies would be ensured through establishment of a Project Coordination
Committee. The Committee would be chaired by the Secretary for Agriculture
and would include the Vice Chancellor of TNAU, Directors of Agriculture and
Horticulture,representatives of concerned government departments and other
agencies (Finance, Irrigation, Cooperation and input agencies). The Additional
Director of Agriculture (Extension) would act as Secretary to this Committee.
The Committee would meet at least twice a year to review progress in project
implementation and to resolve any problems that may arise. An assurance was
obtained that such a committee would be established and hold its first meeting
before September 30, 1981
Linkages between Extension and Research
4.05      As neither research nor extension can function without close coopera-
tion it would be necessary to formalize their responsibilities. A clear defi-
nition of responsibilities is emerging wherein the Tamil Nadu Agricultural
University would be made fully responsible for the development of suitable new
technology, while the Directorate of Agriculture would assume responsibility for
transfer of technology to farmers, including widerspread testing of research
recommendations on farmers' fields. This transfer of responsibility will take
place once agreement is reached on the terms and conditions of staff transferred
from DOA to TNAU and as a result it may be necessary to revise the formal link-
ages between the extension service and research. The commodity research programs



- 20 -
of TNAU and of ICAR would continue to identify and select improved varieties of
important crops, and also identify economically appropriate practices directed
to substantially increasing crop production and, at the same time, lowering far-
mers' risk. Selected varieties and production practices would then be tested at
zonal research stations, seed farms, and on farmers' fields located in different
agroclimatic regions. TNAU staff would work closely with district and subdivi-
sional extension staff, especially SMS, as much of the work at zonal stations
would be in response to the needs of local extension staff and farmers. The
extension staff would work with research workers in carrying out a program of
field trials and analyzing and interpreting the results.  Research workers would
take responsibility,on a monthly basis,for SMS training at the zonal level in
order to prepare them for the fortnightly training of VEW and AEO. GOTN and
TNAU have reviewed arrangements for closer cooperation and these have been found
satisfactory to the Association.
4.06      Strengthening of arrangements for close coordination between TNAU
and DOA/ DOH would also be promoted through State and District level techni-
cal committees (paras 4.07 and 4.08).
4.07      The State Technical Committee (STC).  This Committee already exists
as the Scientific Workers Conference (SWC). SWC comprise senior officers of
TNAU, DOH and DOA, meets twice every year and provides a formal mechanism for
review of university and DOA research and field trials, and reviews future
research programs and extension recommendations.
4.08      District Technical Committees (DTC).  Until such time as the reorga-
nization of research is complete (para 4.05), district level technical committees
would be established. Each Committee would be chaired by the JD and comprise
representatives of district field staff, SMS and regional agronomists of TNAU
and farmers. The DTC would meet twice every year to review and formulate recom-
mended agricultural practices, including the identification of research priorities
and adaptive research needs, for transmission to the Scientific Workers Conference.
Once the reorganization of research services is complete the organization of DTC
may be reviewed and altered, if necessary, to strengthen and improve the linkages
between extension and research but any such alteration would be satisfactory to
the Association and assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
In addition assurances were obtained that DTC, for those districts to be covered
in the first year of project implementation, would be established and hold their
first meeting by September 30, 1981. For districts to be covered in the second
year of project implementation DTC would be established, and hold their first
meeting, by September 30, 1982.
4.09      Zonal Workshops. Seasonal zonal workshops would be chaired by the
senior research scientist of TNAU and meet twice a year (before the kharif and
rabi cropping seasons). The workshop would include representatives from TNAU
and extension and research staff of DOA/DOH, and would discuss implications
of various extension recommendations made by DTC and finalize them after con-
sidering research data and field experience.



- 21 -
4.10      The formulation of extension recommendations would be as under:
District Technical Committee            Reviews adaptive research and trials
to propose recommendations, and
JD/SMS/Field Staff/Farmers/TNAU         suggests field trial program, based
among other things on findings of
%            monthly zonal workshops.
Zonal Seasonal Workshop                 Assembles proposed recommendations
from DTC. Frames recommendations
TNAU/Extension Staff of Zone            after consideration of research data
and economic constraints.
Scientific Workers Committee            Reviews proposed recommendations
developed by zonal workshops. Approves
Director of Research (TNAU)             or suggests modifications before
Director of Extension (TNAU)            returning to DTC for implementation.
Directors of Agriculture & Horticulture
ADA (Extension)
DOA/TNAU Research Workers
District Technical Committee            Adopts or rejects modifications suggested
by STC. Formulates specific fortnightly
JD/SMS/Field Staff/Farmers/TNAU         recommendations.  These will form the
basis of fortnightly training sessions
after suitable modifications by SMS at
the monthly zonal workshops.
Monthly Zonal Workshops                 Zonal workshops will modify recommenda-
tions made at preseason training to
TNAU Research Staff/SMS/DVAO/JD         suit prevailing field conditions, review
findings and progress of field trials,
review training techniques and prepare
lesson plans for fortnightly training.
4.11      Training.  TNAU and research workers from DOA would assist in provid-
ing monthly training of SMS who are responsible for the fortnightly training of
VEW/DYAO in the districts. JD and DVAO also would participate. The duration
of training will be one or two days. The training would serve the following
objectives:
(a)  To review field developments since previous training:
(i) how extension recommendations were used in VEW training;
(ii) problems in extending recommendations; and (iii) prob-
lems posed by farmers in adopting them under normal and
special situations like drought, epidemic attack of pest/
diseases, and flood.
(b)  To identify clearly the most important recommendations
that should be made during the next two fortnights, keeping
in mind past experience and field conditions.



- 22 -
(c) Listing field problems posed by fgrmers and field staff
and discussing them; ensuring that such problems which
cannot be solved during discussions in the workshops are
taken up with TNAU for solution and further study.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.12      A Joint Director of Agriculture at headquarters would have respon-
sibility to the Director of Agriculture for monitoring and evaluation. He
would be assisted by a statistician, one economist and other staff. Results of
the monitoring and evaluation unit would be reviewed each season by a committee
comprising the Secretary for Agriculture (Chairman), the Director of Agriculture
and ADA (Extension).  A benchmark survey would be carried out by the Directorate
of Evaluation and which would establish basic data against which the long term
effects of the project could be evaluated. Provision is included for subsequent
surveys if required and details of cost are given in Annex 1, Tables 5 and 6.
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
5.01      Financial Implications.  Total project costs over the five year
development period, excluding price contingencies,amount to US$37 M which
is US$ 5.9 per ha of cropped land or US$9.7 per farm family, assuming 3.8 M
effective farm families (based on figures derived from the 1971 census). In-
cremental recurring costs after the project development period to be met
from State budget sources, would be about US$4.5 M per annum or US$1.2 per
farm family. Incremental costs would be partly recovered through market
levies on agricultural produce entering commercial markets.
5.02      Economic Benefits.  Attributing a precise level of benefits to this
type of project is difficult since it is not possible to determing what pro-
portion of benefits are due to extension alone and what are due to additional
purchased inputs and other factors. In practice, it is the combination of a
number of factors, with extension playing the role of catalyst, that brings
desired benefits. It is also difficult to estimate acceptance rates of recom-
mended practices. However, since the project relies primarily on reorganization
and strengthening of an existing extension structure the increment,al cost is
low per hectare and per farm family. Hence, even very small and slow production
increases in the project area would generate a high rate of return. This project
would be able to generate a 50% rate of return if, by 1988, yields of foodgrains
(which cover 75% of cropped land area) increase by only 1.3%. Per hectare
yields of paddy and millets would have to increase by 65 kg/ha and 22 kg/ha,
respectively. Details are given in Annex 4. One significant feature of the
system is that the practices initially stressed by the extension service focus
on improving cultural practices (timely operations, good land preparation,
proper seed rates, line sowing and weeding) to maintain adequate and healthy
plant population over unit area cultivated; as these operations usually involve
more work and little cash outlay, they are particularly well-suited to the
needs of many small farmers.
/



- 23 -
5.03      Project Risks.  The transfer of multipurpose field workers and esta-
blishment of a single, unified professional extension service marks a major
departure from past practice in India.  The fact that such a reform is underway
in large parts of the country reflects a willingness to develop an extension
system capable of serving all farmers well. Nevertheless, it is difficult for
governments to make and maintain such decisions. The main risk, therefore, is
that the state government would find it difficult to maintain a single line of
command from extension headquarters to the VEW who work exclusively on agricul-
ture.  In this project these risks are relatively low because only about 25%
of field staff are to be transferred from another department. To reduce these
risks further, efforts were made during project preparation and appraisal to
ensure full understanding of the importance of this by the Tamil Nadu State
Government. In addition, an assurance was obtained that VEW would remain as
full time agricultural extension workers under the DOA and DOH throughout
the project period. Staff changes in the upper ranks of government are fre-
quent and there is the additional risk of lack of sustained management. To
avoid this, it will be necessary for IDA to continue to supervise the projects
closely and frequently and provide constant encouragement and assistance to state
governments until the principles of the extension reform become fully accepted.
5.04      Experience has shown other risks to be minimal.  Farmers responsive-
ness to recommendations has been generally excellent wherever visits are made
systematically. In addition, VEW have gained confidence in their own profes-
sional ability to introduce innovations. The ability of the service to
develop and disseminate recommendations leading to yield increases well above
the level needed for a 50% return has been demonstrated adequately. Initially,
in most situations, availability of suitable technology for different conditions
has not been a constraint as there is a backlog of research findings as yet
not widely adopted. Major yield increases are possible even in the process of
bringing the production level of average farmers to that of the best farmers.
To reduce the risk of technological constraints lowering anticipated project
benefits, the project supports programs of field testing of research results
and development of good working relationships with Tamil Nadu Agricultural
University. A separate project, National Agricultural Research Project (Credit
855-IN), is directed at strengthening research facilities at the Agricultural
University to ensure a continuous flow of recommendations adapted to specific
regional problems.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government of
India and Government of Tamil Nadu on the following matters:
(a) GOTN and IDA would jointly review progress of project implemen-
tation by March 31, 1983 and if then agreed necessary, increase
the number of field staff (para 2.02);
(b)  GOTN would fill incremental staff positions according to or
earlier than the schedules shown in Annex 1, Tables 2 7 and
9 (para 2.05);



- 24 -
(c) GOTN would ensure that all extension positions assigned to
the administrative control of DOA under this project would be
used exclusively for agricultural extension and retained under
the administrative control of DOA during project execution
(para 2.05);
(d) GOTN would ensure that VEW and DAO would live in or near the
area assigned for their operations (para 2.10);
(e) GOTN would ensure that credit and travelling allowances
would be made available to staff on such terms and condi-
tions as to create incentives for the purchase and use of
motorcycles and cycles (para 2.11);
(f) GOTN would undertake monitoring and evaluation of the
project in the form already agreed with GOI. Further,
GOTN would forward to IDA (through DOE) a yearly summary
of results in a form acceptable to IDA (para 2.14);
(g)  GOTN would establish a  roject Coordinating Committee
which would hold its fiist meeting by September 30, 1981
and thereafter meet at least twice a year (para 4.04) and
(h) GOTN would establish by September 30, 1981 District Technical
Committees for those districts covered by the first year of
project implementation and by September 30, 1982 for those
districts covered by the second year of project implementa-
tion. Any change in these arrangements, as a result of a
reorganization of agricultural research services, would be
satisfactory to the Association (para 4.08).
6.02      With these conditions and assurances the project would be suitable
for a Credit of US$28.0 M to GOI on standard IDA terms.



25 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST
(Rs' 000)
Cost Categoy                      Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Total Cost    Foreign Exchange %
INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS
- Base Cost               /         11,083.0 '26,2l5.0o 26,215.0  26,215.0  26,215.0   115,943.0
- Physical Contingencigsa               -          -          -      1,050.0   2,100.0       3,150.0
- Price Contingencies-                 997.0   4,194.0   6,292.0   8,389.0   9,962.0    29,834.0
TOTAL                             12,080.0  30,409.0  32,507.0  35,654.0  38,277.0   148,927.0
CIVIL WORKS
- Base Cost               /         14,890.0  13,680.0  20,520.0  27,360.0         -        76,450.0
- Physical Contingenc7s-               744.5      684.0   1,026.0   1,368.0        -         3,822.5
- Price Contingencies-               1,407.1   2,298.2   4,925.0   8,755.0         -        17,385.3
TOTAL                             17,041.6  16,662.2  26,471.0  37,483.0         -        97,657.8
EQUIPMENT & VEHICLES
- Base Cost              c/         18,273.2  13,000.7        -          -         -        31,273.9
- Physical Contingenci?s-              914.0      650.0       -          _         -         1,564.0
- Price Contingencies-               1,644.0   2,080.0        -          -         -         3,724.0
TOTAL                             20,831.2  15,730.7        -         -          -        36,561.9         32%A/ 11,699.5
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS
- Base Cost                          3,706.7   8,401.2   8,908.2   8,408.2   8,908.2    38,332.5
- Physical Contingencirs/              185.3      420.1      445.4     420.4      445.4      1,916.6
- Price Contingencies-                 333.6   1,344.2   2,137.9   2X690.6   3,385.1         9,891.4
TOTAL                              4,225.6  10,165.5  11,491.5  11,519.2  12,738.7    50,140.5             34%   17,047.8
TRAINING
- Base Cost              C/          3,852.0   5,150.0   5,097.0   5,097.0   5,097.0    24,293.0
- Physical Contingenc is-              193.0      258.0      255.0      255.0     255.0      1,216.0
- Price Contingencies-                  347.0     824.0   1,223.0   1,631.0   1,937.0        5,962.0
TOTAL                              4,392.0   6,232.0   6,575.0   6,983.0   7,289.0    31,471.0              8%    2,517.7
TOTAL
- Base Cost                         51,804.9  66,446.9  60,740.2  67.080.2  40,220.2   286,292.4
- Physical Contingencies             2,036.8   2,012.1   1,726.4   3,093.4   2,800.4    11,669.1
- Price Contingencies                4.728.7  10.740.4  14,577.9  21,465.6  15,284.1    66.796.7
GRAND TOTAL                       58,570.4  79,199.4  77,044.5  91,639.2  58,304.7   364,758.2              9%   31,265.0
a/ Calculated as staff salary of 150 and 300 VEW in last 2 years only for additional VEW
if needed after a mid term review.
b/ Inflation rate - applied cumulatively at 9%, 16% 24%, 32% and 38% respectively for project
years 1 through 5. (Expected date of loan effectiveness at July 1981).
c/ Physical contingency calculated at 5%.
d/ Weighted average of vehicles (25%) and equipment (40%).



* 26 _
Table 2
INDIA
TAJIL NADU AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
INCREMENTAL STAFF SALARIES AND INCENTIVES
(Ro' 000)
Annual
Unit;Ctet         Year 1             Year 2             Year 3             Year 4             Year 5          Total
(Rs' 000)    (No.)    Cost    (No.)    Cost    (No.)    Cost    (No.)    Cost    (No.)    Cost    Cost
INCREMENTAL .zXTENSION STAFF
Iteadquarters
7 DY. AO. (Tech)                                   14.0        (2)       28.0    (2)        28.0    (2)        28.0    (2)        28.0    (2)         28.0      1.40,0
- Assistant D.A.                                   16.0        (1)       16.0    (1)        16.0    (1)        16.0    (1)        16.0    (1)         16.0        80.0
DISTRICT
J D A.A/                                         26.0        (5)      130.0   (12)       312.0   (12)       312.0   (12)       312.0   (12)       312.0    1,378.0
D.D.A. (S.X.S.)k/                                21.0      (17)       337.0   (44)       924.0   (44)       924.0   (44)       924.0   (44)       924.0    4,053.0
DY. AO (TECNi)                                   14.0         -         -       (2)       28.0    (2)        28.0    (2)        28.0    (2)         28.0       112.0
SUBDIVISIONAL
DV. AE/-                                         16.0      (19)       304.0   (39)       624.0   (39)       624.0   (39)       624.0   (39)       624.0    2,800.0
DY. AO ,iNS>S)                                   14.0      (44)       616.0   (96)   1,344.0   (96)   1,344.0   (96)   1,344.0   (96)   1,344.0    5,992.0
DY. AO.-                                          14.0      (2)        28.0  (178)   2,492.0  (178)   2,492.0  (178)   2,492.0  (178)   2,492.0    9,996.0
Field Level   YEW.d.                               7.0    (513)   3,591.0 (1351)   9,457.0 (1351)   9,457.0 (1351)   9,457.0 (1351)   9,457.0   41,419.0
SUB-TOTAL                                                          5,070.0           15,225.0            15,225.0           15,225.0           15,225.0   65,970.0
INCRE6ENTAL SUPPORT STAFF
Ad,inistrative Officer                           16.0       (2)        32.0    (2)        32.0    (2)        32.0    (2)        32.0    (2)        32.0        160.0
Assistant Account Officer                        16.0       (7)       112.0   (14)       224.0   (14)       224.0   (14)       224.0   (14)       224.0    1,008.0
Superintendenta (SPDT)                           11.0      (52)       572.0  (102)   1,122.0  (102)   1,122.0  (102)   1,122.0  (102)   1,122.0    5,060.0
Assistant Superintendent                          9.0    (129)   1,161.0  (286)   2,574.0  (286)   2,574.0  (286)   2,574.0  (286)   2,574.0   11,457.0
Junior Assista-t Superintendent                    7.0       (9)       63.0   (44)       308.0   (44)       308.0   (44)       308.0   (44)       308.0    1,295.0
Typist                                             7.0     (78)       546.0  (164)   1,148.0  (164)   1,148.0  (164)   1,148.0  (164)   1,148.0             5,138.0
Steno -Typist                                      7.0      (31)      217.0   (65)       455.0   (65)       455.0   (65)       455.0   (65)       455.0    2,037.0
Drivers                                           6.0       (37)      222.0  (106)       636.0  (106)       636.0  (106)       636.0  (106)       636.0    2,766.0
Servant                                            5.0    (151)       755.0  (324)   1,620.0  (324)   1,620.0  (324)   1,620.0  (324)   1,620.0              7,235.0
Artist                                            9.0        (1)        9.0    (4)        36.0    (4)        36.0    (4)        36.0    (4)        36.0        153.0
Screen Designer                                  11.0        (3)       33.0    (6)        66.0    (6)        66.0    (6)        66.0    (6)        66.0        297.0
Cine Operator                                     9.0        (4)       36.0    (7)        63.0    (7)        63.0    (7)        63.0    (7)        63.0        2?8.0
Record Clerk                                       5.0      (59)      295.0  (121)       605.0  (121)       605.0  (121)       605.0  (121)       605.0    2,715.0
SUB-TOTAL                                                          4,053.0             8,889.0            8,889.0            8,889.0            8,889.0   39,609.0
MONITORINGI/EVALUATION STAFF
Dtrector NIE                                      26.0       (1)       26.0    (1)        26.0    (1)        26.0    (1)         26.0    (1)        26.0       130.0
Agricultural Statistician                        21.0        (1)       21.0    (1)        21.0    (1)        21.0    (1)        21.0    (1)        21.0        105.0
Agricultural Economist                           21.0        (1)       21.0    (1)        21.0    (1)        21.0    (1)        21.0    (1)        21.0        105.0
Rural Sociclogist                                21.0        (1)       21.0    (1)        21.0    (1)        21.0    (1)        21.0    (1)        21.0        105.0
Head, Special Studies                            21.0        (1)       21.0    (1)        21.0    (1)        21.0    (1)        21.0    (1)        21.0        105.0
Technical Assistant                              14.0        (2)       28.0    (4)        56.0    (4)        56.0    (4)        56.0    (4)        56.0        252.0
Field lnperni8cr                                 14.0      (14)       196.0   (14)       196.0   (14)       196.0   (14)       196.0   (14)       196.0        980.0
Field Investigator                                 7.0      (42)      294.0   (56)       392.0   (56)       392.0   (56)       392.0   (56)       392.0    1,962.0
Typist                                             7.0       (I)        7.0    (1)         7.0    (1)         7.0    (I)         7.0    (           2.0         35.0
Steno-Typist                                       7.0       (3)       21.0    (3)        21.0    (3)        21.0    (3)        21.0    (3)        21.0        105.0
Driver                                             6.0       (2)       12.0    (2)        12.0    (2)        12.0    (2)        12.0    (2)        12.0         60.0
Servant                                            5.0       (7)       35.0   (10)       -50.0   (10)        50.0   (10)        50.0   (10)        50.0        235.0
SUB-TOTAL                                                             703.0              844.0              844.0              844.0              844.0    4,079.0
TRAINING CENTER
J.D.A.                                            26.0       (1)       26.0    (1)        26.0    (1)        26.0    (1)        26.0    (1)        26.0        130.0
DY. D.A.                                          21.0       (2)       42.0    (2)        42.0    (2)        42.0    (2)        42.0    (2)        42.0        210.0
Assistant D.A.                                    16.0       (3)       48.0    (3)        48.0    (3)        48.0    (3)        48.0    (3)        48.0        240.0
DY. AO.                                           14.0       (3)       42.0    (3)        42.0    (3)        42.0    (3)        42.0    (3)         42.0       210.0
Superintendent                                    11.0       (I)       11.0    (1)        11.0    (1)        11.0    (1         11.0    W1          11.0        55.0
Assistant                                          9.0       (3)       27.0    (3)        27.0    (3)        27.0    (3)        27.0    (3)         27.0       135.0
Junior Assistant                                   7.0       (2)       14.0    (2)        14.0    (2)        14.0    (2)        14.0    (2)         14.0        70.0
Artist, Operator                                   9.0       (2)       18.0    (2)        18.0    (2)        18.0    (2)        18.0    (2)         18.0        90.0
Typist                                             7.0       (2)       14.0    (2)        14.0    (2)        14.0    (2)        14.0    (2)         14.0        70.0
Clerk, Roneo Operator                              6.0       (2)       12.0    (2)        12.0    (2)        12.0    (2)        12.0    (2)        12.0         60.0
Steen-Typist                                       7.0       (3)       21.0    (3)        21.0    (3)        21.0    (3)        21.0    (3)         21.0       105.0
Librarian                                        14.0        (1)       14.0    (1)        14.0    (1)        14.0    (1)        14.0    (1)         14.0        70.0
Driver                                             6.0       (7)       42.0    (7)        42.0    (7)        42.0    (7)        42.0    (7)        42.0        210.0
Servant                                            5.0      ill)       55.0   (11)        55.0   (115        55.0   (11)         55.0   (11)        55.0       275.0
SUB-TOTAL                                                             386.0              386.0              386.0               386.0              386.0    1,930.0
HORTICUL1TURE EXTENSION                                                     871.0              871.0              871.0              871.0              871.0    4,355.0
Total (Excluding contingencies)                                   11,083.0           26,215.0           26,215.0           26,215.0            26,215.0  115,943.0
Physical contingencies (VEW)                                          -                  -                   -      (150)   1,050.0  (300)   2,100.0    3 150.0
GRAND TOTAL                                                       11.083.0           26,215.0           26,215.0           27,265.0            28,315.0  119,093,0
a/ T.o JDA alresdy available
b/ Includes one Water management Specialist.  Thirteen Smss already available.
c/ Includes one at subdivisional office:  Sixty subdivisional AC already available.
d/ 191 5S15s and 532 DY. AO already available.



INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
CIVIL WORKS
(Re' 000)
Aria     Cost      Unit        Year 1            Year 2            Year 3            Year 4            Year 5         Total
.qt.    (M   ?(Rs/M2)    Cost    (NO.)    Cost    (No.)    Cost    (No.)    Cost    (No.)    Cost    (No.)    Cost    Cost
a/
VEW                                        1,450     50-/    720        36. v    145   5,220.0    290  10,440.0    435  15,660.0    580  20,880.0         -         -  52,200.0
DY. AC                                       300     75-h/    720       54. 0/    30   1,620.0      60   3,240.0      90   4,860.0    120 '.6,480.0       -         -  16,200.0
SUB-TOTAL                                                                      6,840.0          13,680.0          20,520.0          27,360.0      -         -  68,400.0
Training Center (Kudumiamalai)A-               1  5,000    1,076                    1   5,380.0                                                                     -   5,380.0  N
Horticulture Extension-l                                                                2,670.0                                                                         2,670.0
SUB-TOTAL                                                                      2,670.0     -       _                  _        _       _          _        _   2,670.0
Total (Excluding contingencies)                                                       14,890.0          13,680.0           20,520.0          27,360.0                  76,450.0
Physical contingencies at 5%)                                                             744.5             684.0           1,026.0           1,368.0                   3,822.5
GRAND TOTAL                                                                     15,634.5          14,364.0          21,546.0          28,728.0                   80,272.5
a/ Housing provided to approximately one-third of field level VEW and DYAO staff.
b/ Area is within limits prescribed _for staff on salary range of VgW and DYAO (cf. G.O.M.S. No. 1805).
c/ Approved by GOTN PWD for 1980-81.
d/ Consists of (i) 150 bed hostel, 3 ciass rooms, conlference hall,laboratory, library and office, and staff quarters.
e/ Details at Annex 1, Table 7.
Dex



000~> 00000.    OgM                  |*||||H u    -                                    to                                            0    'eeSS   
<on   'lw>               ;irn4*No O  w0  5 s       0c U P15         m0        =u- w                                                               6           w            [Iw@uwX-u
moooo >X  qff2w2   0*                                                                   4    N    00 00 0                 r 4               H                              H    0    c~  00  5  c
 ottO         oo       O noo.                                      oo oo n    c                                          tot             V'    j%0                   000*> r >             s            r |w 9 ~
5    o    {j    n    {    2    rs    w   n   *   g   o   u  u  rt  n  n X n t 7t w M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  C to 0  ~
to0t O,                     oOO u0                            Or          *       o          0           i                                w0  *   0   n  too     -
g -  ^ n  * x x e 9s                      0        -                            I'                       0      0                  0
o. 0        0    *    0          HO   *                               0                           0                                    *0"                   0~6 9vRF
000                00g21              2               -: -S   N    f 
*    tot    001.    r 1004 -                              Sg    =     .
01-0o    00                00         59                    0     
0'S    -'*    2  oooo lr*I'                             00 g< 
0>  010              oO  g'          r oeZrn    
000    t       ro 0. 0. 0          rto   0 
.2- 2o S2 5 c,  a0
00OtJ           0.00       00        0.                                                                                                    . 4     0003 3_
00          -0 0.0                    0                                                                                                             0 a0._005050.0.   o = >   0   s E ~   w  > OO  
g                                                                        0 _r  00 30r 0z= 0h N00 00to0000 toooooO tttI                                      00                   0                       W    m
HO  -100            0011                                                                                                                                                              jo 
2: 22 2                                   0                             0"   _o  ,o                                              0 n1.o-t
00                 0.                                         00..                        lJ00000o O                            r      0      0    000I     II0B   I||I0  CO     b|||:
M ~ ~  ~      ~     ~     ~     ~      0            to  to .0 Tt                                                          to              1
0    to    0    to    o                               -          .    -            -                         I                                        -       ,              ,I
110    SOn                                                       0                n0o00.4oI.
o ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    10 n00.,t w010                                         1                 01             10o
o    2  'o                                                     to.                       0000-. |1''    ' ' ' 0-0 '0 ' ' '.00 ' '5  ''      ''''''''z
~~~~w_r 0    tot            to   wt.__o X 
~~~~~~~0)  0I                10      10 I         0E to             t                                                                     no  0  v0  t                               Wo 0n
0.~~~ ~~~~ 0                       0    01.      to.m.o            10 C ot ~ow             -4  x    0    Hw   g    0   00  w  0v,,gwO0                       1
2            Do |              m00  _I w040  0    IO .Oto1o O_011                          01   0 >:>  10 o00'' 1008*O 



-2g~~~~~~~~~. ~~~~AINNEX I
T-ble 5
INDIA
TAMIL NADU t.MICULIURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
IPIITMAL OUEATING COSTS
(R. . 000)
Annual           Year I            Year 2             Year 3            Year 4             Year 5         Total
Unit Coat      (No.)    Cost    (No.)    Cost    (go.)    Cost    (No.)    Cost    (No.)    Cost    Cost
Operating Expenses and Extension Materials
VEW/DY. AO                                       0 51/        2,571    642.7   5,422  2,033.2.  5,422  2,033.2   5,422  2,033.2   5,422  2,033.2   8,775.5
Other Staff2/                                    I':            240    240.0      467    467.0      467    467.0       467    467.0      467    467.0   2,108.0
Other Expenses. Subdivision/Dist. Offices        5.              (58)   290.0    (113)   565.0    (113)   565.0    (113)   565.0    (113)   565.0   2,550.0
Headquarters                                    10.0                     10.0               10.0              10.0               10.0              10.0       50.0
SUB-TOTAL                                                             1,182.7           3,075.2            3,075.2           3,075.2            3,075.2  13,483.5
Incremental Travel Allowance and Expenses
VEW'         6t                                  0.48           (513)   246.0  (1,351)   648.0  (1,351)   648.0  (1,351)'  648.0  (1,351)   648.0   2,838.0
DY. AOxS}S_                                       7.2           (46)   331.0    (274) 1,973.0    (274) 1,973.0    (274) 1,973.0    (274) 1,973.0   8,223.0
S bdivisional o7taf                              3.6            (19)    68.0       (39)   140.0      (39)   140.0       (39)   140.0      (39)   140.0       628.0
District ioffn   a                                500            (22)   110.0      (56)   2e0.0       (56)   280.0      (56)   280.0       (56)   280.0   1,230.0
M/E Staff-                                        3.0            (61)   183.0      (75)   225.0      (75)   225.0       (75)   225.0      (75)   225.0   1,083.0
SUB-TOTAL                                                               938.0           3,266.0            3,266.0           3,266.0            3,266.0  14,002.0
Vehicle Operating Costs
S/Div.   4-ND diesel                             10.0            (51)   510.0       (85)   850.0      (85)   850.0       (85)   850.0      (85)   850.0   3,910.0
District - 4-WO diese 112,                      15.0             (81)   270.0      (30)   450.0      (30)   450.0       (30)   450.0      (30)   450.0   2,070.0
- Petrol led1                          18.0             (5)    90.0       (9)   162.0        (9)   162.0       (9)   162.0        (9)   162.0      738.0
- Van diese                            15.0             (7)   105.0      (14)   210.0       (14)   210.0      (14)   210.0       (14)   210.0      945.0
Headquarters - Sdee lT7.                         18.0             (1)    18.0       (1)    18.0        (1)    18.0       (1)    18.0        (1)    18.0       90.0
Training Center - Sd12/                         1.0               (1)    18.0       (1)    18.0        (1)    18.0       (1)    18.0        (1)    18.0       90.0
- Sdy712                       15.0             (5)    75.0        (5)    75.0       (5)    75.0        (5)    75.0       (5)    75.0      375.0
;1 6 E Unit      - Sad,1/                        18.0             (2)    36.0       (2)    36.0        (2)    36.0       (2)    36.0        (2)    36.0      180.0
SUB-TOTAL                                                             1,122.0           1,819.0            1,819.0           1,819.0            1,819.0   8,398.0
Baseline Survy                                            4                  240.0        -                  -    500.0        -      -           -    500.0   1,240.0
Training Center         13/                           50.0             (1)    50.0       (1)    50.0        (      50.0 (1)           50.0 (1)          50.0      250.0
Horticulture Extensior                                                        184.0             191.0             198.0              198.0             198.0      969.0
Total (Excluding contingencies)                                            3,706.7            8,401.2           8,908.2            8,408.2           8,908.2  38,332.5
Physical contingencies at 5S                                                  185.3             420.1             445.4              420.4             445.4   1,916.6
GRAND TOTAL                                                           3,902.0           8.821.3            9,353.6           8,828.6            9,353.6  40,259.1
j/ Includes printing of diaries, charts end instruction materials, emple of small Implements, seeds pesticides etc.
for field trials  nd training demonstrations, poster papers and peits for simple visual aids taken at 50. of unit ..ost
in year 1, 75% in year 2 and 100?. thereafter.
2/ Include  SM  at District and subdivision, Dy. AO(tech.) at district, Taluk AO and Dy. AO (SMS) at subdivisionel level, and JDA.
3J Calculated st R*. 5,000 per month for each subdivisional and District level.
4/ Office operating costs calculated at Rs. 50,000 per month.
5/ Rs. 480 per month as PTA end vehicle (cycle), goverment fixed rate for VEdl.
M/ Motorcycle mileage allowance of Re. 400 per month (40km/day at Re. 0.5 per km for about 20 days a month plus PTA of Re. 200 per mouth.
71 R. 180 per month (fixed rate for governmeot vehicle) plus driver st Rs. 120 per month (Rs. 6 per day).
8  PTA Rs. 300 per month for JDA and DDA (SMSs), fixed rate for travelling with government vehicle  plus driver PTA of Rs. 120 per month.
PTA and travel allo*ane at Is. 500 per month for professional staffs, Re. 200 for field supervisor and Rs. 150 for field investigator.
J 20,000km/per month at la. 0.50/km.
/ 30,000km/per month at Rs. 0.50/km.
12/ 24,000km/per month at Rs. 0.74/km.
13/ Details in annex 1, table 7.



INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
TRAINING COSTS
(Rs' 000)
a/                                          Year 1           Year 2           Year 3            Year 4           Year 5
Type of Training-/                           Unit Cost    (No.)   Cost    (No.)   Cost    (No.)   Cost    (No.)   Cost   (No.)   Cost              Total Coat
1.  Pre-season Training                                   b-
(a)  VEW                                         0 07-       4,528   317.0   9,554   669.0   9,554   669.0   9,554   669.0  9,554   669.0              2,993.0
(b)  Other (DYAO,S/Div. SMS,DAO                  0.15-/       1,024   154.0   2,082   312.0   2,082   312.0   2,082   312.0  2,082   312.0             1,402.0
2.  Orientation Training (DYAO,S/Div., SMS, SDAO) 0.10-/            512    51.0      529    53.0       -                -                -                    104.0
3.  Refresher Training (VEW)                          0.309/        500   150.0   1,000   300.0   1,000   300.0   1,150   300.0  1,150   300.0              1,350.0
4.  Special Short Courses                                9&'
(a)  VEW/ DYAO                                    0 6  -       (580)  410.0  (1,250)  750.0" (1,250)  750.0  (1,250)  750.0 (1,250)  750.0              3,410.0
(b)  SMS                                          1.20Z        (173)  208.0      320   384.0       320   384.0      320   384.0    320   384.0          1,744.0
(c)  Overseas                                   40.0              2    80.0        4   160.0         4   160.0        4   160.0        4   160.0          720.0
5.  Scholarships (deputation)
(a)  Dy, AO & SDAO for post-grad. courses         6 o0h/        100   600.0      100   600.0       100   600.0      100   600,0    100   600.0          3,000.0
(b)  VEW for B.Sc. Courses                        6.00-!h        50   300.0       50   300.0        50   300.0       50   300.0       50   300.0        1,500.0
6.  Zonal Workshops                                   1.0            20    20.0        60.   60.0       60    60.0        60    60.0      60    60.0          260.0
7.  Horticulture Extension-/                                            1,562.0           1,562.0          1,562.0           1,562.0          1,562.0       7,810.0
Total (Excluding contingencies)                                     3,852.0           5,150.0          5,097.0           5,097.0         5,097.0       24,293.0
Physical contingencies (5%)                                           193.0             258.0            255.0             255.0            255.0       1.216.0
GRAND TOTAL                                                         4,045.0           5,408.0          5,352.0           5,352.0         5,352.0       25,509.0
a/ For further details see Annex
hb/ Twice per annum for 6 days; for senior staff (DAO, SMS, AO), will be held at State Training Institute, Kudumiamalai.
c/ Once for new staff.
d/ For 200 VEWs each year; at Agricultural Experiment Station, Kudumiamalai.
e/ One course per annum for all VEW and AO.
f/ One course per annum for each SMS.
./ Rs. 40,000 per trainee sent overseas.
h/ Scholarship only (pay and allowances would continue).
h/ Details in Annex 1, Table 7.
1'I-



0000         0         00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0                        0         0 0 00 0                                       0 0 00 0 0 0                  0 0           0 0 0 0 00000                                                    0 0       0  
-   0                                                                                                                              0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~            -  -0 --0 
.0400.                  ....C              .....                           . ..          ....                                                                                                              0000.C0 
Z  1    
8888~~~~~~~~~~~tt  ~~~~~~~~~Zt  ~         ~         E



ANNEX 1
Table 8
- 32 -
INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
HORTICULTURE EXTENSION
(Rs' 000)
Audio Visual Aids                                 Quantity      Unit Cost      Total Cost
Camera 35 m.m.                                   3           3,100          9,300
Camera 120 m.m.                                  1           3,100          3,100
Camera (super 8 m.m.)                            1          12,500         12,500
Electric flash unit                              3           4,400         13,200
Black and white laboratory                       1         112,500        112,500
Slide duplicator                                 1             700            700
Projector cine 8 m.m.                            3           6,250         18,750
Projector cine 16 m.m.                           3          12,500         37,500
Projector slide (AC/DC)                          1           1,250          1,250
Projector Slide manual                           2           1,300          2,600
Projector slide semi auto                        1           2,500          2,500
Projector slide full auto                         3          6,250         18,750
Projector slide overhead                          3          5,000         15,000
Slide viewer                                    58             120          6,960
Tripod screen                                    3             750          2,250
Rear projection screen
Wall screen                                       3            500          1,500
Photo copying machine                            1          25,000         25,000
Electric stencil scanner                         1          50,000         50,000
Letter press (15"x18")                           1          60,000         60,000
Off-set press (powered)                           1        100,000        100,000
Accessories for off-set press                     1        185,000        185,000
Offset machine 22"x 28"1                         1          60,000         60,000
Typewriter                                       1          60,000         60,000
Stencil duplicator                               1          15,000         15,000
Megaphone                                         3          4,000         12,000
Reel tape recorder                               1           2,500          2,500
Cassette tape recorder                           3           2,600          7,800
Loose binder for subject                       500              15          7,500
Loose binders for field works                  200              15          3,000
Flannel board stiff                               3            100            300
Flannel board folding                             3            500          1,500
Miscellaneous                                     2             25             50
Folding easel                                   40             120          4,800
Blackboard                                       3             100            300
Blackboard rolling                              17             120          2,040
Specimen boxes with magnifying
glass, with plastic briefcase                   58             120          6,960
TOTAL                                                              798,000



ANNEX 1
Table 9
- 33 -
INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
REQUIREMENT OF EXTENSION STAFF BY YEAR
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
VEW            Existing: Yearly             1,751      1,675       -          -          -
Cumulative        1,751      3,426     3,426    '3,426       3,426
New:      Yearly               513        838
Cumulative          513      1,351     1,351      1,351      1,351
AO/DY. AO      Existing: Yearly               305        162        -         -          -
Cumulative          305        467       467        467        467
New:      Yearly                 2        176       -          -          -
Cumulative            2        178        178       178        178
AO/DY. AO      Existing: Yearly               109         92
(SMS Subdiv)           Cumulative           109       201        201        201        201
New:      Yearly                44         52
Cumulative           44         96         96        96         96
DVAO           Existing: Yearly                32         28
Cumulative           32         60         60        60         60
New:      Yearly                19         20
Cumulative           19         39         39         39        39
AO/DY. AO      Existing: Yearly                29         26
(Tech)                 Cumulative            29         55        55         55         55
New:      Yearly                 -          2
Cumulative            -          2          2          2         2
SMS Dist.      Existing: Yearly                12          1
Cumulative           12         13         13        13         13
New:      Yearly                17         27
Cumulative           17         44         44         44        44
JD             Existing: Yearly                 2
Cumulative            2          2          2          2         2
New:      Yearly                 5          7
Cumulative            5         12         12         12        12
Assistant DA  New:       Yearly                 1
(HQ)                   Cumulative             1          1          1         1          1
AO/DY. AO      New:       Yearly                2
(Tech) (HQ)            Cumulative             2          2          2         2          2



ANNEX 1
Table 10
- 34 -
INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
STAFF REQUIREMENTS
(Rs' 000)
PROJECT YEAR I                                           V.E.W.
District             Requirement         Available         New Required
Chingleput                  359                242                 117
Thanjavur                   465                268                 197
Pudukottai                  131                 120                 11
Ramnad                      357                 320                 37
Dharmapuri                  243                114                 129
Coimbatore                  275                269                   6
Madurai                     434                 418                 16
2,264              1,751                513
Subdivisional Level                                      AO/DYAO
Chingleput                   48                 45                   3
Thanjavur                    63                101                 -38
Pudukkottai                  18                  10                  8
Ramnad                       50                 40                  10
Dharmapuri                   34                   6                 28
Coimbatore                   37                 35                   2
Madurai                      57                  68                -11
307                305                  2
PROJECT YEAR II                                          V.E.W.
North Arcot                 486                330                 156
South Arcot                 477                285                192
Trichy                      404                 360                 44
Salem                       367                212                155
Periyar                     235                147                  88
Tirunelveli                 389                290                  99
Kanyakumari                 155                 51                 104
2,513              1,675                838
Subdivisional Level                                      AO/DYAO
North Arcot                  67                 46                  21
South Arcot                  63                 35                  28
Trichy                       54                  26                 28
Salem                        48                  10                 38
Periyar                      31                  15                 16
Tirunelveli                  54                  30                 24
Kanyakumari                   21                                    21
338                162                176



ANNEX I
Table 11
INDIA
TANIL NADU AGRICULTURA. EXTENSION PROJECT
REQUIREHENT & AVAILABILITY OF EXTENSION STAFF BY SUBDIVISION
VEW                   AO/DYAO                    DVAO                  SUBDIV SMS                   Ditrict SMS              DY. AO Tech                   JD
Faee                      Net                       Net                      Net                       Net                         Net                       Net                      Net
Fiilte..   Re-    AY-Il-  Re-        Re-    Avail-  Re-        Re-    Avail-  Re-       Re-    Avail-  e-,          Rr..    Avail-  Re-       Re-    Avail-  Re-        Re-    Avail-  Re-
Dl.trlcttS.bdivision                     ('000)    ui-red   abl.  qOired   ui-red   able  qNired  g.i-ed   able  gei-ed   pire-d   eble  gei-ed    gi-red   able  gqired  qutred    able   ui-red  Naired   able   ui-red
YEAR I
A   CdINGLEPUT                                          205      359      242    117        48      45       3        b        5       3       24       ER       6          4        1       3        4        4      -        I        -
I)  RanEbeeparm-UthIrererv,.                         33       40                        5
2)  Sripe-rabed-r                                    37       47                        6
3)  Saldapet                                         38       48                        6
4)  P--ierl-Curmidl Pa.-dl                           33       41                        6
5)  Chinglep.t                                       38       48                        6
6)  Nad-raetakm                                      39       49                        7
7)  Tir-vallr-Paaedi                                36      45                         6
8)  Tir-ttaal-Pallipet                               31       41                        6
B.  THANJAVUR                                                    465      268    197        63     101    -38        11        7       4       33       33                  5        2       3        5        5
1)  Th.jav-r-Thlrivalyar.                            34       42                        6
2)  Oa-tb. eda                                       23       28                        4
3)  Kumbakonm-Tlr-vidai-arurur                       38       47                        6
4)  Pap.n,s m                                        32       40                        5
5)  H ennargedl                                      38       47                        6
6)  Thi-rthb-i1paoodi-Vedar.ay-                      39       49                        7
7)  Nagap.tti.a.-Tir.var-r                           34      42                         6
8)  N-nnla-                                          36       45                        6
9)  HayraD                                           43       53                        7
10)  Strk.li                                          21       26                        4
11)  Pattekoetal-Pe--v4rnl                            36       46                        6
C.  PUDUKKOTAI                                                   131      120      11       18       10      8        4        2       2       12        9       3          4        2       2        4        4                1
1)  Alan8adi.Kalathbr                                40       38                        5                                                                                                                                                       C
2)  Padabkktl                                       18       33                        5
3)  Tlrei-y --Aravthbang-
4)  Aved.tybrk.il                                    49       60                        8
D.  RAMANATHAPURAM                                               357      320      37       50      40      10        9        5       4       27       14      13          4        2       2        4        4      _         l       _
1)  Rm...thaperaevR-.~e.-                            23       29                        5
2)  Madukulathbr-Kaeethi                             31       38                        5
3)  Tir-avda...l-Tlr-path.r                          41       51                        7
4)  Karaik.di-Devek.tt.i                             24       31                        4
5)  S   8 ga   -Maeadadara                           35       44                        6
6)  Paraka.d-Playak.9t                               27       34                        5
7)  SrivIllp.thb -R9japalaym                        32      40                         5
8)  Satb                                             33      41                         6
9)  Arepp.k.tt.l-Vir.dh..g.ar-Tir..h.ll              39       49                        7
E.  DARMAPURI                                                    243      114    129        34        6     28        5        2       3       15        4     LL           4        1       3        4        4      :        I        :
1)  Dhba---p-r-Uthbga-al                             40       50                        7
2)  tMahr                                            39      41                         6
3)  Pi-ac -de-Pe..a.arae                             32      40                         6
4)  NI,r,,e-D akl                                   45       57                        8
5)  Eirlehavagei                                     44       55                        7
F.  COIMBATOIE                                                   275      269       6       37       35      2        6        4       2       18        7    LL            4        3       1        4       4       -        I        :
I)  Celebat-re-Mett.palayav                          58       73                       10
2)  AviNachi                                         35      44                         6
3)  P1llathL                                         55       68                        9
4)  Palladm                                          44       55                        7
5)  Udu1lpet                                         28       35                        5
G. MADURAI                                                       434      418      16       57      68    -11         8        7       1       24       24      _           4        1       3       4        4       _        I        _
I)  Madaral (North-Sobth)                            32      40                         5
2)  Mel r-Na-hm                                      32      40                         5
3)  Tlre....algm-Oel.lapatti                         54      68                         9
4)  Nilakottal                                       40       50                        7
5)  Dlidisul                                         45       56                        7
6)  Vedaeavd:r-Pal-al                                60       75                       10
7)  Perlakua,I-tKd.ike-al                            46      57                         8
8)  Uthamapelay_m                                    38      47                         6
SUB-TOTAL YEAR I                             1 818   2.264   1 751   513          307     305       2       51       32      19      153      109     44          2q       12     17       29       29       -         7       2       5



ANNEX I
TaBle Ti (-tni ..ed)
INDIA
TAMIIL NADU AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
REQUIREMENT & AVAILABILITY OF EXTENSION STAFF BY S-UBDIVISION
91W                    pO/OYAO                   DVAO                    SUBDIV SMS                   Diatrict SMA              DY. AO Tech                    JD
Fera                ~~~~~Nt                    Net                       N't                       Net_ -                      Net                        Net                       Net
Faailiee   Re-    A-ail-  Ret-    Re-    AvaIl-  Re-            R.-    Av-il-  Re-        Re-    Av.il-  Re-t          Re-    Avail-  Re-        Re-    Aval-~  Re-       Re-    Av-il-  Re-
Di.triot/S.bdivisio.                    (000O)   pired   able  paired  q.ired   able  pired  paired   able  paired  paired   able  puired    pai,ed   abl   g.i-d  pali-d   able  gaired  paired   able  pired
Year II
9.  NORTH ARCOTr                                                  486      330    154         6        46      2        ii        6       5       33       20      13          4         i       3       4         4       -                 -
l)  veIlari                                          31        39                         5
2)  Ariat-Wa1lajah                                   42        52                         7
3)  Arkacha                                          32        40                         5
4)  Cheyy.r                                          28        34                         5
5)  Waadi,eaah                                       29        36                         5
6)  Arnt-Tirae...aa.-li                              48        59                         B
7)  Palar                                            35        44                         6
B)  Cc.e  m32                                                  41                         6
9)  Tirapattar                                       40        50                         7
10)  Vanlymbadi                                       39        49                         7
11)  Gadiyath-                                        34        42                         6
I.  SOUTH ARCOr                                                   475       )B5    iN7       63       3L5      08        N        6       2       26       19       54                  -4                4        4                I        -
1)   bimrEamaaral54                                            66                         9
2)  Caddalare-Panrati                                52        65                         9
3)  Vridaacha.1-Tittag.di                            45        56                         7
4)  Ka llkharihi                                     53        66                         9
5)  TIrakeIIar-Uled.rpat                             54        68                         9
6)  Vi llapar-a4                                               55                         7
7)  Ti.die-aa                                        43        55                         7
B)  OlaBee                                           36        446
J. TRICHY                                                         404       360      44       54       26      28       :8        2       4I      24       14      10          4        4        4        4        4       *                 -
1)  TrIah                                            32        60                         5
2)  Mla  riTaayr53                                             67                         9
3)  LalIadi                                          37        67                         6
4)  Aelyal1                                          30        38                         5
5)  Permbaia                                         41        51                         7
6)  Ida..arp.l.ym                                    32        39                         5
7)  lEaliihj.l .i-..aepp.r.i                         591       73                        10
B)  Rarar                                            40        49                         7
K. SALEM                                                          367      212    155        48s       10     MB         6        4       2       18        9       94                  -        4        4        4       -        I         -
1)  S,Im-Yer ...d                                    57        71                         9
2)  Alttr                                            42        52                         7
3)  MN tiar-0,ealr                                   56        69                         9
4)  Sapharl                                          31        39                         5
5)  Tl rabh-Sad.-Pagip.rm                            53        66                         9
6)  N.-kak.a                                         53         oR                        9
L. PERIYAR                                                         236     147      91.      31        15     16         4        2 2             12       10      2           4        -        4 4               4                I        -
I)  Rha,.rapr                                        41        51                         7
2)  irde-Perndar.l                                   62        79                        10
3)  iBavacL                                          35        44                         6
4)  Gabiah.ttipal.yaa-Santhy-Ang.I-la                50        62                         8
M. TIRUNELVELI                                                     389      290      92       54       30      24        B        6       2       24       20      4           4         -       4        4        4       -         I                I
1)  Tir ...l1eli                                     23        29                         4
2)  Tve,haL-Sh.akatt.i                               42        53                         7
3)  Kaeilpatti-Ott.pid.r--Vil.thik.1-a               51        64                         9
4)  SftbaraekoiI-Stv.giri                            39        49                         7
5)  Aebaaa. dr-                                      40        50                         7
6)  Napi...ari                                       46        57                         B
7)  Tatiariv-Srivaik..dm                             29        37                         5
8)  Ti ...haed.r-S.tt.nhkl1-                         40        5I                         7
N. Kapsyhak-ri                                                    156        51    105       21         -      1         -        3       2        1        9      4           -        4        4        4        2       2         1       Z-
I)  Thav-Ia-ABa.-haaaaacr                            33        42                         6
2)  K.1al a.a                                        46        58                         B
3)  Vil.ba....de                                     45        56                         7
SUB-TOTAL YEAR II                            2.004  ~2518   1_675    838           338      66 2    176        48       29      20      144       92    52            28               27       28       26       2         07               7
GRAND TOTAL                                  3 822    4.777 ~3426  1.351           645      467    lOB8        99       60      39      29       201    96            57       13      44       57       55       2       14         2      12



- 37 -                         ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Training
1.        The Agricultural Extension Service has an important role in increas-
ing agricultural productivity and thus farmer incomes. To do this, farmers
need knowledge and skills for efficient management of their crops, livestock,
physical resources, and farm business as a whole. Essentials of success
include incentives for production, evolving suitable technology, and availa-
bility of credit, inputs, transportation, and markets. The responsibility of
the extension agents is to provide the farmer with the knowledge to improve
his income, and to verify new technology as it develops. A training program
is thus essential both for extension worker and farmers. Practical training
is essential for extension workers since they must be able to demonstrate to
farmers the actual techniques of improved crop husbandry.
The New Program
2.        Training programs for extension workers and agricultural adminis-
trators must be strengthened to provide better dissemination of advice as
a means of overcoming production constraints and assist farmers in the adop-
tion of improved husbandry practices. The Training and Visit System is the
basis for an improved extension service. This system depends on sustained
and regular training of extension workers and transfer of appropriate recom-
mendations to farmers through regular visits by VEW. They keynote is con-
tinuous practical training to VEW and DYAO by SMS who are conversant with the
latest research results, active in the identification of local problems, and
participate in local verification trials. Training in administration and
management is required for the higher level of staff.
Training Strategy
3.        Since the extension service is to improve the quality of farming
practices, training of research/extension-farmer teams must be such that they
impart the specific information needed.  There is little merit in merely
telling the farmer to do something. The farmer needs to know how to carry
out a task. It is best if the extension worker actually works with the farmer
in performing specific tasks.  This implies that VEW must be able to perform
all tasks and, likewise, DYAO and SMS who train VEW must also be able to
perform all tasks. Furthermore, trainers of SMS (usually research workers
and senior staff) need to be acquainted with farming operations and how they
are best performed. This requires a change in present training methods from
a reliance on lectures to "learning by doing."
4.        The first step in designing of appropriate training programs is an
identification of the skills and knowledge required by the farmer to improve
his production. The second step is to identify which of these would be taught
by VEW to the farmer. The order of operation and their seasonal priority is



ANNEX 2
- 38 -                    Page  2
then determined so that VEW can get appropriate training at the proper time.
DYAO, as supervisor of VEW, would also need training in what is to be passed
on to the farmer. DYAO should also be able to answer more advanced technical
questions, and to identify practical problems. For subdivisional and district
SMS, even greater depth of knowledge is required so as to be able to instruct
both VEW and DYAO.
5.        Research workers have to develop ability to identify factors limit-
ing farm production in the field and target research programs to the practical
resolution of these problems. This implies joint farm visits by research
and extension workers; cooperation in design, execution and analysis of
trials on farmers' fields; and continuous exchange of information and ideas
between research, extension and farmers. Both this project and the National
Agricultural Research Project support these activities.
Tests and Demonstrations
6.        To provide a measure of the effectiveness of training programs and
permit trainees to assess progress, short tests of knowledge and demonstration
of skills would be integrated into the training program. Pre-course testing
would assist instructors in emphasizing those areas in which the trainees
need the most assistance and eliminate instruction in areas in which they
already possess adequate skill or knowledge. Pretesting helps the trainee
identify areas in which he needs assistance and thus provides some motivation
to learn. Testing may include identification of limiting factors such as
diseases, insects, nutritional deficiencies, or demonstrations by the trainee
of crop production techniques. Emphasis should be placed on the practical
rather than extensive testing of written knowledge. Comparison of pre- and
post-course tests will permit the trainee to identify what he has learnt and
the instructor to evaluate the effectiveness and adequacy of his instruction.
Training for Extension Workers
7.        Fortnightly training of VEW and AEO by SMS would be a major feature
of the project. Additional and more specialized training would be provided
for each category of extension worker. These are described below:
Village Extension Workers (VEW)
8.        VEW have generally conpleted secondary school.
They are usually given a two-year diploma course. The content, in the past,
included subjects related to community development in addition to agriculture.
These courses need more emphasis on practical training. Several states have
already adopted shorter courses concentrating on agriculture.
9.        Orientation Training.  All VEW would receive special training in
extension methodology and the T&V system.
10.       Fortnightly Training.  A major feature of the T&V system is training
of VEW once a fortnight. This training is carried out by SMS and, reviewed
by AEO and his VEW in the alternate week. For sessions given by SMS, the



- 39-                     ANNEX 2
Page 3
basic training unit would be a group of 30-40 VEW and DYAO. They would meet
on a regular day, once in two weeks, to receive training from SMS and SDAO
of subdivision, supported as necessary by district staff and research workers.
Most sessions would be held where there are means for practical application
of lessons taught, viz., a farmer's field, a seed farm, an experimental
station, or a training center. Training would cover actual farm situations
most likely to arise over the next two week period. Time would be allowed
for VEW to carry out field operations and practicals. During training, the
VEW would have a chance to raise and discuss problems encountered in the
previous fortnight. Representatives of cooperatives, banks, input agencies,
agro-service units, and irrigation would be invited to attend part of the
session to ensure coordination of related activities. On the intervening
training day in each two-week period, VEW would meet with their DYAO to review
current problems.
11.       Preseason Training.  Prior to each of the two main agricultural
seasons (kharif and rabi), VEW would receive a three day training covering
the main seasonal crops and practices recommended for them. The training
would be held at subdivision level. The JD, SMS and SDAO would organize and
attend this session. This training would initiate the extension campaign for
the coming season.
12.       Special Short Courses.  Some VEW would be given training in par-
ticular disciplines/crops which are of special importance to their areas.
13.       Promotional Training.  Training grants would be available to
selected VEW to enable them to obtain a degree and thus qualify for promo-
tion as DYAO.
Agricultural Extension Officers
14.       Preservice Training.  DYAO would generally be university graduates.
A number of them would be experienced VEW promoted as DYAO.
15.       Orientation Training.  All DYAO would receive special training in
extension methodology and the T&V system.
16.       Fortnightly Training.  DYAO would attend all training sessions of
VEW. They are expected to assist SMS in fortnightly training. In addition
to visiting each VEW in the field, DYAO would conduct a review training meet-
ing for the VEW each fortnight as necessary. DYAO would also be given extra
training by SMS to develop greater subject matter competency.
17.       Preseason Training.  The DYAO would participate in the three day
preseason training prior to the main cropping seasons (kharif and rabi). The
training would be held at district level and the training group would consist
of TNAU and state headquarters staff.
18.       Special Short Courses.  Selected DYAO would be given specialized
training for a week in particular crops and disciplines which are of impor-
tance to their area of operation.



- 40 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 4
19.       Promotional Training.  DYAOs who show exceptional talent would be
provided opportunities for higher training. Such DYAO will be deputed for
a two year M.Sc course at TNAU.
Subject Matter Specialists (SMS)
20.       SMS play an important role in providing technical support and
training to VEW and DYAO. There would be SMS with different levels of training
and competence at subdivisional, district and state levels. Selection criteria
of SMS have been considered at national level and the following qualifications
have been proposed for guidance of the state governments in recruitment of
this category.
Fresh Recruits: M.Sc (Agri) with specialization in agronomy
or other disciplines, preferably with two years of field
experience.
21.       Orientation.  Suitable instruction would be given in extension
methodology and the T&V system to all SMS. Their specific roles would be
explained to them in detail.
22.       Inservice Training.  The SMS would participate in the zonal work-
shop, preseason training, and specialized short courses.
(a) Zonal Workshop. To provide effective training to VEW and
DYAO once every two weeks, the SMS would have to be up-to-
date in their area of specialization and ensure that
training has a practical bias.  For this purpose, the SMS
would participate in a zonal workshop every month at a
TNAU research station or other suitable location.
(b)  Preseason Training.  The SMS would participate in the three
day preseason training prior to the main cropping seasons
(kharif and rabi).  The training would be held at district
level.
(c) Special Short Courses. In order to build up professional
competence of SMS it is considered necessary to provide
them opportunities for higher training-in TNAU, other
agricultural universities, and research institutions of
national importance. SMS with exceptional talent could
be provided opportunities for training in such international
research institutions as IRRI (Philippines).
23.       Promotional Training.  Such of the SMS who do not possess M.Sc
degrees would be provided opportunities for higher training (M.Sc agric)
at TNAU.



-41 -                    ANNEX 2
Page 5
Administrative Personnel
24.       In addition to subject matter training and training in extension
methodology, administration and management training would be available to
SMS and other staff (DVAO, JD and ADA).
25.       Orientation.  All supervisory personnel would undergo training in
extension methodology and the T&V system. Their specific roles would be
explained in detail.
26.       Inservice Training.  Special training programs would be organized
by the Director of Agriculture for staff at supervisory levels.
Responsibilities
27.       The Additional Director of Agriculture (Extension) and Director of
Horticulture, in consultation with TNAU and other appropriate agencies, would
be responsible for planning and organizing all training programs. They would
be assisted by the SMS team at headquarters. A summary of the training acti-
vities follows:



ANNEX 2
- 42 -                       Page  6
INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
State Level Training Program - Kudumiamalai
No. to be       Total No.
Name of          No. of                     Trained         to be
the Training       Training      Period    in each Batch   Trained/Yr
(i) Inservice
Training
VRW                6         April-June        50            300
(3 months)                   July-Sept.
(ii) Refresher
Training                     May
VEW                4         April-May         50            200
(2 months)                   July-Aug.
(iii)  Dy. AO             4          June-Sept.       30            120
(1 month)
(iv) Specialized
Training
VEW                20        October           50          1,000
(15 days)                    November
December
January
February
Dy. AO             10        November          30            300
(15 days)                    December
February
SMS                 2        October           30             60
(2 months)                   November



INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
CHART INDICATING THE PROGRAMME OF TRAINING DURING EACH YEAR
April  M     June    July  August  September    October    November   December   January    February             March
V.E.W.                 V.E.W.             Spl. Trg.  Spl. Trg.  Spl. Trg.  Spl. Trg.  Spl. Trg.
Inservice               Inservice              V.E.W.      V.E.W.      V.E.W.      V.E.W.    Dy.A.O.
2           2           2           2           2
V.E.W. Inservice         V.E.W. Inservice          courses    courses    courses    courses    courses
V.E.W.                  V.E.W.             Spl. Trg.  Spl. Trg.  Spl. Trg.  Spl. Trg.  Spi. Trg.
Inservice               Inservice              V.E.W.      V.E.W.      V.E.W.      V.E.W.    Dy.A.O.
2           2           2           2           2
courses    courses    courses    courses    courses
V.E.W.   Ref.                       Ref.
Ref.  Course        V.E.W.       Course                     Spl. Trg.  Spl. Trg.  Spl. Trg.  Spl, Trg.
Course  Dy.A.O.    Ref. Course   Dy.A.O.                        VE.W.       V.E.W. V2E.W.    Dy.A.O.
2           2           2           2
courses    courses    courses    courses
V.E.W.   Ref.                       Ref.
Ref.  Course        V.E.W.       Course           Spl. Training         Spl. Trg.
Course  Dy.A.O.    Ref. Course   Dy.A.O.                S.M.S.             V.E.W.
2
courses
Spl. Training
S.M.S.
NB:  V.E.W.         - Village Extension Worker
Ref. Course   - Refresher Course
Spl. Trg.      - Specialized Training - 2 courses of 15 days each.                                                           M



ANNEX 3
Ta b]. 1 1
-44-
INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule: All Components
Pre-Board     Pre-                        Months after Effectiveness'
Item                Presentation  Effectiveness  1   6   9  12  18  21  24  30  33  36! 42  45
Civil Works
Site Selection
Prepare Tenders
145 VEW     290 VEW      435 VEW        580 AEO
Constructi on
30 AEO      60 AEO       9OAEO         120 AEO
Vehicles &
Equipment
Prepare Tenders
Purchase
Vehicles                                        90          57
Equipment                                                                  _
Staff
Appoint DVAO                                 32 existing            28 existing
;9 new                20 new
Select/Appoint
SMS                        .19 existing        _        92 existing
44 new                  52 new
Select/Appoint
AEO                         305 existing      _        162 existing
2 new                 176 new
Select/Appoint              1,751 existing
VEW                       1,751_existing     513 new  1,675 existing _
838 new
Training_
Orientation
All Other
Coordination
C6railttees
Project Monitoring
Select/Appoint
Staff
Data Collection/Baseline Survey
Evaluation



45 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
LNDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Disbursements              Semester           Cumulative
(IDA FY)
1981   /a
2nd                  0.0                   0.0
1982   1st                   0.2                  0.2
2nd                  0.2                   0.4
1983   1st                   1.5                   1.9
2nd                  2.0                   3.9
1984   1st                   3.6                   7.5
2nd                  3.6                  11.1
1985   1st                   4.3                 15.4
2nd                  3.8                  19.2
1986   1st                   2.7                 21.9
2nd                  2.7                  24.6
1987   1st                   2.4                  27.0
2nd                  1.0                  28.0
/a    Estimated effectiveness date Sept. 30, 1981.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
_ 46 -
INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
ECON(MIC ANALYSIS
(Rs' 000)
------------Cost------------------------------------------Benefits---------------
Incremental                          Total Cost  %           Discount
Extension    Incremental    Total  discounted  Benefits   Factor   Present Value
ear                  Costs     Training Costs  Cost    at 50%       Achieved   at 50%    of Benefits
1                 39,667         10,856       50,523   33,648          -      0.666            -
2                 59,662          5,679       65,341   29,011         10       0.444         0.044
3                 51,819          5,679       57,498   17,019         30      0.296          0.090
4                 60,349          5,679       66,028   13,007         60      0.197          0.120
5                 32,989          5,679       38,668    5,065         80      0.131          0.100
6                 32,989          5,679       38,668    3,364         90      0.087          0.079
7-20               32,989          5,679       38,668    6,573        100      0.170          0.170
107,687                                0.603
The annual incremental value of crops (1980 prices) required from year 7 onwards to achieve a 50%
rate of return is Rs. 107.68 M. or Rs. 178 M.
0.603
Present Yearly   Prices of   Present Yearly
Area   Present Yields    Production         crops      value of crops
(M. Ha)     (kg/ha)          (M. Ha)          Rs/ton          (Rs. M)
Paddy        2.3       2,5002/           5.75             1,9871/       11,425
Millets      2.1         850-3           1.785            1,0002Q         1,785
13,647
178
To obtain Rs. 178 M. all the yields must increase by 13,210 or 1.3% on all cropped area or 2.6%
of paddy and millets cropped area. Yield increases required would thus be:
Paddy       65 kg/ha
Millets     22 kg/ha
September 1980
1/ See Table 2.
2/ Farmgate price has been used as these crops are not traded.
3/ Average yield (1970/71 to 1979/80).



- 47 -
ANNEX 4
Table 2
INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
ECONOMIC PRICE FOR PADDY
1.  Milled Rice - Madras                                        US$
Price milled rice 25-35% brokens f.o.b. Bangkok           358 1/
Add c.i.f. to Madras and handling to
wholesale outlet                                        40
398 tons wholesale market
in Madras = 3,184 Rs/ton 2/
2. Costs of Milling and Handling Rice from Farmgate
to Madras
Paddy - Farmgate mill, transport, in-store
handling and storage charge                      Rs/ton
Transport                                         19.25 3/
Milling and handling                              40.10 4/
59.35/ton paddy
=89.92/ton milled rice
Milled Rice - Transport (Mill to Madras)                   82.50 5/
Handling to wholesale market                44.63 6/
127.13/ton milled rice
Financial cost of Rs 217/ton adjusted by SCF   0.8
to give economic cost of Rs 174/ton.
3. Economic Price of Paddy at Farmgate
Imported rice Madras wholesale market (Rs 3,184/ton) less milling
and handling charges to Madras of Rs 174/ton and converted to paddy
at 66% = Rs 1,987/ton paddy.
1/ World Bank Commodity Price Forecast, October 1979.
2/ Converted at official exchange rate of US$1.0 = Rs 8.0.
3/  Transport farmer to mill head Rs 1.93/ptl (about 55 km).
4/  Miller paid Rs 26.3/ton for milling + Rs 13.8/ton commission and other
charges for 66% outturn.
5/  Transport Mill to Madras (about 150 km) at Rs l.O/ptl/km for the first 15 km
and Rs 0.5/ptl/km over.
6/ Handling charges and commission.



INDIA
TAMIL NADU EXTENSION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
LEVEL OF ADMINISTRATION
DIRECTOR OF
AGRICULTURE
OUTSIDETLVSYSTEM                                                T & V SYSTEM
STATE
|ADA (SEEDS)                                                                                                       ADA IX 
DISTRICT                                                                                                                                                     . .1E _
JDA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~D
SSF  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .    INPUTS   |-  JODSAT                                   CERALS            JDA       S~~~PULSE  CANE
TALUK       |   SEE~~~~          ~~DS                                                                 DD              sms             sm1             s F_  
WITHNAGRONOMY                                                                                                   P. PROTECTION     INF & TRG          SMS
VILLAGE  WITH                                                  WATER MANAGE
I DY-AO (TECH)                                               1 DY-Ao          WITH     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~ DY-ADH DYADITDHA    MENT WITH
EACH (14)                                    (TEMEACH           1 DY-AO         1 DY-AO         I DY-AO      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ DY-AD (TECH)
(1)   (TECH) EACH     (TECH) EACH     (TECH) EACH          (11
TALUK                                                                                                                         1
AGN P.u  (646)WRONOMY  P. PROTECTION  INF & TRG
VILLAGE
World Bank - 22284



'9.                           ~~~~~~~~BRD 15429
INDIA                                                                                                          H
TAMIL NADU EXTENSION PROJECT                                                                                                D E
9-._ -               t  A    R   N    A                                     -------
7                            X                       t        ; g  00             \                  _f_  u        \                   S~~~~~~~~~-  s u 
N                                     'jDH;AR /' g ,o T Z  R 9 C He,>_  _  ,KAURZKAR"'
.j                         ~~~~~ COIMEATORE I                    .          -      euhhrpA             ,        Xha:9 
. . SIsond Ye=l Phase   ,       /                       /                '                                    Z'" -'  Z
r   .e  2D 3~~~~~~~~(jp le p6   AW< r,|.S . .:
MADURA                       NAI -APRA
*SOAOYdYAA9PPO9R                                  /~~~~~~~~~~~~R 
9. ~~~~~~~~~~N889 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
FOUUI-  P9hA9
S,o-d Y-, Ph..T00A9   o,91
0    Doolojot 009odq~oo0A98                          <'          i~~n~rrT I  U 0        
D.--- , 0B~d9O8-d0,--0 
A    0    00    0   90   90 00   00  ~KAWYAK AR



