Document of
The World Bank    FILE
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3011-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
April 6, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diisclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of March 27,1981)
Rs 1.00         =        Paise 100
Rs 1.00         =        US$0.120783
US$1.00         =        Rs 8.279257
Rs 1 million    =        US$120,783
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at
US$1 to Rs 8.0, which represents the projected exchange
rate over the disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADA     -       Additional Director of Agriculture
DOA     -       Directorate of Agriculture
DOH     -       Directorate of Horticulture
DRD     -       Directorate of Rural Development
DVAO    -       Divisional Agricultural Officer
DYAO    -       Deputy Agricultural Officer
GOI     -       Government of India
GOTN    -       Government of Tamil Nadu
ha      -       hectare
JD      -       Joint Director
SMS     -       Subject Matter Specialist
T&V     -       Training and Visit System of Agricultural Extension
TNAU    -       Tamil Nadu Agricultural University
VEW     -       Village Extension Worker
VLW     -       Village Level Worker



INDIA           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                India, acting by its President (GOI).
Beneficiary:             The State of Tamil Nadu (GOTN).
Amount:                  SDR 22.9 million (US$28 million equivalent).
Terms:                   Standard.
Relending Terms-         From GOI to GOTN:  As part of Central assistance
for State development projects on terms and
conditions applicable at the time.
Project Description:    The project would serve 3.8 million farm
families in Tamil Nadu by reorganizing and
strengthening the State's agricultural extension
service along the lines of the Training and
Visit System of extension, which is based on
frequent in-service training of extenision workers
and regular, scheduled visits by extension
workers to farmers' fields. The project faces
no special risks, although realization of the
expected benefits will depend heavily on the
State Government's ability to effectively manage
the reorganized extension system, maintaining a
clear single line of command from extension headquarters
to the field-level workers.
Estimated Project                                             (US$ Millions)
Cost: a/                                            Local    Foreign    Total
Incremental Staff             14.5         -        14.5
Incremental Operating Costs   3.1         1.6       4.7
Civil Works                    9.6         -         9.6
Vehicles and Equipment         2.7        1.2        3.9
Training                       2.8        0.2        3.0
Subtotal                   32.7        3.0      35.7
Physical Contingencies         1.3        0.2        1.5
Price Contingencies            7.6        0.8       8.4
Total Project Cost         41.6        4.0      45.6
a/ Including an estimated US$5.9 million in taxes and duties.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Financing Plan:                                                 (US$ Millions)
Local    Foreign    Total
IDA                             24.0        4.0       28.0
GOI/GOTN                        17.6         -        17.6
Total                      41.6        4.0        45.6
Estimated                                             (US$ Millions)
Disbursement: a/                    FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87
Annual        0.4    3.5    7.2    8.1    5.4    3.4
Cumulative   0.4    3.9   11.1   19.2   24.6   28.0
Rate of Return:           At least 50%.
Appraisal Report:         No. 3297-IN, dated March 25, 1981.
a/ According to IDA's fiscal year.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India for SDR 22.9 million (US$28.0 million equivalent)
on standard IDA terms to help finance a project to reorganize and strengthen
the agricultural extension service of the StELte of Tamil Nadu.  The Govern-
ment of India (GOI) would channel the proceeds of the credit to the Govern-
ment of Tamil Nadu (GOTN) in accordance with GOI's standard terms and
arrangements for financing State development projects.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2933-IN, dated May 1, 1980), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 14, 1980. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of 672 million
(in mid-1980) and an annual per capita income of US$190. Agriculture contin-
ues to dominate India's economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor
force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate
livelihood to all those engaged in agricultural activities, especially the
landless or nearly landless who have only an insecure grasp on the means of
existence. The share of agriculture in GDP at factor cost (measured in
1970/71 prices) has declined from 60% in 1950/51 to about 40% in 1978/79.
The share of industry has increased over the same period from 15% to 23%.
But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor
force, nor to bring about the substantial economic transformation that has
led to higher productivity and rapid urbanization in some other developing
countries. The urban population was 18% of the total in 1960, and is about
21% now.
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the Maharashtra Agricultural Ex-
tension Project (No. P-3002-IN), dated March 30, 1981.



-2-
4.       Economic growth has been slow in the past, averaging about 3.5% per
annum over the past 30 years. Slow growth in agriculture -- 2.5% per annum
over the same period -- has constrained overall growth, not only because of
the high share of agriculture in GDP but also because scarce foreign exchange
has often been required to import food. Industrial value-added has grown
more rapidly, at 5.4% per annum between 1950/51 and 1978/79, but this growth
has not been as high as in many other countries, nor as high as required.
Gross domestic savings more than doubled from 10% of GDP in 1950/51 to 24% in
1978/79. Similarly, gross domestic investment as a fraction of GDP rose from
10% in 1950/51 to just over 24% in 1978/79. Foreign savings have never
financed a large portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was
reached during the early 1960s; by the end of the 1970s, the proportion had
returned to much lower levels. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance has never
risen above 3% of GDP.
5.      Except during periods of balance of payments crisis, exports have
received relatively little emphasis in India, which has primarily pursued a
strategy of import substitution. The volume growth of exports between
1950/51 and 1978/79 averaged only 3.0 per annum. The volume growth of
imports over the same period has slightly exceeded that of exports. During
the early 1970s, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant
during the 1960s, deteriorated drastically. In response, the Government
introduced many policy measures designed to stimulate exports. The volume of
India's exports grew on average over 10% per annum between 1972 and 1977,
demonstrating that sustained rapid growth was possible. While expanding
world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, contributed to this
process, liberalized access to imported inputs, and improvements in incen-
tives designed to increase the profitability of exports played a major role.
Recent Trends
6.        Over the period 1975/76 to 1978/79, growth in real GDP (at factor
cost), agricultural value-added and industrial value-added averaged 4.7%,
2.8% and 7.3% per annum, respectively. These trends represent a marginally
better growth performance than the long-term trends from 1950/51 to 1975/76.
However, GDP declined by about 4.5% in 1979/80 as a result of the drought-
induced decrease in agricultural production and input constraints in other
sectors, bringing recent trends back in line with the long-term picture.
Industrial production stagnated in 1979/80, largely due to shortfalls in the
production of major inputs such as coal, steel and cement, as well as infras-
tructural constraints, notably in power and transportation. As a consequence
of these developments, the remarkable price stability that characterized the
Indian economy after 1975 came to an abrupt end at the close of fiscal year
1978/79. During the spring and summer of 1980 the price index continued to
rise sharply, so that by September it stood at 19.1% above that of the previ-
ous September. Foodgrain prices rose over the summer and fall of 1980 but
more slowly than the drop in 1979/80 production would have suggested so that
in most markets grain prices remained close to the Goverment's ration prices.
Low income groups in urban areas were assured adequate supplies of grain at
stable prices through the public distribution system. The substantial stocks
of foodgrains also provided resources for a large-scale drought relief



-3-
employment program for low income groups in rural areas. In 1980/81, the
economy recovered, aided by a normal monsoon, so that real GDP growth for the
year should be about 7 to 8%. During the summer of 1980, GOI raised prices
of petroleum products and fertilizers, reflecting the growing cost of imports
of these items and the GOI efforts to encourage efficiency in their use.
Recently the growth in prices has slowed so that by January 1981 the whole-
sale price index was 15% above its level a year earlier.
7.        In agriculture the positive results of large investments and
appropriate policies in the past years are becoming increasingly apparent.
The rate of expansion of irrigation has increased significantly from 1.3 mil-
lion ha per year in the early 1970s to about 2.3 million ha in 1978/79. Fer-
tilizer use reached 5.2 million tons of nutrients in 1979/80, more than dou-
ble 1974/75 levels. Over the decade before 1979/80, foodgrain production
grew at about 2.75% per annum -- sufficient to meet consumer demand, to elim-
inate imports (which had averaged nearly 5 million tons per year for the 15
years preceding 1976), and to lower real foodgrain prices for consumers. At
the same time, India was able to build up substantial foodgrain buffer stocks
which made it possible to weather the effects of 1979/80 drought with com-
parative ease, and to export about half a million tons of grain in 1980.
While the management of the foodgrain economy after the drought was a signi-
ficant achievement, the effect of the drought on production re-emphasized the
continued importance of the monsoon in India's agriculture. The need to
expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient use of
other inputs continues.
8.        As the new decade begins, the Indian economy is shifting from a
situation of resource surplus, which had been a temporary phenomenon of the
late 1970s, to one of resource scarcity. Investment has again overtaken
domestic savings, and the scope for further increases in the latter appears
limited. Marginal savings rates have recently been well above 30% in the
household sector. Future increases in savings will depend largely on
enhanced profitability of public sector enterprises. Impending resource
scarcity is even more apparent in the foreign sector. Between 1975/76 and
1978/79 India's current account deficit had remained comfortably small in
relation both to GDP and to a growing pipeline of aid commitments. This was
primarily due to favorable terms of trade movements and rapidly growing net
invisibles which masked adverse underlying trends in the volume of exports,
the growth of which has slowed since 1977. One area of concern is the
apparent decline in the growth rate of manufactured exports which had contri-
buted much to the export growth of the first half of the decade. A combina-
tion of strong domestic and slack international demand, exacerbated by severe
inlfrastructural and supply constraints and apparent lessened interest in
export promotion during the resource surplus period were the major causal
factors. Recently, signs of improvement in the availability of power, the
main constraint facing exporters, and the adoption of several new export pol-
icy measures have improved the prospects for accelerating export growth,
though continued attention to both these areas will be required.
9.        In contrast, imports have grown rapidly in volume terms and there
have been important changes in composition. As a result of the accumulation
and maintenance of foodgrain stocks, foodgrain imports -- which had tradi-
tionally been a large item in the balance of payments -- have been eliminated
since 1978 and, for the past few years, India has been a marginal net



-4-
exporter of grain.  The rise in other imports, however, has more than offset
this development. Reflecting the impact oL the liberalized import poicy
adopted by the Government, non-foodgrain imports increased sharply, so that
their level in 1978/79 was over 80% higher than in 1975/76.  In large part-
the liberalization in import policy and increase in imports were li.-.ed to
raw materials, basic commodities and intermediate goods; most consumer gcods.
remained banned and capital goods imports were permitted only on a s2lect--e
basis.  Strong new pressures on the balance of payrnents have devel^ped'
1980/81.  The terms of trade again deteriorated markedly as a consequence of
unexpectedly large increases in petroleum prices, which caused the oil imo-
bill to increase by over 75% in 1980/81 after doubling the year oefore.
India's foreign resource deficit as a proportion of GDP reached t'he uno2=
cedentedly high level of 3.0% in 1980/81.  India was able to finance this gCp
through a substantial draft drawing on IMF resources (the Trust Fund an-
pensatory Financing Facility), and through an increase in aid and a _
in reserves, both of modest proportions. Petroleum imports as a proport-o
of merchandise exports now exceed 75%.
Development Prospects
10.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the indus-ri-l
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is 3arge
in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of man
turing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods.  Basic infrastructure
irrigation, railways, telecommunications, the power grid, roads and ports 
is extensive compared to many countries, although there is considerable scope
for expansion as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacityW
India is also well-endowed with human resources and with institutional
infrastructure for development. Finally, India has an extensive natural
resource base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and fer-
rous ores, but also gas and oil).  With good economic policies and sufficien
access to foreign savings, India has the capability for managing .'aese  on
siderable resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
11.     The new Indian Government elected in January 1980 formulated a new
Sixth Five-Year Plan for the period 1980-85. The Plan was approved in yobrrs
ary 1981. The new Plan continues to assign priority to agriculture and
power.  Furthermore, the Plan reflects recent developments in India and in
the world economy which have brought to the surface the need for ursenC
action in several areas.  These include: (i) expansion of exports and a.'
investment program directed toward containing the growth of imports inl t^e
face of a deteriorating balance of payments situation;  (ii) an ii--vsst-e-n-t
program and policy framework for more efficient use and development of energv
sources; (iii) removal of bottlenecks in infrastructure and related con-
straints on production of basic industrial inputs, and (iv) continuing
emphasis on the development of agriculture.
12.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur w-e-
for future income growth.  However, there are signs that, relati'v e
ing demands, the past programs and policies have led to dispropor-ional-lv
growth in certain crucial sectors, namely power, coal, transport servi ces
steel and cement.  Potential output growth in sectors which have benefitEe
from large investments in the recent past may not materialize unless these



-5-
input bottlenecks are alleviated. In the case of coal, steel and cement,
domestic production appears to be clearly justified on grounds of comparative
advantage, indicating an. a priori case for policies to promote further
investment.   All these are tradeable commodities.  Although in 1980/81 they
were not imported in sufficient amounts to eliminate the shortages, increased
short-term reliance on imports may be necessary to alleviate slowdowns and
dislocation in using industries. In the case of sectors in which there is no
option to import the final product --power and transportation-- the planning
of capacity expansion becomes even more crucial. Although there is scope for
improvement in the shortrun performance of these sectors, major investments
in balancing and modernization programs as well as in new capacity are essen-
tial for adequate and growth in the medium term. The presence of infrastruc-
tural constraints and shortages of basic industrial inputs demonstrates that
the expansion of industrial output leads to competing claims on scarce
resources with significant implications for public versus private and short
versus long-term investments.
13.     Despite the relatively large investment programs for the development
of domestic energy resources such as coal and hydroelectricity, and the
recent development of offshore petroleum resources, India has not been able
to narrow the gap between its total energy demand and domestic production.
During the past year, India continued to face power and coal shortages.
Growing demand for petroleum products, disrupted production from the Assam
oilfields, and recent oil price increases, have boosted India's oil import
bill to US$7 billion, equivalent to about 78% of total exports of goods.
India is entering the Sixth Plan period with an ambitious energy production
program backed by substantial financial commitment. In the oil sector, GOI
is now accelerating its oil exploration capabilities and is opening up pros-
pective areas for exploration by foreign firms. India is now committed to an
expanded power program that emphasizes exploitation of its large hydro poten-
tial and development of the transmission and distribution system. In the
coal sector, a policy decision in favor of mechanization has been made in
order to achieve more rapid growth of coal production.
14.     Despite the 1979 drought, agricultural policies, development programs
and secular trends all seem favorable for sustaining the past growth rate
during the 1980s. India ended 1980 with grain stocks of about 12 million
tois, without having imported foodgrains during the year. This is partly due
to the bumper crop of 1978/79 and good management of the foodgrain stocks
foLlowing the 1979 drought, but also reflects the trends of the last decade
which point to an improvement in foodgrain availability in the economy. In
view of the acceleration in the use of agricultural inputs and the projected
fall in the population growth rate, the long-run prospects for foodgrain sup-
ply and demand balances look favorable. If the efforts to develop agricul-
ture over the past decade are sustained and intensified, as suggested in the
new Plan, persistent shortage seems unlikely, and it is probable that a wide
range of policy options will become much more practical. These options
include a slowly falling real price of foodgrains to increase the affordabil-
ity of foodgrains to low-income families, further rationalization of domestic
markets and prices, foodgrain exports and diversification to the production
of other, higher value crops.
15.     Foreign exchange reserves still provide some cushion that can help
the Government of India in short-term supply management, but this situation



-6-
is likely to be short-lived. Rising import prices and uncertainties in the
prospects for exports and invisible receipts have led to a serious and rapid
deterioration in India's balance of payments prospects.   Reserves were only
marginally higher in March 1980 than the level of a year earlier and, in
terms of import coverage, fell below the 8-month level for the first time
since 1977. A very sharp decline in the reserve level would have occurred in
1980/81 had IMF Trust Fund and Compensatory Financing Facilities amounting to
over US$1 billion not been available to India.  At best, India's reserves may
provide a cushion for two more years, and even that depends on improved
export performance, on the maintenance of aid flows and workers' remittances
and on moderation in oil price rises.
16.     India's medium-term development prospects are mixed.  Considerable
progress continues to be made, particularly in agriculture, but the economy
faces a period of difficult adjustments in the coming years. Investments
required to relieve short-term supply constraints must compete with longer-
term programs to accelerate growth and to develop India's considerable physi-
cal and human resources. The balancing of these objectives will place a dif-
ficult burden on those implementing India's Sixth Five-Year Plan. The pri-
mary focus must be on the implementation of appropriate domestic adjustment
policies, although the aid community can and should play an important role in
ensuring that India's efforts do not fail due to inadequate foreign
resources.
17.     The annual population growth rate declined from 2.3% in the late
1960s to about 2% at present and is expected to continue falling to around
1.8% by the first half of the 1990s. Despite the declining trend in the rate
of population increase, a net reproduction rate of one (replacement level)
will be achieved only around the year 2020. At that time, the population of
India is estimated to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase of about 79%
over the mid-1980 level of 672 million. Family planning has played an impor-
tant role in achieving the fertility decline in the past decade, and the
extent of a further decline will be greatly influenced by the continuation of
a successful official family planning program. The family planning perfor-
mance data for 1978/79 and 1979/80 clearly indicate a comeback from the sharp
decline observed in virtually all major contraceptive methods during 1977/78.
Except for male sterilizations, the number of acceptors for all contraceptive
methods surpassed the 1974/75 levels in 1978/79. While the increase in the
total acceptors of IUD and conventional contraceptives was modest, female
sterilizations increased by about 40% between 1977/78 and 1978/79. Recent
data confirm a secular upward trend in overall performance. For the past
several years the family planning program has emphasized measures that would
yield relatively modest but sustainable results with increased emphasis on
reversible methods.
18.     Beyond the effects of overall economic growth and constrained popula-
tion growth, the reduction of poverty in India requires special attention to
ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More than
one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than 80% of the Indian
poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small farmers.
In addition to having inadequate physical assets, the poor are ill-endowed
with human resources, being disproportionately represented among the illi-
terate, the hungry and the sick. Improvements in the living standards of the
poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the economy,



-7-
mainly on increases in agricultural production and employment, in non-farm
rural employment, and also in employment opportunities in urban areas. These
developments will have to stem largely from market forces which, however, can
be reinforced by appropriate government policies and investment priorities.
The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1979 reflects
such developments. There is also a role for direct government action in fas-
ter implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction
in poverty through redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans and
finally in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human
capital of the poor and improve living standards.  Many of the latter are
elements of the Minimum Needs Program which has been an integral part of
Indian planning for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in
the expansion of primary education, the extension of rural health facilities
and the provision of secure village water supplies. Innovations such as the
community health volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign,
provide encouraging evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost pro-
grams can lead to enhanced prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 61 loans and 134 development
credits to India totalling US$2,833 million and US$8,672 million (both net of
cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,133 million had been
repaid, and US$4,107 million was still undisbursed as of January 31, 1981.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through January
31, 1981, totalled US$373 million, representing an increase of about 20% over
the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of dis-
bursements as of January 31, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing pro-
jects.
20.     Since 1959, IFC has made 19 commitments in India totalling US$110.6
million, of which US$20.8 million has been repaid, US$27.6 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$54.7 million, US$46.2 million
represents loans and US$8.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of January 31, 1981, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
21.     In recent years, Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture.  The
Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor irrigation and
other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations and in pro-
viding direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing, seed
development, agricultural extension, and dairying are other agricultural
activities supported by the Bank Group. AlSo, the Bank Group has been active
in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector and, through
its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in a wide range
of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises.
IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for selected prior-
ity sectors has been instrumental in facililtating better capacity utilization
in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in supporting infrastruc-
ture development for power, telecommunications, and railways. Family plan-
ning, water supply development, urban investments and the development of oil
and natural gas have also received Bank Group support in recent years.



-8-
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Goverment's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other infrastructure
sectors remains highly relevant.  Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs, particularly water and
credit for on-farm investments, will continue tc receive emphasis.   Improved
water management and intensification and streamlining of extension systems
form an important institution-building aspect of the Bank Group's progra-m for
the next several years.  Special emphasis will be given to projects benefi.-
ting small farmers. The Bank Group's continuing role in the fertililzer sec-
tor also assists India in the more efficient provision of another key inpur
in the agricultural growth process. Projects supporting water supply. sewer-
age, urban development and investments in the petroleum sector also form an
integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years.  Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will'
focus on those subsectors which have recently emerged as key constraInts on
India's overall growth, primarily power arLd transportation.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successrully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
there is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even
greater deterioration in balance of payments anticipated during the 1980s by
augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment. As in the past,
Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include the financ-
ing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be smal1' in
most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priorilty sectors
as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
24.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue
to be, provided from IDA.  However, the amount of IDA funds that can reason-
ably be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for
external support.  Therefore, India should be eligible and regarded as
creditworthy for some supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt
service to the level of exports was 12% in 1978/79 and is projected to re.a
below 20% through 1995/96. As of January 31, 1931, outstanding loans to
India held by the Bank totalled US$1,766 million, of which US$561 million
remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,206 m7illion
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements3 and
12% of net disbursements as compared with 46%, 37% and 48%, respeatively   -
1979/80.  On March 31, 1980, India's outstanding and disbursed external pub-
lic debt was US$15.6 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was US$5.2 bil-
lion or 34% (IDA's US$4.5 billion and IBRD's US$0.7 billion). Because Bank
Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form of IDA credits, debt
service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1979/80, about 18.0% of
India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-9-
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION IN TAMIL NADU
26.     The State of Tamil Nadu is located in southeastern India, facing the
Bay of Bengal. Covering an area of nearly 130,000 km2, Tamil Nadu had a
population estimated at 46.8 million in 1979, approximately 7.4% of the
estimated total population of India, making it the third most densely popu-
lated State in the country. Estimated per capita income in Tamil Nadu in
1977/78 was Rs 1,036, relative to an all-India average of Rs 1,189. About
43% of the State's income is attributable to agriculture, which employs about
60% of the labor force.
27.     Tamil Nadu has two main geographical regions -- the coastal plain,
which is about 50-100 km wide and consists of mainly sedimentary soils, and
the central plateau, which lies between the Eastern and Western Ghats (hills)
and consists largely of red soils on crystalline rock formations. The State
has three main seasons -- the southwest monsoon (June to September), the
northeast monsoon (October to December), and the dry season (January to May).
28.     The net sown area in Tamil Nadu is about 6.3 million hectares (48% of
the total area), of which 46% (2.9 million hectares) is irrigated. Although
paddy is the State's most important crop (covering 36% of cropped area), rice
production is barely adequate to meet local consumption demand and in drought
years rice must be imported from other States. The remainder of the cropped
area is largely accounted for by cereals, oilseeds, pulses, cotton, and
sugarcane. Farm holdings are typically small and often fragmented. Eighty
percent of holdings are reported to be under two hectares in size, 16%
between two and six hectares and only 4% above six hectares. 1/ In addition,
there is a high proportion of tenant farmers and landless laborers in the
State, which contributes to the fact that an average of 58% of the rural
population was estimated to be below the poverty level over the period
1957/58-1973/74, compared to an all-India average of 50%.
Agricultural Extension in Tamil Nadu
29.     Until the early 1970s, agricultural extension in Tamil Nadu was car-
ried out by multi-purpose Village Level Workers (VLWs) under the control of
the Directorate of Rural Development. Although they had multiple duties and
were not directly supervised by the Directorate of Agriculture (DOA), VLWs
were intended to spend the bulk of their time on agricultural extension. In
fact, however, the VLW network was not able to provide adequate service to
farmers. VLWs typically spent less than 20% of their time on agricultural
1/   While an official ceiling on individual land owmership may have
led to an underestimate of average farm size (as the title to single
operational units may have been split among members of a family), the
small size of agricultural holdings in Tamil Nadu is an important ele-
ment of the State's agricultural character.



-10-
extension, spreading that time thinly over an excessive number of farm fami-
lies. What agricultural extension work VLWs did carry out was inadequately
planned and supervised, as they were only indirectly linked to DOA. More-
over, VLWs' agricultural training was generally confined to pre-service
training, which was quickly forgotten and, in any case, soon out of date.
30.     In recognition of the weaknesses of the VLW system, the Government of
Tamil Nadu introduced a series of special crop schemes under the Directorate
of Agriculture. These schemes focussed on paddy, cotton, coconut, tobacco,
sugarcane and pulses, and emphasized the introduction of high-yielding
varieties, the development and dissemination of "packages" of agricultural
practices, increased use of fertilizer and other inputs, and mechanized land
preparation. In addition, the Directorate of Horticulture (DOH) began pro-
viding extension services to farmers in the Nilgiris District, where horti-
cultural crops are of primary importance. More recently, as a supplement to
these schemes, DOA has introduced a series of area development programs
focussing on specific agro-climatic zones (e.g., the Drought Prone Areas Pro-
gram and the Integrated Dryland Area Development Program), and GOTN has
created a separate Directorate of Oil Seeds (which is not yet fully in place)
to provide advice on the cultivation and marketing of oil seeds.
31.     While these special schemes have made an impact in their limited
areas of operation, the current network of extension services suffers from a
number of deficiencies. First, special scheme extension units cover only
limited areas, with the result that only about 10% of the State's farmers are
served by these units. Second, the existence of separate field staff for
different crops has led to a significant degree of duplication of services
and resulting high operating costs and has forced farmers, who normally grow
a variety of crops, to consult several different sources for advice. Third,
the number of separate units operating in a given district has grown too
large to permit adequate supervision and coordination by district staff.
Fourth, these schemes have not included regular training for field staff,
which has compromised the quality of field work. And finally, extension
staff have become office-bound due to lack of transport and growing paperwork
and have tended to act more as input supply agents than agents of technologi-
cal change. It is these deficiencies that the proposed project is designed
to address.
Bank Group Activities in Agricultural Extension I/
32.     The weaknesses evident in Tamil Nadu's extension system have been
identified in many States of India. Since 1977, the Bank Group has assisted
efforts to reorganize and strengthen agricultural extension in ten Indian
1/   This section is substantially the same as the corresponding
section of the President's Report for the Maharashtra Agricultural
Extension Project (Report No. P-3002-IN), dated March 30, 1981.



-1 1-
States. 1/ Bank Group-supported projects have introduced the Training and
Visit (T&V) System of agricultural extension, a system based on frequent
(bi-weekly) in-service training of field extension workers and regular,
scheduled visits by field workers to farmers.
33.     Introduction of the T&V System has not been easy.  The shift from a
system based on multi-purpose functionaries to a system of professional
extension carried out by single-purpose extension workers involves a major
administrative and conceptual reform which inevitably encounters bureau-
cratic, political and logistical hurdles. Informed and motivated leadership
being of paramount importance during the introduction of the system, senior
staff turnover is particularly troublesome. Moreover, even in the best of
circumstances, several years are required for the system, once initiated, to
fully mature and become institutionalized. Despite these unavoidable chal-
lenges, the system has been very successfully initiated in Orissa, Rajasthan,
Karnataka, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Assam. Field visits have shown that
farmers have responded favorably to extension efforts, adopting recommended
practices such as line transplanting of paddy, seed treatment, inter-cropping
with pulses, and basal dressing of fertilizer. In project districts in
Madhya Pradesh, for example, there has been a 300% increase in the use of
clean and graded seed, a 35% increase in the planting of seed of improved
varieties, and a 28% increase in the use of seed dressings. Fertilizer use
has increased by 66% over 1976/77 levels (as opposed to a 48% increase in
non-project areas) and the use of soil testing facilities has increased by
69%. Continued care will be required in all States to see that vacated posts
are quickly filled, extension workers are adequately supervised, and exten-
sion messages continue to be appropriate. Buit the basis has been laid for a
strong, professional extension system and results are visible in the fields.
34.     In Gujarat, while the system is in place and operating fairly well,
the quality of field work is somewhat uneven. The State Government has been
alerted to IDA's concerns by recent supervision missions, and efforts are
underway to ensure that extension workers understand the messages they are to
deliver, that they keep to their schedule of visits, and that farmers are
made aware of the visit schedule in their area.
1/   On-going Bank Group-supported extension projects include: the
Orissa Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 682-IN; April 1,
1977); the Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Pro-
ject (Cr. 712-IN; June 1, 1977); the West Bengal Agricultural Ex-
tension and Research Project (Cr. 690-IN; June 1, 1977); the Assam
Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 728-IN; June 30, 1977); the
Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 737-IN;
November 14, 1977); the Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research
Project (Cr. 761-IN; January 6, 1978); the Composite Agricultural
Extension Project (Cr. 862-IN; February 16, 1979); and the Kerala
Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1028-IN; June 25, 1980).
Three additional extension projects have been appraised and
negotiated -- the Maharashtra Agri.cultural Extension Project, the
Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension -- Phase II, and the project
for Tamil Nadu described in this report.



-12-
35.     In Bihar and West Bengal, the effort to introduce the T&V System has
encountered more serious delays. A change in the State Government in West
Bengal, following the initially very promising introduction of the T&V Sys-
tem, led to a re-evaluation of the system and its merits by the incoming
administration. While this resulted in a lengthy period of backsliding in
terms of project implementation, the Government of West Bengal has now reaf-
firmed its commitment to the T&V System and begun taking the critical steps
required to expedite project implementation (e.g., recruitment and training
of field staff, identification of farmer groups and selection of contact
farmers). A court-imposed injunction in response to a suit brought by field
staff transferred from the Community Development Department to the Department
of Agriculture for extension work has prevented the project from regaining
full momentum. However, that injunction has now been partially lifted, with
the result that field work (with new recruits) has resumed. Moreover, this
is a problem that has been met and overcome in several States, 1/ and it is
expected that the tempo of project implementation will soon pick up. In the
case of Bihar, project implementation has been seriously hampered by vacan-
cies in the posts of Director of Agriculture and Additional Director of Agri-
culture (Extension). IDA and GOI have been very concerned about the lack of
progress in Bihar and are discussing with the State Government the con-
straints facing the project and the administrative and budgetary steps which
must be taken if Bihar is to implement the project as expeditiously as
possible.
36.     Finally, in Kerala, the most recently approved of our extension pro-
jects, project initiation has been slowed by staff changeovers at all levels
(ministerial and administrative).  However, field work has now begun in three
districts, with the remaining eight districts to come on stream in May 1981.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.     The project was prepared by the Government of Tamil Nadu with the
assistance of Bank Group staff. It was appraised in October 1980. A report
entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project"
(No. 3297-IN) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in March 1981. The Governments of
India and Tamil Nadu were represented by a delegation coordinated by
Mr. G. Ranga Rao, Director, Department of Economic Affairs, GOI. A Supple-
mentary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
1/   VLW associations in several States have initially filed suit to
ensure that their compensation, benefits, and promotional prospects
will not be endangered as a result of their transfer to the Department
of Agriculture for extension work. In each case, the suit has been sa-
tisfactorily settled and VLWs' conditions of employment safeguarded
(see para 45(a)).



-13-
Project Description
38.     The project is designed to achieve early and sustained increases in
agricultural production throughout Tamil Nadu's 15 agricultural districts 1/
through the introduction of the Training and Visit System of agricultural
extension. Existing extension activities would be reorganized and
strengthened to achieve:
(a) consolidation of staff from existing rural development, special
crop and area development schemes into a single, unified extension service;
(b) establishment of a single line of command between full-time
field-level extension workers and the extension headquarters;
(c) initiation of regular, in-service training as an integral part
of extension activities;
(d) introduction of a systematic, fixed schedule for regular and
frequent visits by extension workers to farmers' fields;
(e) improved linkages between extension operations and agricultural
research activities; and
(f) regular monitoring and evaluation of extension activities.
The project would provide additional staff, vehicles, housing, operating
funds, and training to achieve these reforms.
39.     The proposed project would be based on the deployment, at field
level, of Village Extension Workers (VEWs) responsible only for agricultural
extension. Each VEW would be assigned to work with an identified group of
farm families, varying in number depending on local conditions, population
density, accessibility and cropping pattern. One VEW would cover, on aver-
age, 800 farm families, 2/ with the actual number varying from 600 in
sparsely populated areas to 1,500 in a few densely-settled coastal areas,
where coconut is virtually the only crop grown and transport and communica-
tions are good. A contingency provision has been made for additional VEWs, if
that proves necessary. The Government of Tamil Nadu would, by March 31,
1983, in consultation with IDA, carry out a review of VEW staffing strength
and make any adjustments in the VEW:farm family ratio required for effective
operation (Section 2.12, Project Agreement).
40.     To reach his farmers systematically, the VEW would divide the fami-
lies in his jurisdiction into eight smaller groups, generally of about 100-
1/   Tamil Nadu has 16,administrative districts, one of which is
coterminous with the Madras Metropolitan Area.
2/   Thus, a total of approximately 4,800 VEWs would serve the
State's 3.8 million farm families.



-14-
150 each. 1/ He would visit each group regularly on a fixed day of the week
in a two-week cycle. During his visit the VEW would go to contact farmers
selected from each group, involving as many other farmers as possible in the
discussions and demonstrations. During each visit the VEW would concentrate
his efforts on a few strategically selected recommendations relevant for that
particular phase of the crop cycle. The extension messages to be communi-
cated to farmers at the initial stage would be simple, concentrating on the
few important crops in the locality and the most important aspects of crop
production at that time. Initially, the emphasis would be on low-cost
improvements which the majority of farmers can afford.
41.     The VEW would be assisted, guided and supervised in his work by an
Agricultural Officer/Deputy Agricultural Officer (DYAO). 2/ One DYAO would be
responsible for six to eight VEWs and would spend at least four days a week
visiting them in the field. Once in every two-week period, VEWs would
receive a full day of intensive training in the recommendations for that
period (relevant for the coming two weeks). The DYAO would also participate
in this training session. Thus, every two weeks the VEW would spend eight
days in visiting each of his eight groups and one day in training. One day
the DYAO may meet all his VEWs in the field or at the headquarters to review
progress, reinforce practical skills, and identify topics to be raised at the
next training session. The remaining two working days would be devoted to
farm trials, making up missed visits, and occasional office work.
42.     The DYAO would, in turn, be guided and supervised by a Divisional
Agricultural Officer (DVAO), 3/ who would have full-time responsibility for
supervising the 6-10 DYAOs in his subdivision. The DVAO would have on his
staff three Subjec-t-Matter Specialists (SMSs) -- one each specializing in
Agronomy, Plant Protection and Training/Communications -- who would spend
one-third of their time on fortnightly training sessions for VEWs, one-third
of their time providing technical support to VEWs and DYAOs through field
visits, and the remainder of their time in training, execution of field tri-
als, and collaboration with researchers at the State's agricultural univer%
sity and research stations.
43.     At the district level, the extension service would be overseen by a
Joint Director (JD). The JD would be assisted by three SMSs, who would pro-
vide support to subdivisional SMS teams and in some cases cover specializa-
tions not represented at the subdivisional level.  In order to free the JD to
devote his full attention to extension, a separate Deputy Director of Agri-
culture would be appointed in each district to handle input supply, report-
ing, regulatory functions and the like.
1/   In some areas, groups would be as small as 75 or as large as
190.
2/   Most of the officers in this first-line supervisory position
would be Deputy Agricultural Officers, the structure thus leaving
room for promotion in place.
3/   Each district would be divided into subdivisions, the number
of subdivisions ranging from six to eleven.



-15-
44.     Finally, district-level staff would be responsible to the Additional
Director of Agriculture for Extension (ADA (Extension)) in the Directorate of
Agriculture (DOA) or, in the case of the Nilgiris District (see para 46
below), to the Director of Horticulture. Each of these officers would be
directly responsible for extension activities within his area of jurisdiction
and would visit the field frequently to supervise extension operations. The
ADA (Extension) would have a technical support staff of seven SMSs, 1/ who
would be responsible for improving the technical quality of the extension
service in the area of their specialization, developing and interpreting farm
trials, promoting linkages with research carried out in the State and else-
where in the country, organizing training programs, and serving as a clearing
house for technical information. The Director of Horticulture would also
have a technical staff consisting of two SMSs.
45.     The specific expenditures to be financed under the project are sum-
marized below.
(a) Incremental Staff. Staff required to implement the reorganized
extension system would be made available partially through new recruitment
and partially through reassignment of existing staff, i.e., VLWs currently
with the Directorate of Rural Development (DRD) and staff already with DOA
and DOH working on special crop and area schemes. VLW positions required for
the first year of project implementation have already been transferred from
DRD to DOA and DOH. Transfer of the remaining VLW positions required for the
project, together with the sanctioning of all required new positions, would
be accomplished by June 1, 1981 (Section 2.09, Project Agreement). Project
costs have been calculated to include the cost of salaries and allowances for
the incremental positions required to establish the T&V System. GOTN would
ensure that incremental and reassigned staff positions to be used for exten-
sion would be filled in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory to IDA,
that all such positions would be used exclusively for agricultural extension
and retained under the control of DOA and DO]H throughout the project period,
and that staff reassigned to work on extension under the project would not be
adversely affected in terms of salaries or benefits as a result of their
reassignment (Section 2.10, Project Agreement).
(b) Staff Training. The project would support a wide variety of
in-service training programs for extension staff. These would include induc-
tion training for all VEWs (orientation to the system); special short courses
and pre-season training for VEWs, DYAOs and SMSs; monthly training sessions
for DYAOs; fortnightly training of VEWs by subdivisional SMSs; monthly
workshops for SMSs; and special workshops and advanced training for research
personnel. These programs would be carried out at a number of sites, among
them DOA's State Agricultural Institute at Kudumiamalai, whose facilities
would be expanded under the project.
(c) Housing. As the new extension methodology is based on regular
and frequent farm visits by field staff, it is essential that field staff and
their supervisors live in or near their areas of work. GOTN would ensure
1/   One each for paddy, coconut, pulses, sugarcane, plant protec-
tion, water management, and adaptive research and training.



-16-
that all VEWs and DYAOs live in or near the areas assigned to  rhe-- -
tion 2.11, Project Agreement).  While GOTN will continue to encouae    e the u'-
of rental housing where possible, it will be necessary to constr,"Ct Jow- c-
housing in areas where rental accommodation is not available.
pated that new housing would be required for about 30% of the VE'N's ^nd       S
GOTN would provide IDA with regular information on progress in lccatjirns-
for houses financed under the project (Section 2.06(b), Project kgrneraenr
(d)  Vehicles.  To enable field extension staff to main---ai'x
schedules of visits and supervisory staff to reach the field eas -v anc ^r
quently, adequate transport is essential.  The project would pro--  r;.'.
tional motor vehicles at headquarters, district, and subdivisional e--v!-I
well as loans for field staff for the purchase of motorcycles (SMSs  -
and bicycles (VEWs).  Loan terms and travel allowances would be se 
encourage the purchase and optimal use of vehicles by field staff--SaL_'ior
2.13, Project Agreement).
(e)  Equipment and Incremental Operating Costs.  The project
provide GOTN with funds for travel allowances and incremental vek c
ing costs, for the printing of materials for VEWs (e.g., field rote oo;
charts, etc.), and for purchase of small samples of seeds and other          s
for farmer training and field trials, simple audio-visual aids to s-ipp-rt
field operations and training, and required office equipment and D-1-ni'Aire<
(f)  Monitoring and Evaluation.  The project would provide staf
vehicles, and operating funds for the establishment and operat-lion o': O
toring and evaluation system specifically designed to provide projec          -
ment with current information on the effectiveness of the exte-Insion u ycta_i
The methodology used would be similar to that utilized in on-goinL  e-Iters-oc
projects and would supplement direct personal supervision by eac- Ii 
project management.  GOTN would ensure that monitoring and evaluanton T7C-_
be undertaken in a manner acceptable to IDA and that annual summa--ies or-
results of monitoring and evaluation surveys would be forwarded Lo tche
ciation (Section 2.08, Project Agreement).
Project Implementation and Coordination with Related Agencies
46.     In 14 of the project districts, the extension system wou}ddJ bel-
mented by DOA in accordance with the organizational structure outli=e -n
paras 39-44 above.  In the Nilgiris District, where horticultural cro-c
predominate and where the Directorate of Horticulture has tradit c
responsible for extension, DOH would implement the system. aga_r i-'
formity with the staffing and supervision norms described above,,
ADA (Extension) and the Director of Horticulture would be fully reS,,on
on both administrative and technical levels, for the day-to-day coeratE       c:
the extension service.  Project-supported training would we carried ct by
DOA/DOH staff assisted by the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Universitv
while monitoring and evaluation would be the responsibility o-f a Ur.i'.- set
under a Joint Director of Agriculture at DOA headquarters.
47.     Overall coordination at the State level between extensison ar
research staff and allied agencies would be ensured through the  s-a_lsh--
of a Project Coordination Committee.  This committee would be chaied by   e
Agricultural Production Commissioner and would include the Vice Chance- io-L- olf



-17-
the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University and representatives of relevant
government departments and agencies (i.e., the Departments of Agriculture,
Horticulture, Finance, Irrigation, and CooperaLion and various input supply
agencies). It would hold its first meeting by September 30, 1981 and would
meet at least twice yearly thereafter to review project implementation and
promote proper coordination of the activities of the agencies involved in or
related to the project (Section 2.03, Project Agreement).
48.     Coordination between extension and research staff at the State level
and below would be promoted further through district, zone, 1/ and State
technical committees. A District Technical Committee would be established in
each district and would meet at least twice a year to review past extension
recommendations, formulate prospective recommendations, and identify related
research priorities. These committees would hold their first meeting by Sep-
tember 30, 1981 for districts to be covered during the first year of project
implementation and by September 30, 1982 for districts to be covered during
the second year of project implementation (Section 2.04, Project Agreement).
The recommendations of the District Technical Committees would be assembled,
reviewed and evaluated by zonal workshops, which would be chaired by the
senior research scientist of TNAU and include representatives of both exten-
sion and research staff. Pre-season zonal workshops would be held twice a
year, and would make recommendations (based on a review of district-level
recommendations) to the State-level Scientific Workers Conference (composed
of senior officers of TNAU, DOH and DOA), which would approve or modify the
programs proposed by the district and zonal committees. In addition, monthly
workshops would be held at the zonal level to make any adaptations to the
agreed seasonal program which may be required to suit prevailing field condi-
tions and to review field trials, training experience, and actual lesson
plans. 2/  In order to ensure a common understanding of their respective
roles in the extension/research network, DOA and TNAU have signed a memoran-
dum of understanding clearly delineating, inter alia, TNAU's project-related
research and training responsibilities. In addition, the Project Coordina-
tion Committee would, from time to time, review and, where appropriate,
strengthen arrangements for cooperation between DOA, DOH and TNAU.
Project Costs and Financing
49.     The estimated cost of the proposed project is about US$45.6 million,
including about US$5.9 million in taxes and duties and US$4.0 million in
foreign exchange costs. Physical contingencies of 5% have been applied to
civil works, equipment, training, and operating costs, and to meet the possi-
ble need for readjustment of the VEW:farm family ratio (see para 39). Price
contingencies of 10% for 1980, 7% for 1981-83, and 5% for 1984-86 have been
1/   The State is divided into 2 agro-climatic zones.
2/   This organizational structure would be subject to review over
the course of the project, as the recommendations of the recently
completed study of agricultural research services in Tamil Nadu
are implemented.  Any changes in the committee structure would be
subject to approval by IDA.



-18-
applied and total 18% of total project cost (US$8.4 million). The components
of project cost, net of contingencies, are: incremental staff (US$14.5 mil-
lion); civil works (US$9.6 million); incremental operating costs (US$4.7 mil-
lion); vehicles and equipment (US$3.9 million); and staff training (US$3.0
million).
50.     The proposed IDA credit of US$28 million would finance about 70% of
project cost net of taxes and duties and would cover all foreign exchange
costs. The balance of the funds required for the project would be made
available from State Government sources and GOI.
Procurement and Disbursement
51.     Civil works contracts (US$9.6 million) 1/ would be small and
dispersed, both geographically and over time, and would therefore not be
suitable for international competitive bidding. Contracts would be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding following local advertisement. About 153
motor vehicles (US$1.3 million) of various types would be required under the
project. They would be purchased in small quantities over two years and
would be widely dispersed in rural areas. In the interest of ensuring ade-
quate maintenance and spare parts supply, they would be procured under exist-
ing government procedures, which involve local competitive bidding and are
satisfactory to IDA. Motorcycles and bicycles (US$0.8 million) would be pur-
chased by individual staff according to their preference from loan funds pro-
vided by GOTN. Orders for purchase of minor equipment and furniture (US$1.8
million) would be bulked wherever possible and purchased according to esta-
blished local bidding procedures, except where valued at less than US$50,000,
when they would be purchased by prudent shopping through normal trade chan-
nels. The balance of project costs (US$22.2 million) would consist of train-
ing (US$3.0 million), incremental salaries and allowances (US$14.5 million),
and incremental operating expenditures for offices and vehicles (US$4.7 mil-
lion), which would not involve procurement.
52.     The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed over six years against
100% of the cost of training; 80% of the cost of civil works, vehicles, and
equipment; and 25% of eligible staff costs. 2/ Disbursements against staff
costs, training, payments of less than Rs 300,000 each under civil works con-
tracts, and payments of less than Rs 150,000 each for locally procured vehi-
cles and equipment would be made against certificates of expenditure. These
certificates of expenditure would be audited annually by the Government audi-
tors and the audit report submitted to IDA as soon as available. Supporting
documentation for these expenditures would be retained by the State Govern-
ment for inspection in the course of project review missions. Disbursements
against expenditures for all other items would be fully documented.
1/   All figures in this paragraph are net of contingencies.
2/   Staff costs eligible for reimbursement are basically professional
extension positions (i.e., VEW and above) at village, block, subdivi-
sion, district and State levels.



-19-
Benefits and Risks
53.     The principal benefit of the proposed project would be to increase
crop production and thus farm incomes as a result of providing improved
extension services to farm families.  Approximately 3.8 million farm families
living in the project area, 80% of whom are reported to farm less than two
hectares, would be served by the reformed extension system. Total project
costs over the five-year development period, excluding price contingencies,
amount to US$37.2 million, approximately US$9.8 per farm family served and
US$5.9 per hectare of cropped land. Recurring incremental costs after the
project development period, which would be met from GOI/State budget sources,
would be approximately US$4.5 million per annum, or approximately US$1.2 per
farm family per annum. These recurring costs would be partially recovered
through market levies on agricultural goods entering commercial markets and
through sales taxes levied on agricultural inputs, the consumption of which
is expected to rise as a result of improved farm practices.
54.     Attributing a precise level of economic benefits to this type of pro-
ject is difficult, since it is impossible to determine precisely what propor-
tion of the benefits expected from improved agricultural practices is due to
extension alone and what is due to past research efforts, additional pur-
chased inputs, or more work by the farmer. In practice, it is often the com-
bination of all these, with extension acting as the catalyst, that brings the
desired benefits.  However, since the incremental cost of the project is low
per hectare and per farm family, even small and slow production increases
generate a high rate of return. The proposed project, for example, would
generate a 50% rate of return if, by 1988, yields of foodgrains (which cover
75% of the State's cultivated area) increase by only 1.3% over current yield
levels. In areas where the new extension system has already been applied,
yield increases have far exceeded these levels. Moreover, the practices ini-
tially stressed by the extension service usually focus on improved agricul-
tural practices (timely operations, good land preparation, proper seed rates,
weeding, line sowing) which involve additional labor but require little
incremental cash outlay. They are thus particularly well suited to the needs
of the small cultivator.
55.     The establishment of a single, unified, professional agricultural
extension service, through the transfer and training of staff from a number
of formerly separate programs, marks a major departure from past practice in
India. The fact that such a significant ref-orm is underway in large parts of
the country reflects a strong commitment to developing an extension system
capable of serving all farmers well. Nevertheless, it is difficult for
governments to make and carry out such decisions. The main risk, therefore,
is that the State Government will find it difficult to integrate staff from
various sources under an effective single line of command from extension
headquarters to full-time VEWs who work exclusively on agriculture. In an
effort to reduce this risk, substantial efforts were made during project
preparation and appraisal to ensure full understanding on the part of the
State Government of the importance of an integrated and unified service. In
addition, during negotiations assurances were obtained from GOTN that the
extension posts transferred to and created in DOA and DOH under the project
would be retained by these Directorates throughout the project execution



-20-
period and utilized solely for agricultural extension (para 45(a)). While
this obligation extends only as far as the project execution period, it is
clearly the Government's intention that the extension reform will be a last-
ing one. Moreover, the merits of the system should be sufficiently apparent
both to farmers and DOA/DOH staff to ensure its continuation. Staff changes
in the upper ranks of government are frequent, and thus there is the addi-
tional risk of a lack of sustained, informed and motivated leadership, so
crucial during the initial stages of the extension reform. Once again, the
importance of continuity at the management level has been impressed upon
State officials. Moreover, GOTN has designated a suitably qualified Addi-
tional Director of Agriculture (Extension), specifically and solely assigned
to supervise the proposed project.
56.     Experience with the T&V extension system in other States has shown
other potential risks to be minimal. Farmer responsiveness to recommenda-
tions has been excellent wherever visits are made systematically. The abil-
ity of the service to develop and disseminate recommendations leading to
yield increases well above that needed to generate a 50% rate of return has
also been demonstrated. Initially, at least in most situations, technology
has not been a major constraint as there is a backlog of research findings as
yet not widely adopted at the farm level. Just bringing the production of
the average farmer up to that of the best farmer brings major yield
increases. In order to further reduce the possibility of declining benefits
due to stagnation in crop research or inadequate dissemination of research
findings, the project supports programs of field trials (executed by VEWs in
cooperation with researchers) and promotes a close relationship between the
extension service and the State agricultural university. Moreover, Tamil
Nadu has qualified for assistance under a separate IDA-supported project, the
National Agricultural Research Project (Credit 855-IN), which is directed at
strengthening research capabilities to ensure a continuous flow of research
results adapted to specific regional requirements.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Associa-
tion, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the State of
Tamil Nadu, and the Recommendations of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
58.     Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
59.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Arti-
cles of Agreement of the Association.



-21-
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
April 6, 1981



t                     I                                                                                                                                                                                                      I



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV%AGES
LAND AREA (IHOUSAND SQ. RCM.)                                                   11MST RECENT ZSTIMATEB
TOTAL           3287.6
AGRICULTURAL    1824.0                               MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCCQE
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER  CAPITA (USS)                60.0       100. 0    190.0             212.4                 1114. 7
EEGY CONSUIIPTION PRN CAPITA
(VILOGRANS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    108.oLU.    141.OA   176.0Le            166.0                  847.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)   434.9       547.6     643.9 8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9       19.7      21.7              20.8                   39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    974.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                     1645.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 10.                     132.0       167.0    196.0              193.2                  376.1
PER SQ. 1l4. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0     308.0    353.0              409.6                 2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        40.0        42.5      41.4              42.0                   40.4
15-64 YRS.                        56.5        54.6      55.6              55.0                   56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.5         2.9       3.0               3.0                    3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1.9         2.5       2.0               2.2                    2.4
DERBAN                            2.5/d       3.3       3.3               3.9                    4. 1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    43.0        40.0      35.0              31.4                   28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    21.0        17.0      14.0              14.6                    7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.2         2.9       2.4               2.6                    1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)    64.0      3782.0   4714.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..        12.0      16.9              15.6                   39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         98.0       102.0    103.0              101.4                  116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRP24ENES)                 93.0        92.0      91.0              92.4                  108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         52.0        51.0      50.0              49.8                   60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0       15.0      13.0              12.0                   18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    28.0        22.0      18.0              17.9                    5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   43.0        48.0      51.0              50.8                   63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..       134.0        ..                ..                   52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        17. 0     33.0              30.2                   42.4
URBAN                              ..        60.0      83.0              66.0                   62.1
RURAL                              ..         6.0      20.0              20.0                   29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        18.       20. 0             17. 7                  52.8
URBAN                              ..        85.0      87.0              71.3                   71.1
RURAL                              ..         1. 0      2.0                ..                   42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         5800. 0j    4890.0   3617.0             6322.7                 4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    9630.0/e   5220.0   5675.0              9459.0                 2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          2149.0/f   1629.0   1289.0              1758.4                  819.4
URBAN                              ..
RURAL                              ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..        ..                ..                   28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SLZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.2          ..       5.2
URBAN                             5.2          ..       4.8
RURAL                             5.2          ..       5.3
AVERAGE NIMBER OP PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             2.6         2.8
URBAN                              ..
RURAL                              ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DIELLINGS)
TOTAL                              .
URBAN
RURAL                              ..



AiN N.X I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - 'OCIAL INDICATORS DATA SIEET
INDIA                       REFERFNCE GROUPS (WEICIlTED AVERACES
- MOST RFCFNT ESTTN)Lf
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 /h ESTIMATE Lb   ASIA 4 PACIFIC               ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PR tMARY:     TOTAL                  61.0         72. 0      80. 0              80. 9                    98.6
MALE                   80.0         87.0       95.0               94.3                     99.2
FEMALE                 40. 0        SS.0       64.0               66.7                     97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   20. 0        29.0       28.0               26.6                     55.5
MLALE                  30.0         39.0       38.0               34.8                     60. 7
FEMALE                 10.0         17.0      18.0                18.2                    49.9
VOCATIONAI ENROL. (Z OP SECONDARY)   8.0            6. 0/g      .9. .9                                    13. 7
PUPIL-TEACPER RATIO
PRIMARY                              29.0         40. 0      42.0               41.1                     34. 6
SECONDARY                            16.0         17.0         ..               20.5                     28. 5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCE!T)          28.0         33.0       36.0                40. 9                   85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGgR CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            0. 7         1. 0       1.3                 1.8                     9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            5.0         21.0       24.0               25.8                    118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..          0. 1       0. 5                2. 4                   39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULIATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    11.0         16.0       16.0                13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0             6. 3       3. 8                 ..                     4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   119761.4    220670.5  252235.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     31.3         32. 6      32.0               29.4                     36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                74.0         74. 0      74. 0               70.5                    51. 9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   11.0         11.0       11.0               11.6                     21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  43.0         40.2       39.2                37.9                    39. 1
MALE                                   57.1         52. 3      51.3                51.3                    48.5
FEMALE                                 27.9         27. 1      26.2                23.7                    29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.0          1. 1       1. 1                1.2                     1. 1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF hOWSFtOLDS   26.7            26.3/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51. 7           48. 9/h
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF H0USEHOLDS    4.1             6. 7/h
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OP HOUSEEOLDS   13.6            17.2/1h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  .. '                  88.0               107.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..       76.0                86.5                   192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                 ..                    182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       40.7                46.2
RURAL                                  ..           ..       47.9                51. 7                   33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
la   The group averages 'or ench indicator are p,polotior-seighted arith-etic means.  Covorace of countries
among the Indicators depcods on availability cf data and is not uniforn.
Ab   Unless otherwsie noted, data for 1960 refer to soy year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betwe,e 1969
and 1971; and for Most RIc.cot Estimate, betwIen 1974 and 1978.
/c   Solid fuel conversion factors revised, /d 1951-60;  Le 1962;  /E 195S;  LE 1967;  /h 1964-65.
Most recent estimate of CNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
Naio-:alsh-oa   the data are drata ft-rs            r.ag--ool-  ]dgad the -oos  a-th-ecoofl-  -d reato,o  --ld also to scrd rho: stay aot  -s ho itrr-
aatia-ahtr  _sp-bal. ho--s  of the lath of na-csedi-od doitOaead --aaape  -od by cltferon   or:isis -ll-tis  rho sAra.  Thr daa  -r, sane-
titeesa.anofl todosrtaoordes ofwagitod. inIcat  t-nds, -co.d .. I t--otroeorIc .o)o  dlf Etre              _- es,e   -otrrt-
The  eerer  group  coo ((C the  -cr  outs  ro-1  ofoh  suj             -t-osty  -nd  I   --outto   troop  -.ht   ---at higher                 I-oa - -.oe  thae rise swtry foap
of he  shjtt  ounr   artp:  ar  Capital S-spLo-Ic  faEporr-r   gt       hr   hdl  Ir-oa  Or-th IC-. -awd  tde-fat" is ah...o ho--o  of arrange
eota-airra  atiesse .In the. eTer-a-o oru ..      aco- the  ooaaaeppiea    egtdaIhei -eats-fr-eah  adi-ator  -nd th-w  05 who  a
lease na-f at sh. oenr -aonaar     h.. data forthat ldcao.SIate 'h. a_-rta  af  -tost- oas:ht i.dt--or  dapoada  -s the  -oilabillxy at
dA.t  and ir see un          ..ta   Iaats  erat ha e--re   -s relaing a--ap- of c-  lalictort-   an-her.  Thet  -vora- err anty owatul is  op o  the  .I.u.
af  .ae  ~ladi-tr at a rtOe a-oo  the tratry red ref-ren-e  -apo.
LAND AREA  thoad qita I                                                                         tnlro   e    yata   .orlt                  rtoef. ap no-ote  05 Pratitieg pay-
lai   -  owlsuraceata   oettiiagloa  wer ed  Island waters.                         e -ca  e uneitIe ifr aamdIca sPh-l at anroeretip  isel.
AsIrrierol E- fa`leto of Ti-tltalte tl 105  uOe_ smpar.rLly ar pe-oasatly                 Pelto  petokrfewe- platla- dilsded iT auth-orf preacichoa
GI?P PER CImfiA(it   .11) P., -Ptapeoriatoa   ao at                tiwor PrIc-t, 0t~            oh.wdrrrt               iedhcorreense shrof 0001551l teds
cu-Lated hrby m  cotrinathad ar World haoh onire  (9)-79 ta-it)   thIAi,                     -cil.hle  ts pwhllc  nas private geactl .af sfaa-a. Inad hasp'Ci.w ad   -
197.ea 9itda-a.                                                                         heistl.i-aioc-iota-   Oaapital. are egtehliefhmea,  peeosntiy  tnaffed
ho at Ios  oae physiitan,  Eonehi.hnheeoe  peaiding pei-uirahs    rasetdial
itaiCSCllOtftlpt Ptt aPICA    isOOs  coseapelt n  cootoola  eaeapitol  t re  r  so  fotded.  Or-l hoepitols, howevr, laoeheath sad  -divas
adlisnite, perloa    tnua  &at aad tyda'-, -oactoar ar  -vherah alot-                       catoro ea  p- -aaetly  -offed hy a Physician (bat by a medical assistant
-                ~~~tricicyS ha. hilagr,-    at coal eqi-att poc capita; l9ht, 17059  and 19)9                  eurse  aldefte.,we.) which atfar lo-pstitt  --eeedatiie  sad provide
dsto.                                                                                         litalad rage of  -edgoal facilittee.  Yer sataihtitol  arpoa.e arha  boepi-
talelaclde tats  riacpal geesral ssc  epeaiai-ad ismiol.sd ee
Toa   oce Mia   idy-Yer  iito      A. of lo-y I; l96i, 1970, wed 19Sf              ntsiaortrta   e     bslaoa   )omein   oa  di-aharge
danr.                                                          orce toorleals fielded t~~~~~~~~~~y the smber of hede
d"ifoeonA dnietioc- aI-rha  areaw -op ofr-t  -apa-ahllty of dAta                        aotii
-.ogo--tsiriw   t1961. 19 1, and l9 a da.                                                 heroe  is         .t.ochold;I.. t aoo -er ha-sahod)-tnl   ea . d esel
pmolae.      olotosIhuehodcatt  uf -aga  of ind.vidal  oh sheetAr  liie   guatta.
Proeatoae  o pes lii    trosatpaplasrapejrtiera    haeed en 19809                 and eheOr eat:  -oslr   toerd- astdee  -ap or -Y so: he t-1toded ta
selpapulatlo- hy afe ad sco aed theIr earaliep wad  oE-tllia, matte.                   thoc huoehald fae ~ oarttiasalpopo
Proacess  atOoeeOe  or  orehit  saes   oprtise ad threw lovolawoa-          dwA-oo s             -t:  P aerwn  par eaon   tarn. nhb.. oad rura  - Aoetwge aw-
lag life erpt-ay on bIret  inc-alg atith  -oate,te par toptinI  ..c.a                     ho-  f pses..as pea root l,o cli ua , ad rata  ac-otd cansasniaol
ame,  n  fal  lit.  .pe-nsany  oailt at 77.S  _or-   The ar-                           welns repcsly    loe...               _eaIude  t-o.        ea  stettore. end
motea fo  fertil~ty rat  .ala  h-at  threwlnlaasOisda iso it-i~          I.opilPas.-,
fertility ..c. "di.g ta Isso_   -lec  oaf Pawn tartlp plstgpraaae.                      pa      ulrsiitn laa-a  ef d-lifrr  - total  arIa  adesea
lath --otry in thea  asigndor  a  tsh*a nine aaebiaatlosa of  Intai                        ovetaaldseilsgt with oe-teisitr i  living Qoatt-r  Se rnteent
sad farelliy nowade m   projeonianpusarees.                         f toral, srhoe,, and e-ra  d-c11tags reape-ti-ely.
the btreh ece  to  quI er th  d-,t  rate, wad alto  the aga as-uosuf  t-             FabC&rIOa
maura  -oar-t.  Tht  is Lachioced oly aitor fanniliey rates doollIna tO                 Affactd ia-slm-tn fatto
tha replaneeett 10-1 ad -sit see repradastI_s area, ste  aahgeerin                        ylayseo.-   tl.naadieaa-Ie   oa,mleadfa
af atan  eplue   itndf :ool.            The , tei-e- t p   rul:a  oh.                       earolaso  a' all raa at ate primary (.ant we p-arcesagwa tf te-poetle
esIae  o   h   anes   h  pIIolo-oted        "' ch ..t.atc  o.. eh   a_ltapiay -h-to-age papularlans;  -eaily  -stlala  children agd 61
is ee ooa (ts,oafthe  aneat  oolte a  fwtilis rne  t aolra        yars  ot  tf-tad fur diliernet  e-fthn of peImacy ad ... itos  fee
sent invel.                                                       coontrtet r~~~lth raonaa   ad ttsl          11slMoe  ma  .-..ad 105 Pe-aces
Pear aationry pselan Io inaned - TIso rena  h-atna  tal-ty posito                       ho   iepuPilo  rehow rahannoffiolat -etna  age.
fopalatlos iwnalto                                                  rdacatto:rsoaaros as isart t oar sewem  of appresend priewary inanesosnian;4 C-Pt.d .. a
iws.tm.-a-rear pop.a,lato  poe s4a-  kilometer Clii h-trt-ee  )                       prrde                       Ita.nalaa, a: t~Oaahe  twatinia  inetroctiase  a   oi
saeal rpl- sid-of(2a g-..1                                                                                           Aonatae;errerner  taer   eegaea
Per as. ha. ariSolt-rl loaf - loep.ted .e  bto- to.orlslt                 1- ad                 -.clysded.        17Y.sa g.            - P.---ra   -    .  al
on.y.                                                                                     toaitleelse   pseea   wodsr       osi-aa  inoCitotlon
-onaio   w  trutre (sacwl     hlan    ll   .era.  ........s(Is                         i-cInde  otn          itdrstiia.j  or Ithr Pgregem  etiah oPerano iedee-
6.rer,anveirdflyanedoelapoen agseaI-arpops-                                                   deathy no ot aepa-t.t  of sotodary instirt lne
Ialet19h1  1971.sd17   oa                                                                    oolaahrrns-ohar   n  ooroadar-Tsleaot   aold
saePapuLatl.e..  a E 19S0-6i, 1961-71. and 197t-PP.                                         carrespaAdscalo-eha
Pooat   - Isth ft   ane l-  -ehe   _ dA_sal groth rates ol are Papr-                    Adult li-eur  ar   porm    Lit-trr    Ado1ts fahie ts read and aetn.)
lotins   we191-hi  196-P,  and 910).9                                                     -e a peoctaoge  at.tul odrt popolation agnd 19 pnwfe and acr.
Loa,ds firth, tae    -e  thoweeds - )a--I Ltos hireh. pee tha...aod af ala-yea
poaala;161, 197P9, sed 1979  dta.                                                CONUPTO
trade ieaeh  ate tee: thaseawdl - dAwual d-trha pee tto-aaad at aid-yea                                                                                 - oeaerOro(t   hoad  aaohs    Pesgree  n-9pise metal
pon    960o lt, I97I, osd 1979 data.tiar    aen    atheegteesseewdnaslam,eoe    td
Orsen hege_d_tira Rta   A-.cw f  sute  of da-ahners     ine  s,lt hone in                     asllrpnaoy vetioleoh....an
h-r surnoaleprads-i- period if sh. enerene    .eesst age-epetuff  Ira                            R-dy    i -olea fearttssaa  I'alalorI",    All type-   f re-ei-na  foe raft
t,IlIYrstn;aaly  fveyeravrae  eadisa Is 1969, 1970. and 1977resae   Ofrai  alopriteadr   wpl:a;wcldsuoi
Psalr panans-osrtor. Oautitehsoaoit  -  asra  oatwnfoasptts           br-sodt-cwive 8 a a-IPstrios O          ZI.sore whe  r            -iaiasofrdio - et-
of  irni-  t-Ie davisoe aedoe sopiat  of .reianal aetly ploenig p-gfran                   art in effect; datr for re :yeses may wee he  -woprahie sina meet
poorl  Plewina- isrn ieroae atoser ad o-sn  -  o-cetuge of maried                  -tosaot-  bhottesd  i-teate.
aona  l ail-hori g rg  fl5-it yosre) wh. use bieth-oonrel device  to               T')howg    os(o  thusn   paoltie  -T755 eceree  far b-ed-at to
all twevad roman Is rant ago acor..V                                                     ga_fal pblI  Pet sh..ndrpisotnosesutose   5  aa
d Prd .~~~;iLa p~~~r C.tirs (196ewapese tircurtist  rr  thousan d aaesioeoa    S- ioe  the  --erge  iol.
Lodanr   odPnoce  pisCIt.1i9t-l)-rdeaorf peer capita .a.....                                  thi   Pdil aealtt  ot aeepre',dffaed asaperledl-I paw
Protola o_ f all faiostrittn.  Prnd-ti-ean-in.  nerd sand toed and                          tlcalo  dalote g-ri.ly so  eudsagatlse.I.I  nn ae
It a  aotsda  t.ar  anit   i_stdteeerPiaygos(..egaao                                  n   he      -daiy I  p -in paar  at  leant  oo  ttae-   w    io t    I   -.
nahannla-rag yprodba.     pia  ewigh1~t_;19h-  19)0, w_d   t99dtr                          o bsotdilo aoifts.       .- rI..     -    t.           -
Pea  uar  noly  f elarle-  forrb es of ti resi tewaa)-t            ff.ompoted'Pt. iron                                                    Bsa       t.  -b
noergy epsivalant ot set food saapplfeeaailahlr iccosoery pee cepita  oo,ait opai
md ns  distlhutos otprpoleloa  nod-wiabf1   ere -ttoecat  at.                  f,tarucL.tr F (c atth-." loa  foo -.it-frana  twserp h.arn.    - dingan
retsspl  off_     n   d.Stspl   ifn   e  s d                                            -oshre.   o- o - elcrily   --wletad gas asp.a.. a   f  aa 1,500  0000;-Pit
allansse a  hI  snms  f natl prtnia  er da  nod11 gre   iaooata 17   o  10   a
a jdi.rlib~~~~~ti-   f p.p.1-1  ~    ~PrnaiasItios lt e                                   Lserew   ..totL, main and femmi -ty poesictstw   er
fon h.cd Su-1e; 196i-t5, 19701 and 1977 data.A
Per                                                                       aateauoe  iras sai~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- arL.tnoel . a iote
rhondpy  raa   6laPi ad.yu.n  Ia orsn  pe  fdar  1961~f-65  1    sadb5   data           candatcl-r        esslat  -d getf  -  p-psirteng usde  11ts   andr 69-an   19c
toe    aadrie   omlfe  notle I.t~I, 197 dae d a177daa                          isoasen- PrIiap.lsthslla                                          P
P.- 11-1,  f ~~~~~~~~h-h 10 gr-                                    oeesah-l      rnoanb    ba-t(hat i  tot ad Th) -Raonve  hyrins-                e
oetlni i169  1)  and plcP.aa. .ga..,dy1915,17-                           9  c.-
of age pee thoooe ad 1100 bOoths.                                            fatstPar  h-o-a ttad  Oboolato yooa  som   eo  CCII, or  capita  an se5e  asdnaa
doATaO  no lo.e Wasee toPcesiI-f--eenstanon)-- Cehdl,iorha- as-d ruralt- C
tsoeI.      pepeIeal.rta  sdrnt  stint roasenetlsf eaoeoalif  -no                . saf        Iho-to ivoow-n laoe  las.nt, In        -tha   20an  ieevei. sode  mrouooa0enP.-
)iolde   teaedesfwe  arosar  ateoedho  atvnofaae          snitrsll   neoat  dorplw   snmfa  nm-rr  rqaeeeea  n  o
parein-   w  of P- aoir et. pat.1   wb-    psanI'latrs oa   na  -eaeshits.  .ura oi otivry pcoooeo di-oPee len -t.Ol(aen-tsid a  orag  per Iapioa
do nan have -to epod a dlsrrrpnaaida...part.-f shave       tastentO- boo                         . - rorPs..n vi, poultoaa L-ra  ted$ ~rsravir eno ar    aholt  pae
fasti-'- eaCer noel.
at, arsolenaooe leblar tateellats.sos.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'l,  71                                                             I 9,Pa "It



ANNEXI
Pag. 4 of S
GllPBX C&PITA IN 19781 USS 18I
GROSS NATIO10AL PRODUCT IN 1978/79                                                       ANUAL UTZ 0  GROT   M. contetnt prices)
USS Blin.      7                1955/56-1959/60   1960/61-1964/65   1965/66-1969/70   1970/71-1974/75   1975/76-1977/78
GNP at Market Pricaa               117.08      100.0                     3.7               3.6              3.7               2.8               5.6
Grosa Domestic Invastent            28.28       24.2
Gross National Saving               28.11       24.0
Current Account Balance  d/          0.50        0.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORM0 AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)         Labor Fores            V.A. Per Worke_
USS Blc.L 7KL                                 %            llS$       7o f N etioral Average
Agriculture                       24.5             46.6            130.0      72.1           188              64
Industry                          11.8             22.3             20.2      11.2          582              199
Services                          16.3             31.1              2        16.7          542              186
Total/average                     52.6            100.0            180.4    100.0           292              100
0OVIBUANT PI?641Cg                                           x
general ovarmeat                                           Cantral Covarnnt
1m Bln.           2 s  t                                       .Bln       xo   D
71 7        i978/79    197!/517/                            987       1;971/79   1974/75-1978/79
Current Nacaipts                 183.65       19.1         18.3                              107.71     11.2         10.6
Current Zpenditures              177.26       18.4         16.7                             108.99       g           iw
Currant Surplus/Deficit            6.41        0.7          1.6                             - 1.28      -0.1          0.5
Capital Expenditures  f/          78.41        8.1          7.2                              57.34       6.0          5.1
Ixternal Assistanc. (oat) Al       8.13        0.8          1.4                               8.15       0.8          1.4
;Di:. CRlDIT AND PRICUS         1970/71     1973/74     1974/75     1975/76     1976/77    1977/78     1978/79  S!gpttr 1978   Septemer 1979
(Is Billion outstanding at nd of period)
Money and Quasi Money            121.4       198.4       220.3       254.7       308.9       370.4      445.6        398.5          473.7
tank Credit to Govaromant (oat)   52.6        87.3        95.3       101.1      110.2       134.7       153.9        139.5          161.7
Sank Credit to Coarci-l Sector  64.6         107.0       126.7       153.9       L85.1      212.2       253.3        225.8          273.8
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                                        January 1979   January 1980
Moaey and Quasi Xoney as %
of *P                          30.1        33.5        31.5        34.5        38.8       41.5        46.3
Wholesale race Index
(1970/71 - 100)                100.0       139.7       174.9       173.0      176.6       185.8       185.8        185.3          224.0
Annul percentage change in:
Wholesale Price Index              7.7        20.2        25.2       -1.1          2.1        5.2          -           0.4           20.9
Bank Credit to Goyerient (not)   10.8         12.3         9.2         6.1        9.0        22.2        14.3         16.9           15.9
bank Credit to C_erci.l Sector  19.4          22.6        18.4        21.5       20.3        14.6        19.4         15.6           21.3
_/ The per capita G e .stimte i St market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Bank AtlaC. 1979.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rats prevailing during the period covred.
k/ Quick Satimetes.
C/ Comuted from trend line of GOP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year anc on observtion
after last year of listed period.
Al World Bank estimtes; not necsaarily consistent with official figures.
./ Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
5/ All Inae  -ad advanse  to third parties hes bee mattd  ut.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79 -  1979/8    /       mXRCHNDISB EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975/76 - 1978/79)
US$ iNn.       7.
Exports of Goods                        5,753      6,315       6,976       7,80           Engineering Goods             671         11
Imports of Goods                       -5,928     -7,188      -8,488    -11,000           Tea                            420          7
Trade Balance                          -  175     -  873      -1,512     -3,200           Gams                           499          8
NZS (net)                                 379         692        882      1,050           Clothing                       378          6
lr.tstest Faym,,ots (net)                         -2453            ~~~~~~Leather and Leather
3::YEti}SU                     20~~~~ ~~4 lu        : 6V      -2,153           P,ahros-ducets                 319          5
JIAtit manufactures           251          4
tPgymwts (not)  i/             -182       -  89         130        400           Iron Ore                      270          5
Other Factor Payments (net)                -           -          -                        Cotton Textiles               248          4
Net Transfers   J/                        695      1,077        1,000                      SuOgar                        224          4
-                                                     ~~~~~~~                      ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~others  2,649  45
Balance on Cuirrent Account               717         807        500                      Toal                         5-929        100
Official Aid
Disbursements                       1,955       1,628       1,695      1,870           gXTERNAL DEBT, VARCH 31. 1979
Amortization                          -560       -645        -702    _   687                                               USS billion
Transactions with IUV                    -337       -330        -158         -            Outstanding and Disbursed                  15.5
All Other Items                          -200         616        199    -  183            Undisbursed                                 5.2
outstanding, including                    20.7
Increase in Reserves (-)               -1,575     -2,076      -1,534    -   250                Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)               3,747      5,823       7,357      7,607                                            h/l/
Net Reserves (end year)  ki             3,276      5,668       7,357      7,607           DZBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978/79         15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                lbltD/ID4IJ LlDING. DECEMBER 31. 1979
Imports                                 1,581      1,811       2,043      4,050                                                US$ million
of which: Petroleum                  1,581      1,811       2,043      4,050                                            IBRD            IDA
Exports                                    37          32         24         -            Outstanding and Disbursed        689             4,286
of which: Petroleum                     21         18         n.a.       -             Undisbureed                      614             2,621
Outstanding, including        1,303             6,907
Undisbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971             US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Rs 1.00 - US$0.133333
Hid-December 1971 to end-June 1972         US$1.00 - Es 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US$t0.137376
After end-June 1972                        Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-Decmsber 1978                US$1.00 - Rs 8.188
is 1.00 - US$0.122
Ind-December 1979                       : US$1.00 - Rs 7.907
as 1.00 - US$0.126
h/  Estimated.
i/ Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IMP, and mjor receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
/  Figures given include workers' rmittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
i/ Excludes net use of IF credit.
1/  Asortization aud interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 20
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1981)
US$ million
Loan or                                                     (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year Borrower         Purpose               Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
43 Loans/                                           1,313.2
65 Credits fully disbursed                                    3,807.4
342-IN    1972  India   Education                     --         12.0       4.47
378-IN    1973  India   Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                   --          8.0       1.12
390-IN    1973  India   Bombay Water Supply I         --         55.0       1.87
456-IN    1974  India   HP Apple Processing
& Marketing               --         13.0      6.43
1011-IN    1974  India   Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD   52.0           --       14.83
482-IN    1974  India   Karnataka Dairy               --         30.0      19.56
502-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Canal CAD           --         83.0     31.32
521-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Dairy               --         27.7     14.36
522-IN    1974  India   Madhya Pradesh Dairy          --         16.4       6.17
526-IN    1975  India   Drought Prone Areas           --         35.0       2.29
1079-IN    1975  IFFCO   IFFCO Fertilizer             109.0       --         1.24
1097-IN    1975  ICICI   Industry DFC XI               94.8       --         1.32
532-IN    1975  India   Godavari Barrage
Irrigation                --        45.0       4.81
541-IN    1975  India   West Bengal Agric.
Development               --         34.0      9.22
562-IN    1975  India   Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD              --         24.0      2.05
572-IN    1975  India   Rural
Electrification I         --         57.0        .04
585-IN    1975  India   Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                    --        40.0      17.37
598-IN    1975  India   Fertilizer Industry           --        105.0      35.16
604-IN    1976  India   Power Transmission IV         --       150.0      60.16



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 20
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower       Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN    1976      India   Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.           --       4.0      1.71
610-IN    1976      India   Integrated Cotton
Development             --      18.0    11.61
1251-IN    1976      India   Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation             145.0    --      90.34
1260-IN    1976      India   IDBI II                    40.0    --      16.13
1273-IN    1976      India   National Seeds I            25.0    --      23.14
1313-IN    1976      India   Telecommunicaticns VI    80.0    --        21.98
1335-IN    1976      India   Bombay Urban Transport   25.0    --          8.25
680-IN    1977      India   Kerala Agric.
Development             --       30.0   25.15
682-IN    1977      India   Orissa Agric.
Development             --       20.0   12.00
685-IN    1977      India   Singrauli Thermal
Power                   --      150.0   67.31
687-IN    1977      India   Madras Urban
Development             --       24.0    9.47
690-IN    1977      India   WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Resear,ch        --       12.0   12.00
1394-IN    1977      India   Gujarat Fisheri,es         14.0    --       11.18
712-IN    1977      India   Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.             --       10.0    6.94
720-IN    1977      India   Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation              --       23.0   14.68
728-IN    1977      India   Assam Agricultural
Development             --        8.0    6.87
736-IN    1977      India   Maharashtra
Irrigation              --       70.0   39.26
737-IN    1977      India   Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension         --       13.0    9.49
740-IN    1977      India   Orissa Irrigation          --       58.0   39.11
1475-IN    1977      ICICI   Industry DFC XII           80.0    --       15.27
747-IN    1978      India   Second Foodgrain
Storage                 --      107.0   85.53
756-IN    1978      India   Calcutta Urban
Development II          --       87.0   37.29
761-IN    1978      India   Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research                --        8.0    7.33



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 20
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower       Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN    1978      India  IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                  25.0   --           21.17
1549-IN    1978      TEC    Third Trombay
Thermal Power          105.0   --           79.66
788-IN    1978      India  Karnataka Irrigation       --    117.6         88.01
793-IN    1978      India  Korba Thermal Power        --    200.0       161.27
806-IN    1978      India  Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture            --      14.0        13.79
808-IN    1978      India  Gujarat Irrigation         --      85.0        73.23
815-IN    1978      India  Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries               --      17.5        16.08
816-IN    1978      India  National Seeds II          --      16.0        15.58
1592-IN    1978      India  Telecommunications VII  120.0   --             56.35
824-IN    1978      India  National Dairy             --    150.0       135.44
842-IN    1979      India  Bombay Water
Supply II               --    196.0       189.33
843-IN    1979      India  Haryana Irrigation         --    111.0        59.81
844-IN    1979      India  Railway Modernization
& Maintenance           --    190.0       154.33
848-IN    1979      India  Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage              --      38.0        27.12
855-IN    1979      India  National Agricultural
Research                --      27.0        26.21
862-IN    1979      India  Composite Agricultural
Extension               --      25.0        20.47
871-IN    1979      India  NCDC                       --      30.0       19.90
1648-IN    1979      India  Ramagundam Thermal
Power                   50.0   --           50.00
874-IN    1979      India  Ramagundam Thermal
Power                   --    200.0       176.70
889-IN    1979      India  Punjab Irrigation          --    129.0       112.29
899-IN    1979      India  Maharashtra Water
Supply                  --      48.0       47.21
911-IN    1979      India  Rural Electrification
Corp. II                --    175.0       151.91
925-IN    1979      India  Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry                --      23.0        21.32



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 20
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower       Purpose                Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN    1979      India   ARDC III                   --     250.0      145.98
963-IN    1979      India   Inland Fisheries           --      20.0       20.00
954-IN    1979      India   Maharashtra
Irrigation II          --      210.0      192.52
961-IN    1979      India   Gujarat Community
Forestry               --       37.0       34.03
981-IN    1980      India   Population II              --      46.0       45.97
1003-IN    1980      India   Tamil Nadu Nutrition    --         32.0       32.00
1004-IN    1980      India   U.P. Tubewells             --      18.0       17.52
1011-IN    1980      India   Gujarat Irrigation II   --        175.0      175.00
1027-IN    1980      India   Singrauli Thermal II    --        300.0      289.17
1012-IN    1980      India   Cashewnut                  --      22.0       21.95
1028-IN    1980      India   Kerala Agricultural
Extension              --       10.0       10.00
1033-IN    1980      India   Calcutta Urban
Transport              --       56.0       56.00
1034-IN    1980      India   Karnataka Sericulture   --         54.0       54.00
1046-IN    1980      India   Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage           --       80.0       79.88
1843-IN    1980      ICICI   Industry DFC XKIII        100.0    --         94.87
1887-IN    1980      India   Farakka Thermal
Power                  25.0    --          25.00
1053-IN    1980      India   Farakka Thermal
Power                  --      225.0      225.00
1897-IN    1980      India   Kandi Watershed and
Area Development       30.0    --          30.00
1072-IN    1980      India   Bihar Rural Roads          --      35.0       35.0
1078-IN    1980      India   Mahanadi Barrages          --      83.0       83.00
1925-IN*   1980      India   Bombay High Offshore
Development:          400.0    --         400.0
1082-IN    1981      India   Madras Urban Dev. II    --         42.0       42.0
Total                                            2,833.0 8,671.6
of which has been repaid                       1,060.9    71.7
Total now outstanding                            1,772.0 8,599.9
Amount Sold                           133.8
of which has been repaid           128.1           5.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA I/                1,766.3 8,599.9
Total undisbursed (excluding*)                     560.7 3,546.2
* Not yet effective
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 20
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of January 31, 1981)
Amount (US$ million)
Fiscal
Year                     Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5        -         1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.9        -         0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4        -         1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2        -         0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                         6.6        -         6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0        1.2      5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5        1.1      8.6
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0           -        38.0
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS          99.1       11.5    110.6
Less:   Sold                           25.9        1.7     27.6
Repaid                        20.8         -       20.8
Cancelled                      6.2        1.3       7.5
Now Held                      46.2        8.5      54.7
Undisbursed                   44.5        1.1      45.6



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 20
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUT'ION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$729 million in FY80, compared to
US$538 million in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through January 31, 1981 totalled US$373 million, representing an
increase of about 20% over the same period last year. The undisbursed
pipeline of US$4,107 million as of January 31, 1981, reflects the lead
time which would be expected given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing
projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097  Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975; Effective
Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1475  Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843  Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-
scale industries, which often employ high technology and are export-
oriented. Loan 1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly
ahead of schedule. Disbursements under Loans 1475 and 1843 are also ahead
of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors
regarding the progress of projects in execution, and in particular
to report any problems which are being encountered and the action
being taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and
with the understanding that they do not purport to present a bal-
anced evaluation of strengths and weakrnesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 20
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to
encourage the pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint
ventures. The project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector
investment studies and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing
with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 947   Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been progressing very well.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Satisfactory progress is being made in the construction of bag
storage warehouses, despite problems of land acquisition at some sites.
However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and port silos is not
expected to be completed until 1985, as a result of delays in the employ-
ment of consultants and the longer time required for the preparation of
technical specifications and tenders and the construction itself. The
project is currently under review by the Government of India and some
changes to its scope may be made in April 1981.
Cr. No. 456   Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems.  These problems have been largely resolved, but
construction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe
winter conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in
the last two seasons with favorable response from farmers.  The project is
scheduled for completion by December 1981.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 20
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress
has been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The
project's research activities, however, are behind the original schedule
due to poor organization.
Ln. No. 1313 Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Ln. No. 1592 Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
July 1980, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment for the sixth project were behind schedule, resulting in a
reduced growth rate for the installation of direct exchange lines. Insti-
tutional improvements envisaged under the projects have been achieved, and
the financial situation of the Posts and Telegraphs Department remains
sound.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing
fertilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in
sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the Government.
Further, some of the sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize
because of reconsideration by the Central and State governments. IDA has
agreed to a list of sub-projects to replace the ones that are likely to be
dropped. Because of the above, the project is likely to be delayed by
about 18 months.
Cr. No. 378   Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 million
credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Progress is satisfactory. As of December 1980, construction of the 39
markets originally envisaged under the project was almost completed, and
trade had shifted to more than half of these. An additional eight markets
have been included in the project at the request of the State government,
and these are expected to be completed by June 1981. The credit is
expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date of June 30, 1981.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 20
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural universi-
ties in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum
of their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure
to enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development.
Considerable progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but
achieving educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by
traditional attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership
falters. Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The
Project Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and
are supporting efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 390   Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046 Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: September 31, 1985
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns
caused by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975),
redesign of major project components and the addition of a supplementary
study on sewage disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily.
All works have been successfully completed except for the projects sewege
pumping stations. Financial performance of the project entity is satis-
factory. Implementation of Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing
Credit 390, is proceeding to schedule. Preliminary work in connection
with implementation of Credit 848 is progressing satisfactorily. Imple-
mentation of Credit 1046-is proceeding satisfactorily. Detailed



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 20
construction programs have been prepared for rural schemes, and prepara-
tion of tender documents for urban schemes have been completed.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6_ 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants.  While improvements have been made in the phy-
sical execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag
so that disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at
the time of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements
have been made to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
country-wide materials shortages and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consul-
tants' services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts.
Staff shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although
more extensive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this
problem.
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Projsect; US$24.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
With respect to the first Madras project, physical progress is
generally satisfactory and costs are within appraisal estimates on most
components. However, land acquisition problems and consequent delays in
construction on one of the three sites and service areas will result in
about 15 months delay in the completion of the final sections of these
areas. Increased attention should be turned to the financial analysis and
marketing strategies required to ensure that anticipated cost recovery in
the sites and services and slum upgrading components and thus replicabil-
ity is actually achieved. Technical assistance is being sought to
strengthen financial management and analysis.
Cr. No. 1082 Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42.0 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effectiveness Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 20
With respect to the second project, only recently signed and
declared effective, early project implementation is proceeding satisfac-
torily, with evidence that the lessons learned under the first project are
being heeded.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL
dairy cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy coopera-
tive societies (DCS) have been established under the three state projects
(Karnataka-923, Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response has
been excellent and project authorities are under considerable producer
pressure to speed up the establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost
all of the DCS is good and construction of dairy and feed plants is now
proceeding at a satisfactory pace. Limited milk processing capacity has
been the major constraint to DCS formation in all three projects. Under
the National Dairy Project, three subprojects with an estimated total cost
of approximately Rs 1,000 million have been appraised by the Indian Dairy
Corporation and a further eight subprojects are in various stages of
preparation and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy equipment is well
underway though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a result in the
start of project operations.
Cr. No. 532   Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 20
Ln. No. 1011  Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 1078  Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562   Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251  Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)        Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr, No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project;  JS$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 20
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011  Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possi-
ble, to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation.
Canal lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shap-
ing are prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions
have been made to increase agricultural production and marketing by
reforming and upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing
processing and storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of
these projects is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Periyar
Vaigai Project (Cr. 720-IN) where cost overruns have occurred due to sub-
stantial increases of both quantities and unit cost over the original
engineers' estimates. Specific efforts are now underway to redesign this
project so that it can still achieve its original objectives. Difficul-
ties had also arisen earlier in connection with the Nagarjunasagar com-
ponent of Loan 1251, where water losses proved to be higher than antici-
pated. Additional assurances have been obtained from the State Government
concerned, regarding the enforcement of cropping patterns and the sequence
and timing of main canal construction and lining, which should ensure that
this project will also achieve its objectives.
Cr. No. 541   West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project is not
expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date, and GOI's request for
an extension is expected.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 20
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028 Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
These eight credits finance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the dievelopment of adaptive
research capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the
reformed extension system is in full operation, field results have been
very good, both in terms of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of
increased crop yields. In Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa, in
particular, significant gains have been made under the projects. In West
Bengal, where a change in government brought a review of the organiza-
tional principles underlying the new extension system and an accompanying
hiatus in project implementation, a Cabinet decision has reaffirmed the
State Government's commitment to the project, revised implementation plans
have been prepared, and project activities are resuming. In Bihar, staff
shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts, have hampered
project implementation, although progress in areas where regular extension
visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the system itself. In
Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite Agricul-
tural Extension Project, important early administrative and financial
steps have been taken to pave the way for effective operation of the reor-
ganized extension system and field work is off to a good start. In
Kerala, project implementation has just begun.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 20
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Com-
mitment of funds to research subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily,
although corresponding disbursements may lag somewhat behind the original
estimates. Additions to the staff of the Project Unit have been made to
expedite further progress under the project.
Cr. No. 526   Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dry-
land farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone
areas.
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting
operations, which were one season behind original schedule, have been
rephased to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
As of October 1980, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns was progressing well in the States of Haryana and Uttar
Pradesh, although some delays had occurred in the State of Orissa. Con-
sultants had been recruited to assist NCDC and State Cooperative Banks in
strengthening their institutions, although some consultants were yet to be
recruited in Haryana. Disbursements have been progressing well and are
now ahead of the appraisal targets.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 20
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce
manufacturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and
to improve their performance and availability. The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for
sawniwood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-
based industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These projects, designed to expand the social forestry program in
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages,
and to supply raw materials to cottage industries, are proceeding well.
The projects provide for large-scale tree plantations on public lands,
primarily along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands and on
degraded forest reserves.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to
renewed interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to
progress well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new pro-
cessing units are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant
protection activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273 National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: Decembetr 20, 1978; Closing Date:
Closing Date: December 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 20
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by Cr. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organiza-
tional difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in
the second project States is more satisfactory. The role of various
organizations (National and State) in the production and processing of
seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335  Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033  Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: January 31, 1981 (expected);
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The bus procurement program supported by the Bombay project
(Ln. 1335) has proceeded on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies
having been ordered and 672 already in service. Total fleet strength has
increased from 1,530 buses at the inception of the project to 1,935 buses
in September 1980, in accordance with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity
expansion has lagged somewhat behind fleet expansion, but caught up in
November 1980. However, delays in construction of new workshop facilities
have been more substantial and will not be fully recoverable. As a
result, the loan closing date has been extended by three years. Traffic
management civil works are also somewhat behind schedule, although now
proceeding satisfactorily. Project implementation under Cr. 1033 is
proceeding satisfactorily, a good start having been made on the important
early procurement steps.
Cr. No. 1072  Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35.0 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
Construction is scheduled to begin in May 1981 on the firsts
phase of this project designed to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of
rural roads and to improve maintenance of the rural road network in Bihar
as part of the State's overall rural development efforts.
Ln. No. 1394  Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and      million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 20
As of October 1980 when these projects were last reviewed, the
harbor construction works at Mangrol and Veraval in Gujarat had encoun-
tered delays, although the problem with shortages of cement supplies had
been overcome. In Andhra Pradesh, the harbor works at Visakhapatnam, Kak-
inada and Nizampatnam were under way and the pace of implementation had
increased at all three sites.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa,
Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries,
improvements to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the
establishment of training centers. The project became effective in
May 1980. The initial implementation tasks, primarily involving the
establishment of State Fish Seed Development Corporations and Central and
State project monitoring units, are progressing satisfactorily. Site
selection and hatchery design work is under way.
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr. 874   US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 20
Ln. No. 1887 Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and       US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053 December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feed-
ing power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 supports the construc-
tion of the first three 200 MW generating units at the second such sta-
tion, at Korba, together with related facilities and associated transmis-
sion. Loan 1648/Credit 874 support similar investments at Ramagundam, and
Loan 1887/Credit 1053, at Farakka. The National Thermal Power Corporation
(NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these power
stations. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW extension
of the Tata Electric Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. All these large-scale ther-
mal power projects are progressing satisfactorily. For Singrauli and
Korba, construction works are on or ahead of schedule, although some slip-
page has occurred in the implementation schedule for the Ramagundam pro-
ject.
Cr. No. 911   Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
This project provides continued support to the Rural Electrifica-
tion Corporation's lending program, and is helping to finance about 1,700
rural electrification schemes in fourteen State Electricity Boards (SEB),
including the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB. The project is pro-
gressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400.0 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Expected Effectiveness Date:
March 13, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility. Implementation works
have started in both project States--Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 20
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Implementation has started on this project which is designed to
expand cashewnut production in the States of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra
Pradesh and Orissa.
Cr. No. 1003 Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block is proceeding
according to schedule.
Cr. No. 1004 Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Cosing Date:
March 31, 1983
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily on this project.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Contract for the construction of Dholbaha dam has been awarded.
Progress in other components are satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is proceeding well with encouraging pro-
gress in all components.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
One year.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The Government of Tamil Nadu assisted by Bank Group
staff.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
December 1979; March 1980.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
September 1980.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
March 16, 1981.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
August 15, 1981.
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) GOTN to review adequacy of field staff deployed by
March 31, 1983 and to increase field staff if found
necessary (para 39).



-2-
(b) GOTN to transfer remaining positions to DOA/DOH from
DRD and create all required new positions by July 1,
1981 (para 45(a)).
(c) GOTN to deploy staff for the project in accordance
with a schedule acceptable to IDA, to ensure that
agreed extension staff positions would be utilized
only for extension and would remain with DOA/DOH
throughout the project period, and to ensure that the
emoluments and benefits of extension staff would not
be adversely affected by reason of the reorganization
(para 45(a)).
(d)  GOTN to ensure that extension field staff live in or
near the areas to which they are assigned
(para 45(c)).
(e)' Project Coordination Committee to be established and
hold its first meeting by September 30, 1981, and to
meet at least twice annually thereafter (para 47).
(f)  District Technical Committees to be established and
hold their first meeting by September 30, 1981 for
districts covered during first project year and by
September 30, 1982 for districts covered from second
project year, and to meet at least twice annually
thereafter (para 48).






3BRD 15429
INDIA                                                 P'R t   S H
TAMIL NADU EXTENSION PROJECT                                                                                                                       9
\   \                                                        /DHlAR&AP;8 R I /   to                    \ DH ARMA_,URI
,2- ' > < t A R  N                                                                                              >                  Vr~A R N  -
7  t            ( -  <  , \nntRUCHC-'  oooooAoo                                        - ]
COIMABATORE \>                               - TregtP6ly)~''T  lN~~-
N I L                                                   ,G  I R  I                        A    ,( L EMVU$"
-1  /''0~~~~~~~~' 1RU   
MA'DU! RA INATHAPUA                                                 B A
PROJOCT                                               ~~      ~~~~/ ,*'s-   -     o-  < \          30o 9onotb                    __  _________________
'-o-d Yo,  Ph-so                                                                                       - /-
SdY~- =RooPIVRer ,                                                            TI RUNE          E L Ig
X StolFe  ULlooTeo,lto,y Cop to o>~     e,t  ,J"
o   ,,,C  De                                                                                                                                                         I Ies  0~   I
-------  W,0E-ood-.,i 
-. Sole  Booodo,es                                                    t <'0   I                                      2+ 0~7 fu.S4t,         
o      20   *0      6p     0      00   20
O, ,p ip tp 40                   bp 60 7p *p KANYAkUIPMiARI 'A
0*,6                                                                  7                                    7p.7                                        ,        r  __ _ _ _ ____ _ t__ __ ___ __ __ _  __



