Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15581
DiPLEKENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2376-BU)
April 26, 1996
Country Operations II
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Monetary Unit = Burundi Franc (FBu)
Year          US$1 equivalent
(Average for year)
1990          FBu 171.3
1991          FBu 181.5
1992          FBu 208.3
1993          FBu 242.7
1994          FBu 252.7
1995          FBu 249.2
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Januarv I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CADEBU         Caisse d'Epargne du Burundi
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
COTEBU         Complexe Textile de Bujumbura
ESAF          Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
IMF            International Monetary Fund
PE             Public Enterprise
PEP            Public Expenditure Program
PFP            Policy Framework Paper
PIP            Public Investment Program
REGIDESO    Regie de Distribution d 'Eau et d 'ElectricitW
SAC            Structural Adjustment Credit
SCEP          Service en Charge des Entreprises Publiques
TVC            Technical Valuation Committee



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2376-BU)
Table of Contents
Page
Preface .......................................................i
Evaluation Summary ......................................................                                                                                           ii
PART I. IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INTRODUCTION
Country  Background  and  Political Situation .......................................................I
Structural Adjustment: First Two  Phases .......................................................2
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OBJECTIVES .....................................................2
Project Objectives .......................................................2
Evaluation  of Project Objectives ......................................................                            .3
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ......................................................4
Public  Sector Efficiency  ......................................................4
Public Expenditure Programming  and  Composition ..............................................4
PE  Portfolio  Restructuring ......................................................                        .5
Private  Sector Development ......................................................6
Exchange Rate System, Current and Capital Account
Liberalization  (IMF) .......................................................6
Liberalization  of Legal Framework .....................................................6
Tax  Reform   ......................................................                                                               7
Tariff Reform .......................................................7
Agricultural Sector Liberalization                               ......................................................8
Social Sector Reform  .......................................................8
Social Safety  Net ......................................................                                                          8
Financing  Strategy  for Health  and  Education  Sectors ............................................ 8
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS
AFFECTING THE PROJECT .......................................................9
Factors Outside  Government Control ..................                                       .....................................9
Factors Within  Government Control .................                                       ......................................9
D. BANK PERFORMANCE ...................................................... 10
E. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ...................................................... I I
F. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME AND SUSTAINABILITY ............................................... 12
Overall Outcome                                                                   ...................................................... 12
Impact on Economy ......................................................                                                                   12
G. FUTURE OPERATIONS ......................................................                                                                                13
H. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ......................................................                                                                              14
ANNEX   1:  Conditions for Release of Second  Tranche ......................................................                                                      15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



PART IL STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Credit Disbursements, Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5: Burundi Key Economic Indicators
Table 6: Key Indicators - Criteria for Evaluating Progress under SAC III
Table 7: Project Studies (not applicable)
Table 8a: Project Costs
Table 8b: Project Financing
Table 9:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 11: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Table 12: Bank Resources - Missions
Appendix A: Mission Aide-Memoire
B: Borrower's Evaluation of Project Implementation



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2376-BU)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC III) in Burundi, for which Credit 23 76-BU in the amount of SDR
22 million (US$30 million equivalent) was approved on June 4, 1992 and made effective
on March 22, 1993.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1995, a year beyond the original closing date.
The first tranche of SDR 8 million (US$10 million equivalent) was released upon
effectiveness. The second and remaining tranche was expected to be disbursed by
December 1993 upon fulfillment of various conditions. As most of these conditions were
unmet and as it was determined that project objectives could not be achieved, the second
tranche was canceled.
Parallel financing for Burundi's structural adjustment program under SAC III was
provided as follows: Belgium: FBe 90 million; France (Caisse Frangaise de
Developpement): FF 20 million; Germany (KfW): DM 10 million; and Japan: Y 300
million.
The ICR was prepared by Ms. Manorama Gotur of the Africa Region (AF3DR).
The report's preparation was overseen by Ms. Vera Wilhelm (Task Manager of the
project, AF3C2). Mr. Michael Sarris, Division Chief (AF3C2), Mr. Roberto Zagha, AF3
Lead Economist, and Mr. Hari Prasad, AF3 Operations Adviser, reviewed the report. The
ICR was distributed for comment to cofinancing donors on January 5, 1996. The
authorities submitted their contribution to the ICR in November 1995.
Preparation of this ICR was begun in August 1995 and is based on material in the
project file.






- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CREDIT 2376-BU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    A small Central African country with a fast-growing population, Burundi has since
1965 suffered repeated conflicts among its two main ethnic groups. Social tensions escalated
in June 1993, when Hutu victory in the country's first democratic elections upset the balance of
power in place for two decades. The assassination of the President in October 1993 triggered a
widespread ethnic upheaval in which 50,000 died and another 800,000 fled to neighboring
countries. In April 1994, the new President died in an airplane crash; the composition of the
government has since been in flux. The unstable situation of the past two years, marked by
continued unrest and violence, weighed heavily on the outcome of the Third Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC IE), which had been in effect barely seven months when the
prolonged socio-political crisis erupted.
Project Objectives
2.    SAC m was approved in June 1992 and designed to strengthen the supply response of
Burundi's economy to the adjustment process, begun in 1986 with the support of SACs I and
II. Under those credits, the country had begun to liberalize exchange rates and prices and
improve the budget process, but the unfinished agenda was considerable: in particular, reform
of public expenditure management and of the massive, inefficient public enterprise (PE) sector
had barely begun. SAC m, therefore, focused on: (i) public sector efficiency -- reducing the
role of the state and improving public resource management; (ii) private sector development --
easing macro policy constraints to spur the private sector and help diversify and increase
exports; and (iii) social sector reform -- improving the accessibility and quality of basic social
services to shield vulnerable groups from the transitional costs of adjustment. Among SAC
III's specific goals were PE restructuring, reform of labor and corporate laws, and creation of a
"safety net" of core social expenditures for the poor.
3.    A third adjustment credit was, in principle, appropriate: SAC 11 was designed to
support a country assistance strategy aimed at stimulating growth and alleviating poverty,
complement IMF adjustment support, and pursue adjustment with renewed vigor. Also, the
political situation had stabilized with the help of a campaign for national reconciliation initiated
under President Buyoya, which was supposed to prepare the population for elections in 1992.
However, the credit's substantial agenda was inconsistent with its (planned) 15-month
duration. The conditionality calendar allowed little time for building the institutional capacity
needed for reform, particularly in the area of public expenditure programming. The extent of
PE reform targeted was also overambitious, in relation to both the credit's short time frame and
the record of past failure. Consideration of prerequisites for successful divestiture would have
served to downscale the targets for this component; political resistance to privatization, in
particular, had been amply evident under SACs I and II.



- jjj -
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Project objectives were largely unachieved. Notwithstanding some initial progress,
actions slated to be accomplished by end-1993 -- which embodied the heart of the reform --
remained mostly incomplete at the end of June 1995, when the outstanding balance of the
second tranche of the credit was canceled. The irrelevance of a structural adjustment program
in the context of chaos had become evident even a year earlier, when the Bank extended the
closing date of SAC m by one year in a show of support for Burundi. Only two of the credit's
seven conditions for second tranche release were ultimately fulfilled.
5.    Of the three areas targeted, only the private sector development component realized
some success. Measures to liberalize exchange rates and current account transactions -- both
monitored under the IMvF's adjustment facility -- were in place even by mid-1992, while a
revised Labor Code, aimed ultimately at lowering labor costs, became effective in July 1993.
The legal and regulatory framnework for private investment and business was also much
improved: new provisions of the Commercial Code took effect in the first half of 1993, with
further amendments to corporate law presented to the legislature in April 1995. Smallholders,
too, were to benefit from simplified regulations and new laws ensuring the more transparent
allocation of public lands. Reform lagged, however, in liberalizing producer prices and
improving the tax and tariff system.
6.    Public sector reform could not be realized as foreseen. A revised unified budget was
adopted for 1992 reflecting satisfactory Public Expenditure Programs (PEPs) covering
important sectors, but the 1993 PEP did not reflect sectoral PEPs.  Later, expenditure
programming was all but abandoned, given the failure of related institutional reform and
technical assistance. Initial progress, marked by the introduction of a Public Investment
Program (PEP) to strengthen public investment management, was also reversed: the 1993-95
PIP did not include investments of PEs receiving subsidies, as required, and moreover, was
neither discussed with donors nor consistent with budget and IMF targets.  While the
composition of public expenditure showed some improvement, changes fell short of those
targeted. Current expenditures for goods and services were 23% of total current expenditures
in 1994, against a target of 30%; this result partly reflected increased military and security
expenditures and the growth in civil service hiring well beyond the stipulated ceiling. Most
unimpressive, perhaps, was PE reform: less than 15% of the state's PE assets -- a fourth of the
target -- was privatized through end-1994 (under 2.5% if only privatization of capital, rather
than management, is considered); five new PEs were created during the adjustment period,
including one to replace the large, loss-making savings parastatal which had been liquidated, as
agreed during negotiations; and although subsidies to PEs were reduced, recent actions suggest
waning government commitment toward this objective.
7.    Political factors, with their associated effects on government commitment, contributed
heavily to poor adjustment performance under SAC m; the program also lacked the support
needed -- in terms of capacity, financial resources and legal and institutional arrangements -- to
meet its ambitious objectives. The democratization process itself adversely affected reform.
Even before credit effectiveness, preparation for elections increasingly preoccupied the
administration and civil servants. This factor partly explains the govemment's failure, up front,
to assign responsibilities for SAC m  actions, organize adequate internalization for civil



- iv -
servants, and address institutional needs, which in tum contributed to serious slippages in
meeting deadlines and ultimately foiled the final outcome. The new government faced other
distractions from adjustment, such as the return of political refugees and rising demands on
national security. The new officials particularly lacked commitment towards the adjustment
program, not having participated in its preparation. The outbreak of crisis in October 1993 all
but sealed the fate of reform, leaving in its wake a fragile and inexperienced government,
heightened security concerns, and a non-functioning administration plagued by high
absenteeism and turnover among civil servants. Against this background, the extension of the
credit in June 1994 must be placed in perspective. The Bank was aware that withdrawal then
would signal no-confidence and might well exacerbate the crisis; the entire donor community,
moreover, sustained hopes during that period for a positive outcome to the intensive mediation
process then under way, which in fact produced a power-sharing agreement in October 1994.
It was only in the spring of 1995, in taking stock of developments in the context of preparing
the Country Assistance Strategy for Burundi, that the Bank concluded that prospects were too
bleak to justify continued pursuit of adjustment.
Summary of Findings and Future Operations
8.    The largely unfinished agenda of SAC IH attests to its unsatisfactory outcome. The PE
sector was barely reduced; most large PEs continue to perform poorly. Public expenditure
programming instruments are yet to be internalized, integrated into the budget process, and
adhered to in practice. Sectoral PEP units have practically ceased to function, while the
management of budget allocations still lacks transparency. No steps were taken towards
allocating expenditures for core developmental needs or a social safety net; fiscal reform, in
particular the reduction of import tariffs and the revision of the general tax code, barely
advanced; and investment decisions continue to ignore sound economic criteria. However,
public resource management did benefit from some reform measures, notably the application of
a unified budget and the recent adoption of a new accounting system for the govemment.
9.    Certain benefits realized will likely be sustained, however. Burundi's competitiveness
and balance of payments should improve in response to more competitive exchange rates,
reduced protection and fewer price controls. The revised legal and regulatory framework, too,
should help private investment and business; changed bankruptcy and exit laws should
especially ease privatization.  Private sector development will also benefit from steps to
liberalize foreign exchange regulations and current account transactions as well as the
agriculture sector. A return to normal economic activity is needed, however, before any
significant supply response may be expected.
10.   Burundi's economic performance and profile changed little over the entire adjustment
period, due in large part to exogenous factors. The crisis in October 1993 had far-reaching
repercussions throughout the economy, disrupting production and investment and introducing
new constraints leading to higher military expenditures. Burundi's continued dependence on
coffee exports in a period of falling coffee prices also hurt economic performance, increasing
reliance on extemal aid. The latter was also the result of steady growth in public expenditure, a
trend that may have been reinforced by the substantial counterpart funding that became
available just around the time of the pre-election campaign, by virtue of the timing of SAC 11
disbursements. The budget deficit generally worsened between 1986 and 1992 but improved



in 1994, due to recovering coffee prices as well as a stronger tax effort; however, greater
reliance on monetary financing to cover this deficit (in the face of lower extemal assistance)
increased inflation to over 14.5% in 1994.
11.   Critical to the success of any future operation will be Burundi's progress in national
reconciliation. In its 1996-98 Policy Framework Paper drafted in early 1995, the government
has outlined a medium-term development strategy that incorporates resumption of the
unfinished adjustment agenda. In the present environment, however, and given Burundi's high
extemal indebtedness, the Bank's support in this area will be directed to non-lending services
to increase understanding of policy options and help develop a consensus for change.
Conclusions and Lessons Learned
12.   SAC Im is best understood as a credit that was conceived at a time of high donor hopes
for Burundi, that could have been more realistic in its agenda and better designed, and that
ultimately stood little chance of success against the backdrop of political and social turmoil that
erupted six months after effectiveness. When SAC m was being formulated, Burundi -- with a
committed govemment and the benefit of lessons of past experience -- appeared ripe for finally
achieving economic reform. The country was among sub-Saharan Africa's more promising
performers, and the Bank's third adjustment credit -- backed by complementary credits
charged with structural reform in key sectors -- was designed with deliberately aggressive
targets to spur Burundi's transition to a path of accelerated growth. This posture was largely
shared within the donor community, reflected in high levels of extemal assistance. Yet,
political factors -- the democratization process and the related outbreak of ethnic conflict --
quickly interrupted the course of reform. These events dominated SAC In's implementation
period, drying up government commitment, exacerbating weaknesses in program design, and
ultimately foiling the credit's outcome (the more so because of the parallel disruptions to the
sectoral credits).
13.   This experience teaches, fundamentally, that an unstable political environment damages
the chances for successful structural adjustment and demands, therefore, a degree of healthy
skepticism in the Bank's lending decision. The prolonged and violent unfolding of Burundi's
history -- and indeed that of its neighbor Rwanda -- shows all too clearly the need for a
cautious, realistic evaluation of risk.  Particularly where past performance has been
unimpressive, the scope of reform should be modest, selective and reasonable in relation not
only to resource and other constraints but also to the duration of the implementation period.
Other lessons emphasize the importance of thorough internalization, prior to credit
effectiveness and involving up-front participation over a broad spectrum of all those engaged in
and affected by the program; and for PE reform, greater emphasis on privatization of assets
(rather than management contracts). A seminar is planned for May 1996 to discuss, with
support from the Bank, relevant experience in privatization in other countries, with a view to
drawing lessons that may be applied to Burundi's future efforts.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2376-BU)
INTRODUCTION
Country Background and Political Situation
1.     Burundi is a small Central African country with a population of 5.8 million growing at
an annual rate of 3.1%, among the fastest in Africa. Since independence, the country has
suffered repeated conflicts (1965, 1969, 1972, 1988, 1991 and 1993/94) among its two main
ethnic groups, the Tutsi (14%) and the majority Hutu (85%). In June 1993, the Hutu-
dominated party (Front pour la Democratie au Burundi) won the nation's first democratic
parliamentary and presidential elections. The new govemment quickly consolidated its power
through major staffing changes in the civil service and local administration -- upsetting the
balance of power in place for two decades. In October 1993, however, the President and other
key officials were gunned down by a few army officers; widespread ethnic upheaval ensued, in
which 50,000 died and another 800,000 fled to adjoining countries.  The subsequently
appointed President was killed in an airplane crash in April 1994, together with the President of
Rwanda. A new President and govemment were nominated in October 1994, but the
composition of the govemment changed again when a new Prime Minister took office in
February 1995. Over the last two years, the situation has remained unstable, with no rule of
law and continued civil unrest and ethnic violence.
2.             The timing of these events, shown below, weighed heavily on the outcome of
the Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC U1):
TIMELINE OF EVENTS
6/92       3/93                        7/94                    6/95
SAC III >>>  APPR.       EFF.                        EXT.                   CLOS.-
Political >>>      Election    Elec.  Coup    Crash    New Govt New Govt
events             Campaign   6/93  10/93    4/94        10/94     2/95
Timeline shows approval, effectiveness, extension of original closing date, and ultimate closing date for SAC 111, as well as
progress of country political events in terms of the elections (including the pre-election campaign), the coup soon thereafter that
marked the outbreak of crisis, the airplane crash that killed the presidents of both Burundi and Rwanda, and subsequent
changes in leadership.



- 2 -
Structural Adjustment: First Two Phases
3.    In the late 1970s, Burundi adopted a development strategy based on public investment
and widespread creation of public enterprises (PEs), supported by the strong performance of its
primary export, coffee. Weakening coffee prices since the early 1980s, however, led to a sharp
deterioration in the terms of trade and serious fiscal and monetary imbalances. In this context,
a structural adjustment program was launched in 1986, supported by a first Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC) from IDA (Cr. 1705-BU, US$15 million); the credit was part of the
Bank's country assistance strategy aimed at sustainable, equitable growth and poverty
reduction. The program sought to strengthen public expenditure management and reform the
PE sector, trade and industrial policies, credit allocation and agriculture sector policy. The
second phase of adjustment continued this agenda, but also introduced financial, labor market
and civil service reform as well as a social action program. In support of the adjustment
program, SAC II (Cr. 1919-BU, US$90 million) was approved in June 1988 as a three-tranche
operation to close by end-1989; the credit's last tranche was released only in January 1992,
however. Adjustment performance was mixed, with reform weakest in public expenditure
rationalization, PE reform, price and import liberalization, export promotion and agricultural
policy. To blame, were: (a) implementation delays due to political instability and waffling
govemment commitment; (b) external shocks (oil and coffee prices); (c) the program's
complex and ambitious design, especially in PE reform and reflected in excessive
conditionalities; and (d) weak links between macro reform and micro/sectoral policies.
4.    In the perspective of late 1991, Burundi was at a critical stage in its economic and
political reform process. Economic progress appeared truly within reach: the country ranked
behind only Ghana among Bank Country Ratings for sub-Saharan Africa, and was the object of
hope -- and therefore significant aid -- for much of the donor community. Progress had been
made towards a more competitive exchange rate, reduced protection, a unified budget, fewer
price controls, and low structural inflation. The Bank's dialogue with the authorities stressed
the need to address the unfinished adjustment agenda; for its part, Burundi's leadership
expressed a strong willingness to take the required, far-reaching actions. Donor views, too,
increasingly converged on the necessary direction of further adjustment. At the same time, the
government and IMF agreed on a first-year Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF).
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Project Objectives
5.    SAC UT was designed to strengthen the supply response of Burundi's economy to the
adjustment process. Its main objectives were to advance policy reform in three key areas: (i)
public sector efficiency -- reducing the role of the state and improving public resource
management; (ii) private sector development -- easing macroeconomic policy constraints to
create incentives for the private sector and promote export diversification and growth; and (iii)
social sector reform -- improving access to, and the quality of, basic social services, while
shielding vulnerable groups from the transitional costs of adjustment.
6.    SAC m's specific goals were to: lower the fiscal deficit by accelerating the
restructuring of the PE sector; raise expenditures on goods and services and cut non-



developmental expenditure; continue liberalization of extemal transactions, the agricultural
sector and factor markets, as well as regulatory, legal and fiscal reform; and introduce a "safety
net" of social expenditure along with measures to improve the quality of basic health and
education services.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
7.    A third adjustment credit was, in principle, appropriate. SAC HI was embedded in a
country assistance strategy that sought to stimulate export and private sector growth and
alleviate poverty. Its objectives were supported by the complementary reform agendas of three
investment operations approved in parallel (Private Sector Development, April 1992;
Agribusiness Promotion, September 1992; Social Action May 1993). In addition, the credit
reflected the findings of a public expenditure review conducted in 1991/1992; reforms to
rationalize public resource management also sought to complement IMF adjustment support.
SAC Im sought to continue reforms that had been initiated earlier but could not be completed
because of exogenous factors (political instability, coffee and oil price shocks), while carefully
avoiding errors in design made in preceding operations. Against this background, efforts to
regain the momentum of reform and pursue the adjustment program with renewed vigor were
fully justified.
8.    Though pragmatic in its broad approach, SAC 1mi's agenda was not consistent with its
(planned) 15-month time frame. The reform calendar allowed little time for raising institutional
capacity to the levels needed to support public sector management objectives. The extent of
PE reform -- privatization of 59% of public assets and issuance of bids for the remaining
portfolio -- was overambitious in relation to both the credit's short duration and the record of
past failure. The govemment had expressed concem at negotiations about the pace of reform
envisaged, but the Bank believed that defining the task in terms of assets would provide the
needed flexibility. A more modest goal could also have been adopted had prerequisites for
successful divestiture, including a strong political will, been considered more carefully; the
experience of SACs I and II had confirmed that political resistance to privatization was
substantial. Equally unrealistic, given the limited technical capacity, was the expectation that
full-fledged public expenditure programs (PEPs) for seven sectors could be completed in time
to feed into the 1993 budget -- a condition met belatedly by assigning the task to a local
consulting bureau. Less ambitious objectives may also have enabled greater concentration of
the limited commitment within the administration and better intemalization of the PEP
preparation process.  Finally, the design of financing strategies for the social sectors,
particularly education, could have been spelled out more clearly.
9.    Although SAC Ell's weighty agenda may indeed be faulted in hindsight, it is perhaps
not the size and breadth of the reform package, but the failure to adequately account for the
risks, that is ultimately to be criticized. It may be noted that those designing the credit
deliberately set their (or the country's) sights high. The program's ambitious targets were to
accelerate Burundi's transition out of its 1%-a-year growth "rut" to a fast-growth economy that
would double per capita income in one generation.  SAC m  was to be a final, strong
adjustment effort that would pave the way for investment lending; it was conceived, moreover,
not as the sole instrument of reform but as one that would harmonize and consolidate concrete,
sectoral adjustment efforts. This approach was not unreasonable, but the expectations would



- 4 -
have been judged to be unrealistic, had the attendant risks been more fully considered;
correspondingly, the adopted strategy would have been more selective. The President's Report
for SAC Jl did acknowledge the risks of the fragile political situation and social pressure
against unpopular measures, but placed more faith in the ongoing political reforms and
expressions of government commitment than appears, in retrospect, to have been warranted.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
10.   Project objectives were largely unachieved, thwarted by the political events that have
dominated Burundi since 1993. Some initial progress was made, reflected in steps taken to
satisfy up-front conditionality and conditions for effectiveness (March 1993). Actions slated to
be accomplished by the end of 1993 -- which embodied the heart of the reform -- remained
mostly incomplete at the end of June 1995, when the credit was canceled. The irrelevance of a
structural adjustment program in the context of chaos had become evident even a year earlier;
at that time, the Bank had extended the closing date of SAC m by one year, aware that
withdrawal would signal no-confidence and might well exacerbate the crisis. During that
period, moreover, the entire period sustained hopes for a positive outcome to the intensive
mediation process then under way, which in fact produced a power-sharing agreement in
October 1994. It was only in the spring of 1995, in taking stock of developments in the context
of preparing the Country Assistance Strategy for Burundi, that the Bank concluded that
prospects were too bleak to justify continued pursuit of adjustment.  Of the three areas
targeted, only the private sector component saw any significant progress. It is a measure of the
limited success of SAC Im that only two of the seven conditions for second tranche release
were ultimately fulfilled (Annex 1).
Public Sector Efficiency
11.   Public Expenditure Programming and Composition
Agenda. SAC im sought to: ensure continued adherence to the newly adopted unified budget,
with a breakdown of current and capital expenditures financed by domestic and external
sources; improve PEP formulation, which had lagged due to weak data collection systems in
sectoral ministries and lack of qualified staff, enhance the quality of public investments,
through the Public Investment Program (PIP), rational sectoral allocation, and inclusion in the
PIP of investments of PEs receiving direct or indirect subsidies; and increase funding of
recurrent expenditures of goods and services by reducing subsidies to PEs and non-
developmental expenditures in general.
Results:  A revised unified budget was adopted for 1992, reflecting (a) satisfactory PEPs
covering four important sectors and (b) limits on civil service recruitment and subsidies to PEs.
A unified budget was also adopted for 1993 but did not reflect the 1993-95 PEP, whose
preparation was severely delayed; moreover, actual expenditures for 1993 showed significant
extra-budgetary spending (14% of current expenditures). In 1994, expenditure programming
practically came to a halt: civil servants were yet untrained in the process, as the consultant
who had prepared the previous PEP had left before accomplishing such training, his contract
having expired. In addition, although a unit was created early on in the Finance Ministry to
participate in the expenditure programming process, it never performed its task. Consolidation
of budget authority under the Finance Ministry was another area of initial progress that was not



-5 -
sustained: with a change in government in early 1994, such authority was again split between
the Ministries of Plan and Finance. With respect to public investment, the government did
adopt a revised 1992-1994 PIP and a separate investment program for PEs, and established an
interministerial commission in May 1992 to supervise the PIP process. These achievements
were reversed, however: the 1993-1995 PIP proposed by the government was neither
discussed with donors nor consistent with budget and IMF targets. The commission too was
ineffective.  Sound project selection criteria continue to be ignored, while adherence to
investment plans in implementation, relative to physical and financial targets, remains elusive.
12.   The composition of public expenditure improved but fell short of meeting the related
conditions for second tranche release (Annex 1). Current expenditures for goods and services
were 21% and 23% of total current expenditures in 1993 and 1994, respectively, in contrast to
respective targets of 28% and 30%. Direct and indirect subsidies to PEs amounted to FBu 5
billion in 1993, compared to a target of FBu 4.2 billion. Government flows to PEs declined in
1994, as direct subsidies were reduced significantly while indirect subsidies increased only
slightly. Backtracking occurred in early 1995, however, when the government decided to tax-
exempt a large PE for two years. Civil service hiring remained within the targeted net ceiling
of 650 in 1992 but exceeded it by a third in 1993. Indeed, the wage bill is estimated at 27.5%
of total expenditure for 1994, compared to 21.0% in 1992. To blame, in part, have been the
country's political and ethnic struggles, which caused military expenditures to rise by 12.6% in
1994 to reach about 3.7% of GDP (compared to 2.7% in 1987); a further increase of 18% was
realized in 1995.
13.   PE Portfolio Restructuring
Agenda: SAC HI preparation build on the lessons leamed in SAC I and II and included the
design of a comprehensive program for PE privatization (replacing the previous piecemeal
approach) to reduce the burden imposed by PEs on public finances. Actions aimed at
restricting new investment in the sector and restructuring Burundi's 86 PEs. Under the credit,
the government was to: disengage (privatize or liquidate) or sign private management contracts
equivalent to 59% of the state's PE assets (including completion of all 10 liquidations);
complete the bidding process for the remaining portfolio; and strengthen SCEP, the unit that
had -- unsuccessfully -- piloted PE reform.
Results:  Little was achieved, apart from some initial measures taken prior to effectiveness.
A moratorium on new investments in PEs targeted for privatization and liquidation was issued
in May 1992, and steps were taken to eliminate govemment-guaranteed lending and subsidies
to commercial and industrial PEs. Institutional reform included: creation of a mechanism in the
Finance Ministry (strengthening the LI'nspection Generale des Finances) to monitor the
financial status of PEs to be privatized or liquidated; restructuring of SCEP; and liquidation of
its Intervention Fund (an instrument for subsidizing PEs). Invitations to bid were issued and
private management contracts signed for PEs which in all accounted for 14% of state assets,
while a satisfactory timetable for restructuring remaining PEs was submitted.
14.   The above measures did not go too far in achieving reform. As of end-February 1995,
the liquidation of seven targeted PEs had not yet been completed. CADEBU, the large savings
parastatal, was liquidated in 1994 -- well behind schedule and at high cost -- but a new PE (La



- 6 -
Banque Populaire du Burundi) was created to take its place even in 1992. Two other PEs of
mixed public and private ownership were created in 1993: TELECEL Burundi and
SOGEMAC. Progress in privatization was minimal: less than 15% of the state's PE assets -- a
fourth of the target -- was privatized through the end of 1994. Even this progress is qualified,
insofar as it was largely achieved through (foreign-financed) privatization of management
rather than capital (only 2.5%). Furthermore, the firms pnrvatized were generally small PEs
fully owned by the state or larger PEs in which the government had minority ownership or no
direct control. However, performance contracts were signed for most of the larger PEs, such as
the electricity/water utility (REGIDESO) as well as the textile and transport companies
(COTEBU and OTRACO). These contracts, weak even to begin with, were largely not
respected.
Private Sector Development
15.   Exchange Rate System; Current and Capital Account Liberalization (IMF)
Agenda:  Of the seven major areas of reform under the adjustment program aimed at
promoting efficient private sector development and export diversification, two were to be
monitored under the IMF's ESAF: (a) adoption of an exchange rate system that balanced the
supply of, and demand for, foreign exchange and allowed open access to foreign exchange for
current account transactions; and (b) full liberalization of current account transactions by end-
1993, to encourage direct foreign investment and stimulate foreign interest in privatization by
establishing transparent and flexible rules for repatriation of capital.
Results: Both objectives were realized shortly after approval of SAC m. Burundi adopted a
flexible, more automatic exchange rate system in April 1992, after a period of many years
during which exchange rate adjustments were usually prompted by the Bank and Fund. As
part of ESAF conditionality, a system of Open General Licensing (OGL) for goods,
transportation and insurance managed by commercial banks, given full authority, was
established in May 1992. At the same time, export licensing was reformed, with the relevant
authority also being delegated to commercial banks. In addition, rules for repatriation of capital
were revised.
16.   Liberalization of Legal Framework
Labor Code
Agenda: A revised labor code -- aimed ultimately at lowering labor costs to more accurately
reflect Burundi's comparative advantage in this resource -- was to be submitted to the
legislature, including: elimination of the requirement that employers cover 100% of employee
medical costs; easing of regulations covering employee dismissal; and ending the practice of
mandatory wage-fixing for various professional groups.
Results: A new Labor Code became effective in July 1993, six months ahead of schedule.
The new code recognizes the principles of freedom to work and engage in business, the right to
fair and equitable remuneration, and the right of free association and collective bargaining. It
significantly eases regulations covering dismissal and part-time employment, and no longer
requires employers to fully cover employee health insurance costs. Employers still bear these



- 7 -
costs, however, as progress in implementing a health insurance system for the private sector
has been slow since a feasibility study prepared in June 1993.
Business Code
Agenda: To facilitate general business activity and ensure enforcement of business contracts
and property rights, while updating an outdated legal framework, the govemment was to
submit to the legislature a revised Commercial Code, reflecting the elimination of
inconsistencies and gaps in legal texts, improved definition of the legal status of firms, and
simplification of bankruptcy laws, extended to include PEs. Specifically to be revised were
laws governing books of accounts, corporate law, registration of companies, and foreign
exchange regulations.
Results: The legislative and regulatory framework for private investment and business has
improved significantly. The new general provisions of the Commercial Code (Dispositions
Generales) were enacted in the first half of 1993, providing, inter alia, for easier acquisition of
a trader's license, assumption of a trader's occupation by a married woman in her own right,
and better definition of commercial transactions. These provisions also generally covered laws
pertaining to accounting and company registration. Amendments to corporate law (Code de
Societes) were presented to the Council of Ministers in April 1995 and the business code for
public and private companies was promulgated in March 1996. Foreign exchange regulations
were not formally introduced in the law but were revised in July 1992 when the Central Bank
liberalized the exchange and trade system. The new rules enable commercial banks to buy and
sell foreign exchange directly from and to their customers, and offer foreign exchange-
denominated accounts both to exporters of non-traditional goods, who may retain up to 30% of
their export receipts, and to non-residents.
17.    Tax Reform
Agenda: Unlike prior tax reforms aimed at revenue enhancement, measures proposed under
SAC m were to stimulate production by reducing tax rates, while improving tax collection to
keep reform revenue-neutral. The govemment was to submit to the legislature a draft revision
of the General Tax Code, adopt other regulations to eliminate intersectoral distortions, and
provide for increased transparency in the tax laws.
Results: No revised code was submitted, although a draft action plan was prepared in May
1994 (well behind schedule) based on the recommendations of a joint Bank/Fund fiscal study
completed in January 1993 and a subsequent IMF mission to help improve tax administration
and structure.
18.   Tariff Reform
Agenda: To improve tariff administration and further reduce effective protection and anti-
export bias, the government was to: lower the customs tariff spread to between 5% and 30%;
cut maximum tariff rates on non-luxury goods from 40% to 30% and on luxury goods from
100% to 70%; revise the list of luxury goods; levy excise taxes on certain goods; and
harmonize tariff rates.



- 8 -
Results: No progress was realized.
19.   Agricultural Sector Liberalization
Agenda: Under SAC Em, the govemment was to: simplify the regulatory framework for
smallholders, removing constraints on mandatory crops, quantities and types of inputs;
eliminate state-administered producer prices for traditional export crops and agricultural inputs;
end monopoly rights for PEs; impose a moratorium on all new public sector investment in rice,
tea and palm oil; and establish transparent criteria for allocating public lands and resolving
ownership disputes. These measures were intended to complement others to be simultaneously
implemented under IDA's Agribusiness Promotion and Private Sector Development projects,
all aimed at strengthening the agricultural sector's supply response to macro-economic reform.
Results: The reforms envisaged were largely completed, as part of up-front conditionality.
The government issued circular letters covering the contractual and voluntary nature of
smallholder cotton farming and modalities of state-financed reconversion of tea and coffee
plantations, as well as a policy note on the planning and financing of new coffee and tea
plantations. Land law was also disseminated for the allocation of pasture as well as irrigated
and swamp lands to smallholders and agri-businesses. Progress in liberalizing producer prices
for agricultural products (coffee, cotton, tea, palm oil and sugar) did not materialize, however.
While it had been agreed that floor prices would be "respected", authorities altogether ignored
market forces and continued to set prices officially. In addition, although price controls
operated by the Ministry of Commerce were formally abolished, many prices remained
essentially regulated, through the PEs.
Social Sector Reform
20.   Social Safety Net
Agenda: SAC 11 was to alleviate the transitional costs of adjustment through (i) a core social
expenditure program providing a safety net for the poor, and (ii) a reconversion program for
employees laid off in the process of PE restructuring or civil service reform. Priority
expenditures on primary health and education were already earmarked in the 1992-94 PEPs,
and the government was to improve the quality of the social safety net incorporated in the
1993 -95 PEP (mostly in terms of higher and better targeted budgetary allocations for education
materials and basic health care).
Results: No progress was made on establishing a safety net. The reconversion program was
elaborated with the support of an intemational consultant but advanced little beyond that due to
difficulties in implementing the public enterprise reform program. The credit did, however,
achieve elimination of the 15% tax on severance pay.
21.   Financing strategy for health and education sectors
Agenda: To support sector objectives, SAC m sought to develop a comprehensive financing
strategy for the health and education sectors, focusing on cost recovery.



Results:  An initial draft for a financing strategy for the education sector -- completed well
behind schedule in September 1993 -- could not be finalized due to the outbreak of the crisis a
month later. The development of a financing strategy for the health sector was pursued largely
under IDA's Health and Population H project, which was interrupted by the crisis but later
revived. However, the introduction of a user-financed scheme had to be postponed due to the
country situation.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
22.   The political backdrop for SAC m implementation weighed heavily on the credit's
outcome. Less clear, however, is the extent to which such factors may be considered within or
outside govemment control: one could argue, for instance, that weak govemment commitment
-- an important reason for the poor results achieved -- had its origins in the tenuous political
circumstances, apart from the fact that the govemment itself was changing. On the other hand,
the inability to sustain the nation's mood for political reconciliation may itself be viewed as a
sign of ineffective govemment. Other obstacles to successful adjustment lay in the design of
the credit, which combined an ambitious program with capacity, financial resources and legal
and institutional arrangements that were unequal to the tasks at hand.
Factors Outside Government Control
23.   Politicalfactors began to slow reform even before the credit became effective (para.
2). The democratization process itself hurt reform. Preparation for elections increasingly
preoccupied the administration and civil servants throughout the second half of 1992 and up to
June 1993. Commitment to reform -- apparent under the govemment that had participated
heavily in SAC m preparation -- faded when new officials with little or no background in
adjustment took over. The new authorities also faced distractions related to the reorganization
of ministries, return of political refugees and rising demands on national security which served
to increase military expenses, contrary to the credit's developmental objectives. Prospects for
reform only worsened following the coup in October 1993, which brought in its trail a fragile
new government, radicalization of the political dialogue in the country and breakdown of the
administration. Adjustment was all but abandoned, the new leaders hardly ready for the
challenges of public expenditure rationalization and public enterprise reform that had eluded
predecessor governments for nearly a decade. The Bank, for its part, was faced with a new set
of country counterparts inexperienced in govemment and the relevant institutional procedures.
Moreover, the instability endured: for much of 1994, civil servants reported irregularly to work,
sector ministries barely functioned, and security concems were heightened.   These
circumstances brought public expenditure programming to a near halt, drying up govemment
commitment as well as the required informational and institutional elements.
Factors Within Government Control
24.    Weak government commitment contributed heavily to delays -- and ultimately failure --
in meeting SAC IH's timetable for reform. The govemment was slow and half-hearted in
responding to the Bank's early, repeated recommendations to: identify individuals and services
responsible for each action proposed under SAC lIt undertake extensive information and



- 10-
sensitization activities to explain the objectives and rational of the program to civil servants (a
related IDF grant for that purpose had been declined several times as misuse of funds was
feared during the pre-election period; it became effective only in April 1994); and set up
mechanisms to institutionalize regular monitoring and consultations with donors.  These
deficiencies contributed, in tum, to serious slippages in PIP and especially PEP deadlines; two
postponements of effectiveness; slowdown in donor funding; failure to train sectoral unit staff
in PEP preparation before the expiration of technical assistance; and a 7-month delay in
nominating Technical Valuation Committees (TVCs), needed for progress in PE reform.
25.   Lack of instilutional capacity also contributed to failure in meeting conditionalities.
This deficiency was exacerbated after July 1993, when the new authorities replaced large
numbers of technical staff in key ministries, reversing earlier progress in institutional capacity
building. A Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 1795-BUT) in place since 1987 to support SAC
implementation was ineffective, the project's management hurt by poor govemment
commitment as well as high turnover among civil servants. Methodological problems in
expenditure programming persisted, unresolved throughout the adjustment period. Weak
capacity also slowed progress in tax/tariff reform and development of a financing strategy for
the education sector; lack of records and information posed a further problem.
26.   A host of factors obstructed PE reform; they were partly based in weak govemment
commitment, but also reflected structural constraints that should have been taken into account
in the project's design as key factors for successful privatization. Burundi's legalframework
for privatization is replete with rigidities, aimed more at protecting those involved in the
process than supporting successful privatization. Also, the institutional setup was inefficient.
A TVC had to be nominated for each PE targeted for privatization -- an inevitable source of
delay; decision-making in general suffered from too many decision-makers with overlapping
and poorly defined responsibilities. Also ill-conceived was SCEP's dual, and sometimes
contradictory, responsibility for monitoring PEs and organizing their divestiture. Lack of
capital was another obstacle, reflecting Burundi's shallow financial market, domestic
investors' weak finances, and foreign investors' concems over the country's political risks,
unskilled labor and landlocked situation. Finally, privatization also faced resistance from
vested interests unwilling to part vVith their rents (income, jobs, control over marketing
channels) and from many Hutus who questioned whether PE reform -- through which the
wealthier Tutsis could regain influence -- would indeed be ethnically equitable and achieve the
objective of better management of these enterprises.
D. BANK PERFORMANCE
27.   Identification to appraisal: The main objectives of SAC m were undeniably relevant.
Moreover, the design of SAC III reflected the lessons of past experience, through: a simpler
design and fewer conditionalities, up-front conditionalities to help assure government
commitment; strong linkages with sectoral operations to reinforce the reform agenda; public
expenditure analysis; intensive consultations with govemment; early assistance in preparing
action plans and timetables for reform; better coordination with the IMF; and intensive
supervision and donor consultation (over seven missions, and with attention to member
continuity) to permit early detection of potential problems. Further, the credit's markedly
smaller size relative to its predecessor ref;ected an awareness of Burundi's high indebtedness.



- I I -
Though on target in terms of direction, the Bank did not go far enough in incorporating the
lessons of the past.  Said differently, the Bank failed to adequately reflect risk in the
formulation of SAC HI. Project design could have been simpler: a more limited agenda may
have left reform unfinished but helped focus govemment commitment where need was greatest
and progress most elusive (PE reform and expenditure management). The PE component was
too ambitious. More careful preparation could have identified, as prerequisites, the need for
legal and institutional reform as well as financing strategies for privatization. Further, the
once-common approach to PE reform -- reliance on a public sector unit to accomplish
privatization and emphasis on privatizing management rather than assets -- has since come to
be recognized as sub-optimal.
28.   Implementation/Supervision: The Bank tried hard to maintain the authorities' focus
on adjustment amid the trying political circumstances, by: preparing an Economic Strategy
Note (1993) on the basis of workshops held in Bujumbura, the capital, and organizing follow-
up discussions throughout the country (1994); making available a beneficiary consultation
grant to help intemalization; visiting the new govemment soon after elections to bring the new
team on board regarding adjustment; and extending the credit's original closing date in a show
of support, though aware that further progress was unlikely. During implementation, the
Bank's Resident Mission held regular meetings with donors and the govemment, to review
economic and project performance. The Bank was also instrumental in mobilizing emergency
funds for Burundi after the crisis. However, the approval in 1994 of an IDF grant requested in
June 1992 occurred to late in the process to bring about intemalization within the
administration, for which the need had been stressed by the Program Performance Audit
Report for SACs I and II; it had cited poor ownership and intemalization as key to the failure of
these adjustment credits.
E. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
29.   Preparation: The borrower's performance at the early stages leading up to approval
was highly satisfactory. The govemment participated actively in program preparation, and, for
the first time, itself prepared the Policy Framework Paper (for 1991-94). It made early
progress in meeting up-front conditionalities as well as those needed for effectiveness, apart
from a few blockages that delayed effectiveness. Some program targets were fully or partially
met (revised labor and commercial codes, cutback in subsidies to PEs). As mentioned earlier,
however, govemment commitment waned after effectiveness, heavily affected by the
democratization process. Political factors began to undercut reform even in July 1992, when
pre-election concems prompted a 10% increase in civil service salaries. Problems escalated as
preoccupation with elections grew: supervision missions in August and November 1992 noted
slippages in agreed institutional and monitoring arrangements.
30.   Implementation: The April 1993 mission noted the delays in public expenditure
programming, absence of progress on the social safety net, and problems with the 199:3-95
PIP, produced late and inconsistent with budget and IMF targets. After the elections, the new
set of officials, uninvolved in preparing SAC III, was reluctant to adopt the former
govemment's program. Political and security considerations consumed the govemment's
attention in the post-crisis period, marring progress on the unfinished reform agenda.



- 12 -
F. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME AND SUSTAINABILITY
Overall Outcome
31.   Given the largely unfinished agenda of SAC m (Annex 1), the credit's outcome is
judged to be unsatisfactory.  The size of the PE sector -- and consequently the state's
domination of economic activity -- was barely reduced; the largest PEs (with a few exceptions)
continue to perform poorly. Little progress was made in public resource management. Public
expenditure programming instruments, though in place, are yet to be intemalized, integrated
into the budget process, and adhered to in practice. Information on the execution of public
investment remains unavailable, and budget allocations continue to lack transparency due to
inadequate classification of expenditures. Although 1993-95 PEPs were prepared for six
sectors, sectoral units are not fully trained in this exercise and have practically ceased to
function since the crisis (except for agriculture). Sound investment criteria established in 1991
continue to be ignored in project selection. No progress has been made in defining a social
safety net for education and a clear set of priorities for developmental expenditure. Finally, tax
and tariff reform has been implemented only partially or not at all.
32.   Certain benefits were realized, however, and will likely be sustained.  Burundi's
competitiveness and balance of payments should improve in response to progress made in
macro policies to establish competitive exchange rates, reduce protection and eliminate price
controls. Revision of the legal and regulatory framework -- affecting particularly labor and
corporate law -- should help improve the environment for private investment and business.
Private sector development will also benefit from liberalized foreign exchange regulations and
current account transactions; these measures (as well as steps to liberalize the agriculture
sector) were in place early on, but a return to normal economic activity is needed before any
supply response may be expected. Progress towards a financing strategy for the health sector,
initiated under SAC m and taken up by the health sector project approved in April 1995, is
expected to be sustained as the sector develops. Advances made in designing a reconversion
program (for employees hurt by divestiture) and a financing strategy for the education sector
should also prove useful in future efforts.
33.   The sustainability of any economic progress in Burundi rests fundamentally on its
success in alleviating ethnic tensions. Until order returns, the few achievements of the
structural adjustment effort are likely to become subject to backtracking, as indicated by the
reintroduction of direct subsidies to COTEBU, taxing of the coffee stabilization fund and
delays in approving a revised budget for 1995.
Impact on Economy
34.   Reform under the Structural Adjustment Program moved Burundi towards a more
competitive economic environment but failed to evoke the anticipated supply response. Neither
macro performance nor the country's economic profile saw much improvement for the
adjustment period as a whole. GDP growth averaged 3.8% between 1986 and 1992 before
tuming negative in 1993; with a rising population growth rate, per capita growth fell from
1.5% between 1980 and 1985 to -0.3% in 1986-93. Poverty has risen sharply: from 1990 to
1994, the percentage of population living below the poverty line increased from 36% to 58% in
rural areas and from 42% to 59% in Bujumbura, the capital. Exports remain largely



- 13 -
undiversified, concentrated in coffee and therefore still vulnerable to world coffee prices. Due
to weak coffee prices during much of this period, as well as steadily rising public expenditure,
reliance on externalfinancing has been high (Official Development Assistance accounts for a
fourth of GDP). The budget deficit (excluding grants) declined to 9.6% of GDP in 1994 after
averaging around 11% of GDP during 1986-92, due to higher coffee export taxation, adoption
of a more widely applied sales tax and a higher tax on beer and carbonated beverages;
however, greater reliance on monetary financing to cover the deficit raised inflation to levels
approaching 15% in 1994 (from under 5% in 1992).
35.   Exogenous factors wielded the dominant force in stifling reform in Burundi. Socio-
politico-ethnic conflicts had far-reaching repercussions throughout the economy, adversely
affecting production activities, investments, donor disbursements, military expenditures, the
functioning of the administration, and civil service expenditures.  Certain aspects of the
democratization process were also obstructive: for instance, at the same time that adjustment-
related balance of payments support created substantial counterpart funds for budgetary
financing, public consumption increased from 10% to 13% of GDP, mainly due to pre-election,
extra-budgetary expenditures. Another exogenous factor that severely hurt public finance and
increased extemal indebtedness was the pre-crisis weakness in coffee prices. To these, one
might add the flawed design of the adjustment program; it is clear, however, that even a better-
conceived program would have stood little chance of achieving its objectives amid
circumstances so contrary to reform.
G. FUTURE OPERATIONS
36.   As identified in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, May 1995), which was
prepared in close consultation with donors, Burundi's unfinished adjustment agenda includes:
(a)    privatizing PEs, rationalizing public expenditure in favor of priority and
developmental needs, and increasing transparency in budget and investment
management, to improve public sector management;
(b)   further liberalizing the agricultural and transport sectors, completing legal and
regulatory reform, and implementing tariff and customs reform, to alleviate
constraints to private sector development; and
(c)   introducing a social safety net, as well as greater equity and coverage in the
provision of social services, to mitigate the costs of adjustment and help reduce
poverty.
37.   At this time, the Bank does not foresee resuming adjustment lending to Burundi. In
view of the difficult political situation and the formidability of advancing economic reform at
present, as well as the substantial volume of extemal financing already received by Burundi,
the CAS proposes instead a modest lending program focused on assistance to critical social
sectors. At the same time, support for adjustment would be embedded in a robust non-lending
program to encompass policy dialogue (including joint preparation of a PFP), active donor
coordination, and support to capacity and consensus-building for economic reform. Extemal
assistance from other donors has also slowed significantly, reflecting Burundi's poor climate
for investment and economic reform. The govemment, for its part, should seek to reduce its



- 14 -
aid dependency and in particular its debt burden, relying as much as possible on grant
financing, with recourse to concessional borrowing only as a last resort. More generally,
it should resume action on its policy agenda aimed at increasing public savings and
encouraging export growth and diversification as well as private investment, while
ensuring the effective use of all external funding for investment and technical assistance.
National reconciliation will remain, of course, the fundamental objective of Burundi (and
indeed its neighbors), and the condition on which the success of any future operation will
rest. Once Burundi is more clearly on the path of political stability, social peace and
economic reform, IDA would upgrade its assistance to a "best-effort" program, which
would, inter alia, include a quick disbursing operation.
H. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
38.   The most significant lesson of SAC HI is that the chances for successful structural
adjustment are limited in an unstable political environment, which demands, therefore, a degree
of healthy skepticism in evaluating prospects for adjustment. The President's Report did
acknowledge the risks posed by Burundi's fragile political situation; yet, lending decisions in
such circumstances appear biased towards optimism, driven by the desire to maintain the
reform momentum, capitalize on government expressions of commitment, and set in motion a
virtuous circle of economic progress, increased equity and reduced social tensions. However,
the need for a cautious, realistic evaluation of the risks is all too clear from the prolonged and
violent unfolding of the political struggles of both Burundi and Rwanda. Such an assessment
could argue for lowering targets where outcomes are more uncertain, in the interests of
promoting surer, albeit more modest, results, on the one hand, and cutting losses in the event of
failure, on the other.
39.    Second, broad internalization activities should be developed and more vigorously
established prior to credit effectiveness, to ensure the minimum level of commitment and
ownership required at all levels of the administration and within the civil society. Involvement
of participants and the authorities over a broad spectrum -- encompassing not only senior
government officials but also civil servants, beneficiaries, the private sector, providers of
technical assistance, and possibly Non-Governmental Organizations which may be involved in
implementation -- should be sought, up front, to ensure that all agents that could affect the
success of the operation can influence, and therefore buy into, both the concept and design of
the operation.
40.   Other important lessons relate to program design. Particularly where past performance
has been unimpressive, the scope of reform should be modest, selective and realistic both in
relation to existing resources and the duration of the proposed implementation period. In
addition, technical assistance -- free-standing or linked to the adjustment program -- should
focus on internalization within the administration rather than the timely delivery of "Bank"
products (a PEP, for example). Finally, as recent experience has shown, successful PE reform
will require greater emphasis on privatization of assets (rather than management contracts). A
seminar is planned for May 1996 to discuss, with support from the Bank, relevant experience
in privatization in other countries, with a view to drawing lessons that may be applied to
Burundi's future efforts. Some recent evidence has shown that the designation of an entity
outside the govemment (a private sector organization or merchant bank, for example) to
implement the privatization program could help ensure greater commitment to the goal, more
objective decision-making based on sound economic principles, and efficient implementation.



- 15 -
ANNEX 1
CONDITIONS FOR RELEASE OF SECOND TRANCHE
1. Adoption of:
(a) unified budget for 1993, in accordance with:
-- 93-95 PEP
-- civil service recruitment ceiling of 650 individuals (net) (Actual: 821)
-- reduction of direct and indirect subsidies to PE s to lower of 7% of total expenditures
or FBu 4.2 billion (Actual: 7.1%,, FBu S billion; the ratio is nearer target due to
growth in the denominator arising from salary and extra-budgetary expenditures)
(b) unified budget for 1994, including:
-- rise in non-wage current expenditures for goods and services to the higher of 30% of
current expenditures or FBu 9.7 billion (Actual: 23%, FBu 10.1 billion)
2. Disengagement (through privatization or liquidation) or signature of contracts for privatization
of management equal to 59% of public capital assets in PE s, and completion of invitations to bid
for the remaining portfolio (Actual: <15%;2. 5% if consider only privatization of capital)
3. Submission to legislative body of revised labor code, including:
*- elimination of regulations re: pnrvate employers' coverage of all medical costs for
employees (including families)
*- easing of dismissal regulations
- elimination of mandatory wage-fixing for some professional categories (except
minimum wage for unskilled labor)
4. Submission to legislative body of revised Commercial code, including:
-- accounting books
-- companies regime
-- registration of companies
-- foreign exchange regulations*
5. Fiscal reform (per recommendations of ongoing joint IMF/Bank study):
-- reduction in customs tariff spread for non-luxury goods
-- adoption of ceiling for custom tariff for luxury goods
-- revision of list of imported luxury goods
6. Submission to legislative body of revised General Tax Code and adoption of other related
regulations designed to eliminate inter-sectoral distortions and promote private sector
development
7. Implementation of financing strategy of education and health sectors, including:
-- definition of roles of Government of Burundi, NGOs, private sector and users
* although foreign exchange regulations are not included in the commercial code, they were
liberalized de facto by the Central Bank.
Note: Only Conditions 3 and 4 were met.






PART II
STATISTICAL INFORMATION






Table 1:
Summary of Assessments
(A) Achievement of Obiectives          Substantial         Partial         Negligible     Not applicable
Macroeconomic Policies                                     x                        I X___|___i_i
Sector Policies                                            x _ J
Financial Objectives                   _____   i   L|X
Institutional Development         I                                          E          1111X
Public Sector Management                                               [ |X
Private Sector Development                                             I        x   I X |
Other (specify)                                                   I       I     X       ZIZZ i]
(B) Project Sustainability               Likely           Unlikelv         Uncertain
L                                  E  X I  
Highly
(C) Bank Performance                   Satisfactorv      Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification                                             x EjIZX I|    I      I
Preparation Assistance                         J           X      |I]
Appraisal                          L___|_x
Supervision                                                X
Highly
(D) Borrower Performance               Satisfactorv     Satisfactorv        Deficient
Preparation                        |                                  [IIIXI|   |
Implementation                     |i1i hX
Covenant Compliance                                                          W
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                                              Highly
(E) Assessment of Outcome              Satisfactory     Satisfactory     Unsatisfaetory    Unsatisfactory
_  _ _ I   !             i   I     x_              _ _ _ _  I



Table 2:
Related IDA Credits
Credit                              Credit                                 Purpose                                  Year of        Status
Title                             Number                                                                          Approval
Preceding operations
I . First Structural Adjustment Credit                    1 705-BU       Reform public expenditure management, the Public Enterprise          1986         Closed
sector, trade and industrial policies, credit allocation and
agriculture sector policy.
2. Second Structural Adjustment Credit                    1919-BU        Continue reform under SAC 1, with emphasis onamore                    1988         Closed
flexible exchange rate policy and tariff reform; reduction of
fiscal deficit and improvement in composition/quality of
public expenditures; reduction in number, improvement in
financial condition, of Public Enterprises. New reform was to
cover the ftnancial sector, labor markets and civil service,
as well as a social action program.
3. Economic Management and Public                         1795-BU        Support implementation of reforms under SACs I and 11, and            1987         Closed
Enterprise Credit                                              later, the preparation and implementation of SAC 111. Sought
to consolidate reforms pursued under previous technical assistance
credit, and introduced strengthening of Public Enterprise management
as new area of capacity building in Burundi.



Table 3:
Project Timetable
Date              Date actual/
Steps in Project Cycle            Planned \2
Identification                       Jul-90                Jul-90
Preparation                           22 months            22 months
Appraisal                             Nov 91 to Mar 92     Nov 91 to Mar 92
Negotiations                          Apr-92               Apr-92
Letter of Development Policy         Apr-92                Apr-92
Board                                [Jun-92               Jun-92
Signing                               Jun-92               Jun-92
Effectiveness (First Tranche Release)  Sep-92              Mar-93
Second Tranche Release                Dec-93               Cancelled
Project completion                    n.a.                 n.a.
Loan closing                          6/30/94              16/30/95
\2 As provided in the President's Report.



Table 4:
Credit Disbursements, Cumulative
Estimated and Actual
FY        FY        FY
1993      1994      1995
(US$ millions, unless indicated otherwise)
Appraisal estimate      10.0      30.0       30.0
Actual disbursement      10.0      10.0      10.0
Actual as % of estimate    100%     33%        33%
Date of final disbursement ay 15, 1995



Table 5. Burundi Key Economic Indicators
(In percent, unless otherwise indicated)
1991              1992               1993               1994
estimated   actual  estimated   actual  estimated   actual  estimaled   actual
REAL GROWTH:
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) 1/      4.9       5.0      4.4       2.7      4.5      -5.7      4.5      -6.7
Gross Domestic Income (GDY)          6.2       5.2      2.9       2.2      5.2      -2.4      4.9      -1.4
Exports (GNFS)                       15.9     16.3      1.4       1.1      2.0    -15.3       6.3      -4.7
--coffee                           23.6      20.6     -4.5       1.8     -4.5    -25.1       3.5       5.4
Imports (GNFS)                       5.5       4.8      1.3       5.5      3.4      24.1      3.4     -5.1
REAL PER CAPITA GROWTH:
GDP                                   1.8      2.0      1.3      -0.3      1.4      -8.5      1.4      -9.5
GDY                                  3.0       2.2     -0. 1     -0.9      2.1      -5.3      1.8      -4.4
Consumption                           1.8      0.6     -0.4      -3.4      0.6      -1.3      0.7     -2.1
DEBT: 2/
1. Debtservice, total ($US M)       45.8      39.2     49.5     39.7      52.3     36.1      52.0     41.1
-DSlExports (GNFS)              39.9     33.5      48.1     41.1      44.7     40.9     39.2      28.7
-DS/GDP                          3.9      3.4       4.2      3.7       4.2      3.8       3.9      4.2
2. Interest, total ($US M)           16.2     13.9     15.9      15.7     16.1      13.0     16.0      13.0
3. DOD, total($US M)              1017.1    963.5   1126.5   1025.2   1211.8   1064.1   1292.7   1130.6
-DOD/GDP                        86.3     86.9      96.1    107.1      98.3    123.0      96.7    113.6
RATIOS:
Gross Investment/GDP 3/              17.5     14.4     18.6      17.8     19.3      17.4     19.5      9.5
Domestic Savings/GDP                 -1.0     -4.1     -0.7      -2.1      0.7      -3.2      1.7     -4.3
Exports (gnfsYGDP                    9.7      10.0      8.8       8.9      9.5      9.4       9.9     14.8
Imports (gnfs)/GDP                  27.6      28.5     28.7      28.7     29.3     30.0      28.8     28.5
GOVERNMENT BUDGET:
Revenue/GDP                          16.7     16.9     18.6      16.9     17.8      17.4     17.5     16.3
Total Expenditure/GDP 4/            26.5      28.4     26.1      31.1     25.1     30.5      24.4     24.9
Current Balance/GDP 5/               3.5       2.4      5.4       2.1      5.5      0.3       5.7     -1.2
Deficit /GDP 6/                      -9.7    -11.4     -7.5    -14.3      -7.2    -13.1      -6.8     -8.6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS:
1. Trade Balance ($US M)          -102.3   -104.5   -117.6   -102.5   -121.4    -97.9   -124.6    -57.0
2. Resource Balance ($US M)        -210.0   -215.8   -234.0   -215.6   -244.3   -194.2   -251.9   -134.1
-%ofGDP                        -17.8    -18.5    -20.0    -19.8    -19.8    -20 6       -18.8    -13.8
3. Current Account ($US M) 7/      -211.9   -213.9   -234.3   -216.5   -243.6   -187.9   -250.6   -133.8
--%of GDP                      -18.0    -18.3    -20.0    -19.9    -19.8    -19.9    -18.7    -13.8
1/At market prices
2/ World Bank DRS data
3/ Includes changes in stocks
41 Includes capital expenditures and not lending
5/ Public savings
6/ On a commitment basis and excluding grants
7/ Excluding official transfers and capital grants
Source: Government of Bu. undi (unless otherwise indicated)



Table 6: Key Indicators
CRITERIA FOR EVALUATING PROGRESS UNDER SAC III
1     1992            1993             1994
Total Investment / GDP                                19.6%            17.9%           14.5%
Private Investment / GDP                               5.2%             4.0%             1.0%
Exports (GNFS), %  change 1/                          -6.1%             7.1%            65.1%
Non-traditional Exports, %  change 2/                 167.3%           -19.3%           -30.6%
Exports (GNFS) / Imports (GNFS) 1/                    30.4%             30.8%           42.5%
Domestic Savings / GDP                                 -0.5%            -2.6%            0.8%
Public Sector Savings / GDP                             2.2%             0.2%            -1.2%
Security-related Expenditures / GDP                     3.6%             4.2%            3.9%
Govt. Recurrent Health Expenditure/GDP                  0.88%            0.98%            1.14%
Primary School Enrollment Rate, Total                  70%              50%*              *
Primary School Enrollment Rate, Female                 62%
I/ In current prices.
2/ Includes primary products not specifically identified, manufactured goods, and other goods (re-exports),
in current prices.
* No reliable data exist for these years, as there has not been a regular school year since 10/93. It is
believed, however, that enrollment declined dramatically in the 93/94 school year (more so in rural
areas), and that no more than 75% of primary school children have returned to school since then.
Primary school enrollment is expected to regain its pre-crisis level (in absolute terms) only towards
the end of this decade.



Table 7: Project Studies
Not applicable



Table 8a:
Proeect Costs
Appraisal estimate             Actual (or latest estimate)
(USS mil)                         (USS mu)
Local     Foreign      Total       Local       Foreign     Total
costs      costs                   costs       costs
Total Project Cost
IDA                        0.00o        30.01      30.01         0.0        10.0       10.0
Donors                     0.00         69.81      69.8          0.01      25.61      25.6j
Table 8b:
Proiect Financing
Appraisal estimate             Actual (or latest estimate)
(USS mil)                         (US$ mil)
Local     Foreign      Total       Local      Foreign      Total
costs      costs                   costs       costs
Item
1. IDA            |         0.0        30.0        30.0          0.0       10.0       10.0
2. Govermment
contnibution                0.0          0.0        0.0          0.0        0.0        0.0
3. Other                     0.0        39.8        39.8         0.0        15.6       15.6
France                   0.0          3.5         3.5         0.0         3.5        3.5
Germany                  0.0         12.1        12.1         0.0         6.1        6.1
European Union           0.0         14.1        14.1         0.0         0.0       0.0
Japan                    0.0          2.9         2.9         0.0         2.9        2.9
Belgium          [       0.0          7.21       7.2          0.0        3.1        3.1
TOTAL            0.0|        69.81      69.81         0.0|      25.61       25.6|



Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Section of Development Present Status  Original fldfill- Revised fulfill-  Description of
Credit Agreement                     ment date      ment date      Covenants                    Comments
3.01 (a)                                                           Periodically exchange
views on progress in
actions specified in
Schedule 3.
3.01 (b)                                                           Send IDA progress
report prior to such
exchange.
3.02                                                               Procurement of goods
financed by the credit
governed by provisions
of Schedule 2.
3.03 (a)                                                           Maintain records and
proper accounts of
expenditures under
credit.
3.03 (b), (c)                                                      Have records and accounts
audited, furnish audit / other
information to IDA.
3.04                                                               Take no actions inconsistent
with program.
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Operational Manual Statements complied with



Table 11: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Stage of                     Planned                 Actual
Project Cycle             Weeks    US$       Weeks        US$ (OOOs)
Through appraisal                             136.5         249.9
Appraisal-Board                               92.3          153.0
Board-Effectiveness
Supervision                                   188.0         287.6
Completion                                     7.9           8.6
Total                                         424.7         699.1



Table 12: Bank Resources - Missions
Number                    Specialized         Implemen-
Stage of         Month/        of      Days in          staff skills        tation     Development   Types of
project cycle       Year      Persons    field          Represented           Status       Problems    Problems
Preparation         Oct-/Nov-90      10        28    Country economist
Priv. sector spec.                                                  J
Agri.sector spec.
Public fin. spec.
Admin.reform spec.
Preparation         Jun- /Jul-91     10        22    Country economist
Priv. sector spec.
Public fin. spec.
Indus. sector spec.
Economists
Appraisal                Nov-91      15        24    Country economist
Priv. sector spec.
Soc.sector spec.
Agnrsector spec.
Public fin. spec.
PE specialists
Research asst
Institutional spec.
Appraisal-Board     Feb-/Mar-92      14        36    Country economist
Public fin. spec.
Agro-indust.spec.
Soc.sector spec.
Institutional spec.
Priv. sector spec.
PE specialist
Supervision (through      Jul-92     9         18    Country economist
effectiveness)                                   3 economists
2 PE specialists
Labor mkt. spec.
Priv. sector spec.
Research asst.
Nov-92     6         17    Country economist
2 economists
PE/coffee spec.
Priv. sector spec.
Research asst.
Supervision (post-        Apr-93     7         25    3 economists
effectiveness)                                    PE specialist
2 public fin. spec.
.__________          Research asst.
Aug-93      4         17    Country economist
2 economists
.PE specialist
May-94      2         12    Country economist
PE specialist
Sep-94      1         8     Country economist
Completion






APPENDIX A
MISSION AIDE-MEMOIRE






BURUNDI: RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU CAS III (Cr. 2376-BU)
AIDE-MEMOIRE DE LA MISSION DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE
(Bujumbura, Mars 1996)
1.    Une mission de la Banque mondiale composee de Mme Vera Wilhelm (Economiste, Chef
de mission) et de M. Francois Nankobogo (Economiste, Representant Resident a.i.) a sejourne au
Burundi du 26 mars au 7 avril 1995. Elle a discute le projet de rappport d'achevement du
troisieme credit d'ajustement structurel (CAS III) avec les autorites burundaises.
2.    La mission remercie Messieurs le Secretaire Permanent du Comite de Suivi du PAS, le
Directeur General des D6penses, le Directeur General du Plan, le Directeur General du Commerce
et les autres hauts fonctionnaires de l'administration, notamment ceux du Service charge des
Entreprises publiques (SCEP), pour leur disponibilite et leur contribution fructueuse aux
discussions. Elle remercie egalement Monsieur Razafindramanana, Economiste charge du Burundi
a la Banque Africaine de Developpement (BAD), pour sa participation a la reunion de revue du
projet de rapport avec le Gouvernement. Les co-financiers du CAS III ont recu le rapport et ont
transmis a la Banque leurs commentaires qui ont ete pris en compte dans cet aide-m6moire.
3.    Au vu des faibles performances realis&es dans le cadre du CAS III, les principales causes
ci-apres ont ete identifiees: (1) les lacunes dans la preparation du programme, malgre le r6le
important joue par l'administration burundaise dans le processus, particulierement en ce qui
conceme la reforme des entreprises publiques qui etait ambitieuse; (2) la faible capacite de mise en
oeuvre du programme par l'administration, doublee a la fois par le manque d'internalisation du
programme des son initiation et par l'instabilite de l'administration; (3) l'impact de la crise
amorcee en octobre 1993 qui a entraine une deterioration de la situation socio-economique et
rendu impossible la realisation des conditions de d6blocage de la deuxieme tranche malgre le
report de la date de cl6ture du 30 juin 1994 au 30 juin 1995.
4.    Les representants du Gouvernement ont souhait6 que les considerations d'ordre poilitique
soient eliminees du rapport (e.g. para. I de l'introduction et para. 38 du texte principal). Ils ont
insiste sur le fait que le programme avait ete juge bon du point de vue de tous les participants au
processus et que c'est la demobilisation de I'administration par le processus democratique
amplifiee par la crise d'octobre 93 qui a tout compromis. Ils ont insiste sur la necessite de rappeler
dans ce rapport les bonnes performances du Burundi au lendemain des deux premiers CAS, afin
de mettre en exergue le fait que les mauvais resultats du pays au cours de la p6riode du CAS III
sont essentiellement lies a des facteurs non maitrisables par le Gouvernement.
5.    II a et aussi souligne le fait que les resultats de l'ajustement avaient ete lents a se
produire, en l'occurrence la reponse de l'offre aux reformes macroeconomiques est restee tres
faible, en raison des rigidites de 1'6conomie burundaise. Le monde rural reste quasiment en marge
de l'economie marchande. Toutefois, I'absence de progres dans le desengagement de l'Etat des
entreprises publiques agro-industrielles justifie en partie cet absence de transformation du monde
rural.



2
6.    Dans le domaine des reformes bugetaires, I'Administration soutient que beaucoup de
reformes ont ete entrepises et que la transparence dans la gestion budgetaire est acquise.
Toutefois, la mission de la Banque a fait part de ses preoccupations en ce qui concerne: (1) la
transparence des allocations budgetaires dans la mesure ouj de grandes enveloppes sont donnees a
certaines administrations, notamment les administrations personnalisees, sans que le budget reflete
les programmes et activites qui seraient finances; (2) la nomenclature fonctionnelle qui n'a pas
encore et appliquee au budget meme si un nouveau plan comptable est aujourd'hui en
exp6rimentation
7.    En ce qui concerne la creation d'entreprises publiques, I'Administration a souligne le fait
que depuis 1992, I'Etat n'a plus cree directement d'entreprise nouvelle. Celles qui sont nees
emanaient d'entreprises publiques. Tel est le cas de la Banque Populaire du Burundi (INSS et
SOCABU) et de Telecel Burundi (ONATEL et prives). Quant a la Societe de gestion du marche
central de Bujumbura (SOGEMAC), il s'agit d'une participation minoritaire de la Mairie dans
cette structure de gestion des infrastructures construites sur un don de la Caisse fran,aise de
developpement.
8.    S'agissant du filet de protection sociale, I'Administration a fait savoir que son contenu
n'avait jamais et6 clairement defini. La mission de la Banque, tout en reconnaissant la n6cessit6
d'affiner le ciblage pour le travail futur, a indique que des elements essentiels tels que les manuels
et les equipements scolaires ainsi que la provision de soins de sante de qualite notamment par
l'amelioration de la disponibilite du medicament dans les centres de sante avaient ete identifies des
le debut du programme.
9.    Le programme de reconversion n'a pas ete actif au cours du programme. II s'est arrete
dans sa phase preparatoire. II n'a pas pu se poursuivre pour deux raisons principales: (1) le
programme de reforme des entreprises publiques n'a pas ete mis en oeuvre et (2) la collaboration
du systeme bancaire avec le programme de reconversion ne s'est jamais concretisee pour pouvoir
rendre fonctionnelle I'antenne-emploi.
10.   La mission de la Banque a fait part  a l'Administration de ses commentaires sur sa
contribution au rapport de fin d'execution du CAS III. Ces commentaires, dont la plupart sont
refletes dans la derniere version du rapport, tournent autour des questions de rythme des
deboursements, de jugement porte sur l'ensemble du programme et de coherence des messages de
la Banque mondiale en matiere d'entreprises publiques.
11.   Concernant la lenteur des deboursements (page 1, introduction), il a ete indique a
l'Administration que si le programme est reste inacheve, c'etait plut6t du fait de l'impossibilite de
realiser les engagements qui avaient ete pris comme condition de deblocage de la deuxieme
tranche du credit que d'une 6ventuelle reticence de la Banque et/ou des co-financiers de liberer les
ressources.
12.   Le texte pr6pare par le Gouvernement s'inscrit dans une perspective plus large que celle
du CAS III lui-meme dans la mesure ou il porte un jugement sur tout le programme d'ajustement



3
structurel ainsi que sur differents concours financiers meme ceux qui ne rentrent pas dans le
contexte du CAS III. 11 a ete convenu que les sections B et C du chapitre V sur le r6le des
differents partenaires du PAS (pp. 8 et 9) seraient modifi6es pour bien distinguer les concours
financiers realises au titre de co-financement du CAS III et ceux qui ont et apportes au Burundi
en parallele tels que ceux de la BAD et de l'USAID par exemple.
13.   En matiere de reforme des entreprises publiques, la mission de la Banque, tout en
indiquant que les lecons de 1'experience de I'Europe de I'Est suggerent de nouveaux mecanismes
qui n'etaient pas connus au moment de la formulation du CAS III, a fait remarquer a
I'Administration qu'il n'y a pas de contradiction entre les recommandations faites a differentes
periodes, mais des idees nouvelles et complementaires qui devraient contribuer a ameliorer la
conduite du programme.
14.   Le Representant de la BAD a souligne l'utilite et la qualite du processus de preparation du
CAS III qui avait commence en 1991. La situation politique au lendemain de la signature de
I'accord de credit en juin 1992 a malencontreusement eu pour effet de retarder la mise en vigueur
du credit jusqu'en mars 1993; et par la suite, c'est aussi la crise politique qui a bloque la poursuite
du programme jusqu'a son terme.






APPENDIX B
BORROWER'S EVALUATION OF
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION






RAPPORT D'EXECUTION DU PROGRAMME
APPUYE PAR
LE 111 CREDIT D'AJUSTEMENT STRUCTUREL
"SYNTHESE"






1
1. INTRODUClION
1.    Depuis Juillet 1986, le Burundi a entrepris de mettre en oeuvre, avec t'appui
technique et financier de ses diff6rents partenaires economiques, un Programme
d'Ajustement Structurel (PAS). Le pays a d6ja connu trois phases d'ajustement dont les
deux premieres ont couvert la p6riode de 1986 a 1991 et la derniere qui a pris fin au 30
Juin de I'ann6e 1995, apres une periode de prorogation d'une annee.
2.    La troisieme phase du P.A.S dont il est question dans ce rapport devait constituer
une phase de maturit6. Sa pr6paration et son execution ont, cependant, ete contrari6es
par les evenements politiques survenus au Burundi depuis 1992 et la crise sanglante
du mois d'octobre 1993.
3.    En effet, le CAS IlIl est entr6 en vigueur au moment ou le Burundi se preparait a
entrer dans le pluralisme politique. L'6quipe minist6rielle de suivi du P.A.S., qui est
largement domin6e par les membres du Gouvernement, a ete mobilisee pour preparer
les 6lections pr6sidentielles et l6gislatives.
4.    Dans ces conditions, les dossiers pr6par6s par le Comit6 Technique de Suivi du
PAS et soumis a cette equipe minist6rielle pour analyse et d6cision n'ont pas pu etre
traites dans les d6lais, ce qui a occasionne des retards dans la conception et l'execution
des r6formes inscrites au programme. A la suite du coup d'Etat manque du 21 Octobre
1993 qui a occasionne un vide institutionnel, les organes de pilotage du P.A.S. n'ont pas
pu etre retablis.
5.    Le Secr6tariat Permanent du Comite de Suivi du PAS (SP/CS/PAS), aide par les
services techniques des Ministeres directement concern6s par le programme, a essay6
d'assurer la continuit6 des r6formes. A cet effet, le cadrage macroeconomique et le
Document-Cadre de Politique Economique et Financiere (DCPEF) ont 6t6 regulierement
mis a jour pour maintenir le dialogue avec les bailleurs de fonds. Le SP/CS/PAS a
6galement envoye r6gulierement les donnees convenues dans le protocole d'accord
avec le Fonds Mon6taire International.
6.    Les reformes 6conomiques appuy6es par le CAS IlIl ont mobilis6 des fonds
importants (41,1 milliards de Fbu) en provenance des partenaires bilat6raux et
multilat6raux, mais leur rythme de d6caissement a et6 plus lent que pr6vu. Les fonds
de la Banque Mondiale n'ont pas pu 6tre 6puis6s malgr6 la prorogation de l'accord du
CAS IlIl d'une ann6e, en raison des retards et des non performances dans
l'aboutissement des r6formes envisag6es, suite aux 6venements socio-poltiques
survenus dans le pays au cours de la p6riode du projet.
Aussi le Gouvernement n'a pas pu acc6der a la derniere tranche de la FASR
malgre une realisation satisfaisante des reformes pr6vues. Par ailleurs, except6 la
France et l'Allemagne qui ont d6bloqu6 la totalit6 de leurs aides, les autres bailleurs
bilat6raux n'ont lib6r6 qu'une faible partie des fonds accord6s.
7.    L'objet de ce rapport est de dresser un bilan sommaire d'execution des reformes
du CAS ll. Ce rapport permettra 6galement de d6gager des lecons qui aideront le
Gouvernement, la Banque Mondiale et les autres bailleurs de fonds, a mieux d6finir et
a am6liorer la mise en oeuvre d'un nouveau programme de r6formes a convenir.



2
II. LES OBJECTIFS ET LE CONTENU DU C.A.S III
8.    Le troisieme Cr6dit d'Ajustement Structurel visait a atteindre un certain nombre
d'objectifs structurels et quantitatifs. Les objectifs structurels etaient de: i) realiser une
croissance 6conomique durable et non inflationniste; ii) renforcer la position exterieure
de l'economie et iii) r6duire le role de I'Etat dans I'6conomie tout en am6liorant les
incitations en faveur du secteur prive.
9.    Au niveau des objectifs quantitatifs, le CAS IlIl devait permettre de: i) r6aliser un
taux de croissance annuel moyen d'environ 4% pendant la periode 1991-1994 ; ii)
r6duire le taux d'inflation de 9% en 1990 a 4% en 1994; iii) ramener le d6ficit budg6taire
hors dons a 6% du PIB en 1994; iv) relever 1'excedent des op6rations courantes du
budget de 3,5% du PIB en 1991 a 5% en 1994; v) r6duire le d6ficit exterieur courant de
la balance des paiements (transferts officiels exclus) a moins de 14% du PIB en 1994,
relever le niveau des reserves en devises a 5 mois d'importations des biens et services
non-facteurs et vi) reduire le ratio du service de la dette ext6rieure de 49% en 1990 a
33% en 1994.
10.   Ces objectifs devaient etre atteints grace a la mise en oeuvre d'une serie de
reformes macroeconomiques et sectorielles, en mettant un accent particulier sur deux
domaines de reformes-cles a savoir la gestion des ressources publiques et la promotion
du secteur prive et du secteur des exportations.
11.   Dans le domaine de la gestion des ressources publiques, la strat6gie du
Gouvernement devait se concentrer sur l'am6lioration de la programmation des
depenses publiques; la poursuite du d6sengagement de I'Etat des activit6s productives
par la restructuration des entreprises publiques ; le renforcement de la maitrise des
d6penses a travers la r6forme de la Fonction Publique et la r6duction des subventions
directes et indirectes aux entreprises publiques.
12.   Au sujet de la programmation des d6penses publiques, la pr6sentation du PIP
devait etre amelior6e en integrant dans le budget unifie toutes les depenses de
fonctionnement et les autres charges recurrentes, toutes les sources de financement
confondues, d6coulant de ce PIP. Pour financer ce PIP, le Gouvernement ne devait
recourir qu'a des dons et cr6dits concessionnels. Par ailleurs, le Gouvernement
envisageait d'initier, avec l'appui de la Banque Mondiale, un plan comptable qui
permettrait a l'Etat d'assurer la transparence totale de toutes les op6rations financieres
et d'adopter des regles destin6es a am6liorer l'ex6cution du budget.
13.   Dans le secteur des entreprises publiques, le Gouvernement avait pris
l'engagement de restructurer le SCEP pour le rendre plus efficace, d'achever toutes les
privatisations et liquidations pr6vues a l'agenda des r6formes des entreprises publiques.
De m4me, les ventes d'actifs et la signature des contrats de gestion priv6e devaient
intervenir pour l'6quivalent de 59% du portefeuille des actifs de l'Etat dans les
entreprises publiques 6values a 130 milliards de Fbu au 31/12/1990.
14.   Concernant la restructuration des d6penses courantes de I'Etat, les r6formes
devaient se concentrer sur I'am6lioration de la structure des d6penses en limitant d'une
part les d6penses salariales et les subventions directes et indirectes aux entreprises



3
publiques afin de degager une 6pargne importante pour assurer la maintenance des
infrastructures 6conomiques et sociales. D'autre part, le niveau des d6penses sur biens
et services devait etre releve.
15.   En ce qui concerne la r6forme administrative, les reformes initi6es au cours des
phases pr6cedentes devaient etre poursuivies avec l'appui du PNUD et devait porter
sur: i) l'organisation de la mission en matiere de developpement institutionnel; ii)
I'amelioration des services publics; iii) la modernisation de la gestion, de la
r6glementation et de la r6mun6ration des agents publics; et iv) I'appui aux objectifs
imm6diats et l'informatisation des actes de gestion relevant du Ministere de la Fonction
Publique.
16.   Le programme d'actions inscrit dans la reforme de relance de l'offre comprenait
des mesures de politique visant a eliminer les distorsions et contraintes qui entravaient
le fonctionnement normal des forces du march6, de renforcer les incitations aux
exportations et aux investissements grace a des politiques commerciales et industrielles
saines et d'am6liorer les capacit6s institutionnelles d'appui et d'encadrement du secteur
priv6.
17.   Les changements pr6vus en matiere de politiques commerciale et industrielle
devaient porter sur l'ensemble de la legislation commerciale et les lois sectorielles
apparentees et consisteraient a mettre a jour la l6gislation existante et a concevoir de
nouvelles l6gislations sur certaines matieres en vue de creer un environnement juridique
favorable a l'initiative priv6e.
18.   Le volet agriculture de cette r6forme comportait des mesures visant a mettre en
place des mecanismes et structures permettant d'augmenter les niveaux de production
des cultures vivrieres et d'am6liorer les cultures de rente par la fixation des prix
incitatifs et la privatisation de certains volets du secteur.
19.   Dans le but de renforcer l'efficacite des mesures preconis6es pour la relance de
l'offre, le Gouvernement s'engageait egalement de mettre en oeuvre des politiques
monetaires susceptibles de stimuler l'epargne et l'investissement, de contenir l'inflation
et les pressions sur la balance des paiements.
20.   Toutes ces mesures envisag6es devaient conduire a l'eclosion d'un secteur priv6
dynamique, fort et performant. Pour plus d'efficacit6, le Gouvernement devait renforcer
les capacit6s institutionnelles d'appui au secteur priv6 en aidant la Chambre de
Commerce, de l'lndustrie et de l'Artisanat du Burundi (CCIB) et l'Agence de Promotion
des Echanges Exterieurs (APEE) dans le recherche d'une assistance technique et
financiere aupres des bailleurs de fonds.
21.   En matiere de politique sociale, les grands axes de r6forme devaient reposer sur
i) le programme de reconversion professionnelle en faveur des travailleurs dont l'emploi
et les revenus pourraient etre directement affectes par la reforme des entreprises
publiques et de la fonction publique ; ii) les strat6gies de financement des services
sociaux prioritairement de sante et de l'6ducation en vue de garantir la satisfaction des
besoins les plus essentiels a toutes les couches de la population dans les periodes
d'austerit6 budg6taire et iii) un programme d'etudes et d'enqu6tes sociales en vue
d'identifier et de mettre en place un mecanisme de suivi d'autres cat6gories de
populations susceptibles d'etre touchees par les autres mesures de reformes en cours,



4
notamment les d6f lates touch6s par la liberalisation du secteur d'import-substitution, les
nouveaux diplomes dont l'embauche est freinee par la r6forme administrative.
Ill. L'EXECUT1ON DU PROGRAMME
22.   L'ex6cution du CAS IlIl s'est d6roul6e dans un contexte socio-politique tres
instable. Le climat d'incertitude qui a caracterise la periode pre- et post-electorale ainsi
que les affrontements a caractere ethnique qui ont 6clat6 a la suite du coup d'etat
manque du 21 Octobre 1993, ont eu pour effet de ralentir, voire meme de freiner
certaines activites du Programme d'Ajustement Structurel.
23.   Le processus de programmation rationnelle des interventions de l'Etat qui s'est
opere a travers l'adoption de nouveaux instruments (PIP/PDP/PCT/BU) n'a pas reussi
a garantir la fixation des priorit6s d'investissements publics basee sur des criteres de
rentabilit6 des ressources; d'assurer l'ad6quation entre les objectifs sectoriels et
l'affectation des ressources ; de realiser une meilleure harmonisation de la politique
sectorielle avec les choix des investissements et d'am6liorer la programmation de la
coop6ration technique et des ressources humaines.
24.   La mise en place effective des instruments PIP/PDP/PCT et BU a souffert de
l'inefficacite du cadre institutionnel, de la faible implication des ministeres sectoriels et
de la complexite des r6formes. En outre, quoique intimement Ii6s, ces outils ont 6te
conqus et initi6s de facon fragmentaire dans les services differents, en des p6riodes et
sur une base methodologique diff6rentes, ce qui fait que les produits PIP/PDP/PCT et
BU n'6tablissent pas encore de liens logiques avec les strat6gies sectorielles et ne sont
pas produits dans les d6lais voulus. Par ailleurs, des le d6marrage du processus, un
faible dispositif dot6 de moyens insuffisants, non motiv6 et mal encadr6 a 6t6 charg6
de la mise sur pied et de la diffusion de ces instruments.
25.   Les depenses non-economniques restent encore tres elevees tandis que les
depenses sur biens et services des secteurs sociaux ne sont pas encore suffisantes;
la masse salariale s'est accrue malgr6 les efforts de limiter les recrutements a la
Fonction Publique; les subventions directes et indirectes aux entreprises publiques
n'ont pas cesse de croitre.
26.   Au niveau de la reforme des entreprises publiques, la crise politique qui a 6clat6
en 1993 et qui a demobilis6 tous les partenaires, a pratiquement arret6 les actions qui
etaient en cours. Par ailleurs, les retards intervenus dans la prise de decisions
ad6quates sur les dossiers techniques pr6par6s par le SCEP, l'inad6quation des
techniques d'6valuation et de cession du patrimoine des entreprises a privatiser, la
faible adhesion de l'opinion publique au programme et l'insuffisance de l'epargne priveo
nationale, peuvent 6galement justifier les faibles performances enregistrees au niveau
de la r6forme des entreprises publiques.
27.   En effet, alors que I'accord du CAS IlIl prevoyait de privatiser environ 59% des
actifs des entreprises publiques, 1,5% des actifs ont pu etre effectivement c6d6s. Si on
prend en compte les contrats de gestion privee, en grande partie financ6s par les
bailleurs de fonds, ce chiffre s'6leve a 15%.



5
28.   Dans le domaine de la relance de loffre, le gros des reformes prevues au
programme du CAS IlIl ont 6t6 mises en oeuvre: la politique du taux de change a ete
profond6ment r6form6e depuis 1992; des progres substantiels ont 6te enregistres dans
la lib6ralisation du controle de change; des reformes et politiques incitatives ont ete
adoptees pour encourager et stimuler les initiatives privees et promouvoir les
exportations.
29.   En vue de stimuler l'6pargne et l'investissement, de contenir l'inflation et lea
pressions sur la balance des paiements, le Gouvernement a en outre poursuivi les
reformes monetaires et de credit amorcees au cours des phases precedentes. Les
changements introduits ont porte essentiellement sur l'organisation et le fonctionnement
du marche des liquidites et le renforcement des instruments indirects de gestion
monetaire.
30.   Dans ce cadre, la Banque Centrale a renforce sa fonction de supervision
bancaire, aboli le contrble direct d'allocation de cr6dit et mis en place des instruments
de controle indirects. Par ailleurs, elle a all6g6 son intervention dans la fixation des taux
d'interet et a accorde plus de responsabilite aux intermediaires financiers et aux
epargnants.
31.   On note cependant que les resultats enregistr6s n'ont pas ete a la hauteur des
attentes. La structure de la production est restee fondamentalement la meme avec
predominance du secteur agricole dans la contribution au PIB. De meme, I'economie
reste fortement d6pendante d'une seule culture d'exportation, a savoir le cafe. Ces
rigidites structurelles de I'6conomie burundaise tiennent d'un certain nombre de facteurs
aussi bien internes qu'externes.
32.   Au niveau interne, on peut relever Ia reaction lente des investisseurs et des
operateurs 6conomiques aux incitations et r6formes mises en place pour favoriser
l'intensification de l'activite 6conomique, la production et la rentabilite au niveau des
entreprises, Iabsence de zones industrielles viabilis6es qui oblige les promoteurs a se
raccorder sur des r6seaux, ce qui augmente le coGt des investissements; le manque
relatif de savoir-faire et de vrai dynamisme au niveau des travailleurs et de promoteurs
ou gestionnaires individuels qui se traduit par une productivit6 faible decoulant d'une
maltrise insuffisante des techniques de production, d'organisation et de gestion
industrielle.
33.   Sur le plan externe, le pays subit 1'environnement international. En effet, le
Burundi comme bon nombre de producteurs de matieres premieres (essentiellement
agricoles) est affect6 par la det6rioration constante des termes de l'6change a
l'exception de l'annee 1994 oui les cours du cafe (principal produit d'exportation du
pays) ont ete particulierement elev6s.
34.   La baisse des cours du cafe a l'exception des cours favorables pour les annees
1994-1995 a sensiblement alter6 la principale source de devises du pays, accentuant
ainsi la d6pendance de l'economie burundaise vis-a-vis des ressources etrangeres.
35.   En ce qui concerne les aspects sociaux du programme, la crise socio-politique
en cours a frein6 les actions concretes qui 6taient de nature a att6nuer les effets
nefastes de l'execution de certaines reformes du P.A.S sur les groupes les plus



6
vulnerables de la societe.
36.   Au sujet de l'6ducation, les consultations techniques sp6cifiques aux problemes
de financement des services de l'ducation se sont poursuivies aussi bien a
1'enseignement primaire et secondaire qu'a l'enseignement superieur. Au niveau du
primaire et du secondaire, un document technique a 6te soumis au debat 6largi a tous
les intervenants. Cette action n'a pas pu etre concretisee. Au niveau du superieur,
l'etude institutionnelle et financiere de l'enseignement universitaire burundais n'a pas
pu demarrer comme pr6vu bien que les termes de reference aient ete acheves avant
septembre 1993.
37.   Le programme de Reconversion Professionnelle et les actions de lutte contre la
pauvret6 pr6vus dans le cadre du projet TWITEZIMBERE ne sont pas encore
concretis6s.
IV. LES RESULTATS ATTEINTS AU COURS DU PROGRAMME
38.   D'une facon generale, les resultats enregistres durant la p6riode du CAS IlIl sont,
au niveau macroeconomique, peu importants et traduisent la situation de crise que vit
le pays depuis un bon bout de temps.
39.  Au niveau de la production, la croissance annuelle moyenne du PIB reelle est
estimee a - 1,2% au cours du CAS l1l, contre une moyenne de 3,7% au cours des phases
prec6dentes. Le taux d'inflation moyen qui se situait aux alentours de 6% entre 1986
et 1991, a grimpe jusqu'a environ 9,5% entre 1991 et 1994.
40.   La situation des finances publiques s'est det6rior6e nettement par rapport a
l'objectif du programme. L'exc6dent des operations courantes a atteint une moyenne
d'environ 1,5% du PIB au cours du programme contre un objectif de 5% du PIB. Le
deficit global hors dons a atteint le niveau de 13,7% en moyenne contre 6% du PIB
inscrit au programme.
41.  Au niveau de la balance des paiements, 1'6conomie continue a connaitre un
deficit structurel malgr6 les mesures d'encouragement a la diversification des
exportations. Le confort en matiere de r6serves en devises (4,5 mois d'importations en
moyenne contre 5 mois prevus au programme) provient des flux des aides ext6rieures
et de la diminution des importations durant la periode du CAS Ill.
42.   En mati4re de monnaie et cr6dit, il y a lieu de noter que d'une fa,on g6n6rale, la
politique mon6taire a 6t6 plus ou moins accommodante. La masse mon6taire a
progresse d'une facon moderee voire meme moins vite que les previsions durant les
trois premieres annees du programme alors qu'elle s'est beaucoup accrue en 1994. Elle
a atteint 11,5% en 1991, 5,2% en 1992 et 7,4% en 1993 alors que le programme pr6voyait
d'atteindre respectivement 16,0% ; 7,8% et 8,0. En 1994, le taux de croissance de la
masse mon6taire a enregistr6 une hausse brutale de 34,2%, soit une augmentation de
13,8 milliards de FBU par rapport a 1993. Cette augmentation s'est observ6e aussi bien
au niveau des disponibilites monetaires (+ 9,1 milliards de FBU), qu'au niveau de la
quasi-monnaie (+ 4,2 milliards).



7
43.   L'elargissement de la circulation fudiciaire hors banque a result6 des besoins de
financement de la campagne caf6, tandis que I'accroissement des depots a vue est 1i6
a la progression des avoirs des entreprises publiques, principalement l'OCIBU et
l'ONATEL, des particuliers, des ONG, des entreprises privees et autres.
44.   Le credit a l'6conomie s'est accru de maniere significative a l'exception de
I'ann6e 1992. 11 a atteint 20,5% en 1991 contre un objectif de 11,7% ; 6,2% en 1992
contre 16,5% inscrit au programme et 29,1% en 1993 en comparaison de l'objectif
programm6 de 15,8%. En 1994, le cr6dit a l'economie s'est accru de 2,1 milliards de
FBU par rapport a 1993 du fait principalement de l'expansion des credits a l'exportation
li6e a la campagne caf6 et a l'accroissement des concours de tresorerie.
45.   Outre ces agr6gats macro-economiques, on peut s'interroger sur les
performances au niveau sectoriel.
46.   En ce qui concerne le secteur agricole, il est aise de constater, si l'on se r6fere
au taux de croissance moyen du PIB sur toute la p6riode du CAS IlIl (- 1,2%) et compte
tenu de l'importance de I'agriculture dans l'6conomie burundaise (environ 50% du PIB
et plus de 80% des recettes d'exportation), que ce secteur est confront6 a de serieux
problemes structurels et conjoncturels.
47.   En effet, la structure  de la production  agricole burundaise n'a pas
significativement chang6 et reste domin6e par l'auto-consommation. De surcrolt
I'agriculture emploie une main d'oeuvre pl6thorique (93% de la population active) sur
un capital terre limit6 et en surexploitation, ce qui pose un certain nombre de blocages
au niveau de l'intensification du systeme de production traditionnel.
48.   D'autres 6l6ments conjoncturels peuvent egalement justifier la faible contribution
du secteur agricole au PIB. II s'agit notamment des troubles politiques survenus au
cours du dernier trimestre de 1993 et qui ont pousse les personnes sinistrees a
abandonner leurs terres et a d6laisser les cultures qui avaient pourtant besoin d'un
entretien r6gulier. A cet 6l6ment, il convient d'ajouter les mauvaises conditions
climatiques, caract6ris6es par une s6cheresse trop prolong6e et de pluies abondantes,
parfois meme avec grele, occasionnant ainsi une baisse de la production agricole,
surtout en 1992 et 1993.
49.   Au niveau du secteur industriel, la production s'est tass6e en 1991 et a
commenc6 a d6croltre en 1992. A partir de 1993, la production manufacturiere a baiss6
significativement passant d'un indice de 111,7 a fin 1992 a 104,4 a fin 1993 suite au
ralentissement de I'activit6 des principates unit6s industrielles, surtout au dernier
trimestre 1993. En 1994, la production industrielle a enregistr6 une croissance mod6r6e
de 4,6% par rapport a l'ann6e pr6c6dente. L'indice moyen annuel est pass6 de 104,4 a
109,2 grace a la reprise d'activite de quelques unites industrielles.
50.   Le secteur tertiaire a 6t6 le moins affecte par la crise du fait que ce dernier reste
largement domin6 par la masse salariale de la Fonction publique.



8
V. LE ROLE DES DIFFERENTS PARTENAIRES DU P.A.S
A. Role du Gouvernement
51.   D'une maniere g6n6rale, c'est au cours du CAS IlIl que le Gouvernement a ete
le moins disponible que par le passe suite aux evenements politiques evoques ci-
haut. Toutefois, il sied de souligner que la troisieme phase a ete preparee pour une
large part par les autorites burundaises contrairement a la situation ant6rieure ou les
CAS pr6c6dents avaient ete surtout l'oeuvre des services de la Banque Mondiale.
52.   On peut egalement mettre a l'actif du Gouvernement la vaste campagne de
diffusion et d'explication des r6formes du PAS dirigees vers toutes les categories
socio-professionnelles, a travers le programme d'internalisation du PAS financ6 par
le Fonds de Developpement Institutionnel (IDF) de la Banque Mondiale
53.   Par ailleurs, au cours des annees 1992 et 1993, le Comit6 de Suivi a analyse
un certain nombre de dossiers dans le cadre de ses reunions mensuelles. En 1993,
le programme d'activite du Comit6 de Suivi n'a pas pu etre couvert suite aux
tragiques 6venements survenus au cours du dernier trimestre de l'ann6e. Signalons
qu'au cours de l'annee 1994 et 1995, le Comit6 de Suivi n'a pas pu etre op6rationnel.
B. Role de la Bangue Mondiale et du Fonds Monetaire International
54.   En plus de l'appui technique et financier important consenti par ces deux
institutions, elles ont egalement accompagne le processus de reformes depuis les
n6gociations jusqu'a l'ex6cution des reformes du programme et ce par le biais des
missions p6riodiques de supervision.
55.   La Banque Mondiale a continu6 a jouer son role de catalyseur aupres de la
communaut6 des bailleurs de fonds. Elle a contribu6 a convaincre beaucoup de
cofinanciers bilat6raux et multilat6raux au cours de la n6gociation du CAS Ill. L'appui
financier a la 3eme phase du PAS (41,1 milliards de Fbu) 6tait a lui seul presque
6quivalent au total du financement de deux premieres phases (42,2 milliards de Fbu).
56.   On peut remarquer qu'au cours du CAS 1ll, la Banque Mondiale a accorde une
attention particuliere a la reforme des entreprises publiques. En effet, le
Gouvernement ayant proc6de au renforcement de l'Inspection G6n6rale des Finances
(IGF) notamment par le recrutement des experts charg6s de renforcer la surveillance
des entreprises publiques en instance de privatisation et celles qui sont en
liquidation, elle lui a sugg6re de restructurer le SCEP, de d6limiter ses
responsabilit6s et celles de l'IGF.
57.   Toutefois, I'absence d'une orientation claire a donner a cette r6forme a ete
relev6e lors des diff6rentes missions de la Banque Mondiale. Ainsi, des 1'entr4e en
vigueur du programme, les experts proposaient que les actions de toutes les
entreprises qui sont en instance d'etre privatis6es soient plac6es dans un holding
qui appartient a l'Etat, mais dont la gestion serait confi6e a une soci6t6 priv6e. L'une
des r6centes missions de la Banque Mondiale opta pour ['analyse au cas par cas les
entreprises publiques a privatiser et a 6tablir des tableaux de bord pour chacune



9
d'entre elles.
58.   Outre la Banque Mondiale, le FMI a effectu6 regulierement des missions
economiques pour s'enquerir de l'tat d'avancement du programme. C'est ainsi qu'au
cours de la 2eme annee de la periode couverte par la FASR, deux missions sont
intervenues, la premiere en Avril 1992 pour la revue a mi-parcours du premier accord
annuel et la seconde en Aout 1992 pour la mise en place du second accord annuel.
59.  II convient de souligner toutefois qu'en ce qui concerne I'attachement du
Fonds Mon6taire International a l'appui financier des r6formes economiques, le
Conseil d'administration de novembre 1993 n'a pas reserve une suite favorable au
deblocage de la 2eme tranche du second accord annuel de la FASR a cause de la
crise socio-politique qui venait d'eclater au Burundi.
60.   Au plus fort de la crise qui secoue notre pays, les deux institutions sont
restes aux cot6s du Burundi. En plus de l'analyse de la situation economique
globale a la lumiore de la crise socio-politique, le secteur financier a ete leur
pr6occupation majeure. Une suite favorable vient d'etre donn6e puisqu'une 6tude
financ6e par la Banque pour le redressement du secteur financier est d6ja lanc6e.
61.   L'incitation au secteur priv6 a ete une pr6occupation des deux institutions au
cours de la troisieme phase du PAS. Une mission du d6partement des affaires
fiscales du FMI (mars 1993) et de la Banque Mondiale (avril/mai 1993) 6taient
destin6es a inciter l'administration de proceder a la r6vision du code des impots en
vue de faciliter le prive dans ses affaires.
C. Le role des cofinanciers au cours du CAS Ill
62.   A cote de ces deux institutions chefs de file de la communaute des bailleurs
de fonds, d'autres partenaires se sont associes pour appuyer le programme a savoir
le Japan, la France, I'Allemagne, la Belgique et le FED qui sont tous cofinanciers
signataires de l'accord portant adoption du CAS ll. L'USAID, a travers un accord
bilateral a soutenu egalement ce programme.
63.   En ce qui concerne les cofinanciers signataires, dans le cadre de la
concertation r6guliere et officielle entre le Gouvernement et les bailleurs de fonds
sur le PIP, la Belgique a contribue a la preparation du PIP 1994 bien que ses fonds a
I'appui du programme aient 6te gel6s. L'appui de la France et de I'Allemagne a
l'ajustement a surtout consiste a l'aide a la balance des paiements. Les autres
bailleurs de fonds (FED et Japon) ont gel6 les aides financieres prevues dans les
accords de financement en raison du non aboutissememnt des r6formes de politique
economique initialement adopteos.
64.   L'USAID, seul cofinancier non signataire du CAS IlIl a continu6 a appuyer les
reformes en vue d'eliminer les dernieres contraintes a la promotion du secteur prive
a travers le projet BEST, la aussi sans que tous les fonds soient entierement
d6caiss6s.
65.   La plupart des cofinanciers ont continue a nous consentir des aides li6es, ce



10
qui allait souvent a l'encontre de la rationalisation de la gestion du d6veloppement.
Par ailleurs, une partie des fonds, sinon la totalit6 (CEE, Japon) n'a pas 6t6
deboursee etant donne que ces partenaires ont subordonn6 la reprise de l'aide au
deblocage des fonds des institutions de Bretton Woods, or les d6caissements Ii6s 3
la derniere tranche du CAS IIl et a la 2eme tranche du second accord annuel de la
FASR ont 6t6 gel6s.
VI. CONCLUSION.
66.   L'ex6cution des reformes economiques inscrites a l'agenda de la troisieme
phase du PAS a 6t6 compromise par la crise socio-politique. Des progres avaient 6t6
realis6s dans le domaine de la monnaie et du credit, au niveau du secteur exterieur
ainsi que dans la mise en oeuvre des reformes du cadre institutionnel, legal et
r6glementaire incitatif pour le d6veloppement du secteur prive. Cependant, des
progres moins importants s'observent dans la r6alisation des r6formes des
entreprises publiques, dans la mise en oeuvre des instruments de programmation et
de gestion des ressources publiques ainsi que l'execution des r6formes prevues
dans le cadre de la Dimension Sociale de l'Ajustement.
67.   L'exp6rience que vient de vivre le Burundi revele que notre 6conomie est
encore rigide, la reaction de l'offre est encore tres faible malgre la gamme des
incitations introduites dans l'economie. En outre, un des aspects les plus importants
de la conduite du PAS qui n'a pas requis l'attention necessaire est l'internalisation
des r6formes. De meme la crise aura montre que notre economie possede une tres
faible capacit6 de r6sistance aux chocs exogenes. Ainsi, tout progres 6conomique a
long terme devra tenir compte inevitablement des contraintes ci-haut evoquees.
68.   Dans les 6tapes futures des r6formes 6conomiques, une place de choix devra
&tre accord6e a l'etablissement d'une stabilit6 financiere, a la promotion des
initiatives privees et au renforcement du pilier social du d6veloppement. Pour ce
faire, quelques domaines meriteront une attention particuliere, a savoir: i) la
rationalisation de l'allocation et de la gestion des ressources publiques; ii) la mise
en place d'une politique judicieuse et op6rationnelle de desengagement de I'Etat
dans l'activite economique ; iii) le renforcement des capacites nationales de gestion
6conomique; iv) le renforcement des incitation a la promotion du secteur priv6 et v)
la disponibilisation des services sociaux de base en qualit6 et en quantit6 suffisante.






IMAGING
Report Nc:         15531
Type: ICR



