Documczkt of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. P- 5806-BU Type: (PR)
DAMON, J  / X34366 / J7125/ AF3CO                                  RqeportNo. P-5806-BU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT OF SDR 22 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
IN SUPPORT OF A
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
MAY 12, 1992
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOIVA
Monay Unit:        Burundi Franc (FBu)
Exchange Rate:      1991 (Average)
US$ 1.00   FBu 181.5
SDR 1.00 = FBu 273.1
Makrc 30 1992
US$ 1.00 = FBu 199.3
SDR 1.00 = FBu 273.1
Weierht and Measures Metic System
Eiscal Year:       January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYM
CADEBU              Caisse d'Epargne du Burundi (Burundi svings bank)
COTEBU             Complexe Textle de Bujumbura (textile complex of Bujumbura)
EDF                European Development Fund
ESAF               Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
1W                 International Labor Organization
MCSAP              Monitoring Committee for the Stuctural Adjustment Program
OGL                Open General Licensing
PE                 Public Enterprise
PEP                Public Expenditure Program
PER                Public Expenditure Review
PFP                Policy Framework Paper
PIP                 Public Investment Program
PPU                Population and Planning Unit
SAC                Structural Adjustment Credit
SAF                Structu  Adjustnent Facility
SCEP               Service Charge des Entreprises Publiques (Pulic Enterpises Office)
SECAL              Sectoral Adjustment Loan
SPA                Special Ptogram of Assistance for Sub-Saharan Africa
SOSUMO             Societ Sucriere du Moso (Moso Sugar Company)
STABEX             European Community's export stabilization fumd



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BUIUNDI
THRD STRUCTURAL. ADJUSTENaT CREDiT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
page
Credt and Phrgram Sunubary                   ...................................... I
Pat k  CountryPolociesandBank Coup Asstance Stategy  ......... ....... I
A.    Ba                ........................................   1
B.     EconomicDevelopmentsThroughl991  ......................  2
C.    P rnanm e Under the Adjustnvet Program  .................... 3
D.    Central Development Issues .............................. 6
B.     Medium-Term Macrom        mic and Structal Pblicies ............. 6
F.     Bank AssistnceStrat,gy andPtiorities ....................... 9
0.    Crkerafor Evaluating Proges  ..........................  14
H.    Summary    m en .            ................................  14
Part liNoposed m*d Th    W lrdAdJustmetCredit ....................  15
A.    Reducing the Role of the State and Render    Govement More Efficient  16
- Programming and Monitoring of Public Expnditurns
- Resrtuing the Composition of Public Expenditures
- Restrucuring the State's Public Enterprise Portfolio
B.     hicentives for Private Sector Development ....................  19
- A Flexible Exchange Rate System
- Current and Capital Account Liberalization
- Labor Market Liberalization
- Tax Reform
- Revison of Legal Framework for Businesses
- Completion of Tariff Reform
- Agriculual Sector Liberation
C.    Soci  Aspects of thePrgrm .         ............................  24
- Socidal Safety Net for Low-Icome Groups
- Formulation of a Financing Stratey for the Social Sectors
- Reconversion Program for Redundant Public Setoor Employees
- Development of a National Family Planning Policy
PFr  1L- Main Feurs of the Proposed Cret ........................ 26
A.    Credit Anount and Tranchng  ........            ...................  26
B.     Management and Mo nitoring of the Program  .....         .............  26
C.    Procurenet and Dibursemen   ........              ..................  27
D.    SAC m  Condiionadlty   ..............................  28
E.     CodatinoandCofiancingoftheProgram   ....  .               .............  29
Par:t IV' BMfisandRsks ...................................... 30
Part V:       nn dadmonm  .......................................  31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance-i
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



WURUNDI
THIRD SMUCrURAL ADJUgsrNT CEDIrT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:           ReFulic of Euundi
Eeuting Agenty:   Pdme MiAists Office and Mistry of Plaing
Credit Amount:      SDR 22 millo (US$30 mblion)
Terms:             IDA: Standard tem  with 40 years mauity
Progrm Descripton: The main objectives of the trd strucra adjustmn credit (SAC TM are to help
strngthen the economy's suply response to the adjustment prcess by further
reducing the role of the state In the economy and, In conjunction with an IM-
suorted ESAF anagement, by contiuig to alleviate policy constraints to
private sector developmaet ibis operation would also help shield vulnerable
groups from the transitiona costs of adjustent. The proposed operation will
upport reoms in three key areas: a reduced and more effective role for the
state, elimation of policy and legalrery constaints to private sector
development, and improved access to social services, pardcularly for lower-
income groups. ITe redined role of the state will focus on reducing the fiscal
deficit by acceleratig tie resuctur    of the public enterprise sector and
reducing non-developmental eh e. Private sector development and export
diversification will be promoted through fther liberalization of etenal
transactions, the agricultural sector and fator makets, and reform of the
rgulatory, legal and flsca ms. Finally, a social sector cowmponent will
pwmote a more  popriae paun of public expndte through the
mabtenance of a safety nete of social exendite and measures to Improve the
quality of baic helth and education services.
neft and              is option is desipge to reduce dions in the goods and services and
Risks:             fac  markets, while prvidng a social safety net for low-income groups. Ihe
removal of the remaining insftiuona and  ulatory ctrai  to employment
creation and private enteprie suld help to restuctre te economy throgh
export-basd priva  sctor develpment and export diversificato  IWntiona
rfrms wil improve public resourc allocaon and the efficiency of public
investmn.
Ihere are three sources of u   tainty which could cause sUppages in the
imp   eon of adjumt reorms. Fist, the political situation remains
fre despite the Governme's rocet aempts at the reconciiton of the two
main etic groups. Second, If wodd pdrc  for coffee - Burundi's main export
- codtue to fail, they wil lead to a furder decine In public revenues that could
have an Impact on fisa perfomance. Finally, other exogenous factors, such as
Iregulrail ortumoi innegboing criesleading, amongother p,
to a disruption in supply routes, coud undmine efforts to restore higher
growth.   e Govmmment has dayed a high sense of ownesip for the
adjustmet prom Its stronqg commitment to the reform proess has led it to
play a sigificant rol In the prepaaon of this opato



Estmated            The proceeds of the proposed IDA credit  Id be dibursed in two unequa
Disbubwements:     tranches, consistet with the dming of the .  try's needed financing. Ihe first
tranhe of SDR 8 mUlioz equivalent would be avalable for disbursement upon
credit efectivenes. Relea  of the second tranche (SDR 14 million), expected
in December 1993, would be contingent upon the Govarnen meeting the
specific second tanche conditions and maintainin  overal sasactaoy
peforman  under the adjustme  progrm.
Apprasal Report:   Thee is no separate Staff Appraisa Report.
Map:                IBRI) 23898
u



REPORT AND RECODATION OF THER IT OF TIE
INERNATIONAL DEVEOPMENT ASSOCIATION
To THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED IDA CRET TO TE REPUC OF SUUNDI
FOR A IRD SRUCTURAL ADJUSTMET PROGRAM
1.    I submit the following report and roo   aon for a proposed third Structural Adjustment
Credit to the Republic of Burundi for SDR 22 mlion (US$30 million) on tndard IDA tms with a
mat    of 40 yeas. Paalel fnacing s exected to be prvided for ths operaon by Belgim6 the
Europe  Development Fund (EDF), France, Gmay, and Japan.
2.    Mhe policy mes supported by the proposed Credit would build upon the refor  already
unertaken by the Republic of Burundi since 1986 and supported by IDA's first and second Stctura
Adjustmn Crdts (SACs I and 11), and the Stctrmal Adjustment Faclity (SF) and the Eaced
Stuctura Adjustmet Facility (ESAF) with the IMP. The Govment's economic reform progam Is
outlinedinthefourthPolicyFramework Paper (PP) for 1991-94, which v.ss disssed by the Committee
of the Whole on October 31, 1991.
3.    Ti report   divided into fur parts, the first of which provides an overview of Burundi's
ecoomic pe     m     since adjusment, the country's medium-term    c       and structural
poicies, the Bak 's      strategs in Burundi, and the Banks critera for ewlutng progess. The
prposed Struciur  Adjustme  Credt is outined In Part H  Mm specific fatur  of the redi are
describd in Pat M. Finally, the benefits and risks associated wih the operato     discussed in Part
TV.
Part L Country P1:ries and Bank Group Asstnc Strate
A. Badcgound
4.    Burnd is a small, landloced country in Cetal Africa (27,834 km2). Its per capita GDP was
about US$215 in 1991. With a population of just over 5 million and a populaon growth rate of 3
prcent a year, Burundi has the second highe population density in Aica, estimated at 193 pero  per
square kome. Soa inicato  are compaable to the avevae for SubSahara Africa. Despite the
demograhic prese on aready constaned land, ural migration has been limited: only 6 perent of
the ual population Is ura. The country has limited naral rores other tha relatvely file
agricultura  nd. Iden       mierd resources include nickel, phosphate, petroleum (shae), vanadium
and some alluvial god, but hi exploitation bas not yet been proven to be econmically viable.
S.    Agdrctue is the predominnt acdvity, contbuting half of GDP and 90 perceat of employmn
and of export earis. Te mo impot  export cmp iL this largely subsiten  sector is coffee, which
an avere accounts for about 80 percent of total exports. Burundi is one of the few Afric  countries
ta is selftufficlent in food. Per capita fodcrop production is sbe and, at least for the shorttem,
food serty Is nota isu. Il  swcondary secw  (minig ad             is stil sml, accuntig
for about 14 pecn of GDP and 6 percent of eWpots in 1990. The privato sector, who  shae   of gross
fixed invwestn  is about 15 percent (1990), plays a major role in agricul  production (through
smaUholder famig ad transport. By contrast, th public sector dominates    n, en     and
i 6 I II meamand corbut   half of the cowuny's formal employment. As a landlocked country,
Burundi is vulnerable to t  n  problems in negborg counies. Althugh progs has beea



made In reent years tmprove physcal inad uctu      smtplify tait foralites, transport costs
to and from distt ndin  Oce  pors remain hgh
6.    Dirndl's current govermet b led by Presde  Buyoya. who took power in a militry oup in
Seber 1987. In August 1988, Burundi smrenced an outburst of ehnic vlolen, which, accoring
to officl figus, resulted in about 5,000 deaths In two of the norther communs. The President
responded with the appoitment of a naonal unity govenment with uprweedented power sharIng, Ie.,
do cabinet was eqully divided beween the two main ethnc group, the majority Hutu and the minory
but rling TutsL Currently, a process of d--   on-t f politcal instions Is under way. A new
costitin, which Iodues a muti-pary poltical sytem, was adopted in a referendum in Marh  1992,
tins paving the way for  oatil elecdons expeed in eady 1993. A major chalenge for te Goverment
will be to contn  to push foward on  e polical reom  genda while deepeng strucal econ=mic
reforms and exercising greater budget austerity.
B. EconomIc Development Through 11
7.    After a period of hi growth during the 1960 and 1970s, Burundi's econmic and financa
stuatiton tnok a turn for the worse In the early 1980s due to a shap deterioration in its terms of trade,
expnsioy  fisca and monetary policies and adver weather condions. During the 1980-84 period,
real GDP growth averaged just 0.2 percent a year. By 1984, the extrn  curret account deficit
(excluding official triuers) rose to 16 perce  of GDP, the overall fiscal deficit (on a commiments
basis) equaled 18 percent of GDP, the real effective exchange raOt of tha Burundi franc apreciated
significandy, and anaal inflation reached a peak of 14 percent. The Government responded with
admiitra   contol aimed at conainiog th etnal deficit and proteting domesdc industry. The
enuing dbtortons (e.g., overvued ehane   , import conto), however, only served to hiligt
Buundis major stuctu    constraints: excessive dependence on coffee exports, dominant role of the
public secor, and inadequat, incnives for sstaied growth. Ike Government embarked on a
wmrehensive stabion        nomic reform program in 1985.  mat program was described in the
cuntry's firs Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1986"-S.
8.    During the 1986M90 period, stabilizain achieVments fluctated with world coffee prices.
Burundis foreig exchange loss in years of faiinSg coffe price (1987, 1989 and 1990) totaled US$230
million, at 64.4 pcent of _exorts for dthse yea. World coffee prices as negatively
aeced the public fice situation due to Burundi's heavy relanc on coffee for budgetary revenme.
At the same time, the Govemment experienced difficultes in coniI  the growth of expe. As
a result of both factors, the budget deficit averaged 11.9 percent of GDP over 1986-90 (see Table 1).
Neverheless, GDP growth reined postve in per capita twith the excption Of 1989, when it
gew by only 1.5 percent as unfvorable weather conditions awply cut agricultural production External
fancing, includ   bg       balance of payments sUpor, averaged about 20 pecn of GDP over
1986-90. Thus, the Goverments exenl finana situation remained cooortable thoughout the
period, with gross fin  exch    ree risIn to th equiale  of over 5 mon8t of merchndise
imports.
9.    Estimates for 1991 idicae tat the eonoy grew by 4.9 percent, an Improvement over the
scenado envisaged under Buruindi's most ren PFP, which covers the 1991-94 period. Owing to an
aest in the detrioration of the teru of trade, gross domestic incme per capita lso g    modesy.
Public savhin  rose t 3.5 perce  of GDP (compared to 0.4 perce   alized in 1990). Coffee expor
eains Incrased by 36 percent tns to eadier plantins and the sale of stocks accumuated te
previous yea. The overal balc of payments surplus w  equivalent to about 2 percen of GDP, aided
in part by US$255 million in x nal assistance. Inflation rose ighty to 8.9 peent, boosted by a



3
d     on In Augs 191 (15 perct In SDR tew) whi  resord the coutry'  ntentonal
an irf lititi mThe debt s1.vice r!atrmaLned hg       in pa  to the ,mpact of excae rate
Tl 1: S.hs   -ssas ludleto
GROWTH RAmU
GDP (uzitet pue)                 11.8    3.3    5.    4.9   1.5    3.5    4.9
130pot (GMM)                     12.6   -11.1    6*   10.5  -29    1.0    15.9
1ml z (Nm MM                     *3.8     8.1    6.9  -1.1  -15.1   12.1    5.5
RATOS1 (%S
Do% Suvlssllpods (ON})           22.9    25.6   43.7  34.7  35.6   46.7   39.9
GzusshltnuDP                     13.9    11.6   22.7  15.0  16.7   18.2    17.5
GrowDouuslso SwAsvnDP             3.8     1.1    6.9   1.6   4.4  -4.2   -1.0
MIU SaviDP                        2.1    2.3    0.3   0.6   2.1    0.4    3.5
Gvt RaveauODP                    L3.4    153   13.5  15.4  18.2   15.8   16.7
Govt TOW Hzpa DP                 23.4    23.8   30.4  26.6   2.8   28.8   26.
vul uDodge Dbo GDP-             -10.0    4.5  -16.7  -11.6   9.6  -13.0   -9.7
Cueot AOOuat/GP'                -10.5   -11.7  -17.9  -14.6  -14.2  -20.8  -18.0
INDICnS
Coawant Pues (                    3.7    1.8    7.1   4.   11.7    7.0    8.9
Te osTofoTd(1987-100)           131.7   139.6  100.0  119.5  112.0   96.4   99.7
Red B?w 3vw&agbRaoR             135.5   116.6  100.0  38.1  90.    77.7   78.3
(1987-100)
. b e  M190 am  Flom
a. Baud es uuu guana oa...obW
d. 21=u48 VLqpas
C. Pafiorunn  Ude th AdJ           i Program
10.   Burd embard on the pat of adustme  in 1985. The flrst SAC (US$15 miUlion), apprved
In May 198, was a two-rnie ctlD   t bme effective in July 1986, and the seond ranbe wa
released on shd e In Ar  1987. Ih prom  overed Ilve aeas: (a) publc exediur mngem
(b) pubU  enterprise () rfm   (c) ta    and   dsiwa  polce; (d) cedt allocti    and (e)
agicture sect policy. mm p a  began to address the most Imot  polcy disorti    of ta
period whch wore: (D th restictve tado regime; (1) wIdead prc contro; 011) the ovevaued
ea ge rat; ad (Iv) the nftdz and poor uat     tho InveM t progrm  The Idtiftion
ad sequencin of rem  was n line with the prWities for action partcaly in the trade rea, whe
importo w       liberazed imiy ith at  opi-up of Imports and the downtrol of Import
pie. Some of the moes under SAC I which wer ondy pariy Implened (e.g., pubic
ependi progr            and PEfrerms), du Inlao part to th ddice sco-plievonment,
was takenp ai to SAC EL



4
11.   The second SAC (pved In June 1988) was a t -tranche crei In the amount of SDR 64.9
mUllon. Although the second program was ntnded to cover the 18-month peiod from mid-1988 to end-
1989, it wen_ y eadd over three-a-one-hdf year due to   ple    aI dl  (pacularly
regrIng PsF, civl sevice refrm and lialization of the labor r t).  he second trnche of SAC
It was reled In Api 1990 (abou 15 months behind schedule), and the third tranhe wa rleaed in
Jauary 1992 (with about 24 months' dty).
12.   As noted, a number of the refboms Introduced under SAC I wer continued under SAC II becas
of their sesitivity and the persitent atention they required.  These concern  esenay:  (a)
continuation of the flexible exchange rate policy and futher tariff reorm; (b) measures for containg
the fiscal deict and Impoving the composition and qualty of ependire; and (c) acdons to reduce the
number of PEs and achiove fincial viability in thos remaing in the stat portfolio. The following new
reorms wes Introduced under SAC Ii () in the fncial sector, the program called for Iterest rate
deregulaon,  hntroducton of a _trsuy certiflca auction and iroducdon of a rserve rqirment for
commerci banks; (I) regardn the labor market, measures fosed on eiminat  the nedO for pror
apVl fom the Labor Ministry for hiig new employees and the obUigaton to register all new
vaccies with the mpower Depatmen In the same ministry; (HI) L. -ivil servce refr, an action
plw for Improving efficiency whie limiing expansion in the _nubers of civil servn  w   to be
fmiuted; and (lv) in the socW sectots, a social acdon program for the most vulnerable s.sgments of
the populaton wa to be frmulated. SAC II was complemented by the second and third years of a 3-
year SAF aangement with the IMP.
13.   Despie exogenous sbocks (detorating tms of tae, irrgula rainfal) and ial pjllca
intbility(ethic dvalres) during the implementation of SAC U, further progress ws achieved In
moving towards a competitive     rate, reducing effectve potecuion, establshig a unified budget
and eliminating most price cntrols (with the exception of the agricultural stor). In 1991 and early
1992, progress was also achieved In further improving public expendiate management, llialzing
Imports and dergulag labor and financal markets. Aftr some initdal delays, peformae in all hes
are  was stbhct. Indeed, in some cases, the Govemmen wet farther than enged under the
program. For exmple, SAC II had not called for the elimiatbon of compulsory wings (where, in order
to promote savIng, 5 percuet of sataris was witheld and automacally deposited in a public savings
insti)  nor for the simplification of the lega and regulatory fmework for the privae sector. Yet,
the Government took the deciion to do the former and proceded quickdy with the ltr. Performae
under the major conntos of the adjustmet program is highlighted in geater detail beow.
14.   E     ge Rate Polky and lhde LUhratadon. The main prpos of ftis component w  to
impoe     competvenss of non-ttonal ecports and Importsubstituton. actvties whilo prviding
neutral protcn across economic secto. Under SAC ll, the Govemmet effively utiized ehae
rate adjumet to mainn price competitveess with respect to its major tradig patrs. Cmv
devalaton of dte re  effecive exchange rate was 32.8 percent between 1986 and 1991. A furhe
devaluaton of about 10 pen (in foreign currec tem) is being implemented in small Incrm s
over the months of May and June 1992. Tarff reform, id     under SAC I and continued une SAC
II, resulted In a reduton lo the number of rates from 57 to 5 and In the iff spread on non-luxy
goods fm  4-155 percen to 10-40 percent.  A mnmber of dirts attri         e to Iproper
don  of products were ao  corrected. Finally, all quatative resDons on imports we
abolid in Augst 1990.
15.   PublIc Reoe Mnagemnt. The objecdve of these reforms was to redc the budget deficit
and to improe the quality of public expeodi with the aim of restg sustainable economic growth
and the vkabity of Burudi's amC  11 position. The instruments for more effetiv and taparen budget



5
execution and public expenditure programming were set in place under SAC I, including a three-year
rolling public investment program (PIP), satisfactory public expenditure programs (PEP) for four major
sectors (Agriculture, educadon, health, and transport) and a unified budget, combining all central
government ependitures, whether financed withdomistic or external resources. The quality and coverage
of the three-year rolling PIP improved significantly in the 1989-91 period. An action plan, designed to
increase the efficiency of the civil service while limiing the creation of new positions to the social
sectors, was formd     in June 1991. As a first step, the Governmen completd an audit of the civil
service and limited the numer of autorized new positions in the 1992 budget law.
16.    Prior to 1991, the Government's record in reducing budget deficits was mixed because it was
unable to reduce expenditure conmmensuratey with the revenue shortfls resulting fm the decline in
world coffee prices. In 1991, performance improved on both fronts: revenue stability was enhanced
significany by introducing an ad valorem tax on coffee exports, and remedial action was taken to contain
ependiture. As a result, the budget deficit in 1991 declined to 9.7 percent of GDP from 13 percent in
1990. Ihe Government has taken additional measures in 1992 to reduce the budget deficit furter (e.g.,
It effected reductions in noLdevelopmental expenditure in real terms, limted net recruitment of
government employees to 650 and reduced indirect subsidies to public enterprises).
17.   PUlic Enhepre Rejbrm  PE reform was the second major area where results under SAC U
were mixed. The objectives under the progm  were to improve the efficiency of PEs, reduce the
finac  burden of the sector on the government budget and, open up buslness oppomtnies for the
private sector. The Government approach to PE reform involved the signing of performance contcs
following detailed dagnostic studies and audits on a case-by-case basis. However, this approach was not
successf becmas of the considerable ime and cost required to undertake detiled sbudies on a systematic
basis. From 1986 to 1991, only four enteprises signed performance contracts with the Government.
In recognition of the problems, in January 1991 the Government adopted a more comprehensive
Wproach, classifying PEs into categories depeding on whether they were to be rehabilitated, privWized
or liquidated, and fimulatng a specific tmetable and action plan for each. Since then, 10 enterprises
have been liquidated and S have been privatized; bids for privatizing the capital or management of another
4 bhve been issued and subsidies to the PE sector have declined by 12 percent
18.   Factor Maket 1berdhatzlon. The aim of this component - to improve the efficiency of factor
makets - was partally achieved. The interest rate strucure was liberalized; however, interest rates are
not yet fully market determined. More efficient and less disrminatory instruments to manage bank
liquidt were introduced (e.g., reserve_equirements). Ihe monopoly of the parastatal savings instition,
CADEBU, over wage eane' compulsory savings deposits (see paragraph 13) was eliminated.
Conditions of employment of foreign labor were liberalized and some fiscal disincentives to employment
eliminated. Ihe Government also eliminated the obligation of enterprises to obtain prior approval from
the Labor Ministy for any rectument Private firms and public enterprises with private capitl are now
autorized to recruit freely, provided that the per  hied is registered with the Ministry of Labor and
is a Burndi national. However, dismissal of employees still requres government approval.
19. Soctal ProgrW and Poverty AUevadon. With an annual per caitapincome of only US $215,
Bunmdi is one of the poorest countries in the world. Yet the negative transitory social effects of the
adjustmet program on vulerable groups have been marginal in Burndi, partly because about 90 percent
of the population is in the subsitence sector, but also because public social sector spending (health,
education) has been protected. Prior to the lauching of the adjustmet program in 1985, soci sector
exenditue was 28 percent of total expendure (excluding debt service). Ihe ratio increased to 33
perent, or 4.4 percent of GDP, by 1991. A first social program was prepared under SAC U; several
of its componet are being Implemented; others, including the poverty montrng system, are being



6
redesged under a proposed IDA-supported social action project, the apprais of which Is expe -l to
take place In JU 1992.
D. Ctal Devdopment Issues
20.   Developm    Objectves and Constraints. Burundi's development objectIves, as defined in the
1991-94 PEP, are to acbweve sustained growth while reducing poverty and increasing the access of the
poor to basic social services. As Burundi's Economic and Social Council recognized in Decembe 1990,
the country urgently needs to restore former growth levels (5 percent anmual averg GDP growth in thfe
late 1970s) and encourage labor-ltensive production methods as a means of genting employment fr
the rapidly growing population. The steagy for improving economic growth focusses on the expansion
and diversification of the export bae through private sector development. Boti expasion and
diversification are urgenly required, since coffee still represents 80 percent of export proceeds, and the
coverage of imports by exports was only 49.7 percent in 1989-91.
21.   To achieve these objectives, Burundi must overcome formdable physica, socW and ecoaomic
constraints. Physical cOains, such as mountainous terain, remoteness and a landlocked position,
inhibit economic developmevt and elevate marketing and transportation costs. Environment issues such
as decinug soil fertility ad increasing pollution in Lake Tanganyka also represent cotainS to log-
term growth. Tho lack of natu  resource reduces oppormuites in the secondary secor. Tne small size
of the domestic market and difficulties in accessig regional market also undermine growth effrs.
Social cntran include: (a) rapid population growth (curreny 3 percent a year), which puts pressure
on the country's infrastructre and environment, and limited supply of arable land; (b) a low adult
literay rate (34 percent); and (c) 3 small private sector offering limited employment opportunities. Even
with accelerated efforts on the policy fiont, Burundi's development prospect are limited by these
constr , may of which will require considerable time to overcome.
22.   In addiion to the physical and socal containts cited above, Burundi's past economic growth
has been constral by policies which have given too great a role to the state in the owneship ad
msanaementof productive assets as well as in the regulation of the economy. This has resulted in an
overdimensloned and inefficiet public enterprise sector, in a crowding out of the private sector and In
adequate govenment attention t those sectors - e.g., health, education and infrtructure - where the
state has a crucial role to play. lhe seting In place of sound macroeconomic policies has also suffered
as Govenment resources and attention have been spread tin Against this background, a major thrut
of the Bank- and Fundsuppord adjustment progimn has bees to help redirect the Government's
attention to those priority activities which it needs to perform better and, since 1991, there is mounQt
evidence that the autoities have been moving more rapidly to reduce the role of the state in the
economy. The oeaon  m         ed in this report would reinforce this shift in emphasis.
E. Medium-Te  Mic and Srucural Poldes
23. To accelerate growth, the Government is deepening Burundi's adjustment process by further
modifying the state's economic role, and diversifying the economy through private sector development
and export promoon. he bas was laid in SACs I and U and is being consolidated durig the proposed
next pha. In particular (a) the Govermnt is completing the liberaization of current account
trnsacons and has Ioduce a more auomatic system of exange rate adjusm ; (b) it is improving
public resource management through an increase in the share of expendtre allocaed to developmentl
uses and a shift In th compositon of ependre from directly producdve sectors towards social and
eonomic iucture; and (c) it is completing tariff reform and price liberization. The Govermnent
b also acceleg PE restructg, further liberizing fctor markets, and completing t  legal and



7
reg,a"y nform. It has, at the ane tme, vtully compltd the liberalization of the agicultural
sector. In addition, to easure sustned long-term growth, th GoverDnment s developing progrm  to
reduce population grwth, prvnt farther envionl degradaion, and allevia poverty.
24.   The key m oe     ic objectives for the 1991-94perlod, as revised during the mid-term revlew
of the M-upported ESAF program nApl 1992, are to: O) achieve avere annual re  GDP growth
of 4.6 percet mlying rea per capita growt); (ii) achive an averge  ion rate of 7 percent; Qi)
reduce the etral curnt account deficit from 20.8 percent of GDP In 1990 to 18.7 prcet in 1994;
and (lv) lower the fBs  defici (cluding rants) tom  13 percent of GDP in 1990 to 6.8 pacent In
1994. Th surplus on te, Governmens curt operations, which was 3.5 percent of GDP In 1991, b
to ices  to 5.7 prcn in 1994. Por 1994, rflecing an assed steady improvemet in the economy,
the objecdves are, twer alia, a GDP growth rate of 4.7 percent and an inflation rate of 5 percent.
Simhlarly, the investment-to-GDP ratio iS projected to Improve, averaging 19.1 percent in 1992-94
compared to 17.5 percent in 1989-91.
25.   Growth prospects will depend on te ability of the counry to shif its pattern of development from
one based primarily on  bistnee agriculture to one with an ieasing role for the secondary and
services sCtors. This woud be via to gneaing the neceary employmet opportumies for the fast
growing populaton in the fice of derasing availability of amble land. In paralel, scarce land would
have to be used incre y for higher-value crops rather than for trdtonal crops. Should these critical
structura trAnsomaons take plae, then there is scope for sustained real growth of about 5 percen.
in the absce of these changes, real growth, which could increase ially through improved efficiency
in agrict, would begin to drop off in the longer-tm as demographic prcasures rise.
26.   P,*ate SectorDeweopme. Success wil critically depend on the extent to and speed with which
the Government can disngage from direcdy productive ectors and promote privat sector development.
Wih thbis In mind, the Government is pursuing Its economic liberalization program and conting to
mprove the legl and regutog  amwork, wie simplfying administative procedures linked to
eeprise  reation and the conduct of genra business ractons. To faciitate the entry of the privae
sector it labor-Iensive, export-rliented  m       -and the traditional ago-industries, the
Govemen has agreed to privo logressively PEs in terms both of management and ownership. PEs
with de facto monopolies in key agmrindustW  sectors (I.e., cofe, cotton, sugar, tea) are being
dismaed or put up for sale. Competition in the financial sector is being addressed firuther by
itoducing nw deposit and lendig i _nsum, promoting the use of commerci paper, and authorizing
the establishmn of nobank factori  opeations. The Government   revisng its overly strict labor
code which disourage th us of hired labor and raises costs.
27.   pukc  T eaw  Poliy. Plic expditure is still over 25 percent of GDP and public sector
Ivestm   _cunt for 80 pecn of total invsenL  Under the latest PFP, the Govnment is
committd t reducing the shae of public ape    to 22.5 percent of GDP by 1994. This is to be
achieved by deeasing cuet  ex iure In re  terms (about 4 percent in 1992 and 1993) throu  a
significatt reduction in subsidies to public enerprs and in non-delopmental expenditures, and a limit
on increasos in the size of the c"i service. Also, capital expentur will be stabilzed in real terms (at
around 12.2 prcent of GDP) with a focus on Improving the qualty of investment. The restructurn of
pubUc eqpe   ill give porlit to the finciog of recurrent cost of aready completed projects and
soci and economic Inastructur Itead of th  ntroduction of new capita investm . On he revene
s, eempons on import duties ae being limited to those provided for under international '-onventions
and the inestme  code. Exteral dono  wil contn  to play a critical role in reinforcing the
Govments efts to raional  public expenditue, given that they finance all of public sector
Investme   IT  level nd omposition of extenl mlsance is being progressively adapted to the



8
redeined role of the Govenment by phasing out support to public Investments in productive activities.
Donors are supporting rational public expenditre programming more actively. Efforts are underway to
apply mote systematicaly project appraisa criteria and develop a harmonized methodology for callading
projects benefits. Connued improvements in donor coordination are essential to the process.
28.   Public  merprlses.  As mentioned before, in Jamuary 1991, the Government adopted a
compreensive approach to reoming the sector. All 86 PEs were classified according to whether they
are to be rehabilitated, privaezed or liquidated, and a detailed dmetble was agreed upon with the Bank.
To help PEs improve their performance, quarterly ceilings are set on government, domestic bank and
extera donor finning. The Government has agreed to refrain from influencing prices charged by PEs,
with the exception of monopolies that produce non-tradeables, such as the utility companies. For the
latter, a review mechanism is being established to ensure that pricing is based on long-run marginal costs
of production. The Government has also agreed to a general moratorium on the creation of public
enterprises.
29. Moneray and Credit Polices. The Government is committed to pursuing a prudent credit policy,
limiting access to credit by PEs while allowing sufficient credit for the private sector. The subsidized
lending rate for coffee has been eliminated since July 1991. Ihe competitiveness of the treasury
cerficate auction is being improved by encouraging increased private sector participation in order to
obtain a reliable market-determined interest rate. The smallest denomination offered for sale has been
rwluced to the equivala-t of about US$600; the frequency of auctions has been increased to twice a
month; and bearer certificates have been introduced which will be easier to trade in a secondary market,
once it has been established.
30.   Eenal Secor Polkces. The Government has fully liberalized access to foreign exchange for
merhmndise trade and associated   ortation and insurance costs. An open general lRcensing (OGL)
system fr goods, transportation and insurance was introduced on May 1, 1992. Transfers of profis and
dividends have been fully liberalized, and restrictions on all other current transactions have been reduced
with a view to obt     full liberalization of the current account by end-1993. A more automatic system
for adjusting the excage rate was introduced in Apri 1992, as explained in pararaph 74.
31.   Coffee Sector Polides. Under the IDA-financed coffee project, the Govemment is progressively
opening up the coffee sector to private sector participation. The legal status of the PEs which have
heretofore enjoyed a monopoly in the sector has been modified to allow for private sector participation
in their capital. To date, about 20 percent of the shares of management companies that operate coffee
washing stations has been purchased by the private sector. A new pricing system which wiU allow for
difeental pricing according to quality Is being progressively introduced. Suice October 1991, the
purchase of part of the processed coffee crop for export has been conducted through an auction system
with private sector involvement.
32.   Debt Mana8ement. Since 1986, the Government has followed DO and Bank recommendations
to borrow only on Wly concessional terms. However, oustanding debt Increased rapidly as a
percentae of GDP, from 45 percent in 1986 to 86.3 percent in 1991, despite the French and Bdgian
Governments' decision to cancel approximately US $115 million equivalent in debt (or 13 percent of the
total stock of debt owed by the Burundi Government). ITe increase is partly due to the impact of
xhg rate devuations, but also to an acceleration of cocssional borrowing. Seventy-four percent
of Burundi's debt is owed to mllateral isttions, of which 44 percet is held by IDA. The average
terms of nws remained favorable during the adjustm  period, with an iest rate of 1.3
pecent and 39 ye   maturiW, equivalent to a grant element of about 75 percent. However, the debt
service ratio rose from 25.6 percent in 1986 to 39.9 percent in 1991, although it is projected to declin



9
to 31.8 percent by 1996. This counterperformance was also the result of the unexpected drop In coffee
prices. Multilateral institutions account for about half of debt service, while IDA accounts for only about
10 percent. In response to the situation, the Government has decided to set stricter ceilings on
borrowing, even on concessional terms. Borrowing for technical assistance is expected to be phased out.
33.   Exernal Fnnclng. According to the latest projections completed in April 1992, the external
situation is likely to strengen only gradually over the program period of 1992-94. World coffee prices
are expected to rv over slowly from their current levels, the lowest since World War II in real terms.
Despite diversificadon efforts, depdence on coffee expors will remain high in the short-to-medium term
due to necessary lags in the introduction of new exports. Externa assistance levels are projected to remain
roughy unchanged over the next three years, and import growth is to be contained to about 3 to 4 percen
through tighter demand management policies. Based on epected disbursements from exisig and
projected commbme, and asuming that the IMP would provide US$42.7 million and IDA US$30
million in balance of payments support as programmed, the financing gap for 1992-94 is projected at
US$67.2 million (see Annm U-c). This gap is expected to be financed under the Special Program of
Assistance (SPA) for Africa and STABEX, the European Communities-funded commodity stabilization
mechanism.
34.   Reicng  Popuation Growth and Preving Degradaon of the Environrent. Population
pressures seriously undermine the coutry's mediumterm development prospects. They have implicadons
not only for per capita income growth, but also for the provision of adequate social services and
unemployment. The Government is taking specific measures: family planing services are being
expanded and their quality Improved; an aggressive multi-media information campaign is underway; and
icentives to encourage contraceptive use and smaller fmily size are being studied. Population pressure
have also contributed to environmental degration which is eroding the country's agricultural potential.
TO maintain Burundi's cuurent favorable food security position, greater investments are required to arrest
soil degradation and increase agricultural productivity. Although eforts have been made to reforest
sbtan   tracts of land, and these have yielded positive results, there is still a need to develop
regionally-adapted soil fertility management techniques that are voluntarily implemented at the fam level.
The Government Is developing an Environmental Action Plan supported by UNDP, the Norwegian Fund,
and the Bank.
35.   Mournig Effive Programs to AlUeWae Pove. While poverty is widespread in Bumndi, the
Government has made major stides to improve the well-being of the population, especially in rural areas.
Access of low-income groups to health, education, and potable water has improved substaniay during
the 1980s, with over 60 percent of the popuaon now living wihin 5 km of a health facility, primary
enrollment rates reahing 70 percent, and a tripling of the percentage of rral population having access
to dring water (from 10 to 34 percent). The Government's attack on poverty is being conducted
through: (a) promodon of income-enerating actviies; and (b) actions targeted at specific issues (e.g.,
AIDS and protection of the most vulnerable groups). Policy reforms emphasize a pattern of economic
growth conducive to the developm  of labor-inve production techniques. As agriculture is the most
labor-intensive sector of the economy where the majority of the poor work, policies aim at continuing
to Improve rural-ua tems of trade and promotingincreased growth i tis sector. Measures are being
take to Improve efficiency, effectiveness and targeting of public expendibtres for the poor.
F. Bank    ce State  and Priorities
36.   ConposltonofpastBank4uLtace. Since 1966, Burundi has received 41 IDA credits for a tota
of US$ 622 million, and one Investment operation from the IFC toting US$4.8 million Ooan and equt
Investment). IDA leding operatIs have financed: (a) infastructure (31.7 percent), Including road



10
maintenane, a teorm program In thO tsport sector, developmet of a tOleomnicatn eork,
mral water supply, and urban development; () agriculue and rural development (21.3 percet) wkh
special emphasisOtt on fing systems research, improving  esion services, and forestry and fisheries
development; (c) the struc   adjusment program (19.5 percent); (d) human resources developmet
(13.9 percet), specially priary education, preventive heath car and family planning; (e) enew  (8.0
percent); (t) indstry and fince programs (3.0 percem); and (g) tehical assistance programs (2.6
percent). The table below summized past Bank-Group lendig to Brundi.
Table I Dbtrlbut  of LeniWg to Durd thogh FY1
Sem                      AomS              Puwate            Ne. of Frei"
_nfmnatnictur.                   197.4                31.7                 14
Agculu                           132.7                 21.3                10
Human Reourc                      85.8                 13.9                 5
EneO                              50.0                 8.0                  3
Fnne and Industry                 18.9                 3.0                  4
Techna Assistnc                   16.0                 2.6                  4
-trutual AJma                    121.2                 19.5                 2
TOTAL                            622.0                100.0                42
37.   Ihe current portfDio Iludes 15 IDA credits. IDA len   inncreasd markedly in the FY87-90
ped   with the approval of two SACs, two major  ets for agriculte and   tatial suWort to the
health and education sectors. Annual commime   hav averaged US$49.4 million for FYS991. The
disbursemet rate is above the average for te Africa region and Improving. Physical impi  on
has been sadsfactory, ard the imct of IDA-financed project on ition building ha been generaly
positdve.
38.    ObJeath  wad Staegy. In view of BurunCdis low per capita income, the Bans paramount
objective in Buundi is to help ptomote as8usn   export-ed growth and to reducoe povety. Mhe main
priority of the Bans asta    srate  is to support the Govenments effort to ompln e the unfinished
policy refm agenda whie addresing longer-tm development issues such as poor social conditions,
rapid populadon growth ad              degad      More specifically, in its lend    and ecnomic
and sector work, the Bank is glving prioity to:
- helg reduce In scope the roe Qf te ste and rederin gowr'mme emm     ctlwe;
- caadlt and    h8 rsofS te eqo  bae through swuort for private sector development;
- allelalngpowy by promoting ecooc growth, providig a soi safety net for the poorest
segmens of lth populaon and expanding and strengt       social services; and



ll
- eOAncg the sutabably of the dewlopume pross by renforcng the role of women In
developme,        ng   mily plamnng, improving eonmental management, developing
opria  farming technique, and manining economic inrscte.
39. The proposed strategy for FY93-95 envisages a reduction of Bank lending from the historically
high levels of FY87-90. This Is appropriate in view of the generous availability of grants, the need to
improve burden sharng between mutilateral and bilateral donors, Burundi's adequate level of extna
reserves, and the planned reduction of public investmen's share In GDP to allow more room for private
sector involvement. Lending wil average about two projects a year. The share of quick-disbursing
lending - which came close to 50 percent of new commitmens in the late 1980s - will be phased down.
This level will, however, be kept under review to allow the Bank to respond to unexpected evens such
as successive years of poor agricultr production
40.    In keeping with the Bank's overarcin concern with improving living conditions in Bunmdi,
the lending program over the next three fiscal years wil focus on the socia secrs with 70 percent of
pted commitments expected for a proposed soca action project and for follow-up opations in the
education and helt and popuon sectors. Ihese social projects will, to the extent possible, involve
NOOs and wil complement Bank-supported efforts to set in place an adequate social safety net for the
poor as part of annual public expe e reviews. About a ffh of anticipated commitments will be
environment-relaued and about 10 percent will be linked to a high priority telecommunications project,
which is needed to support prvate sector development.
41.   Iq,ong the Effldncy of die Sae. Reducing the scope and incrasing the effectiveness of the
state is a major focus of the proposed SAC IIL This is to be accomplished primarily through public
ependiure             and divestitre of govenmnt assets in PEs. In addidon, support for the
formulation of sectora public exp_ed    programs is being provided in the con of on-going
operations. Speca  emphas is being placed on the need for the autffoities to iteralize public
expndIture pramming and to prepare altemative expenditure scenaris prior to budget discussions.
Conditionality for the proposed SAC m and planned sector investment operations will include agreement
on a satsfctory PEP. Similarly, the efficiency of PEs will be addressed though the proposed SAC M,
complementI  the support by existing and planned investment operations. The agribusiness promotion
projec, schedued for presentation to the Executive Direcors in mid-1992, will provide consulting
services in investment banking and cowore law for the conclusion of private management contracts and
for the leasing and sale of assets of PEs in the agroidust  sector.
42.   PrV  Sector Dewlopmt and EJpol D hve coL In addition to the maroeonomic reforms
covered under the proposed SAC II the Bank is supportng the private sector through actions at the
sector and fim levels. A privae sectr development project, approved by the Executive Directors in
April 1992, is desgned to Improve the busi     e        by supportg firther go-erent
deregulaton, t  granng of enterprise-bsed free zone status on a pilot basis, t'he expansion of the range
of aviable baning services, the development of legal sevices to the private sectr, and international
promotion elo. An agrbusine  promotion project, aurey under prepartion, would finance
services to: (a) make agro-industries more efficient by breakingup and Irivhzing PE monopolies; and
O) support the creaton and development of small private agro-busiesses throu  "demnd-driven
technical assiftance at the enerprise level and the promotion of a private investent and mangement
company. Ihe  ocia ion, i coaboration with the IPC and the Foreig Investment Advisory Service
(FIAS), iteands to use its good offic  to fwclitate contacts betwen inbrested Burundi businesmen and
foreip Invests. The process will be a gradual one since the Burundi private sector iS still small and
Ineperined.   ohe Government has also expressed inte in joining MIGA.



12
43.   The IFC has played a limited role in Burundi, given the embryonic nature of the private sector.
Aside from a sma equity participation and loan in a glass botde man in company, there has been
no direct IFC involvement. Initiatives such as the African Enterprise Fund (AEF) and the African Project
Development Pacility (APDP), for which a umber of requests have been made by potential local
investors, appear to be more adapted to the small size of potential projects and private enterprises in
Burundi. The Corporation will keep the sitnation under review and would be prepared to become more
active if large and medium scale Investment proposals with high poteal profitability were to materialize.
44.   Powerty Alkaton. Ihe proposed SAC MI would support economic reforms in favor of a wider
use of labor-intensiveproduction techniques, particularly in industry, through the elimination of remaiing
legal, fiscal and regulatory constraints. Proposed follow-up sector operations in education and health
would help with the assessment of the poverty Impact of expendihues, the development and monitoring
of core poverty programs and the implementation of cost recovery for the social sectors. A proposed
social action project would promote the collection and analysis of household level data, poverty mappmg
and periodic monitoring of the poverty situation. The project would also introduce, as a pilot scheme,
an inovative approach to employment generation at the community level through: (a) temporary and
flexible mehsms to finae poverty-orented actions; (b) traing for poorer groups by financing
apprenieships and cofiancing selected costs of more formal trainig; and (c) helping with start-up costs
of micro-enterprises. As part of the next Country Economic Memorandum (FY93), the Bank will be
undertaking a poverty assessment.
45.   Populadon, WM and Envronent. To help address the preing popuatn problem, the Bank
is itensifying Its support for the development and implementation of a comprehensive population strate
under a proposed second healdth and population project. The project would support nationwide expansion
O fiamily planning services through: (a) training of staff; (b) adequate supply of contraceptives; (c)
outreach and community-based aetivities; and (d) insified monitoring of family planning activities.
Under the on-going health and population project and as part of the preparation of the folow-up
opeation, the Bank is also: (1) supporting a long-term multi-media information program and the
developnt of an Incentive frinework aimed at encouragmg smaller family size; and (ii) encouraging
inttutional capacity building in demographic analysis and the ieion of population issues into critical
sectors such as environment, labor, and social infastructure development.
46. Women play a significant role in the social and economic fabric of Burundi. In addition to
collectig fuelwood, fetching water, cooking, and caring for childrn, women are the primary produc
of food cros and contru  to cash crop producdon, livestock rearing and onsotction work. The
Ban's lending strategy includes: (a) enhancement of women's access to health services and ability to
choose the size of their fimily; (b) expansion of girls' access to education (which is aready high by Sub-
Saharan African standards at about 45 percent); and (c) targeting of women in poverty-oriented micr-
projects, parulaly in tie rura areas. The Bank Is already targeting these objectives In the on-going
agriltural services and the health and population projects. Women heads of household have been
identified as a specific beneficiary group in the proposed agrbusiness promotion and social action
projects.
47.   Ihe enisnment is becoming an increasing concern In Burundi. An Environment Program is
being prepared. ts Implemeon would be supported by a propose enviroment and natural resources
mament project. lhe project would focus on: (a) soR fertility mangment techniques at the farm
level; (b) lad tenure reform; (c) protection of swampy bottom lands, Identification of endangered
watersheds; (d) foest cosevaton and agro-forestry; and (e) development of farming systems research
incorporating environmenal issue.



13
48.   Cqpacty Buldng. lhe Burundi Government, in the context of the UNDP sponsored National
Tecnical Coopeation Apraisal exercise, has been assuming a more active role in defining teical
assi e reuirement. Technical assistance accounts for almost half of exernal aid flows but its
effecdv s has been limited. A database on in-country technical expertise  th  local and foreign)
should facilitate a more rational and selected use of experts. Donors have agreed to modify the primarily
supply-iven aproach to technical assistance and to replace progressively long-term foreign technical
assistance with regula sbort-term missions by foreign experts and greater use of local consultants. The
Bank is sfting it approach, too, to place emphasis on capacity building through greater use of local
consltans, ssemin, workshops and short-erm training for ttie Internaization of economic policy
refbrms.
49.   Econonmc and Secor Woit The objectives of the ESW program are to enhance the policy
dialogue, ptovide the anydcl underpiis of the lending program and strengthen aid coordination.
A major elemen of the ESW strategy will be to reinforce coordination with. the Government and other
donors In order to avoid duplication and to focus on areas where there are serious information gaps. In
Xhe 1990-91 perod, the Bank and the cofinanciers of SAC U conducted studies on the impact of the
adjustment program. Further studies dealing with adjustment and development In Burndi and the supply
ponse to exchange rate adjustme  are under preparation. Industi and agricultral reports focussing
on the role of the private sector were completed in 1991. A review of the financial sector is in progress.
A Public Expendure Review was issued in early 1992. Burundi has been selected as a test case for
donor collaboradon in Public Expenditure Reviews (PER) in the frmework of the SPA. Donors have
aready been closely associated with past PERs; this association wil be contiued and strengthened.
Besides continuing work on structural adjustment and public expendites, ESW will place greater
emphasis on longererm development issues through work to begin in FY93 on the mining and irrigation
secors and the  ort diversification and regional integration studies scheduled for FY94 and FY95
respecvely. Work on a Country Economic Memorandum emphasizing poverty assessment and alleviation
and a decentralized pproach to the delivery of basic social services and on a population strategy will
beg  shordy.
50.   lhe Counny Dalogw and Aid Coordion. Bank-country relations have been generally good.
The focus of the dialogue has been to convince the Government of the need for far reaching reform
effbrts, particuay in view of the country's formidable physical consaints. A dhallenge facing the Bank
is to support the Govenmen in its efforts to manage the economic reform agenda, while being sensitive
tD the political implications of the tough reforms underway.
51.   Effective donor coordaiation is sine qua non for the successful implemetation of the Bank's
assiance strategy, particularly with external donors financing 80 percent of inve   In order to
implement tis approach, a premium will be placed on improving further donor coordination and the
ability of the Bank to use its technical expertise to provide the necessary leadership. In fact, there are
already tangible signs of improved coordination among donors since 1990 as evidenced by extensive
participation of Burundi's major donors in the prepartion of SAC m, particularly on streamlining ad
Imving the transpaecy of the PIP process. In addition to reguar donor meetins under the auspices
of the UNDP Round Tableprocess and the SPA, the Bank is supportg annual donor consultations before
finalizing the PIEP. es eflts complement already established regular meetings of an in-country donor
economis' group chaiW  by the Head of the Bank's Resident Msion.
52.   County Rias. Ther ae a number of politcal and economic factors which oould cause slippages
in the ImpI     n of refors and hence the capacity of the Bank to pursue its strategy. First, the
politcal sion remains ffagile. Renewed ehic tensions could lead to a destabilization of the  mrent
regime. To deal wi these teusions, the Government has embarked oD sn unprecedented power sharing



14
rrangement between the two main ethic groups (the Hutus and the Tutsis) and has enacted a constition
wiuch replaces the previous one-arty stat by a multir  system. Elecdons are expected in early
1993. Second, government commitment to economic reform could weaken if there is widespread
discontent among segments of the nding elite. 'De Tuts grop still domina  the amy and PEs and
feels threatened by the shfting balance of power sdmulated by economic and political refbrms. Mhe
probability of this type of back-raking has declined substantilly since the reSorm program has gained
momentum and most of the anti-reform elemens have lost key ministerial and civil service positions.
Thid, reductions in public expenditures and the liquidadon or privaization of PEs could lead to a
temporary unemployment problem and, in tu, to social unrest. Ihe Goveranment has acted prompdy
to limit this risk by establishing a reconversion program for public sector employees that lose the
employment, introducing a fund to cover health and education costs for individuals (and their immediate
families) participating in the reconversion program and intesifying programs to assist people looking to
sa  their own businesses. Finally, there are also risks outside of the Government's control such as the
possibility of a further decline in world coffee prices, irregular rainfall or political turmoil in neighboring
countries.
G. Criteria for Evaluating Progress
53.   Progress in imple       the Ban's straty wil be moitored by trcig seven bemarks.
(I) The ratio of investment - parcuarly priva  investm  - to GDP. While the overah investment
raio has generaly been satisfctory and is projected to rise to 20 percent of GDP in the next four years,
the share of private investment has remained low and should be increased significantly. (U) EpoLt
growth (in particular, non-traditional exports and the ratio of ewxports to imports). Bec;ase of Burundi's
heavy dependece on coffee exports, its capacity to cover imports with export eaning has deteriorated.
Alhough there are some promiing signs that certai non tional exports (e.g., frits, vegetables,
garments) are growing rapidly there is scope - and an urgent need - to do much more. (ill) The ratio
Of domestc savings to GDP (in particular, public sector savings). Domestics savings has been very low,
averaging about 2 percent of GDP in the last five years. Beghming in 1991, the Govermnent has made
a concerted effort to increase public savings. This effort should be continued and strengthened. (lv) The
raio of secury-reated expeoditure to total pUblic expde. This category of expend     is relatvely
high but the Government is committed to reducing ts share of GDP. (v) The share of GDP allocated
to primary health care. While public expure for health care has increased significantly since 1986,
a large share of resources continme to be allocated to hospitals. Given the government commitment to
improve services to the poor, the share of GDP allocated to primary health needs to be increased. (vi)
Primary school enrollmet rates (n particular of girls). Burundi's pertfmace in this aea is quite good.
The Govetmnent is aiming at a grss enrollment rate of 100 per   by the year 2000. (vii) The
contaceptive prevalence rate (CPR).  Curet use of contraceptives is statisticaly Insignificat
Consderable efforts are needed to promote more widespread use.
EL SummaryAm
S4.   Burundi has a limked nal resource endowmenL Nevertheless, the county has a favorable
climate for agriculturd production and, so far, has been able to feed its growing population despite
problems of soil erosion and small farm size.  On the whole, Burundi has been succes   in
Implementig most of the policy reform measures  com    by the Bank and the IMP, albeit in some
cases with delay. Ihe supply response bas been limited to date. In order to maintain the momentum in
favor of economic refoms, real per capita growth must be acceleraed. The focu wil be on obtaining
an increased supply response to refrms by completng the liberalization process and concentating on
sector arid microeconomic isues.



15
55.   The Banks main objective In Burundi s to promote sustained export-led growth while reducing
poverty. Through its policy advice, lending and ESW, the Bank is concentrating on the developmeat of
an incentive structure geared to prmotng private sect invstme, and on reorientng public
expediue away from asset creaion In the productive sectors and towards socal and economic
infrructre, the development of human capkal and the presrvation of the eironme. The lending
prgram calls for two operations per year on average. The share of quick-disbursing assistnce is
expected to decline, but with feivBity mainned thrugh sector adjusme  operations in case it is
needed. The sd  of Ml)A lending will be linked to government performance on adjustment and poverty
alleviation. Progress wil be assessed on the basis of, Inter alla, the degree to which imports can be
covered by eorts and on changes in the volume and the composition of public expenditure consitent
with a diminishing role of the state in he producdve sectors and lmprovement in social and poverty
indicators. Should the authorites backtrack on the agreed policy agenda and povert alleviaton goals,
the Bank would drop policy-senstive opeaions, and shift to a smaller progm focussing on longer-term
development issues, e.g., natu  resources management and social sector opions.
Part Ik Proposed Thrd Strucrl Adjustnmt Creit
56.   The proposed SAC III, which is the cornesne of the Bank's lending stategy in Burundi, wil
support policy reform in tree key areas: a reduction in the role of the state and improved public
esource management; easing of macpoey consrints to prht sector development and
ort diversification and gowth; and improved access to, and qudity of, basic social services. These
refirms are detailed in the Governmens Letter of Development Policies and Policy Matrx (Annex I.a
and Lb). Refors to reduce the role of the state and to render it nmre efficient include: the reduction of
the fiscal defiit, whffie improving the quality of and shidting their composition in favor of
development objectives tvrough csymatc preaion of dte-year roiling public expenditure programs
and continued civil service reform; an increase in developmental expenditure and accelerated restructuring
of the public enterprise sector. Prvmte sector deelopment and export diversification are to be promoted
trugh an Improvemet in the enabling envionment, firher liberalzaton of extna taacton,
gicultral sector liberaliztion, factor makret ibealiat, and the pursuit of a prudent fiscal stance
to avoid a crowding outW effct on the privae sector. SocW sector rorms are to be pursued as an
intg  part of SAC mil through the        of a "safty et of social expendiure and measures to
Improve the quality of basic helt and ecaton serices. SAC m is  tded tO complement the
Govnment's on-going ESAF progm  with the IMP. Ihe proosed operation will provide a small
portion (about 5 percent) of Brundi's extenal facing rdmnfor 1992-94; however, it Is a
catalyst for mizin gat resources equivent to about 50 percen of quick-disbursing reqrement.
57.   The des  of SAC m take into account the main lesn learned under SACs I and I. These
a: (i) the importn  of ternalizaton of policy refom  by the authorities beyond the small circle of
officials who negoated the progms; 0I) th need to have a more simple design focussing on a limited
number of critical actons; il) th need for close superviion to prvent slippages that may have to be
corrected subsequently; (v) the need for closer  odination with the IB   to esure hat macroeconomic
stabia   takes sufficieny into account the economy's spply side and the socia safety net
requre_m; and (v) the crilcal importamce of meases to remove second geneato  constain to
private sector de(elp   I.e., labor regulation and financial sector contrit) in conjunction wh
macroenomic poicy actions (e.g., exchange rate adjusnt, removal of quantitative restictions and
officia price controls). On the basis of experience with SACs I and II, SAC m  is designed with
substail up-frot conditionalty, which has been fully implemented.
58.   In view of the projected fiancing requreme, reource truas    under SAC m are back-loaded
with a larger second  anche. ITe Bk hs urged oinanclem to do the same with their projected



16
ontbons. In what is a dgn of inenalization of the adjustment program, the Govement itsdf
praed a drat Letter of Devlopment Policies and the accompanying matrix of conditionalir prior to
the appras mision. Duing the appraisal and post-appraisl miSons, the Burundi authorities took the
lead role In invitiog iterted cofinanciers, organizing discussions and producing final documents.
Finally, during the prepaaion and appraisal process, both the authorities and the Bank utlized the
servic  of local consultants, thereby contributing to building local capacity in policy anDalysi.
A. Reducing the Role of the State and Rendering Govemet More Efficient
59. The Government's objectives are to reduce significantly the public sector deficit, imprwoe the
composition and quality of public expenditures and reduce the role of the state In the economy. SAC m
would help achieve these goals by supporting: (i) additional improvement in the quality of programming
and monitoring of public expeaditures; (ii) restucturing of the composition of expenditure; and (Ill)
restructring of the PE portfolio.
Progra_m1ng and Monttoring of Publk Exptures
60.   Past Adjusent Effrts. A major constraint to restrucuing public expendre has been the
weakness of the County's istuonal framework. Although budget reform has progressed well, leading
to a unified budget (inluding a breabdown of current and capita expendtures financed domestically and
exteay) for 1992, public expenditure program (PEP) formulation has lagged due to inefective
tic  assistace ad thfe suail changes required in the way sectoral ministries program their
expenditures. Nevertheless, under SAC II, improvements have been recorded each year. For example,
the 1989-91 sectora PEPs had been prepared ma:. .ly at the initiative of the Bank without being intated
into the budgetary process. In 1990, some of the f cial implications of the 1990-92 PEPs were taken
In account in the budget; and the preparation of the 1991-93 and 1992-94 PEPs included greater
government participation and the formulation of a procedural manual for use by sector minstries.
61. Under SAC 11 especially, the quality of investment expenditures has improved. The number of
approved projects was limited to those identified in the Government's 1988-92 Fifth Pive Year Plan. In
rewonse to failing revenues, investment ceilings were adjusted downward, with minimal disruption,
primarily by slowing the Introduction of new projects rather than reducing financig of on-going projects.
Finacg from the domestic investment budget has been available In a timely ashion since 1989, with
a disbusement rate close to 100%. The sectoral composition of expenditure has also improved with a
gradual shift out of relatively large public investment projects in the productive sectors towards smaller
investments deigned primariy to improve the quality of social services.
62.   SACI-Suoed  fnrs. As part of up-front conditionality, a mr  of imortant meass
have been takeL  Until 1992, budgetary authority had been divided between the Mistry of Plan (for
investnt) and Miq    of Finance (for current expendiures). Authority is now consolidated under the
Mistry of Financ. Satisfory 1992-94 PENs covering agriculture, education, health, and tramport,
and a4 about 80 percen of public expenitur, have been completed. These PEN were
reviewed by Bank staff with the participation of represeives of most of the major donors. Covera
wil be exended to he rural, energy and minig sectors for the 1993-95 PEP, and thnical sstance
wil be more fully Icrporated with support from the UNDP. The PIP prentation is being imptoved
so as to reveal better the breadown of financing among loans, grnts and public avings. In May 1992
the Government established an Inter-ministerial commission to supervise the PIP process and ensure
appicatio of the crta agreed upon between the Govenent, the Bak and other donors for the
appraislnd selection of projects (e.g., 10 percent ial rate of return, poverty alleviation,
dmploymentpgenation). The Goveament also adopted a revised 19924 PIP (including PE investmenats)



17
which Is stfactry to IDA and created a unit in the Finance Mistry to participate In the PEP process.
Following the mrii  of key macroeconomic objecdves in April 1992, the 1992 budget must be adjusted.
Adopton of a revised unified budget for 1992 consistent with the aproved 1992-94 PEP and sadsactry
to IDA is a conditon of e.ecdveness. Adoption of a 1993 udfied budget consistent with a 1993-95 PEP,
as wenl as a unified budget for 1994 satsbctory to IDA, will be a second tranhe release cond Won.
Restucuing the Conpos1on of Public  pExndlrs
63.   Past MJusnext bus. Th Govement bas managed to avoid accumulating domestic payment
arrea, but at the cost of undinanc   Ivestment-related operaing costs. Despie Govemment effots
to ptotect spending for m ce, recurrt costs for already completed investments are underfind
by at least FBu 1 to 1.5 billion per year, or the equivalent of 15 percent of present eWpenditure on goods
and sevices. The Govermnt has also been facing the following main problems in the civil service:
(a) prolifeaon In the nuer of agencies and units within ministries; (b) lack of consicy between
the stmucture of govenment and its primary objectives as stated in sectoral policies and agreed with
donors; and (c) lack of an effective system for evaluating performance and linking performan   to salary
ncrases. The size of the civil service (about 31,000 at the end of 1991) is less of an issue th theneed
for iernld restuctung.
64.   Under SAC I, growth in the civil service wage bill has been contned to 7.5 percent a year
despite rapid expion of reutmnt in the education and health sectors. This has been accomplished
by copossing fuirther reawages, which have fallen below their 1980 level. The Governent has
intated a civil service reform, with technical support from a UNDP-fimded project. A competitive
ex      o  sm for re           civil servants has already been intoduced, and a census of civil
srns has been compleed. The Government has begn using national consultants to undetake certain
speciized tasks (e.g., accouting, auditing, computer maintece, studies) on the basis of service
contrt and has prepared a satisfactory action plan for civil service reform. The plan calls for limiting
nnal grosrecument in the ci  service to 1,000 posidons, which is equvalent to about 65O in n
tems, exclusively for the education and health sectors.
65.   SAC II-S&qWored fWhm,. ne objectives of the reforms a  to increase finding of investm-
related recu t osts and to promote the provision of good quality basic services. Mesures will focus
on four areas: (0) reducing direct and indirect subsidies to PEs; (ti) reducing non-developmental recrt
xpndiure (ll) reallocating the savings to finance investment-related recur   costs; and (Iv) protecig
cii service reriment for the education and health sectors. In May 1992, the Govenment submitted
a satisfaory plan for reducing subses to PEs from 19.5 pen of tot eenditre in 1991 (including
arrears) to 7 percent by 1993. The Government's plan also calls for staying within IB   limit for current
expditure, while containing expndiure on wages and salaries and increasing the share of expenditur
on goods and senrices from 23.8 percen of crent expendke in 1991 to 28 percent by 1993. Ihis raio
will reach 30 pecent, or FBu 9.7 billion, by 1994. The targets on subsidies to PEs, no-wage current
expendiu  on goods and services, and civil service recument wil be monitored as part of a
satsfcty unified budgets for 1993 and 1994 which is a condition of second trwnhe release. The
problems of civfl survice effiiency will be addred trough the Bank's review of sectoral public
exendiure pograms, which themsdves are an importan part of SAC m conditionality. The number
of a    s     tive u    will be reduced in 1993, based on more accurate idenification of the priorty
program  in the PEP. Tecic assistance provided i the context of an on-going UNDP project is
adequate to ensure tht this process is implemented within the proposed time frame.



18
Tab3: Refrudwrg of PuBic
2989       199(i     1V91         1992         199g
Subsidie to PE& (emud.      25.6       21.6        19.           8.8         7.0
Snu)
Wago BM                     23.2       23.6        24.0         23.4        23.4
No _-waonut                 13.8       14.6        11.9         12.8        14.8
(As S of ounsi?            &29.6)      (.3)       (23.8)       (25.0)      (28.0)
Bhpmodku. lutd. (1989      100.0      105.2        967          9.9         94.0
CurteamlUn as % d           82.7       97.6        79.1         70.8        693
Tota Dxadk ut a   of       153.0      188.0       1583         146.5       140.6
Ro. (mItd. VaW)
Totl oRadb      hb)         48.4        4.5        55.6         60.0        60.4
Reutug te State'wPaftcs P k Emeipr  PO*
66.   Past A4wuwnm RjbS . In 1990, dth   wer 86 PEs in Bundi. PEs accoued for abo  80
percent of totl eorts, and dpe Burn's comparate advantag  in abundt and relatively
nepesiv labor, PE invesmnts have bn hily capital tiv . Returns to capitl have also boen
disppointing. n 1987, with FBu 19 biion In cait subsCriptions to  s, the setor registered ne los
of FBu 100 millo  Profitabthas been eroded, In pat, by the fadt t  at let 75 pcent of PE asss
hwe been loan-financed, of whch 35 percent with non-concoonal, short-term credi
67.   Pa  SAC refirm has 1bus    on testorg the financial viablt of mjor PEs trough the
sipgng of pefoman  contact fllowg dgostc stdes nd adt, wth the disappoinn result
outiWd in pagraph 17. Al PEs ae now clasfied  t fiur cateoies: I) hos whose ownerhip is
to be prvated (36); () hos  xpected to ean In the publc portfolio (21), of which twelvo are t
have heir nmaame  prvaized and      ar to be rehabilitod; M dhse of an administiatIve ntro
tha ar to be renegrt  Io tdh governm   sftrco (19); and (v) tose to be lIqukided (10).
68.   SAC Ml        Wd Rqbm. lhe ojectiv  of the roms envis    uder SAC  me to
enhan  conmpetition In by sectors trough privs secor entry, hu Increasing th probability of a song
sWly response, and to redueo the finani buden of PEs on the Govermens budget. Reforms will
fcus on: (          Ithe PE secor through   abt , pdvatzation or liquidation; and (H) a
moraDtoum on new Investmnt In PEs tarted for privatzatlon or lHqdaton. An offical ciruar from
the Pim  Minister applying a moratrm on nW investm        for hs  PEs was igned In May 1992.
As pat of te uned budget process, invesmts of PBS rcevn  direct or ndirect subsidlas are
Included In the PIP and reqWr pror approa fom the Mister of Finan. The Gov     t no longer
exnds its gUara    of lnding to the PBS, and, subsi to commercial and idustriaenrpis  ar
bWg diminat. Upon completion of the PE prevzatn prorm set out In the prious paragraph,



19
at lad S percen of the Govmet's cut portfolio (in aset terms) Is expected to be under prvate
managme, an additional 30.5 percent will be endrey prhiazed, and 14.5 prcent wfll have beea
liquidatd or reintegrad to the adminbitraon.
69.   Given the scope of the Govermets pdvatiaion plan nd the dWppoinig perfomance of the
un pioting PE rfonn (SCEP) In the past4 the authorities have agreed. to strenghen it. As a condion
cf( diwss, he SCEP wil be restrt ed in    dane   wih agrment reached durig negotiations,
a mech        will be esablid  in the Pi     Ministry for montoring the financial status of PEs slated
for priatzaft or liquidai, sad the teventon Fund, created in 1988 and administered by the SCEP
to subsidize PEs, will be liquidated.
70.   Decre  dsolving PBs equivalnt to 4 pecet of total assets have been issued. The Goverment
has ssued invitations w bid for balf of the firms slated for privaization in 1992 and signed private
management contacts for balf of the fitms to be placed under private management. Prior to 4fectvwnuss,
the Governet will complete tie launching of Invitations to bid and signatures of private mangement
contacts (equat to 14 pecen of PE assets) and agree on a timeble of actions sasfactory to IDA
for 26 PEs whic have been tecently claded. As a condon f second ranche release, the Govement
will privtz the ownship of the equivalent of at leoast 6 percent of public assets, take father
appropriae action on aU unsuccessful cases of pdvazuation (e.g., decisions on privatization of
-gemet, les  or liquidation usatftoy to IDA), complete all liquidations, conclude the remainig
privat mana g    contr, and complete the bidding process for the rest of the privatization program.
I. Incentives for Prvat Sector Development
71.   Non-industrial private sector actvie outside the agrdcultu  sector are found principally in the
informal sector, in iteatonal trade (where some 350 fims, mostly importers, curanty operate) and
In a growing but lmitd sevice inustry. The Burundi Chamber of Commerce Is comprised of industrial,
agricural and trade associations, wih a total membesp of 2,000 buseses and individuals operatg
In both the formal and the inrmal sectors. 'Te formal private sector is primarfly composed of small
d medium ae ent          , geneating, on average, anmnal value added of about US$200,000 per
eneprse.
72.   To prono ecient private sector developmeat and export divesification, the Goverment has
already Implemented or wil be inroducing refm  in seven major areas, of which five would be
monored under SAC M aud two are lready being monhtored under the IMP's ESAF. Tbese measures
are: (i) iuoduct  of a mo  automatic system for adjusting the ea e rate (ESAF); (U) ful current
acunt libeization and some capital account libertio (ESAF); (ii) revision of the labor code to
promote employmet geatin through more flexible hirig and firing regulations; (iv) reform of the
tax system to imprv Incentives for private sector invesment; (v) adoption of a coberent business law;
(vi) completion of the tariff reform to reduce efctve protection; and (vii) opeing-up of agriculture to
greater private secoCr involvement A combination of additional macrconomic reforms under SAC m
aod sectoral and       c   rdom  to be pursued under the private sector development and proposed
promotion project i expeced to crem   the critical ma  needed to stinwlate a supply
reponse. Total prvate sector Investment is projected to surps US$50 million per year wihin the nen
two to        years, compared to an average of US$34.4 million In 1986-90.



20
A Redbe Exhnge Rate System
73.   Past Ajustewnt Effo. Reuar exchange rate adjustments from 1986 to ealy 1991 reuted In
a nominal effective deauation of 40.1 percent and a red effective devaluation of about 33 percent vis-k-
vis the SDR. Although these adjustments improved the competiiveness of some traditional (hides and
skins) and non-traditional exports (e.g., fruits and vegetables, garments, rice), they did not fully reflect
the terms of trade loss incurred as a result of a sharp decline In world coffee prices during 1989-90.
Exchange rate adjustment has also been linked more to pressure from the Breton Woods Instutions than
to the Government's own response to economic and financial developments.
74.   Recent Jbons. The objective is to obtain an exchange rate system ta balances the supply of
and demand for foreign exchange and which allows open access to foreigl exchange for curret account
transactions. Consistent with advice given by both Bretton Woods institions, but formally included In
the ESAF program, a system of more automatic exchange rate adjustments was established in April 199M.
A decision was also made to devalue by an additional 10 percent as explained in paragraph 14. Under
the reform: (i) the Burundi franc has been pegged to a basket of currencies that closely reflects Burundi's
pattem of trade, replacig the former peg to the SDR; (i) the exchange rate is being reviewed daily and
adjusted flexibly, based on movements in key financial and economic indicators (e.g., evolution of
monetary and credit aggregates, foreign exchange reserves, trends in inflation, trends in nominal and real
effective exchange rates, the parallel exchange rate, and interional coffee prices); and (Iii) all export
proceeds are to be surendered to the commercial banks, which have been accorded more autonomy in
holding and managingfobreigp exchange, including the authority to set their buying and selling rates
within the limits established by the central bank. The foreign exchange proceeds from foreign grants and
loan1s to the public sector will contie to be surrendered through the central bank. T?he central bankrs
flexibility to modify the exchange rate is enhanced since the basket can also be vaded. Ihis provides the
same degree of flexibility as a floating arrangemen, but does not require major changes in the
orgazation of Burundi's foreign exchange market. The arrangement takes into account the structura
imbalance In th payments and receipts of foreign exchange (e.g., while receipts are conentated in the
hands of the public sector, the private sector accounts for about two-thirds of all forelgn exchange
payments) and the oligopolistic stucture of the commercial banking system, which precudes the
Introduction of an inter-bank market at this juncture.
t7rent and C4pta AccouW Liberalzation
75.   PastA#jsoment 4fo. Access to foreign exchange for transfer of profits and dividends abroad
and overseas remittc  for foreigl workers has been fully liberalized. The limit on auomatic
remitnces of expatriate salaries has been increased to 70 percent with the excepto of exporting firms
where up to 80 percent of salaries may be revitted. Access to exchange by Buundi citizens for business
travel and tourim has lso been relaxed.
76.   Recent Rms.  he objective of the reforms is to liberrlize fuly curent account transactions
by end-l993, to encourage dirc foreign nvesment and, in pardcular, to stmulat foreign interest In
privatization of some of the PBs by establishing more traparent and flexible rules for repatiation of
capil. Consisten with advice provided by the Bank and the Fund as part of ESAP conditoality, an
OGL for goods,  o       an ad insurance managed by commercial banks was established in May
1992. It Is based on full delegation of authority to commerci banks to Issue import licses and provide
the necessay freig exchange. Licensing for export shipmenat has also been delegated to commercial
bans. Tm  on other service account transfers are being progressively eliminated. Commerci banks
are ahrized to trade in foreign currencies, and engage in all commercial forepgn exchange tnsacons.
Regaton have been amended to allow for payment of letters of credit with an ex post verificaton of



21
IMports and to illow bank to Issue licenses without payment. Responsibility for following-up on
compliance with exchange control regulations, by checking the customs documents against import and
export licenses, has been delegated to commercial oanks.
Labor Market i4beralization
77.   Past Ausft  Effirtr. Past effors are described in paragraph 18 dealing with th experience
under SACs I and II (e.g., liberization of conditions of employment of foreign labor, authorization for
eneprises to recruit freely without government approval). Independenly of these operations, the
Government autliorized the establishment of private placement offices and approved, in January 1992,
the creation of a national confederation of labor unions, unattached to any political party.
78.   SAC Ill-sported Refomjs. The objective of the reforms is to reduce the costs of using labor,
thus promoting techniques in the moder sector that more accurately reflect Burundi's comparative
advantage in abundant and relatively Inexpensive labor. This is to be pursued through a revision of the
labor code and related reions. The Government drafted a new labor code which was reviewed by
a Bank mission in February 1992. It incorporates a number of improvements over the existing code: (i)
it attempts to deregulate the formal sector while dealing with the informal sector as a means Qf reducing
the disparit between the two; (i) sets out general principles without attempting to regulate all possible
evenaliWies, leaving room for collective bargaining; and (iii) elinaes many rgations that would
discourage employmet However, the draft labor code remains restrictive or unclear in several respects:
(a) procedures for dismissing employees are overly complicated and leave too much discretion to the
Goverment, thus opening the way for frequent recourse to an already saturaed court system; (b) the
definition of temporary employment is too narrow, thus penlizing sectors requiring seasonal lbor or
piece-work; and (c) non-wage costs implicit in the legislation for social protecion of labor are still
excessive. The draft provides for partd  employer coverage of the costs of health care for employees
who are part of a health insurmac system, but requires full coverage by employers for employees not
affiliated with a medical insuce scheme. This could unduly penalize small- and medium-scale
entepres.
79.   The labor code will be revised frier to inroduce flexibility for non-disciplinary lay-offs and
for teporary employment and apprenticeships. Given te tme requwired to reach a consensus among the
employers' association and labor unions, adoption of a revised labor code is expected in late 1993. Prior
to second trwwhe release, the Government will have: O) submitted to the national legislature for approval
a revised labor code satsf ry to IDA, including relcement of regulatios requiring private employers
to cover 100% of costs of medical care for employees by a cost shaing arrangement; and (ii) eased
reguations on dismissal and diminated mandaory wages for various professional groups, with the
exception of a minimum wage for unsilled labor.
Tax Refornn
80.   Past Adustmen Efforts. Tax reform measures to date have focussed almost exclusively on
revenue enbancement rather than on providing incenives for private sector development. The tax code
is unclear and ambiguou. Arbitrary application of excessively high tax rates (one of the highest in
Africa, 57 percent with a flat 45 percent plus 20 percent dividend tax) is a major complaint regstred
by the business community, and the siuation has deteriorated wh incraing pressure to increase tax
revenues to reduce the goverment deficit. Tax administraton is weak, particularly regarding verification
of tax return and tracton tax credis. The uneven distribution of the tax burden has also been a
conorint to private sector investmen, partiulauly foeig investment. The curen tax system favors debt
financing over equt finaig. Ih theory, all registered enterprises, including PEs, are subject to the



22
sam  tax system. In practice, many localy-owned privae and most public nteprs  either do ot pay
taxes or enjoy tax holidays which have been granted on an ad hoc basi outside of investment code
provions. The Government la Improving tax enforcement for PEs as part of the PE reform process.
81.   SAC Ii-spored Rtjb . The objecdve of reforms will be to reuce tax rates sufficiently to
eliwinate disincenves to production, while imprving tax collection to ensure that the impact of reduced
rates is revenue-neutral. Tax laws also need to be more transparent so that firms can estmate their tax
liabilides and make the necessary provisions. Refrms will focus on: (I) reducing corporate income tax
rates while increasing the  mder of fim that actuly pay the tax; (i) reducig the cascading effet of
the current trnctions tax while paving the way for the introduction of a full-fledged value-dded tax
in the medium term; (il) claifying regulations (e.g., for depreclation allowanes) and increasing the
length of time over which losses can be carried over; (iv) hamonizing the provisions of the general tax
code with those of the Investn  code; and (v) authorizing commercial banks to deduct provisioning
agint bad loans from their ening, and harmonizing taxation of financial instrumens. In addMion,
personal income taX reform proposal already drafted by the Government will Iroduce a zero tax bracket
for inomes up to the equivalent of US$450 per year, and brackets will be revised to take into aont
the Impact of iflation. Submision to the legislatre of a revised genal tax code and adotion of other
related regulations satisfactory to IDA is a conditionfor second tranche release.
Reviion of Legal Frmeworjbr Businsesse
82.   PastAt#Issentrs. Aloh not part of SAC   conditionaity, the Government has moved
quickly to simplify the regulory framework for businesses along the lines recommended by a Bank
indui sector mission in May 1990. In October 1990, procedur  for establishing a business were
simplified. A law which gave the Ministry of Finance priority creditor status (even on unregistered
claims) has been amended to the satisfction of the baking community. Now tax claims must be
regeed withn a calendar year followmg bankruptcy in order to receive priority. Limited chages in
the legal framework governing PEs to provide for greater mngement autonomy and to introduce a basis
fbr the Governmen to collect dividends were made in Setember 1988. A decree providing the legal
basis for the Govement's program to privaize PBs was Issued in July 1991.
83.   SACmI-WFtedRq=s. lhe objective of the refoms is to facilitate general buess acivity
and provide the means of enforcing business contracts and property rights. 'he legal famework and
many of the existing business law  date from Burundi's pre-independence era There has also been an
acumuation of ad hoc legal texts in the absence of any siDge codified set of legal prvons on
business, real estate, fsc  and related mate. While regulatory reonn is well undeway, a good deal
more effort is requred in the area of legal reform. The present situation impedes rapid and equitable
resolution of disputes. Hence,    tiona sport and technical assistance for legal reform will be
provided by the Bank and t.ther donors. SAC m wij support revision in current business laws
(specifically the commera co&) in order to: (i) eliminate inconsistencies and loopholes In exis  legal
texts; (i) moe clearly define the legal status of various types of firms (e.g., corporations, p,aships,
mited         ); and (Ho) simplify and extend (to cover PEs) bankruptcy laws, thus facilitaing exit
of firms. Submision of a revised commercial code to the legislaure which is satshctory to IDA and
includes prvisiom peaning to accounting of companies  d freign exhange transactions will be a
condon ofsecond nwae relase.
Copdon of TarfeUmf
84.   Past Adjusimem  jFL. Tariff refrm, iaed with SAC I and continue under SAC 14 has
resued ina reducion In the snmber of rates, elimination of quantitative resictions and lowering of



23
effcve proton, as  plained in paragwh 14. Th Govemen, in an effort to improve tariff
nisn, has adopted the Harmonized Sys  tariff nomenclaure and is inttoducing a computerized
custo     tnatio packg (SYDONTA). Effbrts are also underway to strenten tariff colection
by grantig fewer exemptons.
85.   SAC ILYMPOrted ROs      .  The objective of fiiher reform will be to improve tariff
administron, and continue to reduc effective proection ad anti-export bias. Assuming that the
exchange tate Is maaind at an appropriate level, a futher reduction in the umber of exemptions from
customs duties and of average tarff rates would mpve the effectiveness of tariff as an Instrument of
industrial policy. Under SAC m, the Government woud undertake another reduction in the tariff spread.
The objective is to cut maximum turiff rates from 40 to 30 percen for non-luxury goods, and from 100
to 70 percent for luwury goods. In order to make the reform revenu-eutral, exempions will be reduced
substaially, and an excise tax wil be intoduced on certain goods (e.g., alcohol and tobacco). Tariff
rates, wihin broad sectrs, are also to be hamnized. As a conion of second tranche release, the
Government will in accordace with the recommendations of the on-going joilt Bank/Fund fiscal study:
(i) reduce the custom's taruff spread on non-luxury goods; Ii) reduce the number of goods in the lury
category; and (i) reduce the tariff on luxury goods, all in a manner sadsfatory to IDA. Upon
completon of the refrm, Burundi will have one of Sub-Sauran Afcs most liberal trade regimes.
Agrculual SeCAr LW erallzadon
86.   The Government's system, in effsct through April 1992, of subsidized inputs and administed
prices for taditiona export crops, encouraged inefficient use of inputs while discouraging higher and
better quaity out  Restrictions requiring cotton cultivation in certin areas and prohibitng the
uprooting of coffee and tea plan  on marginally productive lad have promoted inefficient input
utilizaton and poor produedon incentives. The recent exansion of rice and non-traditional exports
underscores the    al gains from libalng marketing and productionL Agecutural extension and
research services nedto cheg teirtp-down sture to incoporate feedback from users, in particiuar
women, who are largely responsible for agriculturl production. This is being supported by the on-going
agricultua services project, approved in May 1989.
87.   Pas4AusomEfjbrts. RefimssupportedunderSACIwere aimeatioducinganauomatic
system for adjusting producer prices for cash crops in order to provide incentives for improving product
quality and expanding producton. Tis was not implemented. SAC II included measures to improve
efficiency in the coffee sub-sector, reduce subsidies on ferilizrs, encourage higher producer prices in
agricuture, rehablitae the sugar complex (SOSUMO), undertake a study of Buun's comparative
advantages, and liberalize the rice sector. Although mesu   to improve the quality of certain export
crps and increase their production (coff, tea, cotton) were partily successful, progress in improving
intemational matlettug arrangements and maintain  competitive producer pjces has not been
atsfactory. A long-em fertilizer policy was not formulad, but is now being corrected as part of te
agricltura senies project. Measures to liraize the rice sectr and restructre the sugar complex
were implemented.
88.   SAC IM-p           Rejbms. Successfl liberalization of the agricutural sector is crtical to the
development of Buradi In the short- to m      Refrms, which were fully tmplemented as part
of up-font conditionality in May 1992, focus on four criticl areas:  ) simplificaton of the regulatory
framework for smaliholders, incudn the elination of government    raints coneig madatory
crap and quantes and types of inputs to be applied; Q) elimination of government-admnisd
producer prices for tadWona export crops and agrcultral it; (i) elimination of monopoly rights
for PEs for phading, marbet  and procesing agricutura products; (lv) Impositn of a moratrium



24
on a  new public sector invesment in the tea, rice and palm oil sectors; and (v) establishment of
transparen acteria for allocating available public lands and resolving land-ownehip disputes.
89.   Now that the agricultural sector has been fMly liberalized, the producer b in a better posidon to
respond to maket signals and Improve reurns to the use of land. Producers can react to developments
In export markets by sh8ifg the pattern of crops they produce, their use of modern Inputs and the time
spet in malntning crops. IThe elimition of monopoly rights of PEs on the purche, processing and
marketng of export crops along with the moratorium on new public investments in these secors should
promote greater competion, open the way for more private sector involvement and improve the
bargaining power of producers, thus ensuring them a higher share of the world market price.
C. Socdl Aspects of the Pam
90.   General access to health, education and potable water has improved substntly during the 19808
as described in parraph 35. However, in the education sector higher enrollment rates were achieved
by inoducilg spik sessions and irereasing class sizes, resulting In deteriorating quality. Simiarly, In
the health sector a considerable improvement in primary health care infrastructure has not been
accompanied by qaropriat3 personnel assignments and rerren  cost allocations. In 1987, the hospital
sub-sector bsorbed 80 prcent of total resources, with only 20 percent available for primary health
services. Burundi's social indicators are about average for sub-Saharan Africa (see Table 4). While the
level of goverment expenditur on the social sectors is adequate, there is a ned to reorient public
expenditures in the social sectors fiuther, specifically towards quality improvements in basic services
which benefit the poor.
91.   Past Ajusnent Effors. SAC H included the formulation of a social action and povert
alleviation program. The program targeted child mntrition, the role of women In development, support
for small productive projects, a food security strategy, and the setting-up of a monitoring system for
social indicators.
1M6 4: Dwandh Comparauive Social In&adlno*.
Lew inem        &Sabharaa
Bur=          Economim          Afic
Life peooats  in years (1931)            49              54               51
PopulWohnyp      (1984)               21,120          13,910           23,850
Popukou/raung ppeson (1984)            3,040           3,230           2,460
Daily caloio supply/apita (1986)       2,343           2,226            2,096
Acs to saD wabor
-% of oal pop"d=ioa                     30               -               36
Pdmry Schoo Net Bolnlmut Rato            46              67               47
92.   SACH  u orted Re/ . The objective of the reforms is to improve the provision of  ential
sevices to the poor through greater cost recovery from high-income users and Increased private and NGO
participation in the provision of  ential services. In addition, SAC m will addreu the oaslonalcost
of aduwmm thugh: (I) a core expendhiur program providing a safety net" for the poor; and (I) a
reonversion program for employees who are laid off In the process of the PE restructurig or civil
service reform  The SAC m program wi1l be comple      by a prposed social action projecL



25
Socil Sfey Net for Low-Income Groqps
93. A safety net of social expenditure is to be identified and monitored in the context of the PEPs,
concenrating on primary health and education services.  To operationaize this concept, major
improvements In the public expenditure programming system will be sought beginning with the 1993-95
PEP: (i) a restricted turget group will be identified (at present most of the population could be considered
poor); (i) a regionat breakdown of expenditure wiUl be introduced; and (iii) expenditure financed from
sources other than the cewal govermet (e.g., local governments, users, NGOs) wilt be progresdvely
included. However, given the relatively low institutional capacity in Burundi, fully operationalizing such
a system is necessarily a medium-term objective. The Government has initiated the process of
strengthenng the Statistics Insitute (ISTEEBU) and mobilizing technical assistance to put in place a
piority household srvey. A basic statistical capacity is expected to be in place by September 1992,
allowing the authorities to have access to: (i) an initial poverty mapping of the country; and (i) an
assessment of the capacity of various income groups/regions to pay for social services.
94.   The Governmen  has already earmarked, in the 1992-94 PEPs for the education and health
sectors, priority expenditures for the social safety net. AddWional resources will be allocated to the social
sectors to ensure that the quality and quandty of basic services for low-income users are not eroded by
rapid population growth. As a condition of second tranche release, the Goverment wUl improve the
quality of the social safety net incorporated in the 1993-95 PEP, in a manner satisfactory to IDA.
Fonrmlo4on of a Fnandng Rrategyfor tOe Social Sectors
95.   Government policy iu the education sector has changed significalwly in recen years. Although
priort is still given to primay education, the objective of achieving universal primary education has
ben postponed from 1992 to 2000 wih an iaermeiate target enroLment rate of 86 percent In 1993.
Based on the latest PEP, the share of education in overall current exenditre (excluding interest
payments) will rise from 28 percent to about 30 percent, among the highest in sub-Saaran Africa. Cost
reovery is a critical issue for the education sector. Equity considerations are being addressed, albeit
progressively; secondary school fees were increased by 100 percent in September 1991, although the fee
stmctewm is not differendated according to famiy income level or the capacity of loca government to
contribute hirough its tax revenues.
96.   The Government's objectives in the health sector are to give priority to preventive medicine and
the expansion of primary health care, particularly in rural areas. Tle speed with which the  objecdives
can be reached wil be a function of resource availability. The share of health in current enditu
(excluding interest paymets) is 6.5 percent and is expected to rise to about 7.0 percent by 1993.
However, adequate resources will not be available to cover the costs of hiring new medical and
parmedical graduates unless cost recovery is increased through the sale of medical Insurance cards and
by raising the rate schedules for medical and hospital care. Based on 1987 data, users" fees covered only
14 pere  of current expenditure In the sector. If insurance cards and payment of users' fees had been
made obligatory, approximtely three and a half tmes more revene would have been mobilized.
97.   SAC m  will support the formulaton and implementation of a comprehensive strategy for
fincing of services in the education and health sectors. The Bank and the Government have aready
reached agr on the general princ .es of this strategy. As a condition of second tranwhe reJease,
the Government will implement its comprehensive financing strategy in a manner s y  to IDA.
Specific cost recovery measures will be reviewed anually in the context of on-going sector Investment
operations and as part of the PEP review process.



26
Reconvrsion Progrm Nfor Redawdm  Pubic Secwor Emoyees
98.   As part of the prepratidon of SAC  , the Goverment has established a progrm to ftcitate the
integration of redundan public sctor mployees into the priva  secor. One to two thousad public
sector employees, or 5 to 10 percent of the modern seor work force (pimarily PE employees), could
be laid-off over the nex two to three years. Based on experience to dae, skilled workers are most likdy
to find employment In the prvat sector; however, other categories of personnel may require some
support to acquire the skills needed in the private sector. The recoversi  program is structured around
three basic option for individuals: Q) ate    subiMz  retraining programs at eist training
institu ; (Ii) creating their own businesses using exsting progam targeting small and medium-scale
enterprises; or (iii) partcipating In public works pro5rams. Technicalastance for estabilshing the
reconversion progrm i available through grant funig from the EDF and the UNDP.
Developent of a Nationad Famly Planing Poliy
99. By the year 2000, Burundi's popdulation i expected to reach 7.3 million, even if an effectve
family planning program is implemented. If there is a rapid decline in the fertlity rae (a fall from 6.8
to 3.1 by 2015), the population growth can be signficantly decelerated. The objective is within reach,
but priority must be given to peonalizing population objectives through the development of a national
fmily plannng policy. The SAC m dialogue has inlluded discussions on how to accdera  awareness
of ihe popuation copnstai
100.  The Goveune  is cmmitted tD inasing the cnrceptive prevalence rate from 2-3 percent
to 10 percent by 1996 and has icuded this in its Letter of Development Policies. Specific acdons for
the fonmulation and Ilniof a comprehensive family planning prgrm are being monhored
underthe Bank-fi      health and populaton project and will be fully intgated into a follow-p Health
and Populat  opain currently under preparation.
Part E   MAn Featue of the Proposed Credit
A. Credit Amount and Trnchig
101.  The Borrower will be the Governmen of the Republic of Bunmdi. The proposed credit of
SDR 22 million will cover about 6 percat of the projected financing rq  during 199293. Th
amount is to ser  largdy as a catyst for mobiizing cofnancg on gant terms. Panllel financing is
to be provided by Belm, the Dp    Development Fund (EDP), France, Germany and Japan. The
proposed credit amount would be sufficient to close the financing gap in conjunction with resourc from
the IMP and the cofinanrs under SPA.
102.  Ihe proposed credit wil be dursed in two unequal ance, consiste with Buruni's externll
financing needs. The first trace of SDR 8 milion will be released upon effectveness, which is ected
in September 1992. The second tance of SDR 14 million wfll be didmrsed upon the meeting of specific
conditions ad of sa_ctory              of the program in genera. Second tranche release is
epecte i December 1993.
B.             and Moi   of the Prram
103.  The program wil be imple_ by the various agencies involved in the reform process, under
the oveall respomibiliy of the Prime Minister. The Mistry of Face will take a leadersbip role for



27
lthe public rsurce manement component; the Ministry of Commerce and Industry will have primary
reibility for the private sector development componen; and the Ministry of Planing wiJl coordinate
th implemtation of the soci aspocts of the program and the PIP.
104.  A minister  level Monitoring Committee for the Stuctural Adjusment Program (MCSAP),
dhared by the Pr Minister, has been in place since 1988. The MCSAP s comprised of all he
economic  nsters, with other ministes being invited as the need may arise. A peman  secret
to the MCSAP was established in 1988 to coordinate work at the technical level and to provide the
secrtariat function. The Permanent Seetary reports direcdy to the Prime Minister. The Government
will provide quarterly progress reports to IDA one month after the end of each quarter, startng in
October 1992 for the perlod ending September 1992.
105.  The Governme's implemeion capacity has Improved considerably since te begnning of
SAC II in 1988; howeer, ilementation sUll requkes close montring by Bank staff and continued
teical assistance, where possible from local consutg fim. The suprvsion of the SAC m-
supported program will be ensured by regular missions from headquartes and by monthly meetngs
between the Permnent Secretriat to the MCSAP and the Resident Mission. The Resident Mission will
conue to work closely with the Governmen and the cofinancier of SAC m to monitor the progam's
Implemention. Bank staff wil conme to coordinate closely with IMF staff on the monitoring of
Implementtion of mc  policies and on common areas of interest, espcly where the Fund
is providing on-going technical assistance, such as the budgetary, tax and exchange rate areas. IDA and
other donors, In particular the UNDP, already have technical assistance resources in place to reinforce
the Government's economic management capacity. In addition, IDA has allocated rou    through a
Project Praation Facility under the private sector development project to s1pport implementaon of
regulatory and legal reform.
C. Pr t and Disbu
106.  The credi wil reimburse 100 percent of the foreig  excage cost of ger  imports not
contaned In the negative list (e.g., excluding luxury goods, mflitary equipment and e mally
hazadous products). The   raia miion reviewed the laws and derees pert     to governmet
procuremet and found them to be in accodance with the World Bank's Procemat Guidelines.
107. Import contrauts above US$ 2 million would be procured in accordance with simplified ICB.
This thshold is consistent with the anticipated sizes of contrac and the experience of the borrower with
Bank prcedr. Existing procedue used by the pubLic sector wUI be aceptable for aU procuremt
below the ICB threhold. A Bank survey of public importer shows that dired contact with a limited
number of suppliers occurs mainly on the basis of vendor lists 1hat are revwed and updated regularly.
Disussions with the Chamber of Commerce, the commercial banks and a few private importets Indicated
ta the private setor does follow establised commercal practices and, whenever possible, uses
competitive biddig or comparative aseme  of cost. For amouns between US$250,000 and
US$2,000,000, public sector agencies will seek at least three quotations from eligible suppliers with the
exceptiVon of proprety equment, spare paru and standdized equipment for reasons of compatility.
The prvate sector, with the same excptions as the public sector, will follow standard commercial
practices.
108.  ohe Bank is satisfied with th Government's decision to ontinUe IS current contact with the
preshlpme  inei  firm, Socit G"le de Survelac  S.A.. Prcement will be coordinated
by the cetal bank ot urndi under arrgements satisfactoty to the BanL   he central bank will
rovide quarerly pges rport on procurem    activities to the Bank. Imports shpped before Januar



28
1, 1992, as we1l as conta  below US$ 10,000, would not be elible for Bank financing. lhe latter
threshold is corsistent with sadtiscy access by sml- and medium-sie  importes, and would sdtl be
manageable to admintr. Retroactive financing would be acceptable up to US$6 mfllion (or 20 percent
of the total credit amount) for eligible imports paid during the four-month period preceding credit signing.
109.  Disbursements for contracts under US$500,000 would be made against staemen of expenditure,
with the disbursementprourement documentatin reaned in tho field and made available to auditos.
'Me audit's terms of reference would require the auditor to verify that procurement conforms with
procedures oudined in the Credt Agreement Ihe Government will establish a new special account at
the central bak to facilitate disbursements.
D. SAC m  Condionality
Up-Ftm Ac*on
110.     Much of the key conditionality associaed with the program supported by the third SAC has
aready been Implemented. As part of an effort to limit the scope and imprve the effctiveness of the
role of the state agreement has been readied on the parametes of a revised 1992 budget and on a 1992-
94 PEP, both satiscory to IDA. Agreement has also been reached on a plan for reducing non-
developmental expenditures and for increasing spending on goods and services to cover investment-related
recurrent costs. iuidation decrees have been issued for 10 PEs, bids for half of the enterprises slated
for priv"tzatn in 1992 have been issued; and a moratorium  has been declared on all new investment
in PEs to be privatized or liquidated. In order to improve incentives for private sector development a
more flexible exchange rat system and an OGL have been introduced; transfer of profits and dividends
abroad has been fully lberaized; and overseas remittances of foreig workers has been significnty
liberalized. In the agrictural sector, the practice of having mandatory crops, government-administered
prices for iputs and producer prices for export crops, and monopoly rih  of PEs for purchang,
marketing or processing agricultural products have been eliminated. Moreover, criteria for allocat
public lands have been established. In the social sectors, expenditures consmttutg a socia  fety net have
been identified, and agreement has been reached on the genera principles of a comprehensive finncing
strateg for the education and health sectors.
Effetieness:
111.  -  In the public resource managmm area: adoption of a revised unified budget for 1992
cnistent with the approved 1992-94 PEP, including civil service recument clinpgs;
-  In the publ eerprise rjnn area: (i) issuace of invitations to bid for the pdvatzaton of
the capital of PEs lated for privatizato in 1992, sature of private maagement conacs
for PEs r_pasenting 14 percent'of the Borrower's assets portfolio, and adoption of a
dmetable sasfatory to IDA for the restucturg of 26 newly classified PEs; and (ii)
oWng of instutional capacity through adopdon of a restrucbtg plan for SCEP, a
surveillance nme ism for PEs to be privatzed or liquidated, and liquidon of the SCEP's
Intervention Fund.
Second lhwhe Rekase:
112.  In additon to the specfc co ions dentifild below, second tranche release will be congent
upon atisfatory completion of a general performac review of the program and of Burn's economic
managemenM The specific condions for second trAche release ae:



29
- In the publfc resource management area, adoption of: (a) a 1993 unified budget consistent with:
0) a    ysa ctoy 1993-95 PEP; (ii) a 1993 civil service rtment ceilings of 1000 individuals
(in gro  tems); (iii) a reducdon of direct and indirect subsidies to PEs to 7 percent of total
expenditure or FBu 4.2 billion, whichever is lower; and (iv) a social safety net, satisfactory tO
IDA, which covers priority expenditur for education and healt; and (b) adoption of the 1994
unified budget satisfactory to IDA consistent with an increase in non-wage current expenditre
for goods and services to 30 percent of current expenditure, or FBu 9.7 billion whichever is
higher;
- in the pulk enterprise ronrm area: (i) completion of all ageed liquidations (equivalent to 3
percent of public asets) and the privatization of the equivalent of at least 6 percent of the state's
portfolio (in asset terms); (i) completion of bidding for the remaining enterprises slated for
prlvatizato  and (il) conclusion of the remaining private management contracts (equivaent to
49 percent of public assets); assets of enterprises for which timetables will bs received prior to
effecdveness will be added to these amounts;
- in the regultoiy area  (i) submission to the legislatur of a revised labor code satisfctory to
DA, Icuding relcem  of regulations requiring private sector employers to provide all of
the coms of medical care for employees and their families with a cost-haring arrangement, and
the liftg of excessive constaints on dismissal; (C) elimima    of wage fixing for vadous
pessiona groups with the exception of a minimum wage for unskilled labor; and (iii)
submission to the legislature of a revised commercial code, satisfactory to IDA;
- in the carms tarefm area: 0) reduction in the tariff spread on non-luxury goods; (H)
retduction of the custms tariff on luxury goods; and (I) revision of the list of luxry goods, all
satisfacory to IDA;
- Submission to the legislature of the General Tax Code and adoption of other related regations,
saisaor - to IDA, in order to eliminate exising intersectoral distortions and to promote prvate
sector development;
- Implementatio of the financing strategy for educato and health (including cost recovery),
sati   to DA, including the definition of the respective roles of the Borrower, the non-
govern    l o    ions, the private sector and users in the health and education sectors.
i. C     n     ad Cofinancg of the Progm
113.  Co       n with other donors and the IW  has imved markedly since 1990. As sectoral
PEPs improve in qualWt  they shod  creasingly provide the basis for budgetary targets  reed with the
IMP. The Bank Is working closely with the IMP to ensure that demand management measures focus on
reducing cer   types M of pubc consUMPtion whfle taking fully into account prnvate sector ruirements
and the socia say net. The Bank is also working closely with IFC's Africa Enterprise Fund (AEF)
and the Africa Project Develpmeat Faciliq (APDF) on private sector issues. As explained in paagrph
51 of the strategy secton, the Bank has moved to improve its coordination with other donors particularly
in connection with the musa of the impact of SACs I and I and the preparation of SAC m. Much
of the tchn    mIIStaCe eWeded o  implent the prpose SAC m is being provided by other donors.
114.  The proposed SAC m  would be complemented by tte IM's ESAF program. The ESAF
angement for US$42.7 mllion (100 percent of quota) was approved by the IMP's Executive Directors
In November 1991 ad Is to be disbursed over a thre-year period in the context of separate anmnal



-  "1'              U
a
Ifljbj
I hhJ2   1*
 ii
rii
I.    R a.s8 _       I 
0      111 iii 11111 ii
0
L311
II1f;1IIiiI w?IIiIIfl1a I
2                               B
1-44.1 .
I
['ii.Ii
iiLiIii!iIttI              F"'        ii'
MILlIE



31
PWd v:s    m
118.  I am    lflod ta the proposed crt would comply with  e Atlls of Aenmt of d X
A holo   I recommed tua the Ex tv e Diretco  apprv  the propos IDA credit
LProsn
Wahint, D.C.
May 12, 19



Annex I.a:          Let  of Developmet Policy
Annex Lb:           Policy Mmix
Annex TL            Key Macwenomic nmcao
Arm l.b.:            Balanc, of Paymens
Annex Mc:           Exnl FPicing                  and Sources
Annex M:            Spplem    Data Sheet
Annex IV:           Stat  of Bank Group Opeations (ak and IPC)



ar jUA  .3             t
iii                    ifffy3 
  3
iii       !!If I 1I%pPI ii! '"          S
op  Lwp.    IIii42hi
ii  jN. Iit  r        N:      1ii
8      0 d
4 1ii d
a.              !jij 1111         a    II
ii   3.oo               ii
i'4 [4
'ii  sql         p           p
d  o0
I                 ..-p. 
ga.                '5
51                     ii'i
ti   '4' 0  '                  -
iq    o4



ANNEX L.a
Page 2 of 15
8.    Given the persistnce of theso problems and the national dtion   o      the challenge of
development, the Burundi authorities have confirmed their commitmento the struct   reform program
by expanding on the meaur  taken during the first and second phases, and by adopting new measures
to restore macroeconomic equilrium to ensure sound and balanced growth.
9.    lhe Government is inten on strengthening its adjustment program by drawing on the lessons of
the recent past. The policy of national reconciliation has the potenal to guaran   a favorable climate
for long-term investment and growth. Experience gained in the area of public resource managemen
during the reform period, as well as the readiness of economic agents to participate in formulatig
strategies and shaping development programs, are addidonal assets that sud be used to grater
advantage. The newly strengthened program is expected to improve the ability of the economy to absorb
externa shocks, smulate growth, and create the conditions for evetu  divesfication of the productive
base.
10.   In the short term, however, there will be no clear progress towards diversification because of the
anticipated increase in coffee production steing from recent large-scale investment in the sector. Sdill,
fmancial balances should become less marked and help assure the relative stability of domestic prices
and a tenable balance of payments position over the medium term.
11.   As the economy continues to grow, primarily due to agriculure, two factors are expected to limit
long-term growth: elevated populaton densit that is among the highest in Africa, and Intensive
utilzation of arable land. The success of the program will depend on the extent and speed of public
sector withdrawal from producdve acdvities. The quality of public investments must be improved and
the share of prvate sector in total investment must be increased. Ihis presupposes that the public sector,
In addon to tanSferring certain actvities t the private sector, will perform more efficiently in those
activities for which It continues to be responsible.
12. Nevertheless, in order to promote a level of overall investment that assures an acceptable level
of economic growth, the rate of government withdrawal from productive sectors must be com u
with the ability of the private sector to asume its responsibilides.
13.   The development strateW pursued by the authorities wil be to liberalize the economy by enabling
fanmers to maxiize thir output in response to market signals, and by providing them with the right kind
of support         e. By less    the preeminence of coffee, this strategy should serve to encourage
the diveificaton of the agdcultrun sector and the promotion of labor-intensive, high value-added crops
(e.g., fruits, vegetables and flowers), as well as products of animal origin.
14.   The Government will also encouage industrial production, but success In this sector wil depend
on promoting pvate inative as well as improving Buuds competiiveness abroad. It Is the
Governt's intention to take full advantage of the increasingly numerous oudets afforded by inter-
region  trade, particuarly within the East Africa preferenal trade zone, and to broaden the range of
products the country eMpots beyond Africa. Beginming in the first year of the program, a concerted
effort will be made to re    the exage and payments system, retucture both the coffee and public
enterpri  sectors, and revise Istume  of monetary policy. Throughout the program period, the
Goverment will pursue prudent demand managemnt strategies and insute policies th promote grter
spply respons.



ANNEX La
Page 3 of 15
1S. The key goals of the third phase of the structural adjustment program are to: (i) achieve an
annual average real growth of 4% of GDP; (ii) bring down inflation from 9% in 1990 to 4% In 1994;
(iii) reduce the balance of payments deficit (excluding official transfers) to 14% In 1994; (iv) increase
the surplus on current budget operations from 3.5% of GDP in 1991 to 5% in 1994; (v) gradually reduce
the overall budget deficit (excluding grants) from 9% of GDP in 1990 to 6% in 1994.
16.   Achievement of these goas will depend fimdameally on reforms In two key areas: public
resource management and promotion of the private sector and exports. SAC m will also encourage a
public etpeiure policy geared to reducing poverty and cushioning the adverse consequences resulting
from enterprise reform.
A. M    -  gement of Public Resources
17.   The couty's macroecoomic dequilibrium has been largely due to imbalances in public
finances associated with frequent fluctuations in coffee export revenues, increases in public expenditure
and inefficient monitoring and administration.
18.   As part of its 1991-94 macroeconomic framework program, the Government is committed to
gaually reducing the overall budget deficit from 9% of GDP in 1991 to 7.5% In 1992, 6.5% in 1993
and 6% in 1994, as well as to increasing current savings from 3.S% of GDP in 1991 to 5% in 1994.
In order to achieve these goals, the Government will pay strict atention to reinforcing revenue collection
measures and to following a prudent public expenditure policy.
19.   The Govenme's strategy is to radonalize the management of public resources through better
exendture programming and strict adherence to the principle of a unified budget, to continue its
withdrawal from productive aiies by restructuring public enterprises and eliminang their subsidies,
and to strenge  control over expenditure through civil service reform. In addition, an instutional
mechanism in each ministry will be developed to allow both the PIP and PEPs to be incorporated into
the budget cycle. Sub-committees will be created in the Ministies of Plan and Finance to coordinate this
process.
A.1 Pro  n n    montrn of pulc epd
20.   Ihe Govement has adopted new programming and budgeting istuments to clarify its policy
on the allocation of public resources (PIP, PEPs, unifed budget). The PIP, PEP and TCP (technical
coopeaton program) are based on a thre-year rolling program and are reviewed each year. Beginning
with the 1993 budget cycle, the Government will approve the PIP, TCPs and PENs prior to dtermining
the budgetary envelopes within the context of the Finance Law.
21.   Tne methodology for preparing PEPs calls for resources to be allocated among inividual
programs. Their formlation will be the responsibility of the sectoral ministries, and their supervision
and coordination wi be a fction of the Mnisties of Plan and Finance. This is to ensure that ) they
comply with the guidelines of the Five-Year Social and Economic Development Plan and the Economic
Policy Framework Paper; (il) the coherence between the finacial and physical aspects of the unified
budget of the preceding year and the preparation of the curent year's budget; (-di) the physical and
financial elaboration of the PIP-PEP-TCP of the preceding year. In addition to the four sector ministries



ANNEX L.a
Page 4 of 15
(Education Heath, Agrue, and Trsport and Roads) hat curtly ope    under PEPs, the
Govenment will require that the Ministres of Rural Developmen and of Energy and Ming prepar
PEPs for 1993-95.
22.   The PIP is an essenea component of the PENt and is an Isument the Govenent relies on in
deciding public capital e diture priorities. PIP operating expenses and other recurrent costs wil be
evaluated and norporated hto the unified budget as current dit. Recurret costs, however, will
not be Incorporated into curent expenditre until the PEP process coves all sectors.
23.   Incorporation of a project in the PIP will depend on a feasibility study that justifies a poteal
economic rate of return of at least 10% for economic investments or, In the case of soci projects, ta
it saisfies cost-effecdveness crteria.
24.   In addition to these overall eligibiity crteria for projects in the PIP, other specific requirements
connected wih th project cycle and the PIP itself will apply. In this way, third-year projects must
conform with Five-Year Plan guidelines and with sectoral policies for which financing is available. All
second-year projects, in addition to meetng the crteria for third-year projects, must be badked by a
feasibility Ptady, an appasa report and identification of the sources from which Its recurrent costs wil
be fnanced, and must be able to command finncing on concesona terms. A project wi be seleced
for executon during the first year of the PIP if, besides meeting the crieria for second-year project, it
is also backed by an Implementation study and is assured of external and coutepart finacing.
25.   As far as PIP financing is concerned, the Government wil iher fund projects with gra  or
borrow on concesonal tms, keeping to a level         with debt-evice rato caps. In addion,
the Govemn  will be caul to generate public savings through the genera budget to be allocated
preealy to financing public Investme projects. Shmold public savings be insuffcient, the domesti
f_in  g shortfal wil be covered from cowuntpart fimds gentd by baance of payments aid.
26.   The PIP wiUl be mainly prepaed by the Ministry of Plan and wil benefit from consultations with
sector  minities and donors. The Ministy of Pla wil issue admintve orders prescribing the
selection and appraisal criteria ta a PIP projects must mee as a condition for iporation in the
unified budget
27.   The Governmet wiUl use the project data bae as a means of verifing complice with all
eligibility and appraisal criea on which depends Iono n of projets Into the PIP. This tool wil
be futher improved so that it provides a stndadized melhod of evaluatig the extet to which any
project is cosistet with sectr policies and strategies.
28.   Begining in 1992, pulibc resources have been allocatd under the unified budget. All public
exp_km by the cerl governmet, together with public eterpris investments financed fiom
subsidies and finds onlent by the TreaLy, have been included In a unified budget under the heading of
capit _hure. In addion, al counterpart fund accunts have been clearly Identified as central
government depos  and placed with the Central Bank. All public ex u  disbu    from these
accun  have been reflected in the budgeL



ANNEX L.a
Page 5 of 15
29.   PAor to preparadon of the Governmens gener budget, the Mnistry of Plan wiIl submk the
pwoposed m    omic framek t the Govemnt for aroval. This framework will be doeeoped
by a tecical commtee chaired by the Ministry of Plan and consist of  es from the Ministy
of Finance and Central Bank
30.   Ihe Mistry of Finance and the MiWty of Plan will be joindy responsible for drafing the
anual Finance Law. An inter-ministerial committee will be stablished to preare the PIP and the
Integration of the PEPs, TCPs and PIP It the budgetay proce  and their annual budgetized rche
into the Finance Law. This budget process will respect a timetable that outlines the sequence of actions
to be undetaken f*m January I to Decmber 31 of each year, and which Identifies the respective
responsibilities of each tecal group from the Ministries of Pla and Fiace and the Central Bank
(BRB).
31.   Ihe Ministe of Finmce will overee budget execution. The Govemment will ensure trough the
unifled budget that public savings, prior to the Imposition of new and/or higher taxes, are firs generated
by reducing subsidies to public enterprlses, radonaizing resources in the PEPs, administratve refrm,
cost recovery policies, and reducing the number of Import duty exmptions (except for those oudined in
Vienma Convenon and the bivsent code). These savigs, which will enable the Treasury to pay down
Its debt to the domestic banldng systm, wil also help finance public invetmen.
32.   Finally, the Governmen, with World Bank support, prpos  to introuce a national accoundng
fhmework that will ensue the complete transparency of all financial opeions and pave the way for
adoption of rulations designed to inprove budget execution.
A.2 R aa of currenteadiu
33.   An analysis of the stucte of e        has revealed a growing inmbalace between wage
expnditures and CU    ependtes on goods and services. Given the objectives of the program, the
level of exnditur on goods and services will iase it8 ratio tD current expenditure from 24.9% in
1992 to 30% in 1994, equivent to an increae of FBu 9.7 billon.
34.   The Government has decied to Improve the strcture of expnditures by liing wage costs and
dire   d indirect subsidis to public entpses.      wil help Inc e savings to maitan economic
and soc8  i.
35.   In the context of redocin wage epdhr, altoh   the objectve i to stabilze the wage bil
in real terms withi the short term, it wil be reviewed following the reform of the civll service.
36.   Stabilizaton of mst misi maing taes has aledy bee aceved as recruitment is
creny limited to replacing only vacnt budgeted posts. Mhe policy is to maintain recruimt to
approiately 1,000 unIts per annum oveall with preferen  given to the social ministries.
37.   On completion of the current execise to evaluat the mat    of skills with job
the Government will be abe to Ientify   service staff who shold be redeployed or ecuragd to find
Jobs In the private sector. Inducemes to leave will be nesary only in cases where the individual



ANNEX I.s
Page 6 of 15
cannot be employed usefully In some other govement position. Ihe number of persons affected will
be very low, since the civil service in Burundi is not overstaffed.
38.   Since 1991 all govern      workers with reguar and fixed-term contracts who have reached
reirent age have been nvited to leave the civil service. These eforts will be continued in 1992 and
1993 by ensuring that prolongats of service or replacements are allowed only in cases where they are
absolutely Idispensable to the proper functioning of govrnmet departm.
39.   The Govement has begun a rtvision of the Civil Service Staff Rules and intends to alig tem
with curt policy aims and, in particular, to add legad provisions that will facilitate: (i) improved
management of the civil service; Ii) Insistence on efficient performance by civil servants; (l) motivation
of civil servas, in pardcular through better orguanizaon of career Jevelopment channels.
40. In addition, an ongoing UNDP-supported study designed to provide a census of civil servants and
descriptions of their job positions will clarify the tasks and skills in the various units of the civil service.
Tho stody wil also provide a means of dermining which fnctions te authorities could hand over to
the prvate sector, local communities or private entities (for example, NGOs). TIis would, in wn,
reduce other curent peditues, particularly in the form of allowances and transfer payments.
41.   S neouy, the Government will encourage local communities and NGOs to take on an
Ireasing share of the responsibility for development As part of this move, it will redouble efforts to
recover cost in the health, education and other public sectors.
42. As far as subsidies are concerned, the Government is committed to reducing them by a significant
amout and, more particiuarly, to elimnating direct and indirect subsidies to public enterprises by 8.8%
of the tot budget in 1992 and to 7% in 1993. Moreover, enteries to be liquidated will no longer be
athrized to obtain new loans or undertake new investment projects.
A.3 Reform of oblic idses
43.   Since 1986 the Goverent has gone to considerable lengths to reform PEs in order to lessen
their burden on t'he budget and to Improve their perbrmance. ITe responsibility of monioring and
supervising ths sector was entrust to SCEP, an agency created in 1986. Its chief task has been to draw
up apprpr   instrumen  setftng out a clear management and monitoring strategy, the main elemens
of which are: (i) definion of the sector rough classification of PBs by type of activity and legal status;
(i) revionof the frmework witin which the PEs fit so as to strengtien their wtonomy of maagemnt
and clari the sttutonal links betwehem and the Government; (ii) iroduCtion of a management
Ifomadon system,; v) formuon of rehabition plans and the signing of pefmance coacs with
the principal PBs (OTRACO, REGIDESO, SOSUMO and VERRUNDI); and (v) adoption of a system
for ex      diidag of the fancial sments for all PEs.
44.   So far, tee has been no improvement in the net financial flows from the PEs to the Govemez
Ivebmet retu  In the sector remain low, borrowing by the PEs has reacbed untenable levels, PEs have
consintly been granted indirect subsidies, and their tax and aas have accumulated.



ANNEX La
Page 7 of iS
45.   The Governmes policy towards the PE sector adopted in January 1991 focuses on making it
cost-effective. To this end, more far-reaching reforms have been instiuted to reduce the Government's
role in the productive sectors of the economy by creating conditions that will attract private investos,
and to lighten the financial drain on the Treasury created by the PEs. Ceiligs on domestic credit to PEs
(in which the Governmte holds over 50% of capital) have been agreed to with the Intrnadonal Monetary
Fund, with provision for the issuance of periodic reports. The Government will no longer extend Its
guarantee to PEs, and a Ministry of Finance circular was issued In February 1991 to all commercial and
industrial PEs advising them that indirect government subsidies were virtually eliminated. A study has
been carried out to Identify strategic or profitable PEs and to allow decisions to be taken regarding their
future (rehabilitation, privatzation or closing down). The Govenment has also approved a regulatory
and judicial framework for the privatization of PEs, in addition to adopting a Privatizaton Law and
seing up monitoring endties.
46.   Based on the findins from the above study, the Government has adopted a detailed action plan
to implement PE reform, which includes:
(a)   Classification of public enterprises by type of reform. The total assets of PEs sated for
reform amount to FBu 130 bilion as of December 31 1990. According to the classification,
the State will: (i) liquidate ten (10) PEs equivalent to 4% of the State portfolio; (i) privatize
their capital equivalent to 4% of the State portfolio in PEs; (ili) privatize the management of
PEs though contracts for management-leasing or other appropria  means equivalent to 5S%
of the State's capital portfolio of PEs.
(b)   An implementaion calendar  (i) prior to end-1992: the liquidaton of ten (10) PEs,
privatization of capital equWalent of 2% of assets; privaizaton of management equivalent to
12% of asset; an implementation calendar for reforms of PEs newly classified will be adoted
prior to August 1992 (Annex Ilc); (H) prior to end-1993: the prvatbaon  of capital
equivalent to 4% of assets; the prvatization of management equiaent to 37% of asseti; (di)
prior to end-1994: the prvtizaton of capital equivalent to 8% of assets; the pivazato of
management of PEs equivalent to 6% of assets. The deadlines oudined In sections (a) and (b)
above are the final dates by when final decisons must be made for the entis  that wiU
not have been privatized.
(c)   The p     aon strateW for each PE which spells out the shares for nationals and foreigners.
47.   PEs eamartked for rehabilitation will be requied to enter into pefmance co s which will
contain ptovsions for semi-annual evatuations. The Govemment will continue to eliminate from Its
portfolio any PBs dth are not economicaly and fnaciy viable. The Government wi refrain frm
creating new Pes except for those approved in the context of the PIP or on-going Pe reform efforts.
48.   Tn addition, the Government has recently completed a sector study on GovermentPE finac
flows and on cross-indebtedness among PEs from which an action plan to reduce PE financia dependence
on the Treasury has been fomuated. According to the plan, net deficit of Stat-PE financitl flows will
be reduced to FBu S.1 bIllion in 1992, FBu 4.2 Billion in 1993, and FBu 3.8 bilion in 1994, equivalent
to 8.8% of total expenditres of te unified budget In 1992, 7% in 1993 and 6% in 1994.



ANNEX L.a
Page 8 of 15
49.   Pgs remaining in the Govenme's portfolio will be managed as profit-making conean. To this
end, they will be fee to set the prices of the goods and services they produce, and will be entWed to
compensaion when prices ar to be adminstr  and kept below their real level. Reques  for
compensawry and provisionad subsidies will have to be fled with the Goverment prompdy enough to
enable it to examine the mert of eah case and, where applicable, to include fimding in the budgetary
cycle. The PEs wil be expected to contie investing thik cash resowces for the highest yield, finmce
their own investments and mee their obligations to public- or private-sector tird parties. In the intest
of sound management, the Govmeent will require PEs remaining In its portfolio to follow privae-tor
management methods.
SO.   in addiion, the Govenment wil set limibt on both direct and indirect subsidies to the PEs. In
this regard, all import duty exemptons were abolished in April 1991. In order to esue rational
investment decisions, those PEs in which the Government holds over 50% of capital will be required to
submit their investment plans to the Mistry of Fiance for approval. Mpreover, they will not be
authorized to Invest in other PEs earmarked for privatzation or to take up equity holdings in public- or
private-sector enteprises regardless of whether these are aready in operation or to be created.
B. Supply Reponse
51.   The economic reorms for enterprises are expected to boost eonomic productivity with a view
to achievig average growth of 4% during the program period and maintainin Inflation at moderate
levels. The anment of these objectives wlll be uppforted by the establishmt of an envkioment that
encourages etr        p  competion, savings and lnvestment. The Government will seek to
eliminae dbstorons and conai hat interfre with the normal interplay of market forces, to
stregthen Incentives for export and investments, and to improve Insttuional caacity for providing
upport and advisory servies of the private sector.
B.l ComrnaLand    a wiI
52.   The reforms in this sector wDI be cenered on eliminating reguatoy bottlenecks and improving
bureaucratic incentives with a view to making the economy more dynamic and competidve.
53.   The Government has undken a review of the investment code with the goal of achieving
aomatc and tra ent access to the r      ed beneft and the investment code's utilization as a
true marketing too.
54.   Mme Government also plan to review the oveal ommeid  and business code to create an
wnronent conducive to priva inative. his reform, in the context of a review of current legislation,
will seek to conceive new staes In areas where a lack of legislation has been identfied, and wil seek
to simplify adminisa  procdum . To this end, reom and   I    n  of the Com _mcial Code
in the scope of private sector rerm wil be considered a priority.
55.   In order to make Burundi exports more competitve, the Goverm  is commited to liberalizing
trade and xchang controls. To tat end, dministratve procedures that still hamper the estbishment
of new busine    wil be made less cumbersome.



ANNEX l.a
Page 9 of 1S
56.   in addition, the Governmen plans to completely liberaize foreign commerce with the adoption
In May 1992 of an OGL. At the same time, teCeral Bank will surrender its dutes in this matter to
commercial banks.
57.   With the assistuc  of the IW, an appropriate legal and regulatory framework for the
management of a less centralized exchange system will be put into place.
58. In tandem with the liberalization of foreign trade, a new system of exchange rate management
by the BRB was implemented in Apr 1992. Te FRu, no logr tied to the SDR, is now tied to a basket
of foreign currencies which bett reflect the composition of Burundi's ineadonal trade. Furthermore,
commercid  banks have been authorized to establish their domesc excbange rates wiin a spread
determined by the BEB and to carry out exchange bt actos for their own account or for clients.
These reforms wil be supported by the adoption of appropriate pricing policies aimed at the opdmal
allocation and udlization of resources. The Government wil completey abolish price controls, with the
exception of those afing monopolies, which will be adminred by tripartte commissions, economic
agens, government agencies and consumers. Electricity, water and mass transportation rates were
revised upwards to enable PEs In those sectors to recover all costs and therby Impove their financial
itudion. As  gards agdcultural prices, the objective is to contdue liberdization. A floor price will
be put into effect for coffee, cotton and tea, since for all otier products' prices are fully deregulated.
59.   Moreover, the Government is planning to improve taxation to make it more likely to improve
economic productviy. in this respect, tax reforms will be introduced with the joint suport of the IMP
and the Word Bank and the results will permit the reduction of the customs tariff spread for non-luxury
products to a minimum of 5% and a maximum of 30%, and to reduce to a maximum of 70% the tarM
for luxury products. A reviow of the list of this last group will also be made.
60.   In the metme, the Governm    adopted a policy of eliinat  exemptions from Import duties
except for dtose stipud in the invesuet code. It also made the administrtve prcedures for
drawbaclk and the prefial system of taxadon for export befits more operational and flexible.
61.   Lasty, to improve the ntioncapacity to suWort privat  sectwr devdopment, the
Goverment will assist the CCIB and the APEE in seeking technicd and financial assistauce from donors
for carying out its task. Measures wil be tamen to strengthen traiing in management, technology and
industrialJ matenac. Mbe progm has aread;' been formulated for _id    maintenance, and the
need for expertise in  Itr  management training wiU be ideiied in 1992. Ihese meass will
receive support from the prvat sector technical assice project.
62.   Addiol meues wiUl be taken to eourae the emergence of a dynamic and competiive
mana ig secor, includig: i) the development of serviced industrial lots for sml and medium
industry; (i) establishment of "free trade stats for emnpries oriented totaUy or primary toward
exports.
B.2 &WmdWW turl aol
63.   Because th a ure sector is the keyston of Burundi's economy, it will receive special
aention. The Goverment wl establish structures and mecnsm   to: (i) increae produedon of the



ANNEX La
Page 10 of 15
main crops, in particular food crops, to improve the diet of the population; (i) increase the productivity
of cash crops, particlarly through the dereguation of prices and privatization of management; (ii)
promote greater diversification and inease producdon of exportables. At the cash crop level, a series
of measures will be itroduced to increase their rate of growth during the program.
64.   Becase of their importance to the food production sector, special autention will be given to the
following programs: (J) undersWnding and implementing of erosion-ontrol techniques to stop soil
degradation and protect the work already done; (ii) rational use of fertlizers and selected seed;
(Iii) increase research financing and focusing it on research and development; (Iv) promotion of
appropriate rural extension methods; (v) formWlation and updatig of agricultural statistics and
strengthning of the 'Food Information Rapid Alert and Maagement System."
65.   As regards production and seed, an appropriate strategy for the production and distbution of
selected seed will continue In accordae with the natonal seed plan adopted in 1988. In regads to
fertization during the program, the Government will carry out applied research on the types of lime
enrichment appropriate for agriculturl usage. Likewise, appropriate handling techniques wil be
reseached and made known to the private sector. In additon, the marketig and pricing of fertizers
has been totally derlted.
66.   With a view to Improving competitiveness and the retum  on cash crops, the Government will
introduce a price policy that responds to market forces and have agents in the private sector manage the
entire cycle, in partar, processing and marketing. For its part, the Government will concentae on
providg advisory asistac and conducting research, including rural esion, reglation and quality
control. This action has already begun for the coffee sector and will be gradually expanded to tea, cotton
and vegetable oils.
67.   As regards stockrling, the Government will make greater headway in the gradual privathzation
of state fams. This action is under way and wiUl continue troughout the program  Wherever possible,
a budget line wil be allocated to stockralsing under the projects. ITe inteaion of firming and
sockrling will remain a priority. lhe Government will consequently eliminate by June 1992 disparities
in custms and tax. rates between inputs for agriculture ad tockraislg and between the private and
public sectors.
68.   CroppIng techniqes that conserve water and pro   the soil wil be improved, and legilativ
and laud tenoure       will be studied. In additon, means for improving cooperation between the
Ministry of Aricltme and Stckasn and the Mistry of Development, Tourism and the Enirmen
will be detemned and put into practe for the desig and implion of programs in the field.
69.   As regards resec, closely linkd programs will be coordinated. In supple     those
progms, network-based research, such as that used for small livestock, will be encouraged. Efficient
mechanisms fbr cooperation with fmerl       and rura exension personmel will be developed by
improving researh workshops. Research will focus on animal breeds best adapted to more Intensive
exploitation systems, and the Integration of stockraising acdviies and protection of soil fertility.
70.   lhe allocation of resoures among the vaious reseach progrms wil be improved. The finds
will come from both the Government and foreign donors, including mixed and private companies.



ANNEX I.a
Page 11 of iS
71.   With a view to further improving the peformanc of agricultl producdon, a private collection
and dibuton network will be organized to facilitate trade. Animal tion will be introduced in tura
areas as an efficient mes of tasporting products to the main roads.
72.   Lasy, the Governm   will develop and dissminate through rural extensions appropriate meams
of processing and consevat  so as tO avoid post-hrest losses and shorages. This action will be
cadrred out through developmeat projects and agricutural extemion services In the mral areas with the
suport of the National Food Techology Center.
73.   As regrds the regulatoy famework, the Goverment plans to analyze the following measures
duing the program: (i) new means of cost recovery for payswaan land development relative to th level
of Inteification realized by the farmer; (i) establim  of other enavironment protection reguladons;
(il) policy for leasing state-owned land, which could be based on the developmeat potent  of the land
in queson; and (v) involvement in promoting producer associations with a view to increasing their
negotiti  power vis-k-vis the suppliers of production inputs or purchasers of their products and
providn their members with the services they nee1.
B3  IsDoli
74.   In seeking to match employment supply to demand and to sti_m e the creation of new jobs, the
Governmen will hoduce strategies that reconcie the gradual hirn of avaiable manpower and the
estalishme  of a legilatve envromment suited to the country's socioeconomic development. To at
ed, curret revision to the Labor Code wil seelk to: lighten non-wage costs shouldered by coies,
make administrative procedures more flexible, deregulate recuitment and bring about broad involvement
In the formulon of working conditions hough collective bargaining. The new Labor Code should be
f.insed in the second quarter of 1992.
75.   Specific aconm have alrady been envisaged and include: (i) liberalization of employment
condions for exriate manpower. The Government wil replace the double work authrization permi
required for freiW  reddent In Burundi with a simple work permit; (n) a feability study fr the
etablishment of a pdvate health isuramce system with a view to having employees contribute to socia
co  beginnig in 1992.
76.   Furthermore, the Govermment wlU establish an instituonal framework to promote employment
in the busins sector. In this respect, private placemen  companies that match up job seekers with
employers has been authorized since November 1991. The Governm   wil introduce additional
mes to itfy and eliminate all legiative and regulatory constrain  on the abilty of investors to
create and promote employment
77.   lhe Goverment wiU fiurter develop with the assistance of varous economic sects a stratew
for promoting and Impleting employment programs in both the modem and Informal sectors. In this
regard, the Govment wi Implement measum  likely to: (i) promote labor-Intensve lnvesment (road
cenuction of pubc budings with local materials, etc.); () foster the structurng of the
Irmal sector by focusing on young school dropouts and women; (ii) promote the mobility of workers
among various economic sctors.



ANNBX La
Page 12 of 15
78.   Lastly, an effective vocational taing policy wfll be formulated with a VieW to adapti  curiCUla
to the needs of the markeplace and focuinSg teaching methods on enuraging private inive.
B.4 Money and credit policy
79.   In order to bring about a more effcdve suwply response, the Government will Implement
monetay policies capable of stimulating savigs ad invemt, and conting iion and presr
on the balance of paymen.
80.   in order to attain these objectives, the Governmnt has established seve  measures since July
1991: a system for Indirect contol of credit based on reserve requirements; an impvement in the
redicout rate; and unification of the rinancing rate since May 1991, which Is adjusted for changes in
Tresury bil rates and other macrconomic indicators. Similarly, aumatic recorse to reinci
from commerci banks has been eliminated and the amount of refin cing will be dmid   based on
monetary growth targets.
81.   In order to safeguard healthy competition between bank, the Govement has prohibited the
conerted settng of lending term  by credi i
82.   Ihe market for Treasy  bils  a pricipal instmet for managi  liquidity in the econmy.
Since July, the Governmen has sought to continue increasing thei efficiency and heighten their role in
moneay policy. ITe mmm amount of each subscription was reduced from PBu 100,000 as of July
1991 in order to iaem the number of partcipsm. Likewise, as of Jamuay 1992, the Govenmet
bn Isui  berer Treasuy bils and iase the frequency of auctions to twice a month, and these
ae sold with rebates. Furtmore, in the effort to crae  an active secondary money markt, the
authorities have ideified four finan l Itutions to act as primary go4etwees.
83.   LookIng to organe an active money maket, the Central Bank will seek to develop a secondary
mwket in which it will act as Intmediary between financi iniutons with ewcess liquidit and those
in need of liquidiy, with padcipas freely reponig to quantity and interest rates.
84.   Laty, with the a ce of donrs, the Govenmt will undeta  finan   reform to better
determ  monety and crdt policy and to Improv   e  stiotonal framework, paticourly In terms
of oversight procedures and bank supervision
C. Sodal Dmeons of Stru            Adjustmed
85.   The structu   adjustmen progm  also inludes acdons designed tO involve all sm     of the
ppulxao  In the deveopmet effrt and to offet any adverse effect that may arise from the
macroeco i refrms.
86.   During te SAC m program, the Governet's conce  as regards the socia dimenion of
structural adjustmet wi be centered primarily around the following three Issues: (i) vocatina
reaining; Qi) studies and urvey; (Hi) fnaning for the education and heath sectors.



ANNEX La
Page 13 of 15
87.   IWO vocadonal rernig pgm  wil be agtod towards employees of public ad para lic
ntprise, govenmen  wotkens who ar and/or will be affecot by the reforms adopted under the
program  and young grduates in serh of their irt job.
88.   To implement the ptocess, certain actons have beeo take since the beginning of 1992: the
creaion of a retining unit, impnof an isttuonal progm  (pecificaly, a rerning and
supervisy unit), and an evalon and search for reed financlig. The program wil focus ol: 0)
an Imprved diagnostic compont regarding human resources in all audits of hose enprises to be
reorganized; (i) the elinaton of taation on temiaion saowanc  (15%); (ii) the establishment of
a system  whereby those laid off would receiveocial services peding their retraining; Ov)
Implem aion of an inhrm         system desipdb to rak the exce and the progress of the retraining
program.
89.   Te objecdve of the Ostudies and surveys progm wl be to ientfy vulnerable groups and their
indicators, as welI as appropriate ways of improving the  mot    of those adversely affected by the
rctral adjusm    progrm
90.   The main dicat  will involve the fllowing: (i) employment statistics; (i) household Income
and expendiure; (it) health and  utrion statistics; (lv) education statistics; (v) staics on type of
housing and related infrastuctur  (vi) atural statscs cluding toe for agricultural enterprises).
91.   To carry out the pogram, the Govment has already eacted the following acdons: (I)
strengthed ISTBEU's abilHty t analyze and process data from the budget and consumpton suveys
of 1986-91; and (i) establiment of a system  r targeting vulnerable groups based on exstg data for
the vwrious sector. Furthermore, the Govement plans to eact te following complement actons:
50)   bishment of a pmmanent system for collectig ad preing data on household living conditons
to make up for  ps In iformaton and a an aid in constructing m          and socioeconmic
indicatrs; and (i) establihment of a studies fmnd to stregten th cacty of socW sectors in analyzing
Statistics.
92.   The studies and surve  program wil be dedSgned prmarily to assi  the Government in
formulating an effective strategy for finacng soci  senices, particulcary the education and health
sectos. Th strategy will seek to redefine the role of Goveanim  and odter parties inlved in finncing
education and health services.
93.   Ibe      G        has already identied the main polidis t  wil allow a financn strategy in
the  sectors to be implmened. In the ar  of basic educaton, the goal is to achieve universal educaon
by the yea 2000 by  creng the ave  number of stdepr la ssoomL Impoving the quality of
eduation wm be schved by better 8t   of tc m ad though schol ipections, and by access
to textbooks. Prmay education will remain the responl oft  of the State, although the patiipation. of
non-governmeMal--f-2- odonso             e      and the pvat sector will be encouraged. Loc
uwAts wi bav primary responsibiy fdo              ad rwt         of schools.
94.   Similar to deft at the prmary lvel, efin is wi be made to Imprve seondary educatio and
attendance levels. The maik elmts of the str    are: () ho gradual de   lizi  of finang



ANNEX La
Page 14 of 15
beginnin In        fom community day scol to public boarding school; and (I) encouraging gat
community and user pardcipation.
95.   Similarly, the quality of education wil be achieved by icreasing the availabiity of tetbooks.
When avalabe resources are deemed Insufficient, recourse to fineign assistance will be considered.
Given that prvate sector involvement at the seconday level is increasing, a nview system will be
required to ensure that the qudity of education remains adequate.
96.   Policies to develop educational opportunies at the informa and technical level will need to be
elaborated in close collaboration with the business sector.
97.   At the superior level, the gods are to improve the quality of education by matching the growth
of student to the needs of the market and the capacities of schools. A commision has been created to
study the transition from secondary to superior level and the disburement of new grants. Efforts to
readuce the costs of superior education by national means will be pursued.
98.   An analysis of financing cos in the health sector reveal three major problems: (i) the increnag
need of fnancing for basic operations; (iV inequtable allocation of public resources for primary health
care compared to odter health services; and (lii) inefficiency of programmg, budgeizaton and follow-up
of public expenditu  in the sector. The Governmen has take the decision to tackle these problems that
could, unless rectified, lead to incrng deterioration of the quality and coverage of health services.
99.   The Govement, in colabotation wi itenational agencies that help fnance the secor, will
eaborat a strategy to improve the quality and quantity of health services, of which the two main goals
are: (1) increasig self-manageent of health centers, begining with the hospital sector; and (@)
decntraizing adminitve services now under the Minisay of Health. Two results are expectd from
the fist approach: greater efficiency in health centers due to private maage_mn, and the hope that the
public health minstry (M)  will devote more resources to priority public health programs, provide basic
medicines to health centers and referral services, and personnel training and review. The second goal
seeks to decentralize the administaon of the MSP, adapting it to the needs of primary health care, and
to specialize the role of the MSP in areas of policy and plannin. To enur the success of th reform,
it is crucial that the sector's    r ing and financing strategies adapt to the new seoal appches.
C.1 lonua11on
C. I
100. Ihe Government of Burundi and the Economic and Social Council (CES), set up In March 1990,
ave amknowledged that the problem of rapid populon gVowth was a nationa priority second only to
nationa unity. Indeed, the asumal populadon gowth rate (3 percent) couldjeopardie frts undertaken
by the Governmnt in favor of the country's economic and social development. Faced with tis situation,
the Govenmeu has clealy identified birth control as the main solution to BuuNdi's popultion problem.
In order to instdte a successib birth control program, the Governmt has receny deided to create
a Nai Populatio Commisson (CONAPO) made up of r_1es from the country8 differet
soco-eco    c sto, and an Inter-Minal Tehnical Group on Populaon (GIP). The councl's
main tasks will be to develop and implement a national popation policy. The Population and
Planificadon Unit MM) wil be the technical seretarit of the Commission, with the latter directly



ANNEX La
Page 1S of 15
attached to the Office of the Prim  M ster. The GTIP will be made up of tehias from different
mistries and will serve as technical adviser to the UPP. Tbe UPP's role will be to coordinate and
assess population strat   withi the scope of the country's soclo-economic plannig. Terms of
referene ar currently beng rtviewed and a dre esablshing the existence of these strucures wUI
be promlgated shottly. Iese orgazatios, pardcularly the UPP, wil establish a national population
poicy prior to en-1992 and wl help ensure ha demograpic variables are Itroduced in sectora
development plans.
101.  Mhe Governm  has also set up a Bureau of Coordi; atlo for the Family Plnning Program
(BCPF) wfihia the Mins y of Health, which has recendy drawn up a medium-term fmiy planning
action plan (1992-1996) to become operational in late 1992.
102.  Finally, the Govement will undetake an anlysis of the fc   affecdtg family size in Burundi.
Ihe concions of tis study will help detify, wihin the conte  of popuation policy, programs that
wil in the long term reduce ft   in Burmdi. It Is obvious ta individual liberty and respect for
human rgbts wil be the two fimdamental principles that guide such programs.
103. It is projected that moderm contracve methods will be employed by 10 percen of potenti users
by the end of 1996 (as opposed to 2 to 3 pacent currenty in use).' Ihe Government will gunmtee dta
natonal resources are available for the operation of these new Insttutons. The Govenment will also
moblze the support of donors to ensure the success of its nadonal family planming program.



AALb
Page I of 6
BURUNDI: Shucmal Adjusent Crdit Polcy Mat&
L   PLIBFJCR&9OtRELM4MiG          lTMI
RWuiixto f      q pmitf       is-
cal 4ustnL                         Two pi ifidpo  pqed                                                          iD ioor _o    tA  t1992
1990  nd 1991 conist   with PEPs a   finairi  of dhe PIP.
1. PAwuMtug ad MmIte            f  sgrIm1K  haut #ad asOt.
hc -.ofafi   odd 199244 PP.  May 992
Piquantiwaof PBPs for agricnu%  -t
h1adh. and btasost9 in 1989,  90,1991 Mad  Cmat   of a unt in th  hiisy of rnae   Ay 1992
1992o do_
PIuawa of 3-yrmlgP aPnc 1988.
Adaptiw of a ivsd ified budgWt for 1992.     Apgt I992
IutogrstimaofallPE inwtnmntsitdiPEP.
Adoptic of a unified budgat for 1993, cossitot Jany 1993
Cdlect.  _nmgmt  of  an  dwoce  wi  th  (19939   u_c apadim  pmrs-
cwtuutfudsby de ataiDk                   incuig  civi  sevc   e,inn    eln
. ~~~~~Read    of dh"  m  hxUo   luaW                    o PEs
from 8.8% to ?%
Adopt.ofte 1994unfiedbudgetc           with  Dembe 1993
an   ca.. in no-wag  awat _axdtm  an
goods ad svie  to 30 peres  of  un
acpidis_ror Pfh 9.7 blion, wladive  is
hber ,
2.  Restrxeusring  of  PubUc
Agmement on an acio plan for c svice  Pin for reducing dirc ad inet subsidies to  May 1992
remfL PL                                      t  7% of _                 and i
funding of nan-wag cuml,t enpaxdieaites to 28%
Adopion of a tpans      selcdt  syslem for  of total aaditums by 1993 and 30% in 1994.
rennitamat in civil service.
Fioancing of te socil 'say ne  to I      ma   Januay 1993
Ag_ement on liitaio  of civil serve  pnonty expeditms m the dedcaton and halt
re4itmet to 1000 in gss twm  for 1992  SmCtom in the 1993-9S PEP.
ad 1993.



AJ  Lb
Pag 2 o 6
BWURUD   Structur  Adjustwent Cedit Polity Matrix
S    ie   of 1iudai    de8e   for 6  PE:  Ma t99
Rodc fiwgbd 1    of PBs an dk  Cad    ed de mvio  ill <p  of pplc  CADEBU,  OCMU,  OPHAVET,  ONAMA
rol of the sate in 6* productive  aitperisa  (SCIP). Dcre aon do ll  FEW  DE KARUZI, sad CDL KRYAM
Secto  to ihbso. emormifcmicy  frowoe for PBs Completo of tie sft#
shrcqh     -                      an aroHdebts. Privatzation of four agro-  Signt   ofe d     irCuar Letter  yppy     a  My 1992
industrel.                                 onio no   in-caml
PBs to be puivatired
Pdah_mof 4    oi~
tuf invi       to bids or ke   v       of dte  Agu  1992
Cko_ of 7 agius                          cia of all PEs slaed fo ,rivatimlu in 1992
anld d8ow of pda m         8omu CougCBm lbt
Agme11nton a privadtf       progm.       tdi   PBs wose       8 _                be
p    _vatkd in 1992 equialt to 14% of ases in
Sisuabu   of p _rfomance  conbts  for  the oa's poto. Timablt eform of te 26
OTRACO,  VERRUNDI,  REGIDESO,  PBs Veetly clasdfied.
SOSUMO.
Restrct_ing of SCEP sad putting io pace of dh   August 1992
F   of technicl vahuoco ees  Monitoing Mechaism  fr those Prs  to be
for PBs  laed for privtintion m  1992  pvatzed or  iquaed. Finalizadon of thO
equivalent to 4%  of asse  in the stas lsiq          of SCEP's Ihvnio P .
pofio. ssnce of lqdato decreas and
abidmeot of liquidaton        _        f   Complto of s    d                         De e 1993
theo mang 10 PBs to be iqded.
Completion of the p_aiatin of the eq  t of December 1993
C      1mdfication of 26 etepuim curently on-  6%6 of the state's portfolo (in set terns) or toose
clasified.                               PEs  hose capital will be pivadind  nd th
equivat of 49% of tho Mate's pofo fo  those
PEs whose   wgil be pivstird Takn
of gov_mw  dsW           n dng de no_
fot r  6e    cams of PE privatization (eg.,
s ung, liquidation private   _e         o
leasing). Comlto of bidding for te e of the
_ _ _ _     _                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pvatimtim ProgrAm._



ANNELb
Pdge 3 qf6
BURUNDL  StUctul Adjustme   Credit Polcy Mati
Mm..,., 7 -
~~~~~~~~~,.. .'                                                   .~    .: ....                         .~   .  ...._.   .           
EL INWOYN FOR PRI ANSC
DRVMMOPAPfif
1.  EA#eRw$a
Regua Cic         ru e ags rats  Ubxch   Inhodaction of a more flexi&  ecangp  gab  Ap M1992 (EM )
Fobmuy 1990.                              ayatma bind on mositftn of bay idicuooa
FEut  lintloa of 8afevs for tepatiati    Intoduto  of an OUL for goods,          af       y 1992 (ESAF)
of p s, diidends and 60 percent of lma    and insurance.
of heeiap woikr
Dem    fmof i_ exor Gd
to cawnurcia bmnka.
-                 of 
Gxpf*Sb _O
_lrfctaO rwfraicm
.. . .. .~~~~&bas



A,N  Lb
Page 4of6
BURUNDb Stucra Adjusbtent CreDit Pbo                   Matrx
3. Ubor May*A
hakdmdl  fimle  it ffi  madmet to  Ro    l of pio       a an laot.          Solid       to dke legistr of a  "n  wised  Deeembe 1993
fiwff mpbyn_d SUW&fim                                                      labor coa  ode, idn the dl stio of reud;of
Rdltimr of regaim  oan ureet veorm in  eqig   aypoy   to provide 100% of costs of
cit                                      mic  care for tdiir employees and de litfig of
Containsandim L
Lilizatzon of do r_iting   tm (in
nation of th need for pdor apprval fim tk h ime    of do pctice of mAtory wags  December 1993
M.pmw M_Dm       *.          Sfixing fr VU                  prm6oalt agi  wih dI
exep1ion of a mininum wag for mnied labor.
Revi.o of t  law ea foreign wwodbs
Opwoqy offiered to rpmt   eoo           to
e, bif4 ff dey so choose, a pvwhef
i_scbho for d*bmlym esing
4. Tdu P4bM.
Sl   ion b to do leIOlare of a dift avwiosa of  Decembe 1993
Reft8os de did_adons to p*Me                                               dIs (lma  Tax Code ad adoptionf ofer
sector         Im picit in in                                             reglations to eliminat  exig    esco
bum to.                                                                   adstortis  and  to  pauot  prat  sect
- P-
Roatiamins and dnm**f  doe legalnmb    to dos legisatur of a daft revid  December 1993
bumimms amirimummti                                                        -onia code.
6. Ta,WP4ns.
Role dio effactive ras  of p_tcn   Rvamen of all quantitative reictons by  Mm cstn  tarff spda is to be reduced to a  D      _cee 1993
tam                                     ndax_in. of 30% and ami um of S%. Satlig
of a   nx        cuswom taiff of 70% an lumry
Redcm in umber of tarif from 57 to S.  goods ad mvisin of die ist of luxuy goods in
RhduWb= of the spead to 1540% exept for  light of t    uft ofa joit Wo  Bmk/lMF study
luuy poducts (100%)                     of the fiscal sysm which will icu  me
of the impact on receipts



A4NAE Lb
BMRUNDMU Strtural AdjustUnt Ckedt Poic Matr
*|X _* .,*
7.1ApaAwwSear.
Uain eb a  d  to ioamaLg   Rabaaahn  SOSUMO        _      t and  a     lCh etter coafimbn  the cantatd uftIMy1992
paod     swaordingq to           pdfu     yhion systof
RAdc    of Es humdi          fo fuly
wvasd coffee                           Cir  k       ft SpeCi  de modities Of  e   y  1992
tam_"of to md _W    Fao              m&
Cu-a Of cofs tes                       ou wih cpubc fid
RPer  prograzto eliminat pot&Wo _t" mi  Poly naot an di pm        s     ant fi    of MW  1992
coSfe.                                   w coffo d in po     _
StWuy to chae               system  of  Poducer  -   hblhnta fir  Mwa 1992
*wh  fd&wi68  goVh    69 opr    aM                                         dy mn
Reyalian of the slidn scal  -  stm a for
ft  wahed cos                          Pic W mln o     f ip.                        a W  1992
lipirg d. aetn g    ily of th oohe  IbA%mhti  of di pw              _ 8Aetn  nd  M   1I9
-8 board (BBQ.                         p_of"&hfthdiogooff^
ofon, in, pl  on, nm.
Usilersatlim Of di. ric imiaL
.                         Di_   ~~~~~~~~~of tb  Inld law fw  _8cft    M19I
p_e, hited md sp= kb& to ssMod



ANNFLb
Poe 6f6
BURUNDkL Struul A4u_stnt Credit Pliy Matrix
mIL SOCUIL ASPECTS OF .HE
Foiw eqmIy in dwclopmt. Reduce  FcuWnof an sctio  piogsi inluin                om*m of mvitattm to bid for imknci aut of an  April IM9
de n pid Uowih of do pnpaimi       child  nutrIton, woenu in  deve1pnmeiw~  eecuftin aguaey for the  coeW pwm
ammiatnce to wman1lpeduc  vpalect, atreteg
for food macuntiesS.poi  c(of15% taxon  me=                                      py.    MOyim
Meadicadof p4dubs infn acigfwalth  Agrenmat an the mqor principl of a finaning  May 1992
mr*vce and eduation by  maring out of  straegy io Un deduaftin and bealth sectr
ldac    studios.
Elad _bo of rnveson pagrm fo pZusA            owe 1992
B    PdAidwmd of a globe) financing s=trateg for  dhat will be afftd by public ae     aW   cil
hlaf d educatio  cts                      svice  rfom,  _dW*     rtaining  and
_nungmmt for beolUd cmro coslt
S1m  safty netw for boe healt and eduction
mactr in th 1992-94 PEP.                  Put im place a btpting nd   Iin sysdem fr  Jum 1992
do    Idd off fmm  i         m~1--d pogta
S     _buiac of a dRft fiancn  sta   for adtepm    ad macit gmduaes tn sa&b of doiw
edtion an bm at iding die repcte  fistjob.
ms of Urn GOeMMnu11  MOB and die-
msaec.                                                  of th  fia g statg  ft Ido  Decmber 1993
___r_).



Am= 13-a
PAP I of I
fflunt-
la   aIICc nDmCll:
(tn prcat, Isen coulle rdato
"so   1990   199   1"a    "9a        19     1995      19ff
e--.                    o  - .
EL XnH
6r  Daustic <Preit/(W      1A I        3.5    4.9    4.4    4.5      4.5     46       4.7
Grmow esitt trc11     (Y)      -0.     1.9    62    2.9    52        4.9     5.0      5.1
Worte (amL2.9    1.0   15.9    1.4    2.0                            6.3     5.5      6.0
Coff                         -7.9    03   2.6   -4.5   -4.5        3.5      3.5     43
ltp"  (GFM)                   -15.1    1I    5.5    13    3.4        3.4     3.5      3.5
WA PER APtTA    flI:
CDP                            -3.2    02      1.8    1j     1.4     1.4     1.5      1
WY                             -5.0   -1.1    3.0   41       2.1     1.8     1.9      2.0
mOuuaptm                       -7.5    3.5    1.8   -0.      0.6     0.7     1.1      0.5
1. Debt S   tovitatot  A 10     316   416 4.8   49.5   52.3    52.0    523            54.6
-DSM .  (GFM)               M.    46.7   39.9   48.1    4.7    392       34.7    31.8
./P                          3.5    3.8    3.9    4.2    4.2      3.9     3.       3.5
L Intrt, total (au N)           15.0   14.1   162   V-.9   16.1    16.0    15.7       15.6
3. OM, tot  (8A  N)            826   OIL?  1017.1  1126   1211.8   12e.7   w55    14569
-OMIMP                      75.7   81.4   86.3   I.1    93       967    94.7      3.
Om  bIaow/P Y                  167   182   17        186   193    19.       19.6      0.2
Osmtc wkw/6P                    4A    -22    -1.0   -0.7    0.7      1.7     2.6      4.0
EWPM CWfs)P                     9.6    L1    9.7   8L8    9.5        9.9    10.4     10.9
Iqww (gWfa)/uP                 22.2   3Ls   27.6   3a7   293    3.          3.3      27.9
_mmiw                          182    15.8   16.7   186   17.8    17.5        ..
Total e dtlP                   27.8   3.    25   2.1   35.1    MA.4           ..
Olld8SaVsP  4                   3.1   O       3.5    5.4    5i      5.7      ..
Deficit/uP        5/           -9.6  -1.0   -9.7   -T.5   -72    -68          ..       .
UAMM  OF PMUUSM
1. Teed. BItu CM N)            -%582  -116.  -102.3  -117.  -121.4  -126.6  -10  -1262
2. also  b1a1   oiE N)         -13.4  -.3  -210.0  -25.0  -2f4A   -351.9  -260.5   -26.2
-4 of DP                    -12.3  -2.4   17.8  -3.0  -19.8   -L8    -17.9   -17.0
3.  rint kmut (USS N   61      -1*6O  -2.7  -211.9  -24.3  -23.6  -30.6  -28.6   -23.7
-o of uP                    -142   -2.8  -18.0  -2.0  -19.    -1L8    -17.8    -167
/ At umk1t prcin
2t WorWld w WRS 
3/ Inatu#  Fais a n stds.
4/ AMffc awrp (SSIIsI Waf).
5/ Gh a WOMatu htms ud .sttIQ gsa.
61 bIdre afficial   fsar copittalt mt.
9ssm  Ominut o &td (utm   dwnrdse IridcatwD.



m 1d1-b
pqsop f I
NAIME of MM
aJs dlla0, Clwit prlca
01       1W0      1991     190I     19S5      19f4     1995     190
A.  02mb of WIPS                 10600      89.2    114.8    182A      117.0    1.7    150.9    172.0
1. Nd         Iso (PM)         152      72.6     89J      a3          .0    109.0    129.9     19.7
2. Nan t S vcan                12.8     16.6      5.5      81.5     22.0     3.7      21.0      2.3
IL. Iau of anS                   2.0       314A     3L8      36.      3612      36.6    4115    40.3
1. Naddant (FM)               151.4    18.0    19.        1.9    26         5.7       24.0    25.9
2. 1Mfto SbMO                 101.6    125.4    13.2    136.9    1I.9    151.0    157.5    1i43
C.  wBca kiBal-147.0   -W3                         -210.0   -254.    -VA43    -251.9   -260.5   -V.8
D. Mt factor Iiam                -176      -145     -13.2    -11.      -11.8     12.2    -3.8    -124
1. Ftr  Rmpts                   8.9      82       9.7      11A      11. 11. 61    1533          153
2. Fcto P    t                 x.5      22.r     22.9      2S.0    25.       5.8      VA.1    2V.7
Total Uarst                19.3     14.1     162      15.9      16.1     16.0    15.7      1s.6
b. Odr Factr PP             72        86       6.7      7.1      7.5       7.8     11A      12.1
E. Not Prihat Trsufrs              8.6      10.1     11.      11.3     12A       135      15s      16.9
1.  at Rm.Ipts                  9.8     10.9      12A      12.      13.      14.7     16.9      1a2
i1   P "se teat12                        0.8      t.1       l.t      1.2      1.2      13        13
F. O.Am ugt Bete=
1. Isft. off. tsf     V      -1O56.0   -29.7   -211.9   -Z4.3   -263   -250.    -218.    -s5.7
a OfficiaL vtw        21       884      104.9    111.9    107.8   -11l2     116.A    113.0    117V.
3. MIs off.  0a               -6A.6   -12.8   -100.0   -1i5.   -130.8   -142    -5.6   -163
. LT CIta1 Inflea                 108.LO   12.7    159A        7.9    1292      140.9    1l6.1    W3
1.DfiratIwnw_ t                 0.5      1.3      0.9      2.9      4.0       46       52      5.5
2 OfficiaL CqAtat &mu          44.0     S.7      a3       S3.8      56.2     61.3     40        65
3. Not LTrlamdi                65A.4    68       93        913      49.0     75.1      5L9      273
S. 0ilaswm          S       63       943     15.9   m1          1012     12       119.5    10.4
b.I nq w                   30.9      27 .     29.6     313      3.1       30.1    3D.7       5.0
4. Odr LT inla ist)            -1.9     -1.0      -1.1      0.0      0.       0.0      0.0       0.0
1. Total Ow It. (re"t)           -20.0      48      -39.3    -t6.7               0.0       0.0      OO
1. at 8-T CitaLt                0A       7.1    1S.6         0       0        0LO     0.0      0.0
2 CWftat Fle n*f. V             0.0     -5.1    '41A       1L?       0.O               0.0      0.0
3. Erm & Odmlsd               -2A       -.       -13.       0.                0.0      0.0       0.0
I. a.u. In Not Ses_              -20.4      3.9    -20.1      48        16      -.       -10.     -11.0
1. Mt credt Fran P             10.9       .       S.6     18.1     163       5.8     -6.0       0
2. Uusnw Owsu  nw.            -313       3.9    -25.7    -829      -14.7    -123       4.5       5.0
V  Ictudo aLy photo trusfa
v  Not ILtrX  cpIta grwts.
V Atso inatus adubww  to rOtartier -
projectfas idhismot at      .



Il-c
kqm Id I
MfrL Foam=  BomUUWm MD=0
t..                       pro.. ---------
oCA* .ruA t  v                         s1o     Wg.V    211.9    54.3  250.6    M.6  28.6    .4
km t  ait                               30.9    25       56       31.3     3.1    3D.1    y?  3L0
OW  n IMt _u%                            0A.4    -3.9    3.7  2 .9         14.7     12.S    4.5    5.0
Uqudina (f                              11.0     0.0      0.1      2.3      4.1      5.9    6.0    6.0
Tawl Fl,wwbv
iRi            2182    2583    37.3    290.7    294.5    2.1  259.8  307.4
W-4    laA       nd42       .         .       .       .      .
Laws                                      3     %.3    12.8       V6       69.3     9.2   42.1   3.1
Bitantl orlrto                        2.1    30.2      DO       21.8    15         8.9    5.2    2.9
VAltllatutt crItws                    71.1    46.0      %.8       u8     5S8      44.2   36.9   212
-hofltfdu MA pojwt                  V.5       .        B6        9     295.8     A.4   25.4   14.0
-of .hfd.: MD kJ.                   15.0     5.0       7.5    30.0      4.5      4.9    ..
Prw    crsdl                          -1.9    -1.0       ..        .       ...             ..      .
I                                      11.0      0.0      5.7      ..       ..       .        .
Dlret fore t _tb,                      o0        1.3      0.9       ..       .        ..     ..
altst nAlf.  2f                        -21.9    -sa    *4OA         .        .        .       .     .
Dfdruu~wf frnm
edsftr  ma IbaI     2182       53      25.2       T.6    693      S.2   42.1   24.1
orw"                                                      1..    161.6   a132    1483   175.0  181.9
L1                                       ..       ..       .      3S.0     253      S15    366   48.2
i t        t                            ..      ..       ..      0.0      0         0     0.0    0.0
tlatom  ardft                           -.      ..       ..    X5.0    253        51.    366   482
-oWf. hdu  MA prouta                  ..       ..      ..      5.0    a0s       21.6   366   482
--of giIds MA SI.                     ..      ..       ..      10.0      ..    2QO
W                                        ..       ..      ..        A      M        11.7
Direct    m       nt h.                           ..       ..      2.9      4.0      4.6    5.2    5.5
Ialtt n..  V                             ..       ..       ..    -16.7      0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0
l;,  m I    s:          ..       ..      .. -.2    1W.9    216.1  216.8  a5.6
...........
Total Idtifid fiwerg                   218.2    a5.3    27.2    200.7   257.2    292   25L9  259.7
FfImIr. lt                              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.     .373    -29.9  -40.9  -4.?
v  Slu  offlclal tmwf.
2/ mckii. m         ad aulus.



ANNEX m
Page l of 3
SUPPLEMWNTARY DATA SHEET
StRUCTURAL ADJUNMENT CREDIT m
Secon I: Thetable of Key Events
(a)    TIM  tan  to prepare:             22 mout
(b)    Opradon prepared by:              Prim  Minister's, Office and Mistry of Planing
(c)    Project Identfication:            July 1990
(d)    Appai  Missions:                  November 1991, March 1992
(e)    Negotiations:                     April 1992
(t)    Planmed Dat of Effectiveness:     Septer 1992
Secion M: Specal MDA Implemenatio Actions
None
Secti        PolIcy Action and Coanditions of Second Tanche of SAC
in addition to the specfic conditions Idetfied below, second tranche rease wl be cotingt
uo saiactoy completion of a genera pefomance review of the program and of Bumndi's eonomic
manage_m. The specific conditions for second tranche release are:
-     in thebpui resor  managa rea, adopton of. (a) a 1993 unified budget consiste
wih: (I) a satisfctory 1993.95 PEP; (U) a 1993 civil service reruiment ceiling of 1000
ndibiduals (in gross terms); (i) a reduction of direct and indirect subsidies to PEs to 7
pecen of t    expndiue or FBu 4.2 billion, whichever is lower; and (lv) a social
saety net, satisfactory to IDA, which covers priority expenditure for education and
beat  and Ob) adopdon of the 1994 unifved budget asfactory to IDA consstet with
an increase in non-wage curren expedue for goods and services to 30 percet of
cut      e e e, or PBu 9.7 biion whichever s higher;
-     in hepulc ate rom area: () completon of all agreed liquidations (equivent
to 3 peret of public assets) ad the prvaion of the equivalent of at least 6 pecent
of the stte's  rtfolo (  aset terms); Ii) comletion of bidd    for the remainn
enepe  slated for privataton; and (i) conclusion of the re_manig private
management contrc (equvent to 49 percen of public assets); assets of enterpise for
which timetables will be received pdor to efctiveness wil be added to these mounts;
-     ih the regulaty area:  O) submission to the legilatue of a revised labor code
sebbmry to IDA, InCluding replacemn   of regulaons requihing priva  sectr
employers to provde al of the costs of medical care for employees  d their families
with a costaing arangement, and the liftig of  xcessive constrai  on dismissal; ()
eimiationt Of wae fixing for vatious prfSOinal grOUpS with the exception of a
mi _num wag for umniled labor; and (I) submision to the legire of a trised
commerc  Code, satictory to IIDA;
-     hi t  ca s tarffrom aream  () reduction in the tariff spread on nonl4Uw   goods;
(A) treducton of the customs tariff on lmxr goods; and MD revis   of the list of lxury
goods, all Vsasfty to IDA;



ANNEXM
Page 2 of 3
- Sbdmsison to the leslatureeof th Genera Tax Codeoand adoptlon of odherreated
gations, satsctory to IDA, In arder to dimnate eitg nectoral distordons and
to promote prvate sectr development;
InVIementaton of the fnancing strategy for education and health (including cos
reowvery), satsfator t IDA, including the definitio of the respective roles of the
Borrower, the non-govmental orgaions, the private sector and users In the health
and education sectors.
eadon IV: lmport Iems for Finadug Under SAC
The proce  of tie credit are to be used for the rsonable cost of any and all goods required
durdg the execution of the Adjustment Program  wih te, following eKcepons:
(a)    epnditure for goods Included in the following S1fC groups or sub-groups, or any
successor groups or ub-grps under future reviions to the SITC, as designated by the
Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group    Sub-Group        Desaiptions of Items
112      -                Alcoholic beverages
121      -                Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refise
122      -                Tobacco, mam     ed (whether or not
contin  tobacco substitte)
525                       Radioctive and associated mteris
667      -                Pearls, precious and semi-precious stones,
unworked or worked
718      718.7            Nuclea rectors, and part thereof, fel elements
(catridges), non-irradiated for nuclear reactors
728.43    -               Tobacco procesing maciney
897      897.3            Jewery of gold, silver or pladnum group mas
(ecept watches and watch cases) and goldsmts'
or sflvesmiths' wares (includig set gems)
971      -                Gold, non-monety (ecluding gold ores and
(b)   expenditures in the curnq of the Borrower or for goods and scevs supplied from the
tory of Borrwer,
(c)    paymets made for epidor t the dat of th  Agrement, ecept
wihravas in an agggregt mou  not edig the equivalet of SDR 4.4 miflion may
be made on a6ccnt of payments made for such    e        during the four months
precding ta date;
(d) efor gods proed under conuat csting les than $10,000 equivalent;



ANNEX m
Page 3 of 3
(e)    expenditures for goods shipped prior to January 1, 1992;
(f)    expendiures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or international
financing Institution or agency other than the Association shall have financed or agreed
to finance;
(g)   expenditures for goods intended for milary or para-military purpose or for luxury
consumption.



ArrC IV
P. I of I
TME STAllS OF SlA  AlP OFEATI# IM .DI3
1. Statmgt of Oak Lam OW  MA Credits
04s of April 30, 192)
Low or
credit      fiscal                                        sar*       IDA I/    kdxsbased
SAber        Yar       Sor              pipg           (origirel) (origifrl) (reiriu)
. .._ ......  ...... ..........    .........................  ..............   . .......... ........
(A) Fuly Di&rsW
In. 016        1957     &nSadi                                 4.80
27 credits   19i6-1992    audi                                          3Z.67
--of Whidc:
Cr. A017       1906     &a         SfA                                    16.2D
Cr. 1711       1986     Sudi   SAL A                                      15.00
Cr. 1919       1988     Stusi   SAL II                                   90.00
(B) Disbhslir Creits
Cr. 1585       19i      Sardi   Fwxth Hiju%                              18.10         0.51
Cr. 159        195      8sudi   Paor Tnwnission & Distrib.                12.30        5.89
Cr. 1620       1986     0xudi   Sewod Forestry                           12.80        4.81
Cr. 1795       1987     sudi    Eoo. & PLb!. Et bnt.                      7.50         3.57
cr. 1806       1907     Surdi   Secad Telecam ications                    4.eo         3.96
cr. 1857       1988     Diudi   OWrna Agric. Deweltq.                    10.00         8.07
Cr. 1862       1988     budi   PcpAatian & Health                        14.00         5.06
Cr. 1801       1958     Budi   Edxatico Sector Develcp.                  31.02        12.26
Cr. 1809       1908     &xudi   S9all &terpriseAPEX                       8.00         5.73
Cr. 1968       1989     Bundi   Secord Urbwn DDe qp.                     21.00        16.48
Cr. 2024       1920     Snrdi   Agrialiatl Services Sector               33.10        30.56
Cr. 210        1990     laudi   Tvw)ort Setor                           43.2D        41.59
Cr. 2123       1990     MAUdi   Coffee Sector                            2B.00        2030
Cr. 2Z20       1991     Saudi   bry Seco Rdib.                           22.80        21.64
Cr. 2288       1991       auhdi    awer SWy Sector                       3270         31.40
Sb-tota  of wstive projects                                           29932        211.5
Total astWlrd   less (ocaellatias)                           4.8D     621.99
--of ich R>id                                              4.80       5.49
Total t. d (ld by S&rk ad OA)                                0.00     446.89
Total dldisasd                                               0.00     211.83
CreditsheW h68.72 21
............................................. 
I/ In US$ millios, ad less cselatisw.
21 9A of "Tota dm" and "Total wdisbrsecP is hiswr tOm
"Total anstrdivr' becam  of dqreciation of US.
2. StWtewt of IFC lIvesUfts
(As of April 3D, 199)
J-t.
1aber          Data       sarrl r     Typ  of iBusins          Lasn     411ty         Total
........       ----      .. ......     -----------            .....   .  . . .....   ..... .................... .............
571 U          1981     reris         Oltss cainers             4.8       1.00         5.80
Total gmw cmllist
--tess cwLa atias, rmltilce,
rM Mts ad sales                                             1.00        1.00
Total m      bitnits held bl IfC                     0.02       1.00        1.00
Total tadiabsed                                      O.t8       0.00        O.OD



tURD 23898
ZUlmR                                                                BURUNDI
TANZANL
>, N5RJ ..
6KIRUNDOO        It(  
\             '               ~~~~RWANDA        Jl                  ,- 
AN , cQOIrAKe    /                     1      t    ;       \',  /   MUY0NuA          {        TANZNIA
x    X    rl 9 ;()                Z~~~~~~GOI  
>:   BpB\  T KAY4~~NZA    X          / KRf            /       8CANKUZ 
( tA-0 > ( tn f X SUZI ~~~~CAKUZO 
,- W \ \ AS ~~~~~~~~~~RUYIGI 
/              BUJUMBU      MURA/AVYA
BWMB RA
ZAIRE        {                        t\                GITEGA                ;   > J  
<    < k  \   g    +    t-r    ~~~~RUTANA              t
/ t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ceiwc  Ds ProvflJ
l .. 2\ // ~BUT UTSi .........)1>RTl 
t  xYS        '               (      >'~~~~~~~~~~Giofi              Paved Roads              r
FRon,reuts RevetOes
I 1 \ g sk (or _-4  \     zXInternational Airport
GoT /                          F \%i   jS  w   \  }/   /   Aeroport lntemotional
)id /he  bOa W   jWProvince  Capitals
s  de ns  J   .Chef-Lieux des Prownce
_/t^AK~~~~~AtBA   w~m Nctional Capital
_i   ;   MV            Jo                              W  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Capitale Nationole
n& ffopba         -Proinc Boundarie
y - d       bo    SFron Kin reOs des PMET        nce
ww ~ ~~~~~~dAh   o tmwx
_,f. mod" hdsow ,,5, o e      IntemoionYl Boundo      199
DJ              1                   t4th bo6>f~~~~~m-u.? d ho*wff =Fironfties lnfemotionales
I   I         /                    *fSawsf erooc_          O~~~tfft?~01 Y    10  20  30   40
g   /   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILMETE
MAY 1992



