Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2376 BU
(Third Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 22, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2376 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter with attached annexes dated 
April 20, 1992 from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to achieve
structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in the financing of needed imports of goods and 
services required during such execution;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of Belgium (AGCD) a 
grant, in an amount of BB 600 million, in support of the Program, on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an
Agreement (the AGCD Grant Agreement), to be entered into between the Borrower and 
AGCD;
Page  2
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the European Development Fund (EDF) 
a grant, in an amount of ECU 21 million, in support of the Program, on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an
agreement (the EDF Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and EDF;
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of France (CCCE) a 
grant, in an amount of FF 20 million, in support of the Program, on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the CCCE Grant Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and CCCE;
(E)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of Germany (KfW) a 
grant, in an amount of DM 20 million in support of the Program, on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the KfW Grant Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and KfW);
(F)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of Japan, a grant, 
in an amount of Yen 500 million, in support of the Program, on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the Japanese Grant Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the Government of Japan; and
(G)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in two tranches as
hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed 
out of the 
proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Development Credit 
Agreement.";
 
(b)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of 
the Credit."; and
(c)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
34/Rev. 3 (1986);
(b)
"Franc Burundais" and "FBU" mean the currency of the Borrower; and
 
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
Page  3
this Agreement;
(d)
"PEP" means the Borrower's Public Investment Program for all sectors with 
complete Public Expenditures Program for agriculture, education, health, 
transportation and roads, rural
development, energy and mining;
(e)
"SCEP" means Service Charge des Entreprises Publiques; and
 
(f)
"BRB" means Banque de la Republique du Burundi.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies
equivalent to twenty two million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 22,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such 
Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special account in BRB on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule a4á to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2002 and ending March 15, 2032. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2012 shall be 
Page  4
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay 
twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at 
an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of United States of America is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) BRB is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby 
entrusts BRB with the responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications 
under the Credit and for the
collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished to the Association in 
support of such applications.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound 
accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
Page  5
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals. 
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall ensure that no actions will be taken inconsistent with the program.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
an event has occurred which shall make it improbable that the Program, or 
a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Program shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the agreement 
providing therefor; or
(B)
any such loans shall have become due and payable prior to 
the agreed 
maturity thereof.
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that:
 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower for performing any of 
its obligations 
under such agreement;
 
(B)
adequate funds for the Program are available to the Borrower 
Page  6
from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the 
borrower under this Agreement.
 
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraph 
4.01 (b) (i) (B) shall have occurred, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of 
that Section.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. In accordance with Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement is also contingent upon the 
following conditions:
(a)
the macro-economic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with 
the objectives of the Program;
(b)
adoption by the Borrower of a revised unified budget for 1992, considered 
satisfactory to IDA;
(c)
issuance of invitations to bid for the privatization of capital of public 
enterprises slated for privatization in 1992, in accordance with the Program, and 
signature of private management contracts for those public enterprises in which 
management is to be privatized in 1992, in accordance with the Program, representing 
14% of the Borrower's assets portfolio, and adoption by the Borrower of a schedule, 
satisfactory to IDA, for the restructuring of 26 public enterprises listed in the 
Program;
(d)
adoption of a restructuring plan for the SCEP and a surveillance 
mechanism of public enterprises to be privatized or liquidated under the Program, 
satisfactory to the Association, and
liquidation of the Intervention Fund of the SCEP.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
B.P. 1830
Bujumbura, Burundi
Telex:
5135 BDI MINFIN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  7
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By /s/ Julien Kavakure
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account for expenditures made 
(or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, 
as designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group       Sub-group               Description of Items
112               -                 Alcoholic beverages
121               -                 Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                    tobacco refuse
122               -                 Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                    or not containing tobacco
                                    substitutes)
525               -                 Radioactive and associated
                                    materials
667               -                 Pearls, precious and semi-
                                    precious stones, unworked or
                                    worked
Page  8
718            718.7                Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                    thereof, fuel elements
                                    (cartridges), non-irradiated for
                                    nuclear reactors
728.43            -                 Tobacco processing machinery
897           897.3                 Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                    platinum group metals (except
                                    watches and watch cases) and
                                    goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                    wares (including set gems)
971               -                 Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                    gold ores and concentrates)
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 4.4 
million may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures during the four 
months preceding that date;
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $10,000 
equivalent;
(e)
expenditures for goods shipped prior to January 1, 1992;
 
(f)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance; and
(g)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose 
or for luxury consumption.
3.
Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than US$1,000,000 may be permitted by the 
Association upon the basis of
statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify.
4.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have 
reached the equivalent of SDR 8 million, unless the Association shall be satisfied, 
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on 
evidence satisfactory to the Association: (a) with the progress achieved by the 
Borrower in the carrying out of the Program, (b) that the actions described in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, and (c) that the  macro-economic framework of the Borrower is consistent 
with the objectives of the Program.
5.
If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 3 above, the Association 
shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken 
are not satisfactory and,
within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and 
taken actions satisfactory to the Association, then the Association may, by notice to 
the Borrower, cancel the
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
Page  9
$2,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through international competitive bidding in 
accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the 
Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity 
to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a bidder's 
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid; 
such advertisements should be 
placed in at least one newspaper of general 
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in  addition, in at least one of the 
following forms:
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Forum, 
Business Edition; 
or
 
(ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide 
international circulation; or
 
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in 
the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the 
goods required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
 
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the bidder to 
state the bid 
price in a single currency widely used in international trade and 
specified in the bidding 
documents."
 
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
 
2.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less 
than $2,000,000 shall be awarded:
(a)
by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement 
procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of such procedures, provided 
that (i) such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the Association; and (ii) 
in case of goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $2,000,000 but more 
than the equivalent of $250,000 per contract, at least three prices quotations shall 
have been solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, except that direct contracting procedures acceptable to the Association 
may be used
when considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines; and
(b)
by other purchasers, in accordance with established commercial practice, 
except that direct contracting procedures acceptable to the Association may be used 
where considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.
Subject to the prior approval of the Association, commonly traded commodities 
may be procured through organized international commodity markets or other channels of 
competitive procurement acceptable to the Association, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
4.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to the Association 
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of 
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of 
the respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the advertising 
and tendering procedures followed and such other information as the Association shall 
reasonably request. Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds 
of the Special Account, such copies together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to this paragraph 
Page  10
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence required under paragraph 
4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
5.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this 
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to 
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit 
Account in respect thereof, such documentation and information as the Association may 
reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract. 
Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special 
Account, the documentation and the information to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph shall be furnished to the Association as 
part of the evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.
The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of
expenditure.
7.
Preshipment inspections, for quality and quantity and price verifications by a 
third party inspection firm will be required for all procurement, except that goods 
procured under paragraph 1 of this Schedule, shall be exempted from such price 
inspection.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
(Conditions for Release of Second Tranche)
1.
Adoption of (a) the Borrower's unified budget for 1993, in accordance with the 
following: (i) 1993-95 PEPs; (ii) a civil service recruitment ceiling of 1,000 
individuals (in gross terms);
(iii) a reduction of direct and indirect subsidies to public enterprises to 7% of 
total expenditures or FBU 4.2 billion, whichever is lower; (iv) financing of a safety 
net which covers
priority expenditures for education and health; and (b) the Borrower's unified budget 
for 1994, including an increase of non-wage current expenditure for goods and 
services, to 30 percent of
current expenditure or FBu 9.7 billion, whichever is higher.
2.
Disengagement (completion of privatization or liquidation) or signature of 
private management contracts equivalent to 59% of the Borrower's capital assets in 
public enterprises, and completion of invitations to bid for the remainder of 
privatizations under the Program.
3.
Submission to the legislative body of a revised labor code, including the 
elimination of regulations requiring private employers to cover 100% of the costs of 
medical care for employees and their families and easing of dismissal regulations, and 
elimination of the practice of mandatory wages fixing for various professional 
categories, except for a minimum wage for unskilled labor.
4.
Submission to the Borrower's legislative body of a revision of the Commercial 
Code, including accounting books, companies regime, registration of companies, and 
foreign exchange regulations.
5.
In accordance with the recommendations of the on-going study on fiscal reform, 
approved by the Borrower and the Association:
(a)
reduction in the custom's tariff spread for non-luxury goods;
 
(b)
adoption of a ceiling for the custom tariff for luxury products;
 
(c)
revision of the list of imported luxury goods.
 
6.
Submission to the Borrower's legislative body of a revised General Tax Code and 
adoption of other related regulations designed to eliminate inter-sectoral distortions 
and to promote private
Page  11
sector development.
7.
Implementation of a financing strategy of the education and health sectors, 
including a definition of the respective roles of the Borrower, non-governmental 
organizations, the private sector and users.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required during the execution of the Program and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $4.4 
million to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account in the 
respective equivalent amounts as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, less the amount of any 
Page  12
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Program, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
