                   INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET
                           APPRAISAL STAGE

I. Basic Information
Date prepared/updated: 08/07/2012                                   Report No.: AC6748
1. Basic Project Data
Original Project ID: P078539                 Original Project Name: India: Second
                                             National Tuberculosis Control Project
Country: India                               Project ID: P118832
Project Name: India: TB II Additional Financing
Task Team Leader: Patrick M. Mullen
Estimated Appraisal Date:                    Estimated Board Date: December 20, 2012
Managing Unit: SASHN                         Lending Instrument: Specific Investment
                                             Loan
Sector: Health (70%);Central government administration (15%);Sub-national
government administration (15%)
Theme: Tuberculosis (60%);Health system performance (20%);HIV/AIDS (10%);Child
health (10%)
IBRD Amount (US$m.):             0
IDA Amount (US$m.):            100
GEF Amount (US$m.):              0
PCF Amount (US$m.):              0
Other financing amounts by source:
         BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                          100.00
                                                                     100.00
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment
Simplified Processing                        Simple []           Repeater []
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery)
                                                                  Yes [ ]      No [ ]
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies)

2. Project Objectives
To improve diagnosis and treatment of both first-line and multi-drug resistant
tuberculosis in both the public and private sectors.

3. Project Description
An IDA credit (4228-IN) of US$ 170 million currently finances India's Second National
Tuberculosis (TB) Control Program, approved in 2006 with a revised closing date of
September 30, 2012. An additional IDA credit of US$ 100 million is proposed to
contribute to the first two years of the TB control program's 2012-17 National Strategic
Plan. The proposed additional financing will support implementation of modified,
additional and expanded activities that would scale up the project's impact and
development effectiveness. The Revised National Tuberculosis Control Program
(RNTCP) has achieved success in expanding access to standardized diagnosis and
treatment, exceeding globally-recognized targets. The proposed additional financing will
contribute to the program's next phase with its new and ambitious objectives. Component
1 (Strengthening and expansion of diagnostic and treatment services for drug-sensitive
and drug-resistant tuberculosis, US$ 71 million) will provide overall support to the TB
program and its National Strategic Plan during its first two years (2012-13 and 2013-14),
encompassing modified and expanded activities under the two original project
components. Component 1 aims support service provision to over three million
(cumulative) drug-sensitive and MDR-TB patients over the two year period. Component
2 (Development and start-up of new strategies, US$ 29 million) will support design and
initial implementation of new strategies to expand the program's reach to new patients,
including in the areas of public-private engagement, urban TB control, diagnostics, and
information and communication technology (ICT).

4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
analysis
The project is implemented country-wide including a focus on clinically and socially
vulnerable and hard to reach populations, especially the tribal and urban poor living in
the slums. Bank OP 4.10 was triggered for the current project and a Tribal Action Plan
was prepared and which has been implemented.

5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists
   Ms Ruma Tavorath (SASDI)
   Mr Satya N. Mishra (SASDS)

6. Safeguard Policies Triggered                              Yes         No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                         X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                             X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                      X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                 X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                  X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                               X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                     X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                               X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                          X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                   X

II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project.
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:
Environment: Environmental and infection control issues associated with tuberculosis
stem from clinical and infectious waste materials (primarily sharps including needles and
slides and sputum cups) generated from service delivery and treatment centers. These
issues are well defined, site-specific and easily mitigated if implemented in a systematic
and sustained manner during service delivery activities. However, with inadequate
attention and poor management, these issues can pose as a severe public health risk.
  Social: The project aims to support equitable provision of diagnosis and treatment
services to all sections of the society while reaching out to marginalized and vulnerable
groups, who are more vulnerable to the disease due to their health and socio-economic
conditions and suffer maximum adverse consequences due to high costs of disease
treatment and loss of work days. It is essential to address socio-economic, cultural and
health system barriers that affect utilization of diagnostic and treatment services by these
populations, including in poor/backward/tribal districts. It is necessary to establish
strategies to address the needs and priorities of the clinically and socially vulnerable
population groups affected by TB including tribal people and urban slum dwellers. OP
4.10 is triggered in view of the impact on tribal populations and accordingly a Tribal
Action Plan was prepared and implemented with supplementary social inclusion
measures for other vulnerable groups such as those affected by HIV/AIDS, urban slum
dwellers, and others. The project does not involve any civil works and does not generate
any involuntary resettlement impact.

2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area:
The project does not have any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to
anticipated future activities in the project.

3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize
adverse impacts.
The project seeks to target clinically and socially vulnerable populations including the
urban poor and the tribal groups affected by TB with the provision of early diagnostic
and treatment services. The project does not have any adverse social or environmental
impacts.

4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
Environment: For the current project, the Central Tuberculosis Division (CTD) prepared
and disclosed an Infection Management and Environmental Plan for RNTCP- II in 2004.
During the lifetime of the project, a manual for laboratory technicians was updated,
training modules were strengthened, and occupational good practices included in
Standard Operating Procedures for RNTCP workers. Training activities were undertaken
by CTD over the years and sample surveys found that the staff is generally well trained
and knowledgeable of occupational and bio-safety procedures. While treatment and
disposal of sputum cups and slides were being done as per the guidelines, there were
instances of some facilities continuing the practice of burning chemically disinfected
plastic sputum cups. Since the RNTCP is delivered through the general health system,
end treatment and disposal of waste generated by RNTCP are integrated in the overall
waste management practices of health facilities.

 Infection control and waste management practices are monitored on an ongoing basis
during the half-yearly Joint and Common Review Missions across a sample of states. The
Departments of Health and Family Welfare and National Rural Health Mission in several
states have also undertaken independent evaluations of health care waste management
knowledge and practices. During preparation of this additional financing phase, CTD has
undertaken an assessment of a representative sample of 40 centres of varying sizes ,
including a laboratory across 10 districts in 5 states. The average volume of waste at
these centres was 32-35 kg /day. Primary findings include that over 90 % of the staff
have sound knowledge of infection control practices and have been trained. Only 65-70%
of the centres have appropriate needle destroyers and adequate amounts of consumables.
The findings of the sample assessment match those of earlier reviews, which have now
been compiled and documented by the CTD. The recommendations focus on
strengthening the guidance from state to districts regarding implementation and
monitoring of healthcare waste management and improved budgetary allocation and
proper disbursement for this activity. A generic action plan has been drawn up which will
be disclosed by the client before negotiations.

 Social Assessment: Several efforts have been made under RNTCP to ensure equitable
provision of services to all sections of the society while reaching out to the marginalized
and vulnerable groups. Certain socio-economic, cultural and health system issues have
however continued to affect full utilization of diagnostic and treatment services by these
populations. A Social Assessment (SA) was undertaken in 2011 to understand how TB
affects the vulnerable urban poor and tribal populations, as well as barriers to access and
utilization of the program. The SA indicated high prevalence of TB amongst vulnerable
people, and high economic costs and consequences of the disease; it explored multiple
barriers, gaps and their inter-linkages affecting quality and outreach of the program. The
socio-cultural, economic and health system barriers affecting fuller utilization of services
include: (a) gap between traditional and biomedical knowledge causing delay in
diagnosis and treatment initiation; (b) stigma, family and community support and the
long path to care-seeking; (c) high costs of diagnostic tests, treatment and additional
drugs; and costs related to transportation and nutrition supplements; (d) geographical
barriers like location of facilities and difficult terrain in the hard to reach areas; (e) issues
of health system services (shortage of physicians, health worker attitudes, lack of
personal attention by clinical staff, "social distance" between patients and providers),
service timings and quality of care (with regard to follow up, attention to side effects,
counseling).

  Social Action Plan: Key actions recommended by the Social Assessment (SA) include:
strengthening societal and family support systems, improving community awareness,
reducing the economic burden on the patients and their families, and influencing
providers' behavior and organization of health care services to make them more patient-
friendly. These will complement the available biomedical interventions and assist in
better utilization of TB control services in resource poor settings. The Social Action Plan
prepared based on the SA findings includes steps such as : (i) increasing overall visibility
of the program through community level (IEC, demand generation, helpline) strategies so
that patients go directly to the health centre and do not depend on informal providers; (ii)
introducing financial incentives to support patients and their families; ( iii) strengthening
societal and family support systems through measures such as decentralization, widening
choice of DOT provider, community DOT providers, and travel support to minimize
financial and social cost of treatment; (iv) reducing stigma associated with the disease
through one-way and two-way IEC activities; and (v) supplementing community level
IEC strategy to provide information about TB and RNTCP.

  Tribal Action Plan: Institutional and implementation arrangements for RNTCP II have
been designed to increase access to and utilization of treatment services by hard to reach
populations. A Tribal Action Plan (TAP) was adopted as per the Bank OP 4.10 to
improve people's access and treatment in tribal areas through (a) IEC strategy adapted to
their social and cultural needs and settings, (b) community participation, and (c) enablers
and incentives for public and private health care providers to work in tribal areas. For the
next phase of RNTCP (2012-2017) which aims to achieve "early detection and treatment
of at least 90 percent of estimated TB cases in the community," the Tribal Action Plan
has been updated and shall be implemented with renewed focus in collaboration with the
Integrated Tribal Development Administrations (ITDA).
  The Tribal Action Plan focused on: (a) strengthening early reporting, (b) enhancing
treatment outcomes, and (iii) closer supervision of tribal areas. Specific steps included:
increasing case detection and treatment success trends in a sample of pre-defined districts
with higher proportion of tribal population; reducing default rates of female patients
compared to male patients; promoting locally adapted IEC messages and patient
education material in place; and having operational research results to assist in planning
and implementation of RNTCP in the tribal pockets. Key achievements of the TAP are:
(a) nutrition and social welfare schemes to support TB patients in some areas, (b)
allowances to encourage key health staff working with RNTCP in tribal areas; (c)
differential norms for establishing Designated Microscopy Centers (1 for 50,000); (d)
travel allowances to patients and attendants; and (e) honorarium for patients completing
the treatment as well as DOT providers.

  The TAP has been updated based on the SA findings to minimize access barriers,
default cases, and improve treatment for the tribal populations. The updated TAP
includes steps such as: (i) engaging more contractual staff from community, (ii) filling up
staff vacancies in tribal districts, (iii) developing locally relevant IEC, (iv) promoting
sputum transport through NGOs, providing travel allowance for patients and their
attendants, (v) increasing CSO participation, and (vi) providing decentralized, patient
friendly and flexible DOT services with improved human contact and community
participation.

5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Social: The key stakeholders involved in project preparation and implementation include
the state governments, public and private service providers and workers, NGOs, civil
society groups and networks working on health issues, those representing the interests of
vulnerable populations groups, state and district tribal administrations, and tribal
communities and their local representatives. The TAP was prepared in consultation with
the stakeholders, who are also consulted on a periodic basis for monitoring and review of
the implementation process.
 Environment: At the National Level: National Rural Health Mission and all other
programs under it, National Reference Laboratory, National Tuberculosis Institute,
Technical Support Group (TSG). At the state level: NRHM, Hospitals, Intermediate
Reference Laboratories, State AIDS Control Society, Public Private Interface Agency
(PPIA). At the District level: Common treatment facilities (CTF), NGO, District Health
Societies, District AIDS Prevention and Control Society (DAPCUs.



B. Disclosure Requirements Date
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                    No
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                  07/26/2012
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                              08/10/2012
  Date of submission to InfoShop                               08/07/2012
  For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive
  Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                    No
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                  07/09/2012
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                              08/10/2012
  Date of submission to InfoShop                               08/07/2012
Pest Management Plan:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
* If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources,
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental
Assessment/Audit/or EMP.
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please
explain why:



C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting)

OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report?             Yes
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM)         Yes
review and approve the EA report?
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the         Yes
  credit/loan?
  OP/BP 4.10 - Indigenous Peoples
  Has a separate Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework (as                       Yes
  appropriate) been prepared in consultation with affected Indigenous Peoples?
  If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector             Yes
  Manager review the plan?
  If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed        Yes
  and approved by the Regional Social Development Unit or Sector Manager?
  The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information
  Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's            No
  Infoshop?
  Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a            No
  form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected
  groups and local NGOs?
  All Safeguard Policies
  Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities         Yes
  been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard
  policies?
  Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project        Yes
  cost?
  Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the                Yes
  monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies?
  Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the                  Yes
  borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal
  documents?


  D. Approvals

Signed and submitted by:                                Name                            Date
Task Team Leader:                    Mr Patrick M. Mullen                             07/26/2012
Environmental Specialist:            Ms Ruma Tavorath                                 07/26/2012
Social Development Specialist        Mr Satya N. Mishra                               07/26/2012
Additional Environmental and/or
Social Development Specialist(s):

Approved by:
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:     Mr Sanjay Srivastava                             08/02/2012
  Comments: Cleared.Please refer to the safeguards comments in the email of July 31, 2012 sent by
  SARDE.
Sector Manager:                      Ms Julie McLaughlin                              07/26/2012
  Comments: Cleared
