                                                                               E3081



                         Revised National Tuberculosis
                              Control Programme


ENVIRONMENT ASSESSMENT and Biomedical Waste Management (BMWM) Plan




                                     July 2012
             Central TB Division, Directorate General of Health Services,
     Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Nirman Bhavan, New Delhi – 110 108
                    ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT


Introduction

Biomedical Waste Management (BMWM) is a priority for all federal and state health
programs within the Indian health system infrastructure. Bio-medical waste refers to all
wastes generated from healthcare and health research facilities and associated laboratories.
While most of this is communal waste, a small percentage can be deemed infectious and/or
hazardous. These include infected sharps and wastes with infectious, hazardous,
radioactive, or genotoxic characteristics, which if inadequately treated and managed can
have adverse impact on the environment and on public health through air, land and water
pollution. Therefore institutionalizing effective waste management systems in all healthcare
facilities is a key prerequisite to improving efficiency and effectiveness of healthcare.

The regulatory framework for environmental management in the health sector in India is
provided by the Bio-Medical Rules (prepared in 1998; amended in 2000 and 2003), which
apply to all persons/ institutions generating and/or handling healthcare waste in any form.
The Rules define bio-medical waste as “any waste which is generated during diagnosis,
treatment or immunization of human beings or animals, or in research activities or in the
production or testing of biological and including categories mentioned in schedule-I of the
rules?. The Rules, besides identifying the various waste categories, also recommend
treatment and disposal methods and the standards to be laid down for the same.

In 2007 National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) under MOHFW developed an Infection
Management and Environment Plan (IMEP) which defines a framework for implementation
of infection control and waste management in healthcare facilities. The IMEP contains a
Policy Framework as well as the operational guidelines for Sub Centre (SC), Primary
Health Centre (PHC) and Community Health centre (CHC) to manage infectious waste in a
hygienic, safe and environmentally sound manner.

Health Care Waste Management (HCWM) under RNTCP

The first phase of The Revised National Tuberculosis Control Program (RNTCP), aimed at
ensuring the expansion of quality DOTS services across the country. Currently, the program
in its second phase and with the World Bank support is targeting universal access to quality
diagnostics and treatment by consolidating RNTCP services and reaching special groups
with quality service provision. The National Strategic plan of RNTCP for 2012-17 aims to
‘Universal access to quality diagnosis and treatment of all form of Tuberculosis’. The
RNTCP, as an integral part of the NRHM and a part of India’s general health system is
committed to the implementation of the Biomedical Waste Management Rules and the
IMEP. Since RNTCP is a program that operates within the general health system alongside
other programs, waste management too, is an integrated effort that extends throughout the
health system and must therefore be viewed as a concerted effort across a variety of
programs, and not simply in isolation. .

The main types of waste generated through RNTCP include human/biological waste
(sputum), sharps (needles, glass slides etc.), blister packs and packaging material, plastic
residual (disposable syringes, cups, glasses etc), laboratory and general waste        and,
construction waste.

 The Central TB Division (CTD) had developed an Environmental and Bio- medical Waste
Management (BMWM) Plan for RNTCP II in May 2005. These were in line with the
IMEP operational guidelines and policy framework but more specific to RNTCP. The
BMWM Plan included specific activities and time lines. Since 2005, the following
progress has been made in the area of Environment Management:
1) Training modules for Medical Officers and Laboratory Technicians have been revised
   with the support of WHO.

2) Training of all cadres of health staff using a Training of Trainers approach has been
   implemented. This remains an ongoing activity with qualified State professionals who
   train district level health cadres, who in turn train health staff at the health facility
   levels.


3) Procurement of supplies and consumables for labs, (sputum cups and plastic bags) has
   been initiated and is an ongoing process, with appropriate revisions being undertaken as
   required.

4) Construction of labs and sputum collection centres has been in full compliance with the
   RNTCP guidelines. For any new centres being established, a team headed by the State
   Tuberculosis Officer reviews compliance with requisite RNTCP guidelines and
   provides approvals.

5) CTD has prioritized Hepatitis B vaccination for all health staff and regularly encourages
   states to comply with this requirement.

6) Standard precautions for RNTCP workers implementing the program are routinely
   disseminated.

7) A system for recording and monitoring of waste disposal was initiated in October 2006,
   and has been continued since.

8) Review visits by officials from the program also prioritize health care waste
   management practices.


Monitoring under RNTCP
Bio-medical Waste Management (BMWM) practices are reviewed and monitored during
various Common Review Missions (CRM) of NRHM. RNTCP also monitors this through
its Joint Monitoring Missions (JMM), Central Internal Evaluations (CIE) as well as during
routine field visit. Additionally evaluations undertaken by state health systems projects
have also documented the practices of IMEP under RNTCP. A separate document on the
finding of these evaluations has been prepared and submitted along with this assessment
report.
Environment Assessment 2012
CTD has sought extension of current World Bank Project (additional financing) for another
two years .As per the World Bank’s Safeguard Policies an assessment has been undertaken
to assess and review implementation of the environmental management aspects of the
RNTCP. The assessment was done on a sample survey of 40 centers where the RNTCP is
implemented in 10 districts, one of which was a tribal one.

 Major Findings:
   o Average inflow of patients in RNTCP centres were 40-45 /day. The biomedical
     waste generated in RNTCP centres was approx. 32-35 kg /day.

   o Institutional Set Up: 59% of the assessed institutions have Bio-Medical Waste
     Management Monitoring Committee (BMWMC) in place which has an average of
     3-5 members. In 70% of the places where BMWMC is in place, meetings are
     conducted in every month. In rest of the places meetings are not conducted because
     of lack of guidance. Jharkhand was the only state found during the assessment
     having no BMWMC in any of the centres.

   o More than 50 % of the assessed institutions have signed agreements with Common
     treatment facilities (CTF). Jharkhand was the only state where no agreement has
     been made with CTF because institution was never informed about that. This
     means that state has not issued any guidance to facilities regarding this. 85% of the
     facilities have either approval from State Pollution Control Board (SPCB) or they
     have applied from SPCC.

   o Knowledge Attitude & Practice (KAP) and Training of RNTCP staff: A total
     of 2327 staffs were working in these centres of these 1335 were trained on Bio
     Medical Waste Management (BMWM). In Jharkhand none of the staff was found
     trained. Over 90 % of the centres informed reported that knowledge attitude and
     practice of RNTCP staffs on BMWM are good. Couple of centres in Delhi and
     Andhra Pradesh, KAP of all the cadres of staff was found average. The cadres of
     staffs that were trained on were Doctors, Staff Nurses, Pharmacist, Lab Technician
     and Institution Worker and Sanitary worker.

   o Supply of Materials: In more than 50% of the places supply of same colour of
     bins and bags are adequate. Andhra Pradesh and Jharkhand have reported
     inadequate supply of these. All the surveyed centres have positioned these bags
     and bins in strategic locations. At 65% place needle destroyers were in place. In
     over 70% of centres, Bags, Aprons, Masks and Gloves were found in adequate
     numbers. Shortages of these were found in some centres of Jharkhand, Andhra
     Pradesh and one centre of Delhi. Only 40 % of centres have been supplied with
     trolley of BMWM. Similarly less than 40 % of institutions have a store room for
     the storage of material.

   o Planning and Recording: Under RNTCP facilities need to maintain three types of
     Registers - and nodal person has to maintain triplicate copy of the form given by
     CTF. Apart from that stick Injury registers are also needs to be facility. Register 1
       and Register 2 are maintained at 50% of the centres surveyed; while Register 4 is
       being maintained at only 37.5% centres. Triplicate copy of the form submitted by
       CTF is only maintained at 15% of centres. Around 65-79% of the facilities have
       sanitation plan and Bin Plans. Work plan for the lifting of waste is prepared at only
       50% of the facilities. PEP facilities were available only at only 16% . But 100% of
       facilities reported that they have contingency plan for PEP. This is generally tied up
       with the nearest ART centres.

   o Training has been undertaken and BMW training materials and reports are
     available at hospitals and facilities.

   o Collection of Wastes: Only 40% of facilities reported that wastes are collected on
     daily basis while the rest reported that wastes are collected on alternate day basis.
     Centres from Delhi reported that they have outsourced the collection of waste to
     CTF which collects waste on alternate day from facility.

   o Financial Management: Very few facilities-about 29% - reported that the facility
     in charge receives cheques regularly. This is the reason the payment to CTF is very
     low. Some facilities reported CTF also does not submit bills regularly. This is due to
     delay fund received by District Health Society.

   o Information Education and Communication: 65% of the facilities reported that
     they have been supplied with IEC materials related to IMEP and 100% of these have
     displayed these at different places.

 Conclusions:
   -   All RNTCP centres are currently practicing Bio-medical waste management.
   -   Facilities are aware about practices among other programs such as HIV, RCH,
       NRHM and general health services.
   -   It seems that there is lack of guidance from state to districts regarding the
       institutions to be set up for BMWM.
   -   Although colour bins and bags are in most of the places but they are not of
       accurate colour.
   -   States need to be encouraged to undertake proper placement for labs, sputum
       collection centres and disposal areas as per CTD guidelines for civil works
       under RNTCP.
   -   Fund release and payments related to BMWM from facility to CTF are very
       weak across all centres.

The revised BMWM Plan under RNTCP as proposed below, is based on the
observations made by the consultants during site visits, discussion with healthcare
professionals and stakeholders, review of documents , findings from Joint Inspection
Review missions of RNTCP II . The achievements and challenges that have emerged in
that process and areas that require attention were identified were taken into consideration
while developing the revised BMWM plan. To have a long-lasting impact on environment
and safety, w as t e m an a gem en t h as to evolve as a sustainable programme and hence
cannot exist as an independent activity under RNTCP. The following revised action
Plan for BMWM incorporates the recommendations made from the findings of the
assessment study
S. No.   Action Points                                                         Time Frame
    1.   Revision of the Biomedical waste management (BMWM) plan in            As and when MoEF
         line with the latest BioMed Rules.                                    promulgates these
                                                                               Rules

         Air borne Infection Control guideline developed by CTD to be          December 2012
         included in revised BMWM Plan
   2.    Training implementation
         - Updating training modules of existing trained staff as per new      as and when
             Rules
         - First modular training for new staff at CTD, District, TU and       April – June 2013
             Laboratory levels
   3.    Set up a core committee for BMWM at CTD                               December 2012
         - Designate a Senior level official at CTD to review the
             BMWM reports received from various States through reports
             and give feedback
         - CTD to develop and disseminate TORs for BMWMCs
         - Request states to activate (BMWMC where dysfunctional;
         - Request states to establish new BMWMC in states where not
             existing;
         - CTD to request State TB Officer – State TB Cell (STO-STC)
             to designate 2 persons for BMW planning and
             implementation
   4.     CTD to share updated specifications for consumables(e.g.             On-going
         sputum cups) with program units
         - Plastic bags to be added to the list. Specification of the poly-    October 2012
             bags as per the study report.

         State will used the NRHM core budget line from annual PIP to           Annual budget to be
         procure materials as per need.                                        included state PIP
   5.    Monitor implementation and adoption of standard precautions by        On-going
         RNTCP workers during monthly Central Internal Evaluation and
         routine monitoring visits
   6.    CTD to ensure implementation of BMWM Plans are integrated             On-going
         with General Health Systems
   7.    CTD to revise existing reporting format to include reporting on       end July 2012
         HCWM

         CTD to share the recording format with all states and districts for   August 2012
         use

         CTD to review data from reporting formats and develop                 Six monthly basis
         performance reports
   8.    All healthcare workers shall be encouraged to get immunized for       On-going
         Hepatitis B.
   9.    CTD to encourage states to follow guideline for civil works under     Reminders to states
         RNTCP with regard to placements for labs, sputum collection           will be sent by CTD
         centres and disposal areas, and integrated with the existing health   on quarterly basis
         facility.                                                             and verified during
           CTD will provide no objection certificate to facility for     field visits
            setting up the Laboratories.
10. Strengthen implementation BMWM implementation in tribal               August 2012
    areas through dissemination of the BMWM Plan and RNTCP and            onwards and on
    IMEP guidelines and followed by exhaustive monitoring and             going
    supervision
11. CTD will liase with NRHM and inform health care facilities            October 2012
    about contractual arrangements with CTFs and pending payments
    for BMWM activities.
12. Final Report of the End line assessment of HCWM under RNTCP           One month before
    will be submitted to Bank                                             the closure of project


Key stakeholders for the implementation and management of BMWM

          Levels                                  Key Stakeholders

  National               NRHM and all other programs under it, National Reference
                         Laboratory, National Tuberculosis Institute, Technical Support
                         Group (TSG)
  State                  NRHM, Hospitals, Intermediate Reference Laboratories, State
                         AIDS Control Society, Public Private Interface Agency (PPIA)
  District               Common treatment facilities (CTF), NGO, District Health
                         Societies, District AIDS Prevention and Control Society
                         (DAPCUs)

Monitoring Mechanism
Monitoring of BMWM will be done by CRM, JMM, and JRM. Apart from that routine
monitoring will be done through CIE and through regular field visits. Besides that institutions
set at central and state level will monitor this on regular basis.

Financial Implications:
Since RNTCTP is a part of general health system so the implementation of the BMWM Plan is
the responsibility of each health facility under the public health system. Untied funds available
under the NRHM program are expected to be utilized for implementation and procurement of
consumables and supplies. For the purpose of Monitoring and evaluation of all activities by
CTD including BMWM, appropriate budget has been allocated under the project.
                                                 Annex I


Objectives of the Environment Assessment Study
a.           To understand the basic infection control and Biomedical waste management practices
             at different levels in RNTCP and assess the current situation.

b.           To understand the Knowledge, Attitude and Practice of the RNTCP on infection control
             and waste management.

c.           Develop Infection Control and Biomedical W aste Management plan for the
             Revised National Tuberculosis Control Program (TB II), broadly across states,
             districts and sub districts including health and safety measures for health personnel
d.           Identify the constraints and bottlenecks in the implementation of HCWM including
             receiving authorization from the RPCB, as are required under the Bio Medical Rules.
Approach

In order to accomplish the said objectives and following the scope of work envisaged in the
TOR, a process flow was adopted as follows:

            Preparatory work--Selection of States and districts
            Communication to and with District Project Coordinators(DPC) / CMHO/ Field
             officers
            Desk review
            Protocol development
            Data Collection
            Data entry
            Data analysis & interpretation
            Report writing


 Methodology:

Under this assessment 5 states were selected. One each from East West, North and South. In
each state 2 districts were selected for this assessment. And from each districts 4 RNTCP
health facility were surveyed. These facilities range from Designated microscopy centre
(DMC), Tuberculosis Unit (TU), District TB Centre DTC), PMDT centres and Intermediate
Reference Laboratory. Under this a total of 40 centres were covered to measure the practices of
Infection Control and Waste Management. The List of states and districts covered under this
assessment are following:

         #      State            Districts/ Facility       Total no. of
                                                           facilities to be
                                                           covered
         1      Delhi            Lok Nayak Chest           4
                                 Clinic
                                 Gulabi Bagh Chest         4
                                 Clinic
      2   Jammu &            Jammu                       4
          Kashmir            Srinagar                    4
      3   Rajasthan          Bikaner                     4
                             Tonk                        4
      4   Jharkhand          Ranchi                      4
                             Dhanbad                     4
      5   Andhra             Hyderabad                   4
          Pradesh            Vishakhapatnam              4
          Total              10                          40

 Survey methods: Survey was carried out by the investigators through personal interviews
and interaction with staff present at the centre. A Pre tested questionnaire was used as survey
tool. The questionnaire is placed at Annex 2. The participants in the study were asked to fill
this questionnaire. The contents of the questionnaire were told to the participants (healthcare
worker in RNTCP) in the local language if needed with the help of the officers working in the
respective places accordingly.
 The team also assessed the infection control measures and biomedical waste management
 with the help of observational checklist.

 Desk Review:
 The investigators and the report writer reviewed the following manuals as a part desk
 review of assessment:
 1. Environment and Bio Medical Waste Management Plan for RNTCP II.
 2. Guideline for the Air Borne Infection Control Infection Control in Health Care and other
     settings- April 2010.
 3. Manual for Laboratory Technicians (September 1997) prepared by CTD, GOI.
 4. The biomedical waste (management and handling) rules 1998, amended 2011.
 6. Infection Management and Environment Plan (IMEP) Policy Framework,
 7. IMEP guidelines for PHC, CHC and Sub centres.
                                                                         ANNEX II

                                      Central TB Division
                         Revised National Tuberculosis Control Program
                                Bio Medical Waste Management
                                       Inspection format

1. Name and Designation of the Inspection Officer:

2. Date of Inspection:

3. Name of the Health Care Institution Inspected:

     DMC/TU/DTC/MDR-TB ward/IRL

4. Name of the Head of the Institution or Institution:

5. Name of the Institution Infection Control Officer

General

6.     Who is in-charge of Bio Medical Waste Management in this
       facility?
7.     Whether the Bio Medical Waste Management Monitoring
       Committee has been formed or not?
        a. If yes,
              List the members
       b. If not,
              Reasons
8.     Whether authorization to State Pollution Control Board
       (SPCB) has been applied?
       if yes, when ? ( date)
       if no, why?
9.     Whether authorization from State Pollution Control Board
       (SPCB) has been obtained?
    if yes, when ? (date)
    (Copy to be enclosed)
10. Whether MoU with the Common Treatment Facilities (CTF)
    has been signed?
          a. if yes, name of the CTF and address
          b. If not,

           Reasons
11. Whether the training has been completed to all Institution
    staff?
    a. Total no of Institution staff at present
    b. Total no of staff trained in Bio Medical Waste
    Management
    ( BMWM)
    c. Total no staff untrained
12. Whether the Bio Medical Waste Management Monitoring
    Committee is being convened every month?
    If yes,
              the dates in which it was convened.
      If not,
               Reasons
13. Whether the Bio Medical Waste Management issues have
    been included as a part of agenda in the Quality Circle
    meetings convened?
    If yes,
               the issues of the recent meeting
    If not,
                Reasons
14. Data about the Institution / Institution
    a. Total no of inpatient registered during the Previous
        Month (from the date of inspection)
     b. Total no of outpatient registered during the Previous
        Month (from the date of inspection)


Segregation and Collection


15. Whether the supply of Color Bins and Color bags are
    adequate?
16. Whether the color bins placed in all strategic locations in the
    Institutions?
17. Whether the color bins lined with same color bags?
    If not
              Reasons
18. Are the Needle destroyers in use?
    If not,
             Reasons
19. Do the staff nurses records the weight of Bio Medical Waste
    lifted by sanitary worker / Institution Worker each day, in
    her register – 1.
20. Are all the consumables such as
    a. color bags adequate
    b. apron adequate
    c. gloves adequate
    d. masks adequate
21. Does the Institution have the bin plan **?
22. Does the Institution have the sanitation plan***?
** Bin plan– schematic representation of the placement of color bins in wards andop.
*** Sanitation plan– a plan to show the work schedule and frequency for cleaning activities
within and outside the Institution


Transportation

23. Is there a trolley supplied for Bio Medical Waste
    Management?
24. Does the Institution have an identified Bio Medical Waste
    Management storage room / place?
    If not,
          reasons
25. Does each sanitary worker / Institution worker have a work
    plan for lifting the Bio Medical Waste from all the facility?


Records and Maintenance

26. Do the staff record the weight of lifted Bio Medical Waste in
    a register-1 maintained in a facility?
    If not,
            Reasons
27. Do the sanitary workers record the weight of lifted Bio
    Medical Waste in a register – 2 maintained with them?
      If not,
              reasons
28. Do the nodal person in charge of Bio Medical Waste
    Management storage room / place records the total weight of
    Bio Medical Waste handed over to the Common treatment
    facility (CTF) in register 4?
29. Does the nodal person in charge of Bio Medical Waste
    Management storage room / place documents the triplicate
    copy of receipt given by CTF?
30. What is the total weight bio medical waste handed over to
    the CTF as per Form 1 BMWM from for last 3 months till
    date of inspection?


Occupation Safety

31. Are Needle stick injury registers maintained in the facility?
32. Is the Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) available in this
    Institution?
33. What is the contingency plan for PEP drugs if not available
    in this Institution?
Common Treatment Facility

34. Whether the CTF is collecting the waste daily from the
    Institution?
    If not,
          the frequency of collection
35. Does the Facility in charge receive the cheque for CTF
    payment? If not then who receives the cheque?
36. Has the facility in charge cleared the bills submitted by the
    CTF as per the protocol issued by State Government?
        a. amount allotted for 1st quarter
        b. amount allotted for 2nd quarter
        c. amount allotted for 3rd quarter
        d. amount allotted for 4th quarter
        e. expenditure incurred till the date of inspection
        f. balance amount unspent


Information, Education and Communication

37. Whether the IEC materials have been supplied to the
    individual facilities?
38. Whether the IEC materials displayed at the strategic
    locations?


Knowledge, Attitude and Practice

Category                        Knowledge                     Attitude                   Practice
                         good    average    below     good average        below    good Averag below
                                           average                       average          e    average
1.Doctors
2.Staff Nurses
3.Lab Technician
4.Pharmacist
5.Institution Worker
6.Sanitary Worker
