Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6662-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
FERTILIZER RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
May 11, 1987
Industry Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its ontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 1, 1987)
Currency Name   -   Renminbi (RMB)
Currency Unit   -   Yuan (Y) - 100 Pen
Y 1.00          -   US$0.27
US$ 1.00            Y Y 3.70
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)             3      2.47 acres
1 metric toa (ton)                1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 kilometer (km)            -     0.621 miles
I cubic meter (i3)          -     35.3147 cubic feet (cf)
1 kiloca±orie (kLal)        a     3,968 British Thermal Units (BTU)
1 kilowatt (kW)                   1,000 watts
1 megawatt (MW)                   1,000 kilowatts (kW)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC   - Ammonium Bicarbonate                   MOF      - Ministry of Finance
AMPC  - Agricultural Means of Production       MWh      - megawatt hour
Corporation                         NCIC     - Nanjing Chemical Industry Company
BCEC  - Beijing Chemical Experimental          N        - Nitrogen Content in Fertilizers
Company                             NPK      - Complex Fertilizers of N, P and K
BICEM - Beijing Institute of Chemical          Nm3      - normal cubic meters
Engineering and Management          p.a.     - per annum
BTU   - British Thermal Unit                   P205     - Phosphorous Pentoxide
CNCCC - China National Chemical                ppm      - parts per million
Construction Company                PRS      - Production Responsibility System
CIF   - Cost, Insurance, and Freight           SAA      - State Audit Administration
CIB   - Chemical Industry Bureau               SEC      - State Economic Commission
CMP   - Calcium Magnesium Phosphate           SINOCHEM - China Chemical Export and Import
CO2   - Carbon Dioxide                                          Corporation
DAP   - Diammonium Phosphate                   SINOPEC  - China Petrochemical Corporation
FOB   - Free on Board                          SPB      - State Pricing Bureau
GOC   - Government of the People's             SPC      - State Planning Commission
Republic of China                   SSP      - Single Superphosphate
ha    - hectare                                tpd      - tons per day
KzO   - Potassium Oxide                        tpy      - tons per year
kWh   - Kilowatt hour                          tpyn     - tons per year of nu%rients
LCFC  - Luoyang Chemical Fertilizer           YCFC      - Yuanping Chemical Fertilizer
Companiy                                             Company
MAAF  - Ministry of Agriculture, Animal        YXCFC    - Yunnan Xuanwei Chemical Fertilizer
Hu,'andry and Fishery                                Company
MCI   - Ministry of Chemical Industry          XCFC     - Xuanhua Chemical Fertilizer Company
MIS   - Management Information System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIAL US ONLY
CHINA
FERTILIZER RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ................................                iv
I*   INTRODUCTION o.o  1o ........                                        I
II.  THE CHINESE FERTILIZER SECTOR  ............................          1
A.  Agricultural Background .................................        1
B.  Fertilizer Use in Agriculture .......................            2
C.  Fertilizer Demand and Supply                                     2
D.  Fertilizer Industry Structure                                    5
E.  Feedstock Supply and Energy ConsumDtion                         6
F.  Fertilizer Marketing and Distribution                            7
G.  Fertilizer Pricing                                              8
H.  Government Strategy in the Fertilizer Sector *...........    10
I.  Bank Role in the Sector and Project Justification ......    11
III. PROJECT INSTITUTIONS 1 ...........12
A.  Five Medium-Size Fertilizer Plants                              12
B.  The Ministry of Chemical Industry ....................°    16
C. The Beijing Institute of Chemical Engineering and
Management j*********XXv*vv***e                              16
IV.  THE PROJECT                                                         16
A.  Project Objectives                                              16
B.  Phosphate Fertilizer Development Component                     17
C.  Nitrogenous Fertilizer Rationalization Component *.....e    18
D.  Institutional Development Component #....................    19
V.   PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ......o ....    19
A.  Engineering Arrangements .o... . ..o.  o o... .  ... . ..0..    19
B.  Project Management ......... ..... .......0000......00..       20
C.  Implementation Schedule  .................o....          * ...........    20
Do Training                                                        21
E. Environmental Aspects o.....................  ....o...o......    21
This report has been prepared by Messrs. K. S. Song, K. M. Constant, and
S. Thiyagarajan of the Industry Department.  Messrs. So K. Agarwal (WAPID)
and B. Stone (Consultant) contributed to the fertilizer sector chapter.
Mesdames M. Greaves, E. George, and A. Johnson provided word processing
assistance, and secretarial support was provided by I. Haidara in the
preparation of this Report.
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diCslosd without World Bak authorization.



- il -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VI.  CAPITAL COSTS, FINANCING PLAN. PROCUREMENT AND
LOAN AGREEMENT  ..............e        eo.,eo.                   21
A.  Capital Cost Estimates ....e,....e...,e..oe.....e....        21
Be Financing Plan ......................................         22
C.  Procurement                                 ............    25
D.  Allocation and Disbursement of Bank Loan ................    26
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS *....ee ......e... .................          28
A.  Background on Financial Management Practices                 28
B.  Past Financial Performance and Financial Projections         28
C.  Financial Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis            30
D, Financial Covenants  *0 .......... ......*e..,.....    .      31
8.  Auditing And Reporting Requirements                          31
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ...............    ...,..,                    32
A.  Economic Costs and Benefits                                  32
B. Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis ........    33
C.  Sectoral Contribution and Other benefits ..............      34
D. Project Risks                                                 35
IX.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .......................    35
ANNEXES
2-1    Historic Consumption, Production and Imports of Fertilizers,
1976-1985
2-2    The General Scope of Fertilizer Pricing and Allocation Policy Review
2-3    Comparison of Domestic and International Prices of Fertilizers
and Main Energy Inputs, January 1987
3-1    Production Performance of the Five Companies
3-2    Feedstock and Fuel Supply for the Five Companies
4-1    Summary of Phosphate Fertilizer Development Component
4-2    Summary of Nitrogenous Fertilizer Rationalization Component
4-3    An Outline of Terms of Reference for the Management Study
4-4    Summary of the Program for Strengthening Management Training at
BICEM



- iii -
ANNEXES (Continued)
5-1    Organization Chart of MCI's Project Implementation Coordination Unit
5-2    Project Implementatlon Schedule
5-3    Pollution Levels Befcre and After the Project for the Five Companies
6-1    Project Capital Coat Estimates
6-2    Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
7-1    Assumptions for Financial Analysis
7-2    YXCFC - A Summary of Historical and Projected Financial Statements
7-3    YCFC  - "    t "                 n                 t
7-4    LCFC  - t    t     n     "       n                 o          of
7-5    XCFC  - to  of    n      n                                    i a
7-6    BCRC  - o          s     f "                        t         t
7-7    Incremental Cost and Revenue Streams for Financial Rate of
Return Calculations
8-1    Assumptions Underlying Economic Analysis
8-2    Incremental Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Rate of Return
Calculations
MAP
IBRD-20217: China - Major Fertilizer Plants
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILES
Reference
1.   Organization Chart of the Five Medium-Size Project
Beneficiaries
2.    Organization Chart of MCI
3.    OrganIzation Chart of BICEM
4.    Full Text of the Terms of Reference for the Management Study
5.    A Program for Strengthening Management Training at BICEM
6.    Organization Charts of Project Management Teams of the Five
Companies
7.    A Black Book Containing Details of Economic and Financial
Analysis



- iv -
CHINA
FERTILIZER RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower     : The People's Republic of China.
Beneficiaries:  Yunnan Xuanwei Chemical Fertilizer Company (YXCFC, Yunnan)
Yuanping Chemical Fertilizer Company (YCFC, Shanxi)
Luoyang Chemical Fertilizer Company (LCYC, Henan)
Xuanhua Chemical Fertilizer Company (XCFC, Hebei)
Beijing Chemical Experimental Company (BCEC, Beijing)
The Ministry of Chemical Industry (MCI)
Beijing Institute of Chemical Engineering and Management
(BICEM)
IBRD Loan    : US$97.4 million equivalent
Amount
Terms of Loan:  20-year repayment, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
Onlending    : The Government will onlend US$96.1 million equivalent of
Terms           the loan proceeds to the five Project companies at an
onlending rate of 7.92% p.a., with a repayment period of 15
years, including 5 years of grace. An additional amount of
US$0.45 million equivalent for a management study will be
onlent to the same companies with a service charge of 0.75%
p.a., for a period of 15 years, including 5 years grace.
The commitment charge and foreign exchange risk will be
passed on to the companies.
Project      : The proposed Project is designed to assist the
Obiectives      Government in achieving its three main sector development
objectives, namely: (a) improvement in production
efficiency of existing medium and small-size plants through
technical renovation and energy saving measures; (b)
reduction of nutrient imbalances through capacity expansion
of phosphate fertilizers; and (c) improvemeat of
institutional efficiency through the introduction of modern
economic, financial and operational systems and techniques.
Project      : The Project comprises three components:  (a) establishing a
Description     phosphate fertilizer production capacity at an existing
plant in Yunnan; (b) converting nitrogenous fertilizer
production of four existing medium-size plants from low
grade to high grade products, and expanding production
capacities with the use of modern energy saving technology;
and (c) carrying out a management efficiency study and a



- V -
program to introduce modern systems for organization,
information and cost management at fertilizer enterprises,
and upgrade sector-wide management training capabilities.
Project Risk : The Project is not subject to any unusual technical or
commercial risks* It deals with existing plants,
technically and commercially proven technology, and %ith
products which will be sold (at flexible prices) in what
are expected to be buoyant markets. There is some risk of
delay due to the lack of local experience in designing and
operating facilities for DAP and urea-based NPK ferti-
lizers. The Involvement of international engineering firms
and provision of comprehensive training for local staff
would minimize this risk.
Project Cost :
Local      Foreign      Total
(US$ million equivalent)
Phosphate Development Component          13.9        36.4          50.3
Nitrogenous Fertilizer
Rationalization Component           37.7        46.5         84.2
Institutional Development Component       0.1         1.3           1.4
Base Cost (January 1987 prices)    51.7         84.2        135.9
Physical Contingencies                    5.2         8.3          13.5
Price Contingencies                       2.9         4.9           7.8
Installed Cost                      59.8        974         157.2
Working Capital                          10.4         -            10.4
Interest During Construction              3.7        12.7          16.4
Total Financing Required            73.9       110.1         184.0
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign      Total
(US$ million equivalenWtT-
IBRD Loan                                  -         97.4          97.4
Domestic Loans                           54.2          -           54.2
Companies' Internal Funds                19.6        12.7          32.3
Government Contribution                   0.1         -             0.1
Total Financing                     73.        110.1         184.0
Estimated Disbursements: (FY)   1988    1989    1990    1991   1992    1993
(US$ milllion equivalent)
Annual                       5.8    25.3    38.6    19.4    6.3      2.0
Cumulative                  5.8    31.1    69.7    89.1   95.4    97.4
Economic Rate of Return: 241



CHINA
FERTILIZER RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the People's Republic of China (the Government,
GOC) has requested a Bank loan of US$97.4 million equivalent to finance the
Fertilizer Rationalization Project (the Project)o The Project builds upon
experience gained in the design of the on-going Fertilizer .ehabilitation
and Energy Saving Project (Loan 2541-CHA), the first Bank-supported fertil-
izer project In China. While the first project concentrated on efficiency
improvement of large-size nitrogenous fertilizer plants, the Project has
been designed to have a broader impact in line with the country's sectoral
development strategy. The Project will: (a) establish one of the coun-
try's first major phosphate fertilizer (DAP and NPK) production facilities
to be based on local phosphate rock and diverting ammonia from an existing
medium-size nitrogenous plant; (b) rationalize and expand four medium-size
nitrogenous fertilizer plants while improving operating efficiency and con-
verting their products from low-grade to high grade fertilizer with the use
of modern technologies; and (c) strengthen sector-wide institutional effi-
ciency by introducing improved enterprise-level systems for organizational
structure, information management and cost management, and strengthening
sector-wide management training capabilities.
1.02      The Project was initially proposed to the Bank's identification
mission in September 1985, prepared during two subsequent Bank missions in
May and October 1986, and appraised in January 1987 by Messrs. K. Song and
K. Constant (Industry Department). This report recommends a Bank loan of
US$97.4 million equivalent, which will cover 52.9% of the Project's total
financing required and 88.5% of the total foreign exchange cost (equivalent
to 100% of the foreign component of installed cost)*
II. FERTILIZER SECTOR
A. Agricultural Background
2.01      Agriculture in China, which employs some 190 million farm
families and accounts for about 35% of the country's GDP, provides self-
sufficiency in the basic food requirements for its population of more than
a billion people despite the scarcity of arable land. A relatively small
portionl/ of China's 960 million ha is cultivated, but a large portion
(about TS%) of this cultivated area is irrigated, Because of land scar-
city, China's agriculture employs intensive farming with relatively well
developed irrigation systems and heavy inputs of labor, chemical and
organic fertilizers and water per unit of land. This intensive farming,in
turn, enables China to meet the basic food requirements of its population,
1/  About 10  as compared with 75% in India.



- 2 -
about 22% of the world's total, from less than 8% of the world's cultivated
land. Foodgrains occupy about 70% of total cultivated area. Cotton is the
most important industrial crop.
2.02      The agricultural sector has performed exceptionally well since
1979, when the Government introduced a new agricultural production incen-
tive system, the "production responsibility system (PRS)". Major changes
which have taken place under PRS include: (a) an increasing role allotted
to the farm household as the fundamental unit of agricultural production
and management; (b) gradual substitution of the strict production quota
system with a "contract" system, giving farmers more flexibility in deter-
mining what crops to grow and where to sell their products; (c) a reward
system for farmers who produce above quota; (d) price increases in major
farm products; and (e) introduction of flexible prices within a certain
price range for above contract deliveries of agricultural products by
collectives and individual producers. Due to this incentive system, the
gross value of agricultural production increased by 10% p.a. over the
period 1980-85, compared to an average of 3% p.a. in the preceding 20
years. PRS also contributed to diversification of agricultural production
by shifting acreage from grain to non-grain industrial crops and live-
stock. During 1979-1985, the area sown to grain declined from 119 million
ha to 109 million ha. 2/
B. Fertilizer Use in Agriculture
2.03      While China is the third largest user of chemical fertilizers and
the largest consumer of nitrogen in the world, its 1985 fertilizer applica-
tion level of 123 kg of nutrients per hectare of cultivated land is only a
third of that in neighboring countries such as Japan and South Korea,
implying a large potential for increased fertilizer application in the
future. However, the current nutrient imbalance among nitrogen (N), phos-
phate (P905) and potash (K20) fertilizers in China, i.e., low application
of phosphate and potash (para 2.06), reduces synergism and the benefits
from the relatively high level of nitrogen application, thus posing a
constraint to the increased application of nitrogenous fertilizers. There
are also wide variations in fertilizer use among provinces, ranging from 35
kg to 210 kg of nutrients per sown ha. In view of the constraint to expan-
sion of cultivated areas, efforts aimed towards increased and more effi-
cient fertilizer use will thus remain central to China's strategy to
increase agricultural output.
C.   Fertilizer Demand and Supply
2.04      Historical consumption, production and imports of chemical
fertilizers from 1974 to 1985 are shown in Annex 2-1, and are summarized,
together with projections for 1990, in Table 2-A on the following page.
2/   However, grain production increased during the same period from 332
million tons to 379 million tons due to an increase in agricultural
yields.



- 3 -
Table 2-A
China - Cleaical Fertilizer Cftsu2tion, Production and Iuports a/
Past and Projected
(in thOa-ndtons of mutrient)
Nitro  (N)        Phoaate (Pp,E)     Potash ()Total Nutriet
Con.  Prod    ',Cr. Prod.             Ca.  Prod.        1     O C. Prod. I.
1974           3,490  2,827   928  ',368 1,390    82    57       5    57  4,915 4,222 1,067
1979          8,997  8,820 1,451  1,758 1,817   190    108    16   108 10,863 10,653 1,749
1984          13,378 12,211 2,828  3,686 2,359 1,342    804    31   755 17,868 14,601 4,925
1985          13,448 11,584 2,052  3,522 1,734   950    920    32   364 17,887 13,350 3,36
1990 (proj.)b/ l5S,000 13,200 3,300  6,750 3,000 4,425  1,600    100 1,660 23,350 16,300 9,385
Aerage Annual Growth Rates (%)
1974-1985       13.0   13.7          9.0   2.0         28.8   18.4         12.5  11.2
1974-1979      20.8  25.6            5.1   5.5         13.6   26.2         17.2  20.3
1979-1985       6.9   4.6           12.3  -0.3         42.9   12.2          8.7   3.8
1985-1990 (proj.) 2.2    2.6        13.9  11.6         11.7  25.6           5.5   4.1
a/ Cbnsumption figures (sales to farmers) do not balanoe production plus iœports due to distribution
losses, stoc diarges and some unrecorded imports.
b/ Projected imports for 1990 were derived from supply gaps betwen domestic poduction and coumption,
tsking into acount a 10% fertilizer loss in transit, storage and distribution.
Source: Mlistry of (hemical Iustry, Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbaidry and Fishery,
General Adinistration of Custas, and State Statistical Bureau.
2.05      Fertilizer Demand.  Consumption of all fertilizers increased from
4.9 million tons per year of nutrients (tpyn) in 1974 to 17.9 million tpyn
in 1985, representing an average annual growth rate of 12.5%. Nitrogen
consumption grew at an average annual rate of 20.8% during 1974-1979, but
this spectacular growth has somewhat slowed down in recent years mainly
because China has already reached a relatively high level of nitrogen
application compared to the constraint in the supply of phosphate and
potash fertilizers. Phosphate consumption, which shcwed an average growth
rate of 5.1% p.a. during 1974-1979, increased at a <iuch faster rate of
12.3% p.a. during 1979-1985 partly due to the Government's recent emphasis
on increased application of phosphate fertilizer to improve the overall
nutrient balance. Potash consumption has also grown rapidly during the
last decade, from a negligible base in the early 1970s, but is still very
low. During 1985, consumption of all fertilizer nutrients increased at a
much slower rate of 0.1% mainly due to a significant decline in the acreage
and output of cotton and grain in response to temporary overstock situa-
tion; particularly the acreage sown to cotton declined by 26%. In 1986,
fertilizer consumption has rebound*d with first half sales increasing by
17.4% over the same period in 1985. China also has a long history of using
organic fertilizer, which will continue to be a valuable source of nutri-
ents and to complement further increases in the use of chemical fertil-
izer. Total nutrients supplied by organic fertilizers in 1985 were
estimated at about 12 million tons.



2.06      Demand for fertilizer has been projected by the Government to
reach 23.4 million tpyn in 1990, with implied average annual growth rates
of about 2.2% for N, 13.9% for P20'  and 11.7% for 120.  These demand
projections might appear conservative in view of the past trends in fertil-
izer consumption and the ability to absorb additional nutrients, but they
are realistic considering the constraints in the supply of phosphate and
potash fertilizers. According to the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal
Husbandry and Fisheries (MAAP), the desirable ratio of nutrients in Ch4na
as a long-term target is 100:50:20 compared with the current ratio of
100:26:7. Therefore, the Government's priority during the Seventh Five-
year Plan (1986-90) is placed on rapidly expanding the consumption of phos-
phate and potash fertilizers to improve the nutrient balance. By 1990,
this ratio is planned to improve to 100:45:11.
2.07      Fertilizer Supply.  China currently has about 1,900 operating
fertilizer plants of varying type and size, and is the world's third
largest producer of chemical fertilizers after the USSR and the USA.
Chemical fertilizer production in China increased steadily from 4.2 million
tons per year of nutrient (tpyn) in 1974 to 14.6 million tpyn in 1984,
before falling back to 13.4 million tpyn in 1985. Production of nitroge-
n-ous and phosphate fertilizers during 1974-1985 grew at average annual
rates of 13.7% and 2.1%, respectively. The decline in domestic production
of both nitrogenous and phosphate fertilizers in 1985 was due mainly to the
Government decision to close some 200 small inefficient plants producing
low quality, low nutrient content fertilizers, such as ammonium bicarbonate
(ABC), single superphosphate (SSP) and calcium magnesium phosphate (cMP),
in response to diminishing demand for those fertilizers.
2.08      A significant portion of the fertilizer production in China is of
low grade. Nitrogen production in 1985 comprised about 55% ammonium bicar-
bonate (ABC, 17% N), 36% urea (46% N) and the balance, largely, ammonium
nitrate (35% N), liquid ammonia, ammonium chloride (25% N) and ammonium
sulfate (21% N). About 77% of the phosphate production in 1985 was SSP
(18% P505), and 22% was CMP (18% P205). ABC, which is the main product of
most of the small plants and several medium-size nitrogen plants, is prone
to decomposition and evaporation during and after application, and is dif-
ficult to transport and store for prolonged periods without substantial
nutrient losses. Overall nitrogen losses for ABC in transportation,
storage and application are estimated at about 12.3% above those for urea
(para 8.03 and Table 1 of Annex 8-1).
2.09      During the Seventh Five-Year Plan period (1986-1990), the Govern-
ment expects to add the following production capacities for high-grade fer-
tilizers: (a) two large-size urea plants, each with 1,740 tons per day
(tpd) capacity based respectively on fuel oil and natural gas feedstock,
(b) three 800 tpd DAP plants; (c) one 400 tpd DAP plant; (d) one large-size
nitrophosphate plant, with capacity of 2,970 tpd; (e) one medium-size
nitrophosphate plant, with 500 tpd capacity; (f) one 1,800 tpd NPR capaci-
ty; (g) one 500 tpd NPK plant; and (h) one 200,000 tpy potash plant to
expand the exploitation of the potash resources of Quarhan Lake in Qinghai
Province. In addition, conversion of all medium-size ABC plants, including
the five plants under the Project, will be commenced during the present



- 5 -
plan period to produce high grade fertilizers. The production target for
1990 is about 16.3 million nutrient tons, of which 13.2 million tons would
be nitrogen, 3.0 million tons phosphate and 0.1 million tons potash
fertilizers. This implies average annual growth rates of 2.6% for nitrogen
production, 11.6% for phosphate output, and 33.0% for potash. The
composition of the overall investment program is reviewed in para 2.28
below.
2.10      Fertilizer Demand and Supply Balance.  Despite the impressive
build-up in production capacity during the last decade and continued expan-
sion under the Seventh Five Year Plan, China will need to continue import-
ing fertilizers to meet expected domestic demand. In 1985, about 68% of
China's total consumption of chemical fertilizers was met from domestic
production (78% for nitrogen, 45% for phosphate and 3% for potash).
Fertilizer imports during the last five years have averaged about 3.5
million tpyn, at a value of over US$1 billion p.a., making China the
world's largest net importer of fertilizers. The fertilizer demand and
supply balance outlined in Table 2-A shows that the overall fertilizer
deficit, to be met by imports, is projected to increase from 3.4 million
tons of nutrients in 1985 to 9.4 million tons in 1990.
D. Fertilizer Industry Structure
2.11      Supervisory Authorities,  At the central government (state)
level, the Ministry of Chemical Industry (MCI) has overall supervisory res-
ponsibilities for the fertilizer industry. MCI prepares five-year sectoral
plans for the industry, works out annual production targets and coordinates
with other government agencies for raw material supply and output sales.
The State Planning Commission (SPC), which is in charge of planning coordi-
nation for centrally controlled sectors of the economy, sets guidelines for
investment and production activities of the fertilizer sector, and approves
the major investment and production plans prepared by MCI. The State
Economic Commission (SEC) is responsible for resolving Plan implementation
issues through coordinating the interests of the related government agen-
cies. At the local level, Chemical Industry Bureaus (CIBs) of the provin-
cial, county and city governments undertake a function similar to that of
MCI for the local fertilizer industries, and local Planning Commissions,
likewise, act as the counterparts of SPC.
2.12      Of about 1,200 operating nitrogenous fertilizer plants in China,
only 15 large plants have capacities in line with current international
norms (about 280,000-300,000 tpy ammonia each). In 1985 these plants
accounted for about 26% of the total nitrogen fertilizer production.
Fifty-five medium-size plants (45,000-200,000 tpy ammonia) accounted for
about 22% of the nitrogen output, and some 1,130 remaining small plants
(lese than 45,000 tpy ammonia), produced the remaining 52%.   In addition,
China has some 600 phosphate fertilizer plants of varying size, ranging
from 15,000 tpy to over 100,000 tpy of products. Potash fertilizer produc-
tion in China is at present insignificant.
2.13      Supervisory responsibility for individual plant operations
devolves upon different levels of government, depending upon the size and
feedstock of plants. Large-size nitrogenous fertilizer plants are under



- 6 -
the direct responsibility of central government agencies; out of the 15
large nitrogenous fertilizer plants, six are under MCI, and the other nine
under the China Petrochemical Corporation (SINOPEC). Niedium-size fertil-
izer plants belonging to integrated chemical complexes are supervised by
central governmernt agencies, but most of the small- and medium-size fertil-
izer plants are under the supervision of local CIbs. MCI monitors the
performance of these companies through local CIBs.
2.14      Production Technolo   Most of China's fertilizer plants were
built using indigenous design, technology and equipment, reflecting GOC's
policy during earlier phases of the industry's development to rely on
indigenous technology to the maximum extent possible. In the early 1970s
this approach was modified and the 15 large nitrogenous fertilizer plants
were constructed over the 1970s and early 1980s using imported technology
and equipment. The average capacity utilization of the large nitrogen
plants in 1985 was 89%, compared to the average of about 80% for the
operating small and medium-size plants.
E. Feedstock Supply and Energy Consumption
2.15      Feedstock Supply.  China uses a variety of feedstocks for nitro-
gen fertilizer production. In 1985, anthracite, coke and lignite accounted
for 62% of the total ammonia production, natural gas for 22%, and fuel oil
and naphtha for 16%. Large-size nitrogenous fertilizer plants use natural
gas, naphtha and fuel oil as feedstocks for ammonia production, while the
small- and medium-size plants mainly use coal. Natural gas for the larve-
size plants is supplied from nearby gas or oil fields through pipelines,
and coal for the small and medium-size plants is supplied mainly from
regional mines by rail. Small-size phosphatic fertilizer plants use local
phosphate rock to produce SSP and CMP. The current level of phosphate rock
production is low compared to China's large proven reserves. During the
next decade, the Government will give priority to more intensive exploita-
tion of local phosphate resources.
2.16      Energy Consumption.  Energy consumption in China's nitrogenous
fertilizer plants is significantly higher than their attainable levels
based on technical analyses, as shown in Table 2-B below:
Table 2-B
China - Average Energy Consumption in Ammonia Production
(in million kcal/ton of ammonia)
Energy Consumption
Plant Type             Feedstock            Current          Attainable
Large-Size             Natural Gas             9.7            8.5-9.0
Naphtha                 9.4           8.5-9.0
Medium-Size            Anthracite/Coke        16.2               13.0
Fuel Oil               15.1               12.0
Natural Gas            12.4                9.5
Small-Size             Anthracite/Coke        17.0               15.0



The large-size plants, which were designed in the early 1970s, have not
incorporated more recent technological improvements in energy consump-
tion. Under the Bank's first fertilizer project, five large-size plants
are implementing energy saving measures with the use of modern technology.
Most of the mediumrsize plants are based on outdated technology, and would
require major process modifications to reduce energy consumption substan-
tially. The Project will help the five project companies reduce their
energy consumption close to the attainable level. The small-size nitrogen
plants typically have higher energy consumption than the medium-size
plants. In many of these plants, it is not clear whether major investment
programs would be warranted by the remaining economic life of existing
facilities. The question of excessive energy consumption can be addressed
only gradually, in view of the substantial investment and time required for
technical renovation and industry restructuring.
2.17      In recent years, the Government has introduced several policy
measures to provide incentives for energy conservation, namely: (a) price
increases for energy feedstocks; (b) tightening of energy supply quotas;
(c) bonuses for below quota use; (d) penalties in the form of higher prices
for additional energy consumption; and (e) the establishment of energy
conservation centers to assist enterprises in improving energy efficiency.
However, these policy measures have only been partially successful partly
because advanced energy saving technologies were not easily available
locally.
F.  1ertilizer Marketing and Distribution
2.18      Fertilizer Allocation Plan.  In May 1985, a significant policy
change was made in China's fertilizer allocation system when the Government
introduced the new contract system for the procurement of farm output (see
para 2.02). In the past, fertilizers were essentially allocated by the
Government under a state allocation plan in exchange for agricultural
products acquired through the state procurement system. The current
contract system allows more flexibility to both farmers and the Government
in fertilizer allocation, by reducing the quantity of fertilizers covered
by the state allocation plan. Fertilizer producers have been allowed to
sell an increasing portion of their production outside the state plan,
sometimes directly to farmers and across provincial boundaries. However,
the state procurement system still handles about 60% of the country's total
fertilizer consumption, and over 90% of the high grade fertilizers
including urea and DAP.
2.19      Fertilizer Marketing.  About 80% of chemical fertilizers in China
is marketed through the Agricultural Means of Production Corporation
(AMPC), a state-owned company under the Ministry of Commerce (MOC). The
balance is sold by fertilizer plants directly to farmers. AMPC procures
fertilizers from the domestic fertilizer plants and SINOCHEM,3/ and
markets fertilizers through some 2,500 wholesale offices at national,
3/ The China Chemical Export and Import Corporation (SINOCHEM), under the
Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade, is responsible for
all imports of chemical fertilizers.



- 8 -
provincial and county levels. The county level wholesale offices sell
fertilizers to farmers through: (a) about 64,000 retail cooperative shops
(about 55% of total AMPC fertilizer sales); (b) some 110,000 retail shops
(30%); and (c) direct sales (15%).
2.20      Fertilizer Transportation,  The transport system has so far been
able to cope with the movement of the large and growing quantity of fertil-
izers, which in 1985 amounted to about 75 million prods.ct tons. Fertilizer
movement is given priority in the transport system to ensure timely avail-
ability to farmers. Fertilizer is transported, mainly in bagged form,
directly from plants and ports to a network of county level AMPC warehouses
located close to consuming areas. ABC from small nitrogen plants, account-
ing for about half the total tonnage in terms of transportation volume in
1985, was transported mainly by road because it is generally consumed in
areas close to the plants. About one-third of the total fertilizer distri-
buted in China is transported by rail, over an average distance of about
750 km. River transportation also plays an important role.
2.21      Fertilizer Storage.  With increasing fertilizer consumption, fer-
tilizer storage capacity has not been adequate in recent years to meet peak
storage requirements. Storage facilities for fertilizers provided by AMPC
at various levels have a total warehousing capacity equivalent to three
months' national fertilizer consumption. AMPC's warehouses at national,
provincial and county levels account for half of the total storage capa-
city, and the remaining half is located in the countryside in its retail
shops. Currently, AMPC enecurages farmers to buy fertilizers during off-
seasons by offering rebates to reduce storage burdens as well as carrying
costs. The shortage of warehousing capacity at peak storage demand wlll be
alleviated gradually as low-grade fertilizers are displaced by high-grade
fertilizers.
G. Fertilizer Pricing
2.22      The on-going economic reforms have introduced various positive
changes in fertilizer pricing, and these changes, along with the change in
fertilizer allocation policy, have enabled market forces to play an
increasing role in determining fertilizer production and allocation. In
the past, fertilizer prices, like those for other essential commodities in
China, were strictly administered by the Government. The Government's
strategy now includes allowing greater scope for market forces to influ-
ence fertilizer pricing and allocation, so as to contribute to improved
efficiency in fertilizer production and application. As a result, a two-
tier pricing system has emerged: (a) controlled prices for the state plan
quota; and (b) flexible, market-influenced prices for outside the state
plan quota. At present, about 40% of the country's total consumption of
fertil ers is sold at flexible prices outside the state allocation plan;
this percentage varies significantly among products and with the quality of
product.
2.23      The current two-tier pricing system is viewed as an intermediate
step in the evolution of sectoral policy. This transitional system has



several recognized limitations, including: (a) discrimination among differ-
ent producers and consumers; (b) administrative complexity involved in
partial application of new principles; and (c) distortions and time lags in
price adjustments of inputs and outputs. However, the two-tier structure
is expected to continue in place until a broader economic reform package is
introduced, due in part to the close interrelationship between fertilizer
and the agricultural sector, and the potential disruption if allocation and
pricing arrangements for fertilizers were to be liberalized in isolation.
The Government's strategy is to continue to reduce administrative control
of fertilizer pricing gradually in parallel with the gradual dismantling of
annual production planning and allocation, thus allowing the economy to
"grow out of the plan." To serve as a guideline for future policy reforms,
the Chinese authorities, under the leadership of the State Pricing Bureau
(SPB), intend to undertake a comprehensive review of fertilizer pricing and
allocation policies in parallel with the Project. A "Fertilizer Pricing
and Allocation Policy Review Group", headed by the Director of the
Department for Heavy Industry and Communication, SPB, and consisting of
related government agencies including Ministry of Finance (MOP), MCI, MOC,
MAAFP SINOPEC and SINOCHEM, will review the present two-tier pricing and
allocation system and various options for future policy reforms. The
general scope and timetable of the review has been discussed with the Bank,
and is given in Annex 2-2. During negotiations, confirmation was obtained
from the Government that this review will be carried out along the lines
stated in this agreed general scope and timetable.
2.24      Ex-factory Fertilizer Prices.  Fertilizer production within the
state plan quota is sold at controlled ex-factory prices and production
above the quota is marketed directly by fertilizer producers at market-
related flexible prices, within the limits for retail prices set by the
pricing authorities including SPB and local (provincial, city and county)
pricing bureaus. Prices for major fertilizers, such as urea and DAP, are
set by SPB, while prices of other products are determined by the local
authorities. The portion of fertilizers allowed to be sold at flexible
prices differs among products and localities and according to the financial
situation of individual manufacturers. In general, many manufacturers of
low-grade fertilizer (ABC, SSP) are allowed to sell almost their entire
production at flexible prices outside the state allocation plan, while
manufacturers of high-grade fertilizers, like urea and DAP, enjoy
substantially less flexibility. The Government has issued guideline prices
for low-grade fertilizers around which actual prices have clustered, but
with large variations.
2.25      The ex-factory prices of urea, DAP and ABC, and the delivered
prices of the main energy inputs, together with comparable internmational
border prices in February 1987, are given in Annex 2-3. The present ex-
factory controlled price of bagged urea is Y 420 (US$114)/ton, and the
market-related price of urea is negotiated within the ceiling price of Y
520 (US$141)/ton, which is equivalent to about 952 of its import parity
value. In practice, however, observed negotiated ex-factory prices
frequently exceed the ceiling price, at least during the peak season,
implying considerable upward flexibility in the retail price as well.



- 10 -
There is at present only insignificant local production of DAP (about
15,000 tpy at Nanjing), and the entire production is allowed to be sold at
a flexible price of about Y768 (US$208)/ton, equal to its import parity
price. Imported DAP within the State Plan is sold at Y560 (US$151)/ton,
and the difference between the import price and the sale price is
subsidized by the Government. The current ex-factory guideline price of
ABC has been set since March 1986 at Y 160/ton (US$43), about 89% of its
economic value. Over 90% of high grade fertilizers including urea and DAP
are currently being sold at controlled prices under the state allocation
plan. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained from the Government
that the five project companies w1ll be allowed to market directly the
entire output from project-supported facilities outside the state
allocation plan at market-related prices (subject only to such Government
provisions as may apply to prices of fertilizers at the retail level).
2.26      Farmgate Fertilizer Prices.  Distribution margins are added to
ex-factory prices to determine controlled farmgate prices of fertilizers
used for major crops within the State Plan. The margin of about Y 100
(US$27/ton) allowed for controlled prices of urea and DAP appears realistic
for AMPCs to cover transport and storage costs. Farmgate prices of these
fertilters outside the state allocation plan are negotiated, and are
currently as much as 20-50% above controlled farmgate prices.
H. Government Strategy in the Fertilizer Sector
2.27      The Government's priorities in the fertilizer sector are to: (a)
increase high-grade fertilizer production by building new capacities and
rationalizing the existing low-grade fertilizer facilities; (b) increase
production efficiency of existing fertilizer plants through technical
renovation, energy saving measures, and product quality improvements; (c)
reduce the nutrient imbalance by rapidly expanding capacity of phosphate
fertilizers based on locally available phosphate rock and developing domes-
tic potash resources; and (d) raise efficiency of enterprise operations
through improvements in operational and financial management.
2.28      During the Seventh Five-Year Plan, the Government's sector
investment strategy envisages: (a) commissioning of 11 new plants current-
ly under construction (see para 2.09); (b) conversion of medium-size plants
to produce high-grade fertilizers; (c) intensified exploitation and devel-
opment of local phosphate mines; (d) initiation of several phosphate
fertilizer projects to be completed during the following five-year Plans;
and (e) rationalization of small-size plants including conversion of
products. At present, the Government does not contemplate any investments
in new small-size plants. Indeed, 300 such plants were closed between 1978
and 1983, and additional 200 small plants have been inoperative since early
1985. A preliminary economic evaluation r-ade by the appraisal mission of
projects representative of the major types of proposed investments indi-
cates that the larger scale high-grade fertilizer plants the Government
plans to build are economically well justified. Their economic viability
is largely attributed to China's abundance in energy feedstocks and short-
ages of hi&a grade fertilizers, which are anticipated to persist at least
within the next decade. Conversion of medium-size plants as proposed, for
example, under the Project, also yields attractive economic rates of



- 11 -
return. The Government's emphasis on establishing an efficient domestic
phosphate industry is also considered appropriate given the nutrient imbal-
ance in fertilizer use as well as China's endowment of phosphate rock
reserves. As for the rationalization of small size plants, a significant
number of theee plants have location and feedstock advantages which could
Justify their continued operations and rehabilitations. A case-by-case
approach will be taken considering variations in plant size, technology,
feedstock and location of those plants. In converting small plants to pro-
duce high-grade fertilizers, the Government is currently taking a cautious
approach through pilot implementation of a few such conversions.
I. Bank Role in the Fertilizer Sector and Project Justification
2.29      In support of the Government's efforts to establish an efficient
fertilizer sector, the Bank's main role in the sector is to provide: (a)
advice on policy measures relevant to the improvement of sectoral efficien-
cy, particularly in fertilizer pricing and allocation, investment planning,
information management, and management reforms; and (b) financial and tech-
nical assistance in modernizing existing fertilizer production facilities,
building new capacities, particularly for phosphate and potash fertilizers,
and selecting appropriate technologies. The fertilizer industry has been
selected by GOC as a priority sector for Bank lending in view of its impor-
tance to agriculture and major technological and large investment needs.
2.30      The Bank's first project in the sector (Fertilizer Rehabilitation
and Energy Saving Project, Loan 2541-CHA, FY85) provides financial assis-
tance for efficiency improvements in four large and two medium-size nitro-
genous fertilizer plants. Implementation of the first project is proceed-
ing well and on schedule. In addition, testing of phosphate rock and
feasibility studies for exploiting local phosphate reserves in Hubei and
Guizhou Provinces are being undertaken under the IDA-financed Technical
Cooperation Credit (1412-CHA). The Bank is also providing support for the
development of a phosphate subsector investment planning study to optimize
investments up to the year 2000, which is nearing completion. The study
covers all the phosphate related subsectors, including phosphate mining,
transportation and fertilizer manufacturing.
2.31      The Project will complement the Bank's first fertilizer project
and broaden the Bank's contribution in improving sector-wide efficiency.
In line with China's current strategy to rationalize its existing medium-
size plants, the Project will support the rationalization efforts of five
medium size ABC plants. In the course of project preparation, the Bank has
already made a significant contribution in optimizing the future configura-
tion of the five medium-size plants. Experience in the preparation and
implementation of this Project will be useful to the Government in imple-
menting similar projects in the future. The Yunnan phosphate fertilizer
component, which will establish the country's first major DAP production
facility utilizing local phosphate rock, supports the Government's medium
and long term strategy to develop a phosphate fertilizer industry to solve
the problem of nutrient imbalance in fertilizer use. Further, the institu-
tional development component will support the on-going efforts of the



- 12 -
Government to Improve managerial efficiency of the sector. This component
is the first example of a comprehensive sectoral approach to adapting
organization and management of enterprises to the increasingly commercial
operating environment in China and its succ2ssful implementation will have
a strong demonstration effect on othker sectors. Future Bank assistance in
the fertilizer sector is expected to include support for phosphate fertil-
izer development. The scope for further assistancs in carrying out plan-
ning and strategic studies in the sector is also under consideration.
III. PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
3.01      The Fertilizer Rationalization Project Involves:  (i) five
medium-size nitrogenous fertilizer companies, which will implement the res-
pective phosphate development and nitrogenous fertilizer rationalization
components; (ii) the Ministry of Chemical Industry (MCI) ,which will sponsor
a study on managerial efficiency of enterprises in the chemical fertilizer
industry (the Management Study, para 4.06); and (iii) the Beijing Institute
of Chemical Engineering and Management (BICEM) which will carry out a
program to strengthen management training of fertilizer enterprises and
MCI's information management capabilities. Details on these institutions
are given below.
A. Five Medium-Size Fertilizer Companies
1  General
3.02      The five medium-size fertilizer companies involved in the
Project, which are currently producing ABC, are: (a) Yunnan Xuanwei
Chemical Fertilizer Company (YXCFC) in Yunnan Province; (b) Yuanping
Chemical Vertilizer Company (YCFC) in Shanxi Province; (e) Luoyang Chemical
Fertilizer Company (LCPC) in Henan Province; (d) Xuanhua Chemical Fertil-
izer Company (XCFC) in Hebei rrovince; and (e) Beijing Chemical Experimen-
tal Company (BCEC) in Beijing City. These companies are state-owned enter-
prises, whose production operations are under the direct supervision of
local CIBs. Their charters, describing the scope of activities, responsi-
bilities and authorities of their organizations, have been registered with
the respective provincial governments. While the local governments, acting
principally through their CIBs, direct the administrative, operational and
financial activities of these companies, the latter operate as independent
legal and accounting entities and enjoy a wide spectrum of autonomy in
major business decisions, though detailed arrangements vary from province
to province. Further details on the five companies are given in the
following paragraphs, and their financial situation and prospects are
reviewed in Chapter VII.
2. Company Background
3.03      The Yunnan Xuanwei Chemical Fertilizer Company (YXCFC) located
near Xuanwei ity, Yunnan Provinee, was founded in 1966. Its ammonia and
ABC plants were commissioned in 1972. The original capacities of the



- 13 -
ammonia and ABC plants were, respectively, 45,000 tpy and 180,000 tpy. In
December 1985, rehabilitation work for Lhe ammonia plant was completed and
its production capacity was increased to 60,000 tpy. A 7,000 tpy methanol
plant and a 7,300 tpy formaldehyde plant were commissioned in 1986. The
capacity of the ABC plant has been expanded to 240,000 tpy.
3.04      The Yuanping Chemical Fertilizer Company (YCFC), located in
Yuanping County in the coal-rich province of Shanxi, was established in
1966. The ammonia plant, with a design capacity of 45,000 tpy, and the
180,000 tpy ABC plant were commissioned in 1971.
3.05      The Luoyang Chemical Fertilizer Company (LCFC), located near
Luoyang city in Henan province, was established in 1966.  The company com-
missioned an ammonia plant with a 45,000 tpy capacity and a 180,000 tpy ABC
plant in 1970.
3.06      The Xuanhua Chemical Fertilizer Company (XCFC), located in Zhang
Jia Kou city, Hebei Province, was established in 1966 and started producing
ABC in November 1968. XCFC has an ammonia plant and an ABC plant identical
to those of YCFC and LCFC.
3.07      The Beijing Chemical Experimental Company (BCEC), located in the
eastern suburb of Beijing City, started as an experimental pilot plant for
ammonia production in 1958. The ammonia plant, with an original capacity
of 10,000 tpy, was subsequently expanded six times to the existing capacity
of 110,000 tpy in 1979. BCEC also has a 200,000 tpy ABC plant, a 45,000
tpy methanol plant, a small formaldehyde plant, and a small urea plant with
a 12,500 tpy capacity. The urea plant was closed in 1986 due to its low
efficiency.
3. Organization and Management
3.08      Recent Management Reforms.  Chinese fertilizer companies have
been given increasing management autonomy under the recent economic
reforms. In the past, the managerial and financial autonomy of the compa-
nies, as in other sectors, was extremely constrained; the Government (SPC,
MCI and respective local governments) set annual production targets, allo-
cated inputs, distributed output, and allocated funds from budgets. In
recent years, various measures have been taken to allow some flexibility in
the system, resulting in the appearance of a two-tier planning and manage-
ment system; a state plan mandates i basic minimum level of activities,
while beyond this level the companies are permitted autonomy to operate in
response to market forces under a flexible plan. The flexible plan allows
the comueanies to take their own decisions relating to the production
levels, procurement of raw materials, and sales of products in respect to
production above the quota, and utilization of funds generated by such
operations. Although state planning is expected to continue to affect the
fertilizer sector in the near future, the scope for flexible planning and
management is expected to expand further, providing greater autonomy to the
management of the companies.



- 14 -
3.09      Organization.  The five fertilizer companies, whose organiza-
tional structure is quite similar (their organization charts are given in
Project File No. 1), are typical of Chinese fertilizer enterprises in
being characterized by an extremely flat structure consisting of numerous
unit workshops and departments with few management layers. A Director,
appointed by the supervisory authorities, heads the company with the assis-
tance of: (a) three or four Deputy Directors who are responsible, respec-
tively, for sales and procurement, administration, production and mainte-
nance and construction projects; (b) a Chief Engineer in charge of techni-
cal matters; and (c) a Chief Accountant responsible for accounting and
financial matters. The existing structure does not conform to the standard
contemporary principles of organizational efficiency such as adequate span
of control or functional distribution of responsibilities among line
managers. Some managers are overloaded with supervisory responsibilities,
and horizontal coordination among various departments and workshops is not
well maintained. Production managers of the five companies, for example,
are each responsible for an average of about 20 different working units.
There is a strong need for organizational restructuring of the companies to
enable them to carry out effectively their changing organizational man-
dates. The Management Study to be carried out under the Project (para
4.06) will look into this organizational aspect in the context of the
changing business environment, and will help to design appropriate organi-
zational structures suited to the Chinese situation.
3.10      Management.  ABC producers, including the five fertilizer compa-
nies under the Project, enjoy greater autonomy than other fertilizer pro-
ducers. In early 1985, ABC manufacturers became responsible for the mar-
keting of their entire production outside the state allocation plan at
market-related negotiated prices. On the production side, the portion of
the state quota production for ABC producers has been reduced substantially
or totally eliminated since then4/. As a result, the companies have been
encouraged to take a variety of measures to strengthen their marketing
capabilities: the product quality has been improved; sales forces have
been expanded, on average, from 2-5 persons to 20-60 persons, in part to
develop inter-provincial sales; and new emphasis is being given to develop-
ing client relationships with AMPC at various levels and with farmers.
3.11      Management capabilities of the companies are not yet adequate to
exploit fully the potential benefit of the new business environment.
Significant improvements are required in the area of production and finan-
cial planning, information management, and cost and financial management.
Most importantly, production and financial planning for the five companies
is currently limited to one-year plans, which do not adequately cover the
most strategic variables. Difficulties in extending the planning period
lie mainly in: (a) the lack of a reliable data management system; (b)
limited autonomy in determining major business variables; (c) the lack of
expertise and capacity in business forecasting; and (d) the absence of a
4/   For example, XCFC enjoys total autonomy in both production and
marketing.



- 15 -
proper cost management system. These difficulties can be overcome only by
a combination of further delegation of responsibilities to company manage-
ments, and the establishment of reliable computerized management informa-
tion and cost management systems. The Management Study will provide prac-
tical recomendations on the introduction of modern systems for information
and cost management as well as investment and financial planning. Follow-
ing successful introduction of these systems on a pilot basis, the Govern-
ment would gradually extend them to the entire sector. BCEC and YXCFC
will undertake pilot implementation of these systems under the Management
Study, and the other three project companies plan to introduce them subse-
quently.
3.12      Staffing and Training.  The five companies maintain an almost
similar set of training programs for their employees. On average, each
company currently employs about 2,000 staff,5/ of which about 7-10% is
technical and another 15-20% is general management personnel.  Most of the
higher level operational and managerial staff have received college or uni-
versity education, and most technicians have attended technical schools.
WIhile technical and management training at professional training institu-
tions is urgently needed to update technical expertise and adapt to the
changing business environment, outside training opportunities for managers
and technicians as well as workers are currently limited and the quality of
training provided has not been adequate to meet training needs. The insti-
tutional development component under the Project will contribute to
improvements in the quality of technical and management training, at the
Beijing Institute of Chemical Engineering Management (BICEM, para 3.16), a
professional training institution under MCI. In connection with the imple-
mentation of the Project, arrangements have been made for top and middle
managers of the five companies to receive intensive training in their
specific fields of &pecialization at BICEM.
4. Production Performance
3.13      All the five companies have operated at high levels of capacity
utilization; in 1986, the level was over 90% for both ammonia and ABC. Up
to 1983, YXCFC's capacity utilization was somewhat low due to mechanical
problems in the ammonia plant. These problems were solved through plant
modifications during 1984-1985. The urea plant of BCEC, having operated as
a balancing plant for surplus ammonia at low capacities, was closed down in
1986 because of its low efficiency. The recent trend in production and
capacity utilization of the five companies during 1981-1986 is given in
Annex 3-1.
3.14      Anthracite and coke, used as feedstocks for ammonia production,
have been supplied in sufficient quantities, and have not posed any
constraint to production. About 80% of feedstock requirements for the
companies are currently allocated within the state plan at controlled
prices. The balance of the requirements is purchased from various
5/   YCFC - 1,876 (160); LCFC - 2,024 (123); XCFC - 1,869 (136); BCEC -
3,409 (336) including personnel for other non-fertilizer operations;
and YXCFC - 2,348 (180)--technical staff in parentheses.



- 16 -
suppliers at market-relate-d negotiated prices which are, in general, about
10% higher than the controlled prices applied to the state allocation.
Sources, prices, and calorific value of the main feedstocks for the five
companies are given in Annex 3-2. Electricity is supplied from local
grids.
B.   The Ministry of Chemical Industry (MCI)
3.15      MCI is essentially a technical planning and policy-implementing
body, whose objective is to promote the development of the chemical indus-
try and to coordinate production. In addition to the chemical fertilizer
sector, MCI oversees some refineries, rubber plants, and several other
chemical industries. MCI monitors activities of the chemical industry at
the provincial and county levels in coordination with local CIBs.  MCI is
headed by a Minister, assisted by four Deputy Ministers who are responsi-
ble, respectively, for: (a) finance and foreign affairs; (b) production;
(c) construction projects; and (d) education and research. MCI maintains a
task force for coordination with the World Bank, known as the"World Bank
project Implementation Coordination Group" led by the Deputy Minister for
Finance and Foreign Affairs. The World Bank Loan Office, an executive arm
of the group, is headed by a Director level official.  The organization
chart of MCI is given in Project File No. 2.
C. Beijing Institute of Chemical Engineering and Management (BICEM)
3.16      Recognizing the growing need for the introduction of modern
management techniques in the chemical industry, MCI established BICEM in
1983. BICEM is the training arm of MCI for government officials related
to the fertilizer industry and for managers of chemical enterprises.
Financial resources for BICEM come mainly from the budget allocation of MCI
(about 90%) and partly from tuition fees of students (about 10%). At
present, BICEM has five departments specializing, respectively, in econo-
mics and management, accounting, chemical engineering, administrative
management, and foreign languages. These five departments are further
grouped into different specialized fields. BICEM currently has 206 staff,
of which 116 are teaching staff. About 1,000 students can be trained at
any one time at the Institute, which has dormitories, a library, a computer
center, 18 laboratories, and a language laboratory. The organization chart
of BICEM is given in Project File No. 3.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Objectives
4.01      The Project is designed to assist China in achieving its priority
objectives of meeting the country's growing fertilizer needs more effi-
ciently through the expansion of fertilizer production capacities, the
upgrading of fertilizers, and the improvement of the production and manage-
rial efficiency of chemical fertilizer enterprises. Specific objectives of
the project are to: (i) establish one of the country's first major DAP



- 17 -
production facilities, utilizing local phosphate rock reserves; (ii)
install new urea production capacity while replacing the production of ABC
and expanding ammonia capacities; (iii) modernize technology in fertilizer
production; (iv) support efforts of enterprises to improve efficiency in
production, financial and marketing management through organizational
restructuring, introduction of management information systems (MIS) and the
improvement of cost accounting systems; (v) improve the quality of
management training for high and middle-level managers of fertilizer
enterprises and government officials; and (vi) upgrade MCI's capabilities
in investment planning and information management. To achieve these
objectives, the Project comprises the following three major components: (a)
phosphate fertilizer development component; (b) nitrogenous fertilizer
rationalization and expansion component; and (c) institutional development
component.
B. Phosphate Fertilizer Development Component
4.02      This component of the Project will establish a DAP/NPK production
facility at YXCFC in Yunnan Province, which currently operates a 15-year
old medium-size nitrogenous fertilizer plant producing ammonia and ABC.
In order to accommodate the changing market demand towards high-grade and
phosphate fertilizers, YXCFC will modify its plant configuration to produce
DAP and NPK. This component cniprises: (a) installation of a 200,000 tpy
pyrites-based sulfuric acid plant, a 80,000 tpy P205 phosphoric acid plant
with a 4,200 tpy fluoride processing capacity, and a 240,000 tpy DAP/NPK
granulation plant; (b) establishment of utilities and offaites including
raw material handling and storage facilities and a site for phosphogypsum
disposal; (c) implementation of energy saving measures in the existing
coal-beqed ammonia plant; and (d) local and overseas training for opera-
tions and technical staff. Phosphate rock will be supplied from the
Jinning mine in Yunnan Province, and pyrites will be shipped 1,700 km by
rail from the Yunfu mine in Guandong Province.  The granulation plant will
produce 158,000 tpy of DAP, and 90,000 tpy of NPK (typically 16-16-16)
utilizing 32,000 tpy of DAP. A detailed description of this component is
given in Annex 4-1.
4.03      Production levels before and after the Project are shown in Table
4-A on the next page.



- 18 -
Table 4-A
YXCFC - Production levels Before and After Project
('000 tons of product per year)
Product            Beforea/            After0/
Ammonia             48                  54
ABC                215                  75
DAP                   -                126
NPK (16-16-16)        -oc/
a/ Based upon actual production performance.
b/ At 90% of design capacity.
cl  19,000 tpy of urea will be purchased from outside sources to produce
NPKe
C. Nitrogenous Fertilizer Rationalization and Expansior. Component
4.04      This component is designed to convert four medium-size nitroge-
nous fertilizer plants (YCFC, LCFC, XCFC and BCEC) from ABC production to
urea production, using the latest international urea technology, which
features high conversion efficiency and low energy consumption. All four
plants are about 12 to 15 years old, and have high energy consumption of
about 15-16 million kcal per ton of ammonia compared to an attainable
level of about 13 million kcal for anthracite/coke based plarts (para
2.16). The Project will also modify the existing ammonia plants to save
energy. This component for each of the four plants consists of: (i) energy
saving modifications in existing coal-based ammonia plants; (ii) expansion
of ammonia capacities to 80,000 tpy; (iii) installation of a 132,000 tpy
(400 tpd) urea plant, based on the latest international technology; (iv)
all utilities/off-sites required for smooth plant operation, including
storage facilities for 800 m3 of ammonia and 3,000 tons of bagged urea; and
(v) training in operations and maintenance. A description of this
component is given in detail in Annex 4-2.
4.05      Production levels before  and after the Project are shown in
Table 4-B below:
Table 4-B
YCFC, LCFC, XCFC and BCEC - Production Levels Before and
After Project
('000 tons of product per year)
Ammonia              ABC                 Urea
beore"/   after"/  befor IO/ after-/ Be-ore"  after"/
BCEC                  65         72        230       0       0         119
LCFC                  45         72        170       0        0        119
XCFC                  55         72        220       0       0         119
YCFC                  46         72        170       0        0        119
rn,  zarru uu aErual production performance.
b/   At 90% of design capacity.



- 19 -
In addition to product change, the total output in nutrient terms of the
four companies would be increased by about 88,000 tpy. This capacity
expansion is technically feasible given the good condition of the ammonia
plants, which will permit high capacity utilization of the proposed urea
and DAP plants, and can be achieved with only minor capital investments
because many sections of the ammonia plants were originally overdesigned.
D.   Institutional Development Component
4.06      The institutional development component will carry out: (i) a
Management Study to design improved enterprise-level management systems;
and (ii) a program at BICEM to strengthen sector-wide management training
and MCI's data and project management bystem, The Management Study, to be
carried out by internationally recruited consultants in close collaboration
with a group of local experts to be formed within MCI, will: (i) review
the organizational atructure, management information and cost management
systems of chemical fertilizer enterprises; (ii) recommend improvements in
the design of such systems considering the changing organizational mandates
of the companies; and (iii) introduce new systems on a pilot basis at BC2C
and YXCFC. The Management Study will also prepare specific recommendations
for the extension of such systems to the entire chemical fertilizer
sector. The terms of reference for the Management Study are given in
project File No. 4 and summarized in Annex 4-3. During negotiations, an
assurance was obtained from the Government that the Management Study will
be carried out in accordance with the terms of reference agreed with the
Bank, and completed and reviewed with the Bank no later than June 30,
1989.
4.07      BICEM offers various management courses for managers of chemical
enterprises and officials of central and local governments. However, its
teaching staff, equipment, and materials require upgrading, and curriculum
design needs to be strengthened. Under this component of the Project,
BICEM will carry out a program to strengthen the quality of training by:
(i) aligning the curricula to priority training needs of the industry; (ii)
overseas training of selected teaching staff; (iii) inviting foreign
experts to participate in teaching local training courses; and (iv)
acquiring advanced teaching and research equipment and materials. In
addition to its involvement in the training component, BICEM will establish
and maintain a data base for MCI's information and project management. The
program for BICEM is in Project File No. 5, and is summarized in Annex 4-4.
During negotiations, an assurance was obtained from the Government that the
program for BICEM will be carried out in accordance with the scope of the
program agreed with the Bank, and completed no later than December 31,
1990.
V. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
A. Engineering Arrangements
5.01      The basic engineering and some detailed engineering for the four
urea plants and the phosphoric acid plant will be carried otut by qualified
international engineering firms.  The international engineering firms will
review and supervise detailed engineering for the urea and phosphoric acid



- 20 -
plants to be undertaken by domestic design institutes, and will provide
assistance during construction, erection and commissioning of the plants.
5.02      The Project will utilize local engineering capabilities to the
maximum extent possible, with necessary support from foreign
contractors/licensors.  The basic and detailed engineering of the pyrites
roasting, sulfuric acid and granulation plants, as well as all required
offsites and utilities at YXCFC, will be undertaken by the Nanjing Design
Institute (NDI). NDI has experience in the design, with support from
foreign licensors, of almost identical facilities at Nanjing. Most of the
detailed design for the urea plants will be done by the Wuhan Design
Institute in collaboration with foreign urea contractors/licensors. The
basic and detailed engineering for the energy saving modifications and
capacity expansions of the four coal-based medium-size ammonia plants in
the urea component of the Project will be carried out by local design
institutes. Local technologies to be used in the Project will be confined
to those already commercially proven and technically acceptable by
international standards in terms of installed costs, efficiencies,
operating costs, operability, safety and emission levels.  The local design
institutes will conduct hazard and operability studies on all critical
process sections in collaboration with specialists in this field, and
provide process guarantees.
B. Project Management
5.03      Project management arrangements are similar to those under the
ongoing China Fertilizer Rehabilitation and Energy Saving Project (Loan
2541-CHA, FY85), which have proven satisfactory.  MCI, which will have the
primary responsibility for supervision of overall project implementation,
has set up a project coordination uuit to ensure effective coordination,
review progress during procurement and take timely action to remove any
constraints affecting the progress of the Project. For individual
components of the Project, each beneficiary fertilizer company has already
set up a project management team. The management and staff of MCI's
project coordination unit and of the five companies have the capability to
implement the Project efficiently. The organizational chart of MCI's
project coordination unit is given in Annex 5-1, and those for the
companies' project management teams are given in Project File No. 6.
During negotiations, an assurance was obtained from the Government and the
companies that MCI and the companies will maintain, respectively, the
project coordination unit and project management teams until the Project
Completion Date.
C. Implementation Schedule
5.04      The implementation of the Project is expected to take 36 months
for the institutional development component, 42 months for the urea plants,
and 54 months for the sulfuric acid, rusphoric acid and DAP plants, from
the date of loan approval. The four urea plants are expected to be
completed by the end of December 1990, with commercial production
commencing in January 1991. The phosphate fertilizer development component
is expected to be complete4 by the end of December 1991. The Project
implementation schedule, as discussed and agreed with the Chinese
authorities, is shown in Annex 5-2.



- 21 -
D. Tiainin!
5.05      YXCFC has no prior experience in the manufacturing and marketing
of phosphate and complex fertilizer and extensive training in all aspects
of operations will be required. A comprehensive training program will be
prepared by the company, reviewed by the Bank and implemented in time to
ensure a smooth comissioning and operation of the plants. Training for
sulfuric acid and DAP operations will be arranged at the new DAP production
facility of Nanjing Chemical Industry Company (NCIC). Training for
phosphoric acid production will be carried out at Yunnan Phosphatic
Fertilizer Company (YPFC)o The training program also allows for overseas
training on the technology for phosphoric acid and DAP/urea based NPK
production. The major part of the training for the four urea plants will
be conducted in local and foreign urea plants in accordance with
comprehensive training programs to be prepared by each company after a
review by the Bank. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
companies that they will develop training programs by December 1987,
including specific arrangements with existing local manufacturers operating
similar plants, for Bank review, and implement them subsequently in
consultation with the Bank.
E. Environmental Aspects
5.06      The new DAP plant at YXCFC will employ pollution control measures
that have been used and proven successful at NCIC to ensure emission levels
meeting local and intLrnational standards. Fluorine emissions from phos-
phoric acid production will be controlled within the limit of international
standards. Site selection and preparation for the disposal of phosphogyp-
sum has been reviewed by the Yunnan Provincial Environmental Protection
Agency Advisory Research Institute, and has been approved by the local
authorities based on the satisfactory result of this review. At the four
medium-size urea plants, no environmental problems are anticipated. The
urea plants will be based on the latest technology and will meet interna-
tional emission standards. The current emission levels from the respective
ammonia plants exceed local emission standards. Actual and expected pollu-
tion levels before and after the Project, given in Annex 5-3,show that the
five companies will be able to reduce pollution to meet the local standards
which are generally in line with Bank guidelines and acceptable to the
Bank. Assurances were obtained from MCI and the five companies that
execution and operation of the Project will be carried out with due regard
to safety, ecological and environmental factor and comply with
environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank.
VI. CAPITAL COSTS, FINANCING PLAN, PROCUREMENT AND
LOAN AGREEMENT
A. Capital Cost Estimates
6.01      The total financing required for the Project, including interest
during construction and incremental working capital, is estimated at
US$184.0 million equivalent, of which US$110.1 million or 59.82 is in
foreign exchange. The capital cost estimates are detailed in Annex 6-1
and summarized in Table 6-A on the following page.



- 22 --
Table 6-A
Capital Cbst Breakdown
Z of
Local  Foreign  Total  local  Foreig!  TDtal Us$ BCE
---(Y millions)---   -  -Us$ adllious)---
Phosphate Development qnoet          51.5    134.6   186.1   13.9    36.4    50.3   37.0
Nitrogenous Fertilizer Rationalization
OnPqmxnt                           139.6    172.2   311.8   37.7    46.5    84.2   62.0
Institutional Developuent 0mpoet      0.4      4.8    5.2    0.1      1.3    1.4    1.0
Base Cbst Estimate a,/
(Janry 1987 price)             191.5   311.6  503.1   51.7   84.2   135.9  100.0
hysical d i     es                   19.1    30.7   49.8    5.2    8.3    13.5   10.0
Price Conilnies                      48.7    80.4   129.1    2.9    4.9       7.8    5.7
IStalled Costs                 259.3   422.7  682.0   59.8   97.4   157.2
Working Capital                      51.1      -      51.1   10.4     -      10.4
Interest During Constnxtion          16.1    54.6    70.7    3.7    12.7    16.4
tal Financing !Rquired          326.5   477.3   803.8   73.9   110.1   184.0
-   ~ -                 xcn=  =w
a, local osts, incla  sale tax on locally ptwchased eqdpiment and materials amvuntig to US$1.6
million equivalent.
6.02       The base cost estimates, expressed in January 1987 prices, have
been derived from estimates made by the project authorities and MCI in
collaboration with the domestic design institutes, and have been checked
against cost information obtained by the Bank from international
engineering firms. Physical contingencies are estimated at 10% of the base
cost estimates. For the calculation of base cost and physical
contingencies, the prevailing exchange rate of Y 3.7: US$1 has been used.
Price escalation for costs expressed in terms of foreign exchange (US
dollars) is calculated according to anticipated international price
movements of 3.0% for 1987, 1.0% for 1988-90, and 3.5% for 1991 and
thereafter. Price escalation for costs expressed in local currency is
calculated according to projected local inflation rates of 6.5% for 1987-90
and 4.5% for 1991 and thereafter. Equipment and materials imported for the
Project are exempt from import duties. The companies will pay sales tax on
locally procured equipment and materials.
B.   Financing Plan
6.03       The proposed Bank loan of US$97.4 million will meet 88.5% of the
total foreign exchange component and 52.9% of the total financing
required. The remaining financing needs will be met mainly by local
lending institutions (29.5%), the companies' own funds (17.5%) and budget
allocation (0.1%). The proposed financing plan for the Project is
summarized in Table 6-B on the next pagee



- 23 -
Table 6-B
Financing Plan
% of US$
Component/Entity   Source           Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Total
--(Y millions)            -i3S$U-illionsY--Z
A. Phosphate F2ertilizer
Development
YXCFC       IBRD Loan             -      185.5   185.5       -      42.3    42.3    57.7
Domestic Loans       81.7      -      81.7      18.4     -       18.4    25.1
Internal Fund        28.0    28.4    56.4        5.7     6.9    12.6    17.2
Sub-Total           109.7   713W9  323.6        24T     49.2    73.3   156.T
B. Nitrogenous Fertilizer
Rationalization and Expansion
YCFC        IBRD Loan             -      59.2    59.2        -      13.8    13.8    47.1
Domestic Loans       43.9      -      43.9       9.9     -        9.9    33.8
Internal Fund        17.6     6.7    24.3        4.2      1.4     5.6    19.1
Sub-Total            61.5    65.9   127.4       14.1    15.2    29.3   100.0
LCFC        IBRD Loan             -      60.6    60.6        -      14.0    14.0    45.8
Domestic Loans       56.6      -      56.6      13.3     -       13.3    43.5
Internal Fund         8.9      6.9    15.8       1.8      1.5     3.3    10.7
Sub-Total            65.5    67.5   133.0  S5.1    15.5    30.6   100.0
XCFC        IBRD Loan             -      58.0    58.0        -      13.4    13.4    50.4
Domestic Loans       28.4      -      28.4       6.2     -        6.2    23.3
Internal Fund        22.8     6.6    29.4        5.5     1.5      7.0    26.3
Sub-Total            51.2    64.6   115.8       11.7    14.9    26.6   100.0
BCEC       IBRD Loan              -      54.6    54.6        -      12.6    12.6    55.3
Domestic Loans       28.4      -      28.4       6.4     -        6.4    28.1
Internal Fund         9.7      6.0    15.7       2.4     1.4      3.8    16.6
Sub-Total            38.1    60.6    98.7        8.8    14.0    22.8   100.0
C. Institution Development
Five Project
Companiesa/IBRD Loan              -        1.7     1.7       -       0.45    0.45   32.1
MCI/BICEM  IBRD Loan              -        3.1     3.1       -       0.85    0.85   60.7
Budget Allocation    0.4       -       0.4       0.1     -        0.1     7.1
Sub-Total             0.4      3.1     3.1       0.1      1.3     1.4   100.0
D. Total Project
IBRD Loan             -     422.7   422.7        -      97.4    97.4    52.9
Domestic Loans      239.0      -     239.0      54.2     -       54.2    29.5
Internal Funds       87.1    54.6   141.7       19.6    12.7    32.3    17.5
Govt. Contribution   0.4       -       0.4       0.1     -        0.1      0.1
TOTAL           326.5   477.3   803.8       73.9   110.1   184.0   100.0
a/   The cost for the Management Study is to be shared equally among the five Project
Comganief .
Note:  Domestic loan amount for each company comprises:  (a) long-term loans; (b)
short-term working capital loans, if necessary; and (c) deferred interest
payment during construction (para 6.05).



- 24 -
6.04      The proposed Bank loan will be made to GOC at the Bank's standard
interest rate for 20 years, including 5-year grace and with a commitment
charge of 0.75%. Of the total Bank loan of US$97.6 million equivalent, GOC
will onlend US$96.1 million equivalent to the five companies at an onlend-
ing rate of 7.92% p.a. with a commitment charge of 0.75% and repayment
period of 15 years including 5 years of grace. In addition, the cost of
US$450,000 equivalent for the Management Study under the institutional
development component will be shared evenly among the five project compa-
nies, and US$90,000 equivalent of loan proceeds will be onlent to each
company at a service charge of 0.75% p.a. with a commitment charge of 0.75%
for a period of 15 years, including 5 years grace. The foreign exchange
risk will be passed on to the companies. Subsidiary loan agreements to be
signed by GOC and the companies will be prepared based on terms and condi-
tions of onlending acceptable to the BRnk. The balance of US$850,000
million equivalent will be made available to MCI to carry out the BICEM
part of the institutional development component. The funds required for
BICEM will be allocated by MCI through the internal budgetary process.
During negotiations, confirmation was obtained from the Government on these
onlending arrangements.
6.05      The People's Construction Bank of China will provide local con-
struction loans to cover the local cost financing requirements for fixed
assets at its prevailing rate for similar investments (currently 7.2%
p*a.), with a maturity of 15 years including a grace period during con-
struction as follows: (a) YXCFC - Y 35.7 million (US$8.1 million equiva-
lent), (b) YCFC - Y 33.0 million (US$7.5 million), (c) LCFC - Y 40.0
million (US$9.1 million), (d) XCFC - Y 26.0 million (US$5.8 million), and
(e) BCEC - Y 26.4 million (US$6.0 million). Interest payments on these
loans will be deferred during the construction period and repaid in
installments after the completion of the Projecto YXCFC and LCFC will
borrow, respectively, an additional loan of Y 30.0 million (US$6.8 million)
and Y 13.0 miltlon (US$3.0 million) from other local financing sources
against the guarantee of local governments on the same terms as the capital
construction loans. The remaining local financing needs, including incre-
mental working capital, will be met by either internal funds or short term
loans from local banks. Financial projections indicate that YXCFC, YCFC
and LCFC will need to borrow short term loans from local banks as working
capital loans to cover a portion of their incremental working capital
requirements, while XCFC and BCEC will be able to meet the remaining
financing requirements from internal funds (para. 7.05). During negotia-
tions, confirmation was obtained from the Government that capital construc-
tion loans and additi.onal long-term loans will be made available to finance
the local costs of the Project for the five companies.



- 25 -
Co  Procurement
6.06      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 6-C below:
Table 6-C
Procurement Arrangements a/
(US$ million) 
Procurement Method       Total
ICB    LIB     Other      Cost
Equipment and Materials                 60.3    9.5    43*0       112*8
(60.3)  (9.5)   (13.2)     (83.0)
License, Engineering and                                11.4       11.4
Consultancy Services                                 (8.7)      (8.7)
Project Management and                                   6.0        6.0
Commissioning                                        (3.1)      (3.1)
Land, Civil Work and Erection                           23.4       23.4
(-)        (-)
Training                                                 2.0        2.0
(1.2)      (1.2)
institutional Development                                1.4        1.4
(1.3)      (1.3)
Otherse/                                                27.0       27.0
Total Financing                      60.3    9.5    114.2       184.0
(60.3)  (9.5)   (27.6)     (97.4)
a/   Including incremental working capital and interest during
construction.
Note: Figures in parenthesis indicate the respective amounts to be
financed by the Bank.
6.07      Procurement Arrangements for Bank Financing.  Procurement of
equipment, materials and engineering services financed out of the proceeds
of the Bank loan will follow Bank procurement and consultant guidelines. A
major portion of equipment and materials will be procured through interna-
tional competitive bidding (ICB). In ICB, domestic manufacturers will be
given a margin of preference of 152 or the prevailing customs duty,
whichever is lower, for bid evaluation purposes. Engineering and project
management services will be selected according to Bank guidelines.
Specialized items for urea and acid plants with only limited number of
suppliers will be procured through limited international bidding (LIB).
Items for LIB, with an estimated value of up to US$500,000 each, will be
subject to an aggregate amount of US$9.5 million; where feasible, a minimum
of three bids from three different countries shall be obtained under LIB.
Orders for small or miscellaneous items with an estimated value of up to
US$250,000 each will be procured through international shopping with price
quotations from at least three qualified and eligible suppliers up to an
aggregate amount of US$8.0 million. Equipment proprietary to process
design may be procured through direct contracting up to an aggregate amount
of US$5.3 million. Packages over US$750,000 each, estimated to total abouZ



- 26 -
25, will be subject to prior Bank review. Packages below US$750,000 each
will be subject to post-review by the Bank. Consultants for technical
services, training and the Management Study, financed by the Bank, will be
contracted in accordance with Bank guidelines for use of consultants.
Contracts with engineering firms will be subject to Bank approval prior to
signature. International procurement will be executed by the China
National Chemical Construction Company (CNCCC)6/ under HCI in coordination
with MCI's project coordination unit for the Project. To avoid delays in
Project execution, the Bank loan will retroactively finance up to US$201
million of eligible expenditures for downpayments to engineering firms and
for project management incurred between February 1, 1987 and the date of
loan signing.
6.08      Procurement Arrangements for Local Financing.  Supply of local
construction materials, plant and equipment is regulated by an allocation
system administered by central and provincial government agencies, and
applications for annual requirements have to be made to SPC and the State
Material Supply Bureau in advance. However, under recent provisions,
buyers and suppliers of equipment have some scope for negotiations as to
the type of equipment, deliveries and price. Most of the detailed engi-
neering work, civil works and erection and some equipment will be procured
locally. Contracts for civil works and erection will be through assignment
to specialized construction bureaus or companies, under negotiated con-
tracts specifying the unit costs, terms of payments, and incentives/penal-
ties for early/late completion. The capacity and capabilities of the local
contractors proposed for the Project are satisfactory for timely and effi-
cient completion of proposed works.
D. Allocation and Disbursement of Loan
6.09      The proposed allocation of the Bank loan is summarized in Table
6-D on the next page.
6/   CNCCC is responsible for international procurement of the on-going
Bank-supported Fertilizer Rehabilitation and Energy Saving Project
(Loan No. 2541-CHA, FY85).



- 27 -
Table 6-D
Bank Loan Allocation
(in US-$ millio equivalent)
YXCFC   YCFC   LCFC   XCFC   BCEC    MCI a/  Total   B8nk Loan Financing
1.  Equipment,           36.50  12,00  12.20  11.60   10.80    -        83.10  100% of foreign
Materials and                                                               expenditures, and
Spares                                                                      100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory)
2.  Engineering,          4.90   1.40   1.40   1.40    1.40    -         10.50  100% of fore.gn
Licenses and                                                                expenditures
Technical Services
3.  Overseas Travel       0.50   0.20   0.20   0.20    0.20    -          1.30  100%
for Engineering
and Procurement
4.  Overseas Training    0.40   0.20   0.20   0.20    0.20    -           1.20  100%
5.  Institutional         0.09   0.09   0.09  O.09    0.09   0.85        1.30  100%
Development
Total           42.39  13.89  14.09  13.49   12.69   0.85    97.40
a/ The portion for BICEM.
6.10      The proposed Bank loan will cover (a) 100% of foreign expendi-
tures for directly imported goods and 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory) for domestically manufactured goods to be procured following
Bank guidelines; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for licenses, engineering
and technical services for project management; (c) 100% of the cost for
overseas travel by local staff for engineering, procurement and overseas
training; and (d) 100% of foreign expenditures for the institutional
development component. To facilitate disbursement of funds, a special
account (revolving fund) will be established in US dollars in a commercial
bank acceptable to the Bank, with an authorized allocation of US$4.0
million. Disbursement will be against full documentation except for
overseas travel for engineering, procurement and training, and contracts
valued less than US$200,000 equivalent each, which would be against
statements of expenditure. Documentation c%f statements of expenditure will
be maintained by MCI's project implementation coordination unit, audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and made available
to the Bank for review during Pro4ect supervision. The project completion
date would be December 31, 1992, and the loan closing date is expected to
be June 30, 1993. An estimated disbursement schedule for the Project is
given in Annex 6-2.



- 28 -
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Background on Financial Management Practices
7.01      Financial Autonomy.  Recent changes in China have resulted in
greater financial autonomy and accountability for the managers of iAdivi-
dual enterprises. In the past, all major financial decisions, including
approval of new investments, were made by the Government, and enterprises
remitted almost all internally generated funds to the Government. Funds
for new investments were provided as grants through budget allocations.
Major recent changes affecting the financial autonomy of the companies are:
(a) enterprises now retain 100% of their depreciation allowances; (b)
enterprises retain an increasing portion of profits (which varies between
companies and provinces); (c) new funding requirements, including those for
investments, are met from the company's internally retained funds or
interest-bearing loans (long-term capital construction loans for fixed
investments, and short-term borrowings for working capital); and (d)
enterprises utilize an increasing portion of internally retained funds
without prior Government approval. At present, financial planning of the
companies is still limited to one-year financial targets, but there is a
growing need for longer term financial planning in view of their increasing
financial autonomy.
7.02      Financial Accounting and Audits.  The Chinese accounting system
is governed by several regulations issued by state and local government
authorities. Special features of the system include: (a) two separate
accounts are maintained-one for production operation and the other for
construction projects--which are not consolidated; (b) interest charges are
included in production costs, so that operating income reflects the effect
of financial structure; (c) funding sources are matched with specific types
of assets-fixed assets with fixed funds, current assets with current
funds, and special assets with special funds. 7/ Financial statements of
Chinese enterprises are subject to external accounting audits by the State
Audit Administration (SAA), which was established in 1983 in order to
ensure the efficient and prudent financial management of enterprises. The
Bank has been supporting the Government's efforts to improve its audit
capability through training under the Technical Cooperation Credit (Cr.
1412-CHA).
B. Past Financial Performance and Financial Projections
7.03      Financial projections of the project entities have been carried
out in current yuan terms. Key assumptions used for the financial analysis
are detailed in Annex 7-lo It has been assumed that the real prices of
inputs and outputs (i-.e. after allowing for inflation) will remain
unchanged at their January 1987 levels. Detailed historical and projected
financial data, prepared, after several adjustments to the Chinese
7/   This principle of earmarking or non-fungibility, which was strictly
followed in the past, is being gradually relaxed as enterprises are
allowed to retain an increasing portion of internally generated fund
as special funds.



- 29 -
accounting system, in accordance with conventional accounting concepts
based upon international accounting standards, are given in Annexes 7-2
through 7-6 . Salient features of the financial performance and projected
future finances of the companies are shown in Table 7-A below.
Table 7-A
Summary of Selected Historical and Projected Financial Data
(in millions of current yuans unless otherwise stated)
Actual            Prelim.                   Projected
Year Ending December 31            1983      1984    1985       1986        1987   1988   1990   1992   1994
A.  YXCFC
Gross Sales Revenue            21.2     29.2      27.6    38.4         42.8   52.4   59.4  212.8  309.4
Net profit                     0.6       3.2       3.5      4.5         5.9    8.0   10.1   38.9   92.5
Internal Cash Retained          1.7      4.6       4.7      7.2         9.3   12.3   14.3   81.4  133.1
.Net Profit/Gross Sales (YJ   3.0       11.0      12.8    11.7         11.5   15.2   17.0   18.4   29.9
Current Ratio                   2.7      2.1        1.4     1.9         2.5    2.6    2.5    1.5    9.8
Debt/Equity Ratio            0:100      9:91      13:87  17:83        20:80  39:61   73:27 72:28   43:57
Debt Service Coverage Ratio 21.3         6.7       4.2   10.51          3.9    5.4    6.9    2.4    2.4
B.  YCFC
Gross Sales Revenue            28.8     30.       23.4    26.0         29.0   30.9   35.0   77.1   94.8
Net Profit                      5.5      5.9       3.4      2.9         3.9    4.4    5.3   18.3   30.0
Internal Cash Retained         2.6       3.0       2.5      3.6         6.4    6.9    8.1   34.7   45.2
Net Profit/Gross Sales (%)  19.4         19.7     14.5    10.7         13.4   14.3   15.2   23.6   31.3
Current Ratio                   2.6      2.9        1.6     2.0         2.7    2.3    4.3    6.3    8.5
Debt/Equity Ratio             0:100   0:100    0:100   0:100           2:98  15:85  62:38  50:50  32:68
Debt Service Coverage Ratio 13.8        14.5      N/A      13.0        29.0   31.4   17.9    2.8    2.8
C.  LCFC
Gross Sales Revenue           27.4      30.7      21.8    26.4         29.0   30.9   35.0   77.1   94.8
Net Profit                      2.6      4.0       0.5      3.6         1.9    2.4    3.3   13.9   25.3
Internal Cash Retained          1.2       1.2      1.6      5.8         4.9    5.2    6.2   30.3   40.0
Net Profit/Gross Sales (Z)   9.7        13.2       2.4    13.1          6.9    8.0    9.5   18.2   26.8
Current Ratio                   3.8      4.7       2.0      2.5         2.8    2.1    1.3    1.8    3.9
Debt/Equity Ratio              N/A       N/A      N/A      5:95        6:94  17:83  60:40 *55:45  32:68
Debt Service Coverage Ratio  N/A         N/A      N/A      21.5         6.0    6.8    7.2    1.9    2.0
D.  XCFC
Gross Sales Revenue            35.4     37.9      14.7    42.7         38.7   41.2   46.7   77.1   94.8
Net Profit                      6.7      8.1       0.4      5.1         3.9    5.3    6.7   10.7   19.8
Internal Cash Retained         2.1       3.2      (0.8)    4.7          6.5    7.7    9.1   25.9   34.0
Net Profit/Gross Sales (X)  19.8        21.0       0.9    12.7         11.0   13.6   15.0   14.4   21.4
Current Ratio                   1.8       1.2      1.1      3.2        15.4   17.4   10.5    3.5    6.6
Debt/Equity Ratio            0:100    0:100    0:100   0:100           2:98  18:82  53:47  49:51  33:67
Debt Service Coverage          N/A       N/A       N/A    N/A          37.4   N/A    N/A       3.3    2.3
go  BCEC
Gross Sales Revenue           70.7      74.6      75.1    77.8         83.3   88.7  100.7  127.7  150.0
Net Profit                     17.2      18.1      9.8      9.5         8.5    9.6   12.2   19.0   29.5
Internal Cash Retained         5.7       5.5       6.1      7.0         8.6    9.14   10.4   28.4   37.8
Net Profit/Gross Sales (S)  24.3        24.3      13.1    12.7         10.8   11.4   12.9   16.0   21.8
Current Ratio                   1.9      2.3       1.1      2.0         8.7    8.8    8.7    5.0    8.4
Debt/Equity Ratio            0:100    0:100   O0lOO    6:94            6:94  13:87  46:54  44:56  29:71
Debt Service Coverage Ratlo  N/A         N/A       N/A      2.8        13.7   14.6   18.7    2.6    2.8



- 30 -
7.04      Past Financial Performance.  The extremely low financial leverage
of all five project companies is a consequence of the past government
policy for financing state-owned enterprises, i.e., the provision of
investment and working capital as grants through budget allocations. The
companies are similar in their plant configuration, marketing environment,
low-debt financial structure and good operating results characterized by
high capacity utilization, but their financial performances differ mainly
due to differences in input consumption, input price, and proximity to
major consumption areas. Since 1984 net profits for all the companies have
declined gradually, mainly due to the declining price of ABC and increasing
prices of energy inputs.   In particular, they experienced serious finan-
cial difficulties in 1985, due to marketing difficulties; net profits for
the five comparies declined from Y 39.3 million in 1984 down to Y 17.6
million in 1985, and their liquidity situation has tightened due to the
build-up of inventories. In 1986, aggregate net profits of the companies
have increased to Y 25.6 million, as the companies were able to sell their
entire 1986 ABC production as well as inventories carried over from 1985 at
slightly increased prices.
7.05      Financial Projections.  The financial performances of the five
companies, which are anticipated to show only marginal improvement until
the start-up of the urea facilities under the Project due to the low price
of ABC, are projected to improve significantly after the start-up and stay
satisfactory throughout the life of the Project. Until the start-up, all
the five companies are expected to maintain the 1986 level of net profits.
After the product conversion from ABC to urea under the Project, the
combined net profits for the five companies are expected to increase from Y
37.6 million in 1990 to Y 100.8 million in 1992 and Y 197.1 million in
1994. The companies are expected to generate sufficient cash internally to
service debts and make necessary investments for maintenance and replace-
ments. The current Chinese tax system allows the companies to deduct
repayment of long-term loans from taxable income to improve their debt
service capacities until the completion of debt repayment. The key finan-
cial ratios (profitability, current, debt to equity and debt service
coverage) are expected to remain at satisfactory levels throughout the life
of the Project.
C. Financial Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
7.06      The cost and revenue streams for the incremental financial rate
of return (FRR), expressed in constant 1987 yuans, are presented in
Annex 7-7. Estimated base case FRRs (before taxes) for the companies vary
between 11.9% and 19.7%. Despite similarities of project configuration
and selling prices of urea among the four urea project companies, their
FRRs vary mainly because of differences in input consumption, input prices
and ABC prices. FRRs for the companies are lower than their respective
economic rates of return (ERRs), mainly because the financial prices of
fertilizers are lower than their economic value (para 2.25) and savings in
transportation costs of products after the conversion are not reflected in
FRR calculations (para 8.02). Results of sensitivity tests are shown in
Table 7-B on the next page.



- 31 -
Table 7-B
Sensitivity Test on Financial Rates of Return (Before Tax)
(in percentage)
Yunnan   Yuanping  Luoyang  Xuanhua  Beijing
(YXCFC)   (YCFC)   (LCFC)   (XCFC)    (BCEC)
Base Case                     19.7       15.7      16.2    11.9      13.1
Capital Cost Up 20%           16.4      12.6       13,0     9.2     10.1
Capital Cost Down 20%         23.9      19.7       20.5    15.5     17.1
Sales Revenue Up 20%          27.3      21.2       21.5    16.8     17.0
Sales Revenue Down 20%        11.9       9.2       10.1     6.0      8.6
Variable Cost Up 20%          15,8      14.3       15.1    11.0      13.4
Variable Cost Down 20%        23.1      17.0       17.2    12.8      12.8
2-Year Delay in Completion   16.4       10.6       12.9    10.6     10.4
The FRRs for the Project are sensitive, in descending order, to changes in
sales revenue (i.e. output price), capital cost, and variable cost (i.e.
input prices). Results of sensitivity analysis also indicate that the FRRs
for the project will for the most part remain satisfactory under likely
changes in key financial parameters. XCFC shows a low return of 6.0% if
fertilizer prices go down by 20%. However, such a steep decline in the
price of a high grade fertilizer like urea is unlikely given that its
financial price is still lower than its import parity price.
D. Financial Covenants
7.07      During negotiations, agreements were reached that the companies
will: (a) maintain at all times a debt service coverage ratio of at least
1.2, and not incur any long-term debt unless their projected internal cash
retention for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred
will exceed 1.2 times their projected debt service requirements in such
year; (b) maintain at all times a long-term debt to equity ratio of no more
than 75:25; (c) maintain at all times a current ratio of at least 1.2; and
(d) prepare and furnish to the Bank for review, by October 31 of each year
from 1987 to 1992, their 5-year rolling financial plans including pro-
duction, marketing and investment plans in the form of projected financial
statements. Such plans would be supported by: (i) detailed analysis of
production cost trends; (ii) operational and financial budget variance
analysis for the current fiscal year; (iii) detailed criteria for perfor-
mance evaluation and measures proposed to meet the financial covenants; and
(iv) financing arrangements for the investments proposed over this 5-year
horizon.
E. Auditing and Reporting Requirements
7.08      An assurance was obtained that the companies will have their
annual financial statements and project accounts, including withdrawals
from the Special Account, audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank and submitted with the audit report--for both production and capital
construction accounts-to the Bank within six months after the close of



- 32 -
each fiscal year. Based on project progress and financial reports sub-
mitted by the five companies, MCI will provide to the Bank the summary of
their project progress and procurement status quarterly, and the summary of
their financial statements semi-annually within 45 days after the end of
each period. An assurance was also obtained that MCI will have its project
accounts for the institutional development component, including withdrawals
from the Special Account, audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, and submitted with the audit report to the Bank within six months
after the end of each fiscal year. BICEM will also submit to the Bank its
quarterly project progress and procurement status reports within one month
after the end of each quarter. Within six months after the closing date
for the Project, the five companies and MCI will prepare and provide to the
Bank a completion report for their respective components of the Project,
covering project implementation, initial operation, actual project costs
and projected costs and and benefits.
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
8.01      Economic rate of return (ERR) calculations were made only for the
plant conversion components because the benefits from the institutional
development component, though significant, are not quantifiable. In addi-
tion to incremental ERRs which would justify additional investments, econo-
mic viability of continued operations of the existing facilities was also
analyzed to justify their conversion. Key assumptions used in the economic
analysis of the Project are detailed in Annex 8-1.
A. Economic Costs and Benefits
8.02      Economic Benefits.  The measurable economic benefits, expressed
in 1987 US dollars, of the Project come from five major sources, namely:
(a) phosphate fertilixer (DAP) production utilizing locally available phos-
phate rock, pyrites, and ammonia which is currently used for ABC produc-
tion; (b) improvement in economic efficiency of production through conver-
sion of low economic value fertilizers (ABC) to high economic value fertil-
izers (urea, DAP and NPK); (c) expansion of ammonia production; (d)
improvements in the energy efficiency of ammonia production; and (e)
savings in transportation costs of products mainly due to the higher
nutrient content of urea (46% N), DAP (18%N, 46% P205) and NPK (16% N, 16%
P205 and 16% K20) compared with ABC (17% N).
8.03      The economic prices of fertilizer products were derived from
their projected international prices. The economic ex-factory prices of
urea, DAP and NPK for each plant were derived from their CIF import price
by adding unloading, port handling, bagging and mixing charges and inland
freight from ports to the plant sites. Because ABC Is not actively traded
4r the international market, its economic value was derived from the urea
price. The economic value of the nitrogen content of ABC has been computed
to be lower by 12.3% than that from urea, taking into account the nitrogen
losses of ABC during transportation, storage and application (see para 2.08
and Annex 8-1, Table 1). The high moisture content of ABC results in high



- 33 -
bag breakage rates and accelerated nitrogen volatilization during storage
and transportation. When applied in the field, ABC faces rapid nitrogen
evaporation, particularly when applied as top dressing under dry climate
conditions.
8.04      Economic Costs.  The economic value of tradeable luputs was also
based on their estimated FOB export prices. The economic value of coal at
each plant is equivalent to its netback value to the counLry from exports,
i.e., the FOB export price, minus port handling charges and inland
transportation cost from the mines to ports, plus inland transportation
cost from the mines to the plants. The economic value of phosphate rock
for YXCFC is also based on its netback value to China from exports. The
economic value of sulfuric acid is obtained from its long run marginal
production cost based on imported sulfur. Non-trsdeable inputs are
converted to their economic value by applying their respective specific
conversion factors.
B. Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
8.05      The base-case ERRs in constant terms are respectively 23.3% for
YXCFC, 28.3% for YCFC, 26.2% for LCFC, 21.3% for XCFC, and 20.4% for BCEC.
The economic rate of return for the entire plant rationalization component
is 24.0. The streams of economic costs and benefits for the ERR
calculations are given in Annex 8-2.
8.06      The results of sensitivity and switching-value analyses are
summarized in Table 8-A below.
Table 8-A
Sensitivity Analysis of ERR
Project
Yunnan Yuanping Luoyang Xuanhua Beijing as a
(YXCFC) (YCFC)    (LCFC)  (XCFC)   (BCEC)   Whole
%Z)   ---Economic Rates of Return (ERR)---
Cases
Base Case                  23.3      28.3    26.2     21.3      20.4     24.0
Capital Cost Up 20%        20.0     24.2    22*4      17.8      17.1     20.4
Capital Cost Down 20%      27.6     33.7    31.4      25.9      24.8     28.4
Sales Benefits Up 20%      31.0     34.7    32.3      26.7      24.4     30.4
Sales Benefits Down 20%   13.3      20.9    19.3      14.8      20o7     16.2
Variable Cost Up 20%       19.0     26.8    25.2      20.1      20.6     21.1
Variable Cost Down 20%    27.1       29.7    27.4     22.4      20.2     26.6
2-Yr Delay in Completion  18.1      22.0    20.2      17.0      15.7     20.4
Switching Values of Selected Variables (%)a/ ---
Variables
Capital Cost              +55.1   +105.4   +78.2    +45*2    +52.5
Sales Benefits            -22.4    -36e5  -40.7    -26.5    -32.0
Variable Cost             +48.2   +145.3  +320.1   +116.2   +253.4
v    it 2  dU5MuUt rate is used.



- 34 -
Results of sensitivity tests indicate that the Project is relatively sensi-
tive to chariges in fertilizer prices, and to a lesser extent to changes in
variable costs (i.e. prices of variable inputs).  This sensitivity pattern
is typical of rehabilitation projects for which incremental benefits (dif-
ference between with and without project) are affected more by output price
changes than by input prices. The switching-value analysis of major
variables indicates that the Project would remain economically viable even
under unlikely adverse conditions, and confirms that the price of fertil-
izers is the most critical variable determining the economic viability of
the Project.
8e07      The economic viability of continued utilization of the existing
facilities also has been tested to justify incremental investments for
rationalization under the Project. Continued operations of these facili-
ties with their existing configuration would be more economic than their
close-down, implying that the project would not rationalize plants which
should otherwise shut down, but would improve the economic efficiency of
plants which would otherwise be only marginally economic. The present
value of future net benefit streams to be obtained from continued opera-
tions over the life of the existing facilities for all the five plants,
discounted at 12% p.a., exceeds the respective estimated scrap value which
could be recovered from the close-down of the plants; no alternative utili-
zation of these residual assets is technically feasible.
C. Sectoral Contributions and Other Benefits
8.08      The plant rationalization component of the Project would help
China meet its broader sectoral development objectives. The Project will
contribute to the renovation of the five plants to produce better quality
fertilizers economically, and the experience of these plants will be
utilized for the renovation of other similar plants in China. Similarly,
efficiency improvements in ammonia production facilities using project
experience will result in substantial savings in energy consumption else-
where. The phosphate fertilizer development component will be a pioneering
effort in utilizing local phosphate rock for major DAP production. In
light of the Government's emphasis on expanding the use of local phosphate
rock in the fertilizer industry over the next decade, this component will
provide a valuable basis for future development.
8.09      The effect of the institutional development component is expected
to be very significant, albeit unquantifiable. The Management Study will
review the existing situation and design improved systems for Chinese
fertilizer enterprises, including organizational structure and management
information systems, particularly in connection with the trends in greater
autonomy of enterprises' management. The improved systems will be intro-
duced in the entire fertilizer industry over time after pilot implementa-
tion. This component is the first comprehensive sectoral approach to
adapting state-owned industrial enterprises to the changing business envi-
ronment.  The successful implementation of this component is expected to
have a strong demonstration effect on other industries.



- 35 -
8.10      Once full operating capacity is reached, the Project will lead to
net import substitution of 158,000 tpy of DAP and 191,300 tpy of urea,
resulting in gross foreign exchange savings of about US$74 million
equivalent per year in 1987 prices. After netting out the annual service
of foreign debt (both principal repayment and interest payment), net annual
foreign exchange savings, as of 1995, are estimated at US$63 million
equivalent.
D. Project Risks
8.11      The Project is not subject to any unusual technical or commercial
risks. It deals with existing plants, technically and commercially proven
technology, and with products which will be sold (at market-related prices)
in what are expected to be buoyant markets. There is some risk of delay
due to the lack of local experience in designing and operating facilities
for DAP and urea-based NPK fertilizers. The involvement of international
engineering firms and provision of comprehensive training for local staff
would minimize this risk.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
9.01      During negotiations, confirmation was obtained from the Govern-
ment that it will:
(a)  carry out the review of fertilizer pricing and allocation
policies along the lines stated in the agreed general scope and
timetable (para 2.23); and
(b)  ensure that capital construction loans and additional long-term
loans are made available to finance the local costs of the
Project for the five companies (para 6.05).
9.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that it will:
(a)  allow the five companies to sell their entire output outside the
state allocation plan at market-related prices (para 2.25);
(b)  carry out the Management Study in accordance with the terms of
reference agreed with the Bank, and complete and review with the
Bank no later than June 30, 1989 (para 4.06);
(c)  carry out the program for BICEM in accordance with the scope of
the program agreed with the Bank, and complete it no later than
December 31, 1990 (para 4.07);
(d)  maintain MCI's project coordination unit until the Project
Completion Date (para 5.03);



- 36 -
(e)  onlend US$96.1 million equivalent out of the proceeds of the Bank
loan to YXCFC (US$42.3 million), YCFC (US$13.8 million), LCFC
(US$14.0 million), XCFC (US$13.4 million) and BCEC (US$12.6
million) under subsidiary loan agreements which will specify
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, including an onlend-
ing rate of 7.92% p.a., a commitment charge of 0.75% p.a., and
repayment over 15 years including five years of grace. An
additional amount of US$90,000 equivalent will be onlent to each
of the five companies at a service charge of 0.75% p.a. with a
commitment charge of 0.75% p.a. for a period of 15 years,
including 5 years grace. The coupanies will bear the foreign
exchange risk (para 6.04 and para 6.09); and
(f) meet auditing and reporting requirements (para 7.08).
9.03      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from YXCFC,
YCFC, LCFC, XCFC and BCEC that they will:
(a)  maintain their respective project management teams until the
Project Completion Date (para 5.03);
(b)  develop training programs by December 1987, including specific
arrangements with existing local manufacturers operating similar
plants, for Bank review, and implement them subsequently in
consultation with the Bank (pars 5.05);
(c)  build and operate the plants with due regard to safety, ecolo-
gical and environmental factors, and in accordance with environ-
mental standards satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.06);
(d)  maintain at all times a debt service coverage ratio of at least
1.2 and not incur any long-term debt unless their projected
internal cash retention for each fiscal year during the term of
debt to be incurred shall exceed 1.2 times their projected debt
service requirements in such year on all its debt including the
debt to be incurred (para 7.07);
(e)  maintain at all times a long-term debt to equity ratio of no more
than 75:25 (para 7.07);
(f)  maintain at all times a current ratio of at least 1.2 (para
7.07);
(g)  prepare and furnish to the Bank for review, by October 31 of each
year from 1987 to 1992 their 5-year rolling financial plans
including production, marketing and investment plans, in the form
of projected financial statements (para 7.07); and
(h)  comply with auditing and reporting requirements (para 7.08).
9.04      Conditions of loan effectiveness are: (a) signing of subsidiary
loan agreements between the Government and YXCFC, YCFC, LCFC, XCPC and BCEC
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 6.04); and (b)
approval of the loan agreement by China's State Council.



- 37 -
9.05      Subject to the above assurances and agreements to be reached, the
Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$97.4 million equivalent to GOC at
the Bank's standard variable rate for 20 years including 5 years of grace,
with a commitment charge of 0.75%.
Industry Department
May 11, 1987



CHINA - FERTILIZER RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Historic Consumption, Production, and Imports of Fertilizers
1974-1985 a/
(in thousmnd tons of nutrient)
Nitrogen                                  Phosphate                             Potash                             All Nutrients
Year  Consumption   Production   Imports  Consumption   Production  Imports  Consumption  Production  Imports  Consumption  Production   Imports
1974     3,490          2,827          928       1,390         1,390         82         57             5        57          4,915        4,222         1,067
1975     4,020          3,709          964       1,531         1,531         34         40            7         39          5,407        5,247         1,037
1976     4,468          3,815          928       1,360         1,418         20         16           11          6          5,844        5,244           954
1977     5,065          5,509        1,147       1,415         1,708        151         33           21         23          6,513         7,238        1,321
1978     7,726          7,639        1,227       1,114         1,033        246         45           21         31          8,885        8,693         1,504
1979     8,997          8,820        1,451       1,758         1,817        190        108           16        108         10,863       10,653         1,749
1980    10,180          9,993        1,537       2,368         2,307        395        128           20        126          12,676       12,320        2,058
1981    10,363          9,858        1,541       2,735         2,508        499        251           24        250         13,349        12,390        2,290
1982    10,433         10,219        1,808       3,448         2,537        631        568           25        489         14,449        12,781        2,928
t983    11,923         11,094        2,365       3,945         2,666      1,028        728           29        634         16,596        13,789        4,027
1984    13,378         12,211        2,828       3,686         2,359      1,342        804            31       755          17,868       14,601        4,925
1985    13,445         11,584        2,052       3,522         1,734        950        920           32        364         17,887        13,350        3,366
at  Nutrients composition (nitrogen, phosphate and potash) of compound ferttlizer is assumed to he 2:3:1.
Source:  Ministry of Chemtcal Industry, Ministry of Agrtculture, Animal ilushandry and Fishery, General Administration of Customs, and State
Statistical Bureau.
Industry Department
March 1987



- 39 -
ANNFX 2-2
Page 1 of 3
CHINA - FERTILIZ1R RATIONALIZATION PROJEMT
The General Scope of Fertilzer Pricing and Allocation Policr Review
A.   Background
1.        Under the on-going economic reforms, various positive changes
have recently been introduced in fertilizer pricing and allocation policies
in China. In the past, the allocation of fertilizers deperded solely on an
administrative mechanism at strictly controlled prices. In recent years,
attempts were made to introduce the "market", and to graduallv increase its
role in fertilizer pricing and allocations as a means of improving
efficiency in fertilizer production and application. The long-term
objective of the Government is to further increase the role of the market
towards the full introduction of a market-based fertilizer pricing and
allocation mechanism.
2.        The present fertilizer pricing and allocation system, with its
two-tier (track) structure--one for the st&te plan quota, and the other for
outside the state plan quota--has various difficult issues, which have to
be solved during the course of forthcoming price reforms. The price
setting practices for fertilizers need improvement, and flexible prices
outside the state plan quota are frequently used as special treatment for
overcoming financial difficulties of enterprises. Fertilizer pricing and
allocation practices vary greatlv among different products, provinces and
counties. Further, adlustments of energy and fertilizer prices are not
properly and timely related, causing interruptions in the relationship of
input and output prices as well as financial difficulties of fertilizer
producers.
3.        Against this background, the Government of China will carry out a
comprehensive review of the Chinese fertilizer pricing and allocation
policies, which would provide proper guidance for future policy reforms.
B.   General Scope of the Review
4.        The present fertilizer Pricing and allocation system will be
reviewed with specific focus on the following aspects:
(a) adequacy of the present allocation system in terms of
economic efficiency--whether fertilizers are allocated to
farmers in a way that equalizes the marginal production of
fertilizer application;
(b) timeliness of fertilizer delivery to farmers;
(c) efficiency of fertilizer distribution svstems;
(d) analysis of the current price structure including a
comparison of various fertilizers and import parity prices;



- 40 -
ANNRX 2-2
Page 2 of 3
(e) price relationship between inputs and fertilizers;
(f) analysis of budget and economic subsidies for both
domestically produced and imported fertilizers; and
(g) the correlation between the level of fertilizer prices and
the efficiency of agricultural production.
5.        Various options for policy reforms will be reviewed to develop a
fertilizer pricing and allocation system, which would:
(a) give preference to fertilizer allocation to farmers whose
marginal efficiency of fertilizer application is higher;
(b) ensure timely delivery of fertilizers;
{c) minimize losses during storage, transportation and
distribution;
(d) reduce economic subsidies for fertilizers and agriculture;
(e) set a prover price relationship between various types of
fertilizers, based on their respective nutrient contents and
agronomical efficiency;
(f) set an adequate price relationship between inputs and
fertilizers to ensure reasonable profits for efficient
fertilizer producers; and
(g) encourage farmers to economize fertilizer applications.
6.        The review will recommend an action program and the time frame
for the implementation of policy reforms.
C.   Institutional Arrangements for the Review
7.        SPB and MCI will play a leading role in the review with
participation of related government agencies, including SPC, M1F, MOC,
MAAF, SINOPEC, and SINOCRKM.
8.        A "Fertilizer Pricing and Allocation Policy Review Group", which
will consist of representatives of the related agencies under the
leadership of the Director of the nepartment of Prices for Neavy Industry
and Communication, SPB, will be established within SPR to define the
detailed scope of the review, monitor its pToceeding, and discuss the
various policy options to be evaluated by the review. The detailed scope
of the review will specify the involvement and contributions of each
agency, the overall evaluation of future policy options by SPY and
implementation details, and will be prepared along the lines specified in
this general scope. Each line agency will form a study team comprising
experts in the related scope of the review (in MCI's case, about 10 experts
will participate), and prepare a policy review report. A study team in



- 41 -
ANNRX 2-2
Page 3 of 3
assisted by the Price Research Institute (PRI), will review the overall
policy options in fertilizer pricing and allocation, based on the reports
submitted by the line agencies, and prepare a review report for discussion
within the Group.
9e        The Industry nepartment of the World Rank will orovide
assistance, when requested by the Group, particularlv for information on
fertilizer pricing and allocation practices in other countries and
methodologies for evaluating options.
D.   Schedule of the Review
10.       The schedule of the review is given below:
Activity                  Agency              Date
(a)  Establishment of the Review        SPR         end-February 1987
G,roup
(b)  Send the draft scope of the        SPR/MCI     mid-April 1987
review to the World Rank
(c)  Completion of the review by        Agencies    August 1987
the study teams
(d)  Completion of the review by        SPB         December 1987
the study team of SPR
(e)  Preparation of the final           SP$         February 1988
report
Industry Department
March 1987



- 42 -
ANNEX 2-3
CRINA - FERTILIZE.R RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Comparison of Oomestic and International Prices of Fertilizers and Main
Energy Inputs, March 1987
(in rTSSMIton unless otherwise stated)
FOR                     Domestic Price X of
Domestic Ex-FactorV Prices       International    Economic      Economic Price
Product          Controlled (A)   Flexible (R)       Price (C)    PriceC/ 0)    A/D           R/D
Bagged nrea          113.5            140.5            115.0           148 n      76.7       94.9
ABC                    -               43.2             42.5d/          4S.7d/     -         88.7
DAP                  151.4            207.6            175.0           208.n      73.0      100.0
Input
Anthracite
Yuanping            17.6             17.6             42.0            31.6      55.7       55.7
Luoyang             22.4             24.6             42.0            34.4      65.2       67.6
Xuanhua             22.4              -               42.0            36.0      62.2
Coke
Rei1ing            35.3             35.3            46.2            44.2       79.9       79.9
Yunnan              19.5             21.5             46.2            44.2      44.1       48.6
Phosphate Rock e/    17.8               -               34.0            21.3      83.6        -
Pyrites               23.0                              20.0            20.0     115.0        -
a/   US$1 - 3.7 yuans.
b/   Ex-factory prices for products and delivered prices for inputs.
c/   CIV China prices for imported products and netback value from exports for exportable
inputs.
d/   Derived from the imported urea price, taking into account relative nitrogent contents and
losses during handling, storage and application between ARC and urea.
e/   Price for Vunnan rock.
Industry Department
March 1987



- 43 -
AWxZ3-1
('-0-00 tauuV veer,z 2)
(Cmaity ard joUi~im In '00 trr cmudtyv tflIamt In ?)
_mdt   fw.                                                       .                 _
imlda  45.0      46.5  kW3.     5D04   111.0   T).7   112.6   50.    111.5  47.7    10.
m       18r.0    175.5   Q7.5    W.1   ll.5  189.4   105.2  189.3   15   190.0   im.
Amnda  45.0       43A    96A      46.0   1(      46.4   10.    43.1    95.   46.5    10.
AMC     180.0    1542   85.7   166.5    92.5  170        94.8  160       89.1 1734)    9%1
dnia    60.0      50.8  129    5.9   122.    51    122A    51.7    M.2  57              91.2
AMC     240.0    231A   111.9   217.6   1M.9  212   119.6  197A          8L  217.0       93.4
hmrda  65.0       (.4  1(2    67.3  ID3.5  6(2   104.9   66.5   102.3  640              9.5
MBC     220n      M.1   94.6   224.0   101.R  238.7   108.5  231.1   105*1 M50          93.2
ikee     12.5      6.6   52.8     4.4    35.2    54)    404   .5.5    44J)   -           -
M'htiol 501)      33*5   674      35.0    70.0   38.7    77.      0.5    810 4)54       q360
Amcna  80.0       37.9   P4A2    37.1    F4    48W    107.8   55.1    91.8  1P.1        9M
MC      24O.0    129.4   71.7   129A4    71.9  170.7    94.8  192.7   8n3 21fi)         90.0
at Opit1   frv VW A             1h   beaqm    tD tt  anwt lwel, nstvely ,  It 184 an
1985 ftuu 45)000 t7 of a   a mda    10IX) tw of  MC



- 44 -
ANNEX 3-2
O°* - 1      JW  PATRMLATU(R 'WLJW
Feudfstoc   ndul Pu wpl&  for tlu fve  Gapmle
IWA                   Di~~~~~starme  Tieliveredp~rice/
Qawwiptian                        fiun the        (Ihimu/tim) -          .orlfic
Feedstok    Vo0          tffl  c*          of Mt=   Plat (km)  QOtrow1I i,tIAted  Value (Kcal/ton)
(l*e              103          XIQ WeI,              80u 8D     72.2       79A            7,ttO
l3ttuinu 0e1       30     M    to1, mm                          -          38.0           5,50
Apiraete          125          Jirdwa  , swud        493        65.3       65.3           5,80
Provinm
Bitwnws cod        28          Yuup1i,S1wud           20        26.1       26.1           5,25k)
Anthacite         250          Jimuo, Iw             120        82.7       91.)           6,064
.tuu1n Ocl.        40          Y1uo, 1lb.m                       -         45.5           5,092
Mtwacte            66          fgdituMftv          1,177       82.7        -              7,o3Q
Rhpa frwbme
Q,e                44          T,  M bla           1,013        -          97.5           70M
tmnD   bal                       ca                  30 m  .36.0 .500
Cc&e              186           lmby (bklE Plait    10         130).5     130.5           7,000
heb   an bitmiiw
coal
Fuel onl           19          Yan ai,  a.lif        70        132.5      132.5          l0,00
a/  Ta   an 52 fin, col outst for altraite ni cd  (ewotahe qdlity).
bI  After Piec al,O wte, vo& rqumit of 3M000 tpy wih be aUppied ftom the Jit*gd Mire in
ym-, an pyites of 195,,OM tpy wl be ddp*  fsd huaAma Provnoe
1ary T1987
Muh 1997



45 -
ANN-X 4-1
Page 1 of 2
(RINA - PRRTILIZRR RATTONAT.I7ATTON PR0J1P. T
Summarv of Phosphate Fertilizer Development Component
YXCPC will establish a DAP/NPI production capacitv utilizing local
phosphate rock. This comporent comprises:
I.   A 200,000 tEy sulfuric acid (1002) plant.  The plant will he
based on pyrites roasting and include facilities for the handling
and storage of dust and ash from the roasting plant and
of 3,000 t of product acid, utilizing the latest technology in
energy saving and pollution abatement, and almost identical to a
plant presently under construction at Nanjing with financial
assistance from the Rank. The Nanjing Design Institute will
provide the process design for pyrites roasting and for
double-contact, double-absorption sulfuric acid manufacture with
assistance from Lurgi, W. ierimany.
2.   An  O 000   y P _0hosphoric acid plant Includingafurd
processin  capacity  for cryolite  NuaAll'  of 4,200 tp.  The
plant will include phosphate rock grinding facilities  35 tph,
300.000tpy) and high efficiency scrubbers, and will be designed
for 29n operating days/year and a sulfuric acid to phosphate rock
attack ratio of 2.5. For a conventional attack ratio of 2.R, a
small quantitv of sulfuric acid would have to be purchased from
nearby copper smelters. Nvaporator capacities will be sized to
produce 542 P205 Phosphoric acid; the product acid storage
capacity will be 3000ntons of P201.
3.  A granulating plant for 240.000 tpy of flAP and NPR (typically
16-1-16.  fAP will be produced In a preneutralizer and
ammoniator-granulator. The design of the standard nAP
granulation plant will be adequately modified to allow efficient
production of NPRs mainly based on fAP, urea and potassium
sulfate.  On the basis of a combined nAP and 16-16-16 production,
annual output is anticipated to be about 140,flOt nAP and
100,OOOt NPR based on 290 operating days/year. The plant will
include bagging facilities (40 tph) and indoor storage capacity
for a minimum of 5,OOOt of bagged product.
4.   Utilities required to operate the new phosphate complex
efficiently, including power, steam, process and cooling water
and effluent treatment.
5.   Off-sites including railroads, facilities for railcar shunting,
raw material, product and waste handling, storage of 13,00t
pyrites and of 13,000t phosphate rock. A dump site for
phosphogypsum will be prepared with a capacity of 3 million tons,
expandable to a minimum of 5 million tons In preparation for a
future duplication of the phosphate complex.



- 46 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 2 of 2
6.   Energy saving modifications for the ammonia plant comprise mainly
of Improvements in the gasification section, incorporation of
high temperature CO-shift conversion and Cf2 removal and the
recovery of hydrogen from purge gas.
Industrv Department
March 1987



- 47 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 1 of 2
CHINA - FERTILIZER RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Summary of Nitrogenous Fertilizer
Rationalization and Expansion Component
YCFC, LCFC, XCFC and BCEC will install four identical urea-plants
of 132,000 tpy each, (400 tpd, 330 operating days/year), to replace
existing inefficient ABC plants, expansion of ammonia production capacities
to 80,000 tpy and energy saving measures to reduce the specific energy
consumption in the manufacture of ammonia. To guarantee a steady feedstock
supply and a smooth urea production, the liquid ammonia storage capacities
at the plants will be expanded to 800m3 and provision will be made for a
minimum of 3,000 t storage capacity fQr bagged urea. For the expansion of
ammonia production capacities and for energy conservation, commercially
proven Chinese technology will be implemented, which was technically and
econorically reviewed and considered to be sound and of low risk. Emission
levels from all plants under the Project will be reduced during the Project
implementation and will meet the Chinese standards, which show a
satisfactory correlation with Bank guidelines. The project scope for the
individual plants consists of:
1.        YXCFC
-    132,000 tpy urea plant, including baggiln
-    one additional gasifier
-    modifications to gasifiers, i.e. coal feeders and
steam controllers
-    electrostatic precipitator for dust removal
-    high temperature co-shift conversion
-    high pressure de-carbonization
-    octivated carbon C02 desulfu-,ization
-    expansion of copper solution plant
-    one ammonia circulator
-    one ammonia refrigeration compressor
-    heat exchangers for synthesis loop
-    hydrogen recovery from purge gas
-    increase liquid ammonia storage capacity to 800 m3.
-    two boilers
2.       LCFC
-    132.000tpy urea plant, including bagging
-    two additional gasifiers
-    modifications to gasifiers, i.e. coal feeders and
steam controllers
-    electrostatic precipitator for dust removal
-    expansion of desulfurization plant
-    high temperature CO-shift conversion
-    high pressure decarbonization
-    activated carbon C02 desulfurization



- 48 -
ANNW 4-2
Page 2 of 2
-    expansion of copper solution Plant
-    addition of two syngas compressors
-    one ammonia circulator
-    ammonia refrigeration compressors
-    heat exchangers for synthesis loop
-    increase liquid ammonia storage capacity to ROOm3
-    two boilers
3.       XCPP
-    132,0lO tpy urea plant, Including bagging
-    two additional gasifiers
-    modifications to gasifiers, i.e. coal feeders and steam
controllers
-    electrostatic precipitator for dust removal
-    high pressure Co-shift conversion
-    high pressure decarhonization
-    qactivated carbon h°2 desulfurization
-    expansion of copper solution plant
-    ammonia refrigeration compressors
-    hydrogen recovery from purge gas
-    Increase liquid awmonia storage capacity to ROOm3
-    boilers
4.       EEC
-    132,000 tpy urea plant, including bagging
-    high temperature CO-shift conversion
-    high pressure decarbonization
-    activated carbon C02 desulphurization
-    of amonia refrigeration compressors
-    increase liquid ammonia storage capacity to Rn0  m3
-    boilers
Industry Department
March 1987



- 49 -
ANNEX 4-3
CHINA - FERTILIZER RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Summary of Terms of Reference for the Management Study
1.  Objectives of the Study
As a means of improving sector-wide management efficiency, MCI
will sponsor a study on managerial efficiency of chemical fertilizer enter-
prises. The main objectives of the study are to reviews (i) relationships
between various supervisory authorities and enterprises based on the stra-
tegic objectives of the Government; (ii) organizational structure of enter-
prises in connection with their changing organizational mandates; (iii)
appropriate management information systems for enterprises based on defined
relationships between enterprises and related agencies or clients with
reference to proper utilization of computerized tools; and (iv) the cost
accounting system. The study will prepare specific recommendations on the
alternative organizational structure, management information and cost
accounting systems for enterprises and pilot implement such systems for
BCEC and YXCFC. The study will also prepare an implementaiton program to
introduce the alternative systems into the entire industry.
2. Liplementation of the Study
An internationally renowned consulting firm will be selected for
the carrying out of the study. The study will be carried out with maximum
participation of local counterparts through the formation of a task force
within MCI. The cost for the study will be shared among the five project
companies.
3.   Scoe of the Study
The study will review recommendations for Improvements in: (a)
the existing institutional structure of the chemical fertilizer industry;
(b) the organizational and management information system (MIS) of fertil-
izer enterprises; (c) the current cost accounting system of enterprises;
(d) management training programs for the chemical fertilizer industry; and
(e) pilot implementation of alternative systems (organization, MIS and cost
accounting system) for fertilizer enterprises.
4.   Schedule of the Study
The study will take about 12 months from the date of contract
award, which is currently scheduled for May/June 1987, including two-month
pilot implementation.
5. Reporting
Major reports to be prepared by the consultant are: (a) Final
Study Report; (b) Pilot Implementation Completion Report; and (c) Implemen-
tation manuals for the alternative systemso
Industry Department
March 1987



- 50 -
ANNEX 4-4
CHINA - FERTILIZER RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Summary of the Program for Strengthening Management
Training at BICRM
1.   Objectives of the Program
BICEM plans to play a central role in disseminating modern
management systems and skills in the Chinese Chemical Industry, and
strengthening MCIts capabilities In data and project management. The
program is aimed at improving the quality of management training at the
Institute,
2.   Scope of the Program
The Program will comprise:
(a) adjustment of curricula in line with the training needs of
enterprises;
(b)  overseas training of teaching faculty;
(c)  invitation of foreign specialists to conduct local training;
(d)  introduction of advanced teaching and research equipment and
materials; and
(e)  establishment of a data base for MCI's information and
project management.
3.   Schedule of the Program
The Program will take three years to complete.
4.   Main Areas of Focus in the Program
The Program will focus on improvements in the quality of training
for the following subjects:
(a) Organization and management;
(b)  Management information system;
(C)  Cost accounting;
(d)  Finance and financial management; and
(e)  Project planning and evaluation.
Industry Department
March 1987



CHINA - FERTILIZER RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Organization Chart of MCI Project
Coordination Unit
World Bank Project
Implementatio Coordination
Group
Deputy Minister for Finance
Project General Manager
Chief, World Bank Loan
Office
Vice General Manager
Deputy Director, CNCCC
,  I
Proj4vPe  Of ficer
_- _ ~  ~      ~      ~       F
Design       Technology    Construction   Procurement   Transportation        Financing          Planning and
Coordinator   Coordinator    Coordinator    Coordiator         Coordinator      Coordinator    |Cost Coordinator 



- 52 -
ANNEX 5-2
CHINA - PUtLtZER RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
PROJECT IWPLEMKNTATION SCEEDULB
1987           1988           1989             1990           1991
JPHAHUJASOND   JPPAPJJASOND   JFHAMUJASOND    JFMANUJASOND   JFMAKJJASOND
A.  Plant Rationalization
Components
1.  4 Urea Plants:
Process Inquiry                    XX
Process Bid Evaluation                XX
Process Contract Award                  XXXX
Basic 8ngineering                          XYX   XXX
Issue Major Equipment
Enquiries                                      X%XXX
Bid Evaluation                                     XXXXX
Contract Award                                       XXXXXX
Detailed Engineering                                  XIXIXXX    XXXXXX
Equipment Delivery                                       XXXX   XXXXXI XXXIX.
Site Preparation/Civils                                  XXXX   XXXXUXXXXXX
Equipment Installation/
Erection                                                               XXX    XXXXXXXX
dechanical Completion                                                                    X
Comuissioning                                                                              xX
2.   DAP/NPR:
Process Inquiry                    XX
Process Bid Evaluation                XX
Process Contract Award                  XXXX
Basic Engineering                           XX   XXXX
Issue Major Equipment
Enquiries                                         XXXXXXXX
Bid Evaluation                                       XXXXXXXX
Contract Award                                            XXX   XXX
Detailed Engineering                                 XXXXXIX   XXXXX
Equipment Delivery                                         XX  XaiIXXiXXX=      XXXI
Site Preparation/Civils                                   XXX   XxxxxxxxIXXX    XXXX
Equipment Installation/                                                   XX    XXXXXXIXXXXX   XXXX
Erection
mechanical Completion                                                                                XXXX
Comissioning                                                                                            XXXX
B. Institutional Development
Component
1. Management Study (MCI):
Preparation of bidding
document                           XXXX
Send the bid                                XXX
Open the bid                                    XXX
Study                                            XXXXXX   XXXIXX
2. Overseas training (BICEM):
Preparation                   XXXXXX
Training                              XXX   XXXIXXXXXXX1   xIIXXXXItXXXI   XXXXX
3.  Purchase of Computer
Equipment (BICEM/ICI):
Preparation of bidding           XX
document
Send the bid                      XX
Open the bid                        XXX
Delivering                             XX   XXXXX
Installation                                    XXX
4. Invitation of Foreign
Experts
Preparation                   %XXXXXXX
Training                              XXIX  XXIXXXXXXV  X   XXXXXXXXXII   XKXXXXX
Industry Department
may 1987



-53-                                            ANNEX 5-3
CHINA - FERTILIZER RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Pollution Levels of Plant Effluents Sefore and After the Project
Flow Rate                                                  Local              World Bank
Plantss               Pollutants           3/h         Before ProJect       After Project          Standard           Guidelines
YXCFC
lasifters +         Iaste water                        pH 8.6                                       pH 6-9             pH b-9
Ammonia                                                NH4-N 80.4 mg/l
Total N 88.8 mg/l                                               1.0 mg/i
Cyanogen 6.9 mg/l    Cyanogen               0.5 mg/i            0. Smg/I
(0.5 Mg/I
Sulfuric Acid       Off-gas             80,000                               <450 pPm S02           500 DPp  S02       220 ppm SO2
-< 94.3 kg/h
Phosphoric Acid    Off-gas             140,060                               -( 15 mg F/w3          50 mg / m3           10 mg/A3
Waste water            178                              -< 10 mg F/I
0.6 g/l P20s
DAP                 Off-gas             75,000                                  to 10 ug F/t3       50 MR/ m3           10 mg/03
, PCEC
Gasifiers +          Waste water                        ,N 5.7-9.5             pH 5.7-9.5            pR 6-9             pH 6-9
Ammonia                                                 total N 10.0-          Total N 10.0-
122. 5 mg/I           122.5 mg/I                                100 ug/I
Cyanogen 0.15 -       Cyanogen 0.15-        0.5 mg/I            0.5 mg/I
0.69 mg/l             0.69 mg/I
3. LCFC
Gasifiers +          Waste water        Sefore 350      pH 5.7-9.5             pH 6.7                pR 6-9              pH 6-9
ammonia                                 After  125      Cyanogen 1.77 mg/I   Cyanogen <0.31 m8/1  0.5 mg/l               0.5 mg/l
Sulfide 1.78 mg/I    Sulfide <0.3 mg/I    1.0 mX/I               0.5 mg/i
COD 1.54 mg/i         COD <50 mg/l           tOO mg/I            100 ag/I
Suep. soltds          Suep. solids
506 mg/I              50 Mg/I               500 mg/l             50 mg/l
Boilers               Off-gas            Before 14,300  Dijst 800-1,200 :j/   Dust 100 mg/03           170 mg/a3           100 mg/M3
After  16,400  mSO2 32.6 mg/                                 660 mg/n3           550 Mg/r3
Nox 14 tg/m3                                  390 mg/m3          450 mg/b3
4. XCFC
Gasifiers +          Waste water                540     Cyanogen 10-           Cyanogen
Ammonia                                                 13 mg/I               u< 0.5 mg/I           0.5 mg/I            0.5 m4/I
Sulfide <20 mg/l      Sulfide <0.5 mg/I   1.0 mg/l              0.5 mg/I
Susp. solids          Suep. solids
960 mg/I              <30 mg/t             500 mg/l             50 mgg/I
S. YCIC
Gasifiers +          Waste water        Before 780      pH 6.8                                      pH 6-9             p&  6-9
Ammonia                                 After  SO0      Cyanogen 0.07 mg/l                          0.5 mg/l            0.5 mg/t
Sulfide 0.48 mg/i                           1.0 mg/l            0.5 ag/I
Suep. solids          Susp. solids
554 mg/l              <500 mg/l            500 mg/I             50 ng/l
Boilers             0ff-Sas             Before 12,200  Dust 119 mg/i3                                ItO mtg/a3        100 ig/l
After  t5,S00  S02 31.7 mg/3                                660 mg/u3          550 mg/i
mix 14 mg/*3                                390 mg/03          450 tg/l
The Four Urea Comoates
Ures                 Naste water                 9                               XH3 <50 mag/                             50 mg/I
Ures <10 mg/i             n.s.            n.e.
Prilliag             Off-gas                     140,000                         Urea -<SO tg/Nm3                        100 mg/n3
Industry Department
Nsrch 1987



CHIIA - FERTILIZ8R RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
CAPITAL COST 2RST:ATES
(in       IIt tllion)
A. ?bsoapate Development and Nitrogenous Ferttiliter Expsusion
Yunnan                   Tuenping                   Luoyang                    Xuanb"u                   teing                       Total
Local  Foreign   Total   Local   oreign   Total   Lo         orn   Total   Locl   oreign   Total   Lcal  Foreign   Tota    Local  Fore     Total
Licence Fees                    0.00     1.40     1.40    0.00    0.50      0.50     0.00    0.50     0.50     0.00     0.50     0.50    0.00     0.50     0.50     0.00     3.40     3.40
Baic Engieerins                 0.52    0.76      1.28    0.03     0.40     0.43     0.05     0.40    0.45    0.03      0.40     0.43     0.05    0.40    0.45      0.68    2.36      3.04
Detailed Engi osering           0.86     0.89     1.75    0.26     0.20     0.46     0.25     0.20    0.45     0.23     0.20     0.43     0.15    0.20     0.35     1.75     1.69     3.44
Equipmet and Materials          4.12    23.37    27.49     5.04    8.47   13.51      5.92    8.69    14.61     4.77     8.29    13.06     3.48    8.00    11.48    23.33    56.82   80.15
Spare Farts                     0.17     1.06     1.23    0.08    0.35      0.43     0.33     0.35    0.68     0.08     0.35     0.43     0.07    0.35     0.42     0.73     2.46     3.19
Freight and Insurance           0.80     1.36     2.16    0.24    0.69      0.93    0.17    0.74    0.91       0.22     0.67     0.89    0.23     0.65    0.88      1.66    4.11      5.77
Civls and Erection             5.47     5.78    11.25     3.91    0.78     4.69     4.04    0.74    4.78      3.81     0.68     4.49     3.04    0.30     3.34    20.27     8.28    28.55
Project mangemnt                1.74     1.44     3.18    0.24     0.30    0.54      0.20    0.30     0.50     0.20     0.30     0.50     0.20    0.30    0.50      2.58     2.64     5.22
Training                        0.24     0-30     0.54    0.10     0.20     0.30     0.09     0.20    0.29     0.08     0.20     0.28     0.08    0.20    0.28      0.59     1.10     1.69
B"e Cost (January 1987)        13.92   36.36    50.28      9.90    11.89    21.79    11.05    12.12   23.17    9.42    11.59    21.01     7.30    10.90    18.20    51.59   82.86   134.55
Phystiel Contingency            1.39     3.64     5.03    0.99     1.19     2.18     1.11     1.21    2.32     0.94     1.16     2.10     0-73     1.09    1.82     5.16     8.29    13.45
Price Contingency               0.85     2.30    3.15    0.54      0.72    1.26    0.60    0.67       1.27     0.52     0.65     1.57     0.39    0.61     1.00    2.90      4.95     7.81
Installed Coat                 16.16    42.30    58.46    11.43    13.80    25.33    12.76    14.00   26.76    10.88    13.40    24.28    8.42    12.60    21.02    59.65    96.10   155.75
Incremental Working Capital     6.53     0.00     6.53     1.98    0.00     1.98     1.54    0.00      1.54    0.38     0.00     0.38     0.03    0.00    0.03    10.46    0.00   10.46
Interest Dur. Conatr./)         1.38    6.87     8.25     0.64     1.48    2.12    0.79       1.51    2.30    0-52      1.45    2.01      0.34    1.36     1.70     3.67    12.67    16.34
Sub-Total                 24.07    49.17    73.24    14.05    15.28    29.33    15.09    15.51    30.60    11.78    14.85    26.63   8.79    13.96    22.41    73.78   108.79   182.55
S. Institution Developnent
Study                           -        0.09     0.09     -       0.09     0.09     -        0.09    8.09    -         0.09     0.09     -        0.09    0.09     0.00    0.45      0.45
UCEltttlCI                                                                                                                                                          0.10    0.85      0.95
Subtotal                                                                                                                                                       0.10     1.30     1.40
Total Financing Kequired       24.07    49.26    73.33    14.05    15.32    29.42    15.09    15.60    30.69    11.78    14.94    26.72   8.79    14.05    22.84    73.88   110.07   183.95
(A+B)                        - - - - - - -  _ - - -  _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Commitment fees are included in IDC.
ladustry Department                                                                                                                                                                      0
may 1987



CNA - FE1TILIZER RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
CAPITAL COST ESTUIATES
(in million yuana)
A.  Phosphate DeyeloiRent and Nitrogenous Fertilizer Component
YTunal kuanpg                                                                           Z Xuanhu                      Beij log                       Total
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foeign   Ttal                      ig     Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Forelgn   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
licence Fees                        0.0       5.2       5.2       0.0       1.9      1.9       0.0       1.9       1.9       0.0       1.9       1.9      0.0       1.9       1.9       0.0      12.6      12.6
3asic Engiaeering                   1.9       2.8       4.7       0.1       1.5      1.6       0.2       1.5       1.7       0.1       1.5       1.6      0.2       1.5       1.7       2.5       8.7      11.2
Detailed Engineering                3.2       3.3       6.5       1.0      0.7       1.7       0.9       0.7       1.7       0.9      0.7        1.6      0.6       0.7       1.3       6.5       6.3      12.7
Equimpent and Materials            15.2      86.5    101.8       18.6     31.3      50.0      21.9      32.2      54.0      17.7     30.7      48.4      12.9      29.6      42.5      86.3    210.3    296.6
Spare Parts                         0.7       4.0       4.6       0.3       1.3      1.6       1.2       1.3       2.5       0.3       1.3       1.6      0.3       1.3       1.5       2.8       9.0      11.8
Freight and laerance               3.0       5.0       8.0       0.9      2.7       3.6       0.7       2.7       3.4       0.8       2.5      3.3       0.9       2.4       3.3       6.2      15.4      21.6
Civila and Erection                20.2      21.4      41.6      14.5       2.9     17.4      14.9       2.7      17.7      14.1       2.6      16.7      11.2      1.1      12.4      75.0      30.7    105.7
Project Ma_agemet                   6.4       5.3      11.8       0.9       1.1      2.0       0.7       1.1       1.9       0.8       1.1       1.9      0.8       1.1       1.9       9.6       9.7      19.3
Trataiig                            0.9       1.1       2.0       0.4      0.7       1.1       0.3       0.7       1.1       0.3       0.7       1.0      0.3       0.7       1.0       2.2       4.1       6.3
Dase Coat (January 1987)           51.5    134.6    186.1        36.6     44.1      80.7      40.9      44.8      85.7      35.0     42.9      77.9      27.1      40.3      67.4    191.1    306.8    497.9
Physical Contingency                5.2      13.5      18.6       3.7      4.4       8.1       4.1       4.5       8.6       3.5       4.3       7.6      2.7       4.0       6.7      19.1      30.7      49.S
Price Contingency                  14.0      37.4      51.4       9.4     10.6      20.1      10.0      11.3      21.3       8.5      10.8     19.3       6.6      10.2      16.8      48.7      80.4    129.1
installed Cost                     70.7    185.5    256.2       49.7      59.2    108.9       55.0      60.6    115.6       47.0     58.0    105.0       36.4      54.6      91.0    258.9    417.9    676.8   '^
Incremental working Capital        33.3       0.0     33.3       8.9       0.0       8.9       6.9       0.0       6.9       1.8      0.0        1.8      0.2       0.0       0.2      51.1       0.0      51.1
Interest Dar. Constr.1/)            5.7      28.4     34.1        2.9      6.7       9.6       3.6       6.9      10.5       2.4      6.6       9.0       1.5       6-0       7.5      16.1      54.6      70.7
Sub-Total                   109.7    213.9    323.6        61.5      65.9    127.4       65.5     67.5    133.0       51.2      64.6    115.8       38.1      60.6      98.7    326.1    472.5    798.6
S. Institution Development
Co-ponent
Study                               -         0.3       0.3      -         0.3       0.3       -         0.3       0.3      -          0.3      0.3       -         0.3       0.3       0.0       1.7       1.7
BICdm/CI                                                                                                                                                                                0.4       3.1       3.5
Subtotal                                                                                                                                                                           0.4      4.8        5.2
Total Financing Required           109./   214.2    323.9        61.5     66.2    127.7       65.5      67.8    133.3       51.2      64.9    116.1      38.1      60.9      99.0      326.5   477.3    803.8
(A+B)    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Commitment fees are included in IMC.
lndustry DePartment
M   19S7



- 56 -
ANNEX 6-2
CHINA - FERTILIZER RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
As x of Total
Semester                       Cumulative          Amount of Loan
Year (FY)   Ending        Disbursement    Disbursement    Annual    Cumulative
- million US$ ---
1988     Dec. 31, 1987         2.1              2.1          2.2           2.2
June 30, 1988         3.7             5.8           3*8          6.0
1989     Dec, 31, 1988         8*1             13.9          8.3          14.3
June 30, 1989        17.0            30ot          17.5         31.8
1990     Dec. 31, 1989        19.4            50*3          19.9          51.7
June 30, 1990        19.4            69.7          19.9         71.6
1991     Dec. 31, 1990        13.3            83.0          13.6          85*2
June 30, 1991         6.1            89.1           6.3         91.5
1992     Dec. 31, 1991         4.2            93.3           4.3          95.8
June 30, 1992         2.1            95*4           2.2         98.0
1993     Dec. 31, 1992         2.0            97.4           2.0         100.0
Industry Department
May 1987



- 57 -
ANK1.X 7-1
Page 1 of 2
CHINA - SICOND FERTILIZER RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS UNDERLYING FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   General
1.        Financial projections have been carried out in current yuans
using projected domestic inflation rates for local inputs and outputs and
international inflation rates for imported inputs as follows: domestic
inflation rates--6.5Z p.a. during 1987-1990, and 4.5% p.a. thereafter,
international inflation rates-3.O% p.a. in 1987, 1.0% p.a. during 1988-90,
and 3.5% p.a. thereafter.  Key assumptions for financial projections have
been based on the actual practices currently exercised by companies under
the Chinese regulations annually. To provide an overall view of the
companies' financial performances In accordance with the conventional
accounting concepts based upon international accounting standards, the
following adjustments have been made to the Chinese accounting system: (i)
consolidation of the two sets of financial statements--production
operations and capital construction; (it) reclassification of accounts in
income statements and balance sheets as necessary in accordance with
conventional concepts; and (ili) preparation of sources and applications of
funds statements which do not exist under the current Chinese accounting
system. For financial rate of return (FRR) calculations, cost and benefit
streams in constant yuan have been used. The assumed capacity utilization
and production levels with and without the Project are given in Table 1 of
this Annex.
S.   Income Statements
2.        Sales Revenue.  Net sales revenues are calculated after deducting
product tax. nuring project implementation and the initial four years
after the commissioning of urea/flAP plant (1987-1995 for YXCPC and
1987-1994 for others), all the companies will not pay product taxes based
on special arrangements made for the project companies.
3.        Variable Production Costs.  Annual consumption of inputs has been
obtained from the material balance and estimated production levels with and
without the Project. Material balances for each company with and without
the project are given in Project File No. 7.
4.        Depreciation.  Fixed assets are depreciated using the straight
line method at rates agreed on between the companies and their respective
supervisory authorities as follows: (i) Yuanping - 3.65? for the existing
plant and 5.28% for the urea plant; (ii) Luoyang - 3.2X; (iii) Xuanhua -
3.5% for the existing plant and 4.74% for the urea plant; (iv) Reijling -
3.6% for the existing plant and 4.742 for the urea plant; and (v) Yunnan -
4.5% for the existing plant and 6.R% for the urea plant.
5.        Maintenance Costse  In the Chinese accounting system, maintenance
cost is divided into two categories - annual overhaul and other
maintenance. Provisions for annual overhaul are provided as a percentage
of the original acquisition value of fixed assets, and managed separately



- 58 -
ANNEX 7-1
Page 2 of 2
within the special fund account. Other maintenance costs are covered as
operating expenses. The rates of provision for annulI overhaul for each
company are:  (a) Yuanping - 2.5% for the existing p       and 3.7% for the
urea plant; (b) Luoyang - 1.8%; (c) Xuanhua - 1.8%;       R Beijing - 4.2% for
the existing plant and 3.7% for the urea plant; and (v) Yunnan - 3.0%.
Total maintenance costs combining annual overhaul expenses and other
maintenance expenses are estimated on the basis of actual costs in the
past.
6.        Interest Expenses.  Interests on foreign exchange dominated loans
are converted into local currency using projected foreign exchange rates
which are assumed to be adjlusted to preserve relative currency values
between the two currencies.
7.        Taxes.  The taxable income is derived from net profits after
deducting amortization of long-term loans, and is taxed at an uniform
income tax rate of 55% and additional adjustment tax rates which differ
among companies. The companies do not pay income and ad,ustment taxes on
profits during project implementation and the initial four years after the
commissioning of urea/nAP plants.
Co   Balance Sheets
S.        Fixed Assets.  Fixed assets are shown at their historical costs.
9.        Equity.  The following four items are considered as equity given
their equity "nature": (i) state fixed funds; (ii) state circulating
funds; (iii) enterprise fixed funds allocated from internally generated
funds; and (iv) net special funds (special fund assets minus special loans)
retained by enterprises.
D.   Funds Flow Statement
10.       Depreciation Fund,  The current government policy allows for the
retention of 100% of the fund by the companies.
11.       Expenditures from Special Funds.  Provisions for annual overhaul
are used to cover annual overhaul expenses.  Annually, 15% of the retained
depreciation fund and profits are paid to the Energy Conservation Fund.
The companies will be exempt from contribution to the Vund during Project
implementation and the initial four years after the commissioning of the
urea/DAP plants.  A portion of internally generated funds (in the special
fund account) is used for: (i) production technology development; (ii)
improvement of workers' living condition; (iii) cash bonus; (iv) new
product test fund. The balance is accumulated within the company as
reserve funds.
Industry Department
March 1987



CHINA - FERTILIZER RATIONALIZATION PROJECr
Productlon Levels and Capacity Utilization
With aod Without Project
YXCFC                         YCFC                    LCFC                    XCFC                  ICEC
ABC        DAP          NPK           ABC       Urea          ABC       Urea        ABC         Urea       ABC       Urea
o    V   w/-o    w      w/o    1      W/        V      wo    W  W/o1   Wio a   V     VwoW    WYo   V    Vo   V   VWo    W
Production ('000 tpy)   240    -    -    140        -    100    180   -   -    132     180   -    -    132    240   -    -   132   220    -   -    132
199l                     215   190-         -      -      -    170-    -        92    170   -    -      92    220   -    -    92   230    -   -       92
1992                     215   121   -     84      -    60    170   -    -    106    170   -    -    106    220   -    -   106   230    -   -    106
1993                     215    93   -    105      -    75    170   -    -    119    170   -    -    119    220   -    -   119   230    -   -    1t9
194                    215    75   -    126       -    90    170-    -    119    170   -    -    119    220   -    -   119   230    -   -    119
2002                     215    75   -    126       -    90    170   -    -    119    170   -    -    119    220   -    -   119   230    -   -    119
2003                     215    75  -    126       -    90    170-    -    119    170   -    -    119    220   -    -   119   230    -   -    119
Capacity Utilization  (X)                                                                                                                                  Z
19I                      90    90-          -      -     -      94-    -        70     94   -    -      70     92   -    - 70   1O5    -   -          70   1
1992                      90    50   -     60      -    60      94   -    -     80     94   -    -      80     92  -    -80         105    -   -      s0
1993                      90    39   -     75      -    75      94-    -        90     94   -    -      90     92   -    - 90       105    -   -     90
1994                      90    31         90      -    90      94-    -        90     94   -    -      90     92  -    -90    105    -   -           90
2002                      90  -31   -      90       -    90     94-    -        90      94   -    -     90     92   -    -   90    105    -   -       90
2003                      90    31-        90       -    90     94-    -        90      94   -    -     90     92   -    -   90    1OS    -   -       90



40-
cairn - mutLia  arnonauowl taso
3293    1E I              8  197         O!_N  ,,       1*       191    1992    193 1996
Ctro   Sesle  an"nue                  21.2   29.2    27.6       58.4  U4.8    52.4    5.8    59.4    62.1   212.8  260.0   309.4
Lses Pred ea:ion Tau                   0.6      1.0     1.4      1.8    L.6     1.4      1.5     1.6     1.7     1.7     1.8      1.9
Variable Cent                   12.4   16.3    14.2       23.2   23.8    29.1    31.0    33.0   14.5    98.0   118.7   '41.7
fined Costs                      5.6     8.6                      -                                -       -       -
Cenital Sal. 4  nAdm. up.        14 j             2.0      0.3    2.9     31       U      j,       3.7    12.0     2.6    13.1
orating  tncmm                         0.7      $.3     5.6      4.s    6.0     8.9      9.8    10.8    11-6    58.0   84.4   109.7
Loses  nnmial Chtga                    .0,1    ,1j      0j       0 4            0.9      °j      0.7     0.6    19 1    19.2    17.2
Net Inte                               0    Jl e.s IT,e S.O                              INO.I   11.0 1if   UT  Vi
Lace  lon Amrtizatine                  -       0.6      1.0      2.8    1,4      1.4     1.4     1.4     1.4    14.9    28.6    28.2
taxec 4 Otbuw RmattanPA -                         0,        .
beerid Profit                                    7      Ea              i-       x      i         T 7r   Ti.-o- ii
8. tunic Plow Statetttt
Sources of lunds tree Oetraiaes
fleattnd Pofitt                  0.6     2.3      2.1       1.7    I.6    6.6     7.6     8.7      9.6    24.0    36.6    64.3
teprotutteom                     1.7      1.7     1.7      2.1    1.5     3.4     3.4      3.4     3.4    23.4    23.4    23.4
Inteet  Supna                    0.1     0.1      0.1      0.4    1.0     0.9     0.8     0.7      0.6   19.1   19.2    17.2
Oetber Aduetntat                 +!                     J       0 14        A    j         1.5    I*4    14.9   28.6    28.2
Itel Cach 0vti                1 "47.1T  1 Tr1y. 14 81                                                         TM  Tn
8eute. of  eund. Pc  OGteitde
8m  La                           -       -       -         ^      2.6    21.5    S2.8    68.9    21.3    18.4      -       -
'nettiC 1oS tow lwoa             -       6.9      6.6      4.     -       4.7    16.0    24.7    11.9      8.4     -       -
Dlantic Obrt tM  Lea            (0.1)    0.8    (0.2)      0.1    -       -               -       10.3   (11.9)    -       -
Bungot Allouatian                11 c             -        0      -       -       -       -       -        - I             -
Total Cuout*% seutoa   I-   17!               1r   1i-r  wr   ur   w:r  i3T  Trv
Aploeatttn of lt"f@
Invstnt ln  osd Lecg             0.5     6.8     *.1       7.3    5.7    34.     77.S   104.8    43.9    22.3      -       -
Pitecpl 8.pamwet Of lsns
TOts  to                       0.0     0.6      1.0      0.5    1.4     1.4     1.4      1.4     1.4    14.9   26.6    28.2
Ihtoat  upoana                   0.1     0.1     0.1      0*4   1.0       0.9     0.8     0.7     0.6    19.1    19.2    17.2
Incraca  in lenkng Capital       0.1     2.4      1.9      0.6    0.5     0.6     0.6     0.7    10.8    33.3      4.8     4.6
special lund empeItav            0.8     1.4      1.3      1.8    1.4     1.5     1.6     1.7      t.8     1.8     1.9     2.0
Otebt Applicatien               4j       jA     JAL        0.1 0"1       j           -    0.1      0.1 0.1         0.1     0.1
totl Applitien  of
Pu"                       1.6    11.4    13.5      10.5   10.1    38.7    02.2   109.2    58.5    91.5    54.6    52.1
Inctease In 0al                        1.1     0.9    (2.6)      1.7    I.S    (0.2)   (0.1)   (.3)    0-0    15.1    53.2    81.0
C. Val8JM3t
Gerftt Asets t
: ab                             1.8     2.7     0.3       2.0    3.9     3.8     5.7     2.5     2.5    17.6    70.9   151.9
nvnterim                        .6.1     6.6     7.4       7.4   10.1    11.5   12.2    13.0    23.9    30.1    32.3   34.9
Bnva.                          .*j  0.            .0              a        .2     3.4     5.6     3 4    12.8    15.7    18.7
Toal Gotnt dn_sta           i      10      117!      1-8    K         :    W 19     lE T    Wi    60.5   1          1U
lined Aetas
Sbt ned Assets                  44.6    48.7    49.2      53.5   50.2    48.3    44.8   41.4    38.0   303.4  280.0   256.6
i;k-tn Ptrgress                  3.9     6.5    17.3      20.0    5.7    38.6   116.1   210.1   254.5      -       -
Othel nxed Acte                  0      .J       0.3    0.4    0.4        0.5     0.5     0 6     0.6      0.7     0.7     0.8
Total Pi.d acet  7                5e ,  3    S6j77! U7.4   T 1TIl 260.1 N1t . T 17 207T
COrrant Usblitie.ss
Paebla                           1.5     2.2     3.1       3.7    3.7     4.2     4.6     4.8     5.1    10.9    12.7    14.8
Shutt Tom 1ea                    0.9     1.7      1.5      1.6    1.6     1.6     1.6     1.6    11.9     -        -       -
Cornnt ogttn efL.t. Lem          0.6     1.0      5 0        4    1,4     14      1,4       4    14.9   28.6    28       28.4
Total Cartnt   abilites                                                     IT  4.         -in    -WI -e,  ,78 9 5 9
Lang-tas, Liabilitiesa
etid  se                         -       -        -        -      2.6    24.1    76.9   145.8   157.3   167.7   149.5   131.1
Cpiel Cenmtrtueti      a         - t.S                    13 5   10.8    1422 28S          .2    5.1    66.0   58.0    49.9
totl L.t. UebUittlieiccfog   -J1.!  ' , 5                                          1U-   15TX  11! i          7; S 1wr w
State  ised  ode,               44.1    43.7    44.2      53.6   47.0    46.0   44.8    41.4    38.1    34.8    31.5    28.2
State  Ci tut  Pand              5.l     5.1      5.2      5.2    3.0     6.0     6.0     6.0     6.0      6.0     6.0     6.0
ecal fda _evm                    4 7                       0. 5    2,8    82    165    25.9    30.6   50.6   113.7   204.5
Total 8quity               uw4              w1  in 57,  u.2 ,; 7             1 -2 38.7
0. a
Set Ptefttigrea Sol" (1)               3.0    11.0    12.8      11.7   11.5    15.2    18.2    17.0    17.7   I1.4    25.1    29.9
Operettn aasAsuAen a lnt  in
Setue ()                              1.5     6.4      7.2      0.8   10.5    15.8    18.2    21.2    24.1    25.4    27.1    38.1
Debt Steing C     Dee  (timas)        213      6.      4.2     10.5    5.9     5.4     6.1     6.9      7.6     2.4     2.3     2.4
Curant Satti (tine)                    2.7     2.1      1.4      1.)   L5       2.6     2.6    2L5       1.8a    1.5     2.9     9.8
LaNg tos Scs/uty                     0o810o   9*91   15:07    17*83  20t80   3961   61:39   75t27   7426s  72*28   58*42   43:57
SI  Vitht t OA Corrent pOn4an of ona    debt hdA1b 121 be Pad er its the cecend ban of 1992.  n applying the currant ratio
covnat fet 1991,tht speien   il be aseld fram fane t lteblities.
industry leptaa
Steb 1987



- *1 -
A   7-3
CRMA   - ltRTILIZE RATIMO UHlEATSII A"OJC
YCFC - A Sumrr of Btstorical and Projeted FiXnsnal Statements
(in million yvuena unless oth sis sta ae) 
--Actual-  Prel. -P                               o e                t          d -
198     1984    1985    1986    1987    398       1989    1990    1991  1992    1993    1994
A.  Income Stateuents
Gross 5alec Revenue                    28.8    30.0    23.4    26.0    29.0    30.9    32.9    35.0    64.6    77.1    90.7    94.8
Less: Production Tax                    0.9      1.1     1.2     1.3          -       -            -       -            -       -
Variable Cost                    17.0    17.2    12.3    15.8    15.7    16.7    17.8    10.9    24.3    29.0    34.1    35.7
Pixed Costs                       5.3     5.6      6.3     5.5     6.5      6.7     6.8     7.0    14.0    18.2    18.4    18.5
General Sal. 6 Admin. exp.        0.1     0.2      0.2     0.2      2.7    _.9           3.1  3.       4     4.3     4.5      4.7
Operating Income                        5.5      5.9     3.4     3.2      4.1     4.6     5.2      5.8    22.9    25.6    33.7    35.9
Less  Financial charges                 -        -       -       0.3      0.2     0.2     0.2      0.5     7.5     7.3      6.6     5.9
Net Income                                                                TVr ;o TT   T                          ; TM    15.4 1.  26
Leasst Loan Aoortimation                0.2      0.2     -       -                -       -        -       -       5.0    10.0    10.1
Taxes & Other Remittance          3.9     4.2      2.3     1.1     -        -       -       -        -       -       -        -
Reserved Proftte                         T;T    T!        TT                          T;   T.     Y19  137        T       inT 1 9.9
B. Funds Flow Statements
Sources of Funud from Operations:
Retained ProfIt                   1.4     1.5      1.1     2.0     3.9      4.4     5.0     5.3    15.4    13.3    17.1    19.9
Depreciatton                      1.5     1.8      2.0     1.5     2.3      2.3     2.3     2.3      9.0     9.0     9.0      9.0
Interest Ixpenses                 -       -       -        0.3     0.2      0.2     0.2     0.5      7.5     7.4     6.9      6.2
Other Adjustments                (0.3)   j0.31   (0.6)   (0.2)    0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     5.0    10.0    10.1
Internal Cash Ceneration  2-S 3         .6      1.3 7r           -rl    -M 34.7 f f l
sources of Funds Pres Outsidea
1BRD Loan                         -       -       -        ^       1.0      7.3    25.3    19.2      6.3
Domestic Long Term Loan           -       -        -       -       -        -      21.3    11.7      -
Domestic Short Term Loan         (0.2)    0.2      2.6    (0.6)    -        -       -       8.0   (11.9)
Budget AllocAtion
Total Outside Sources   T             T) 0.2 2-6              T0 7.      3  ' tr Wi-  M)
Applications of Funds:
Investment in Ftxed Azseta        0.6     1.2      2.3     0.8     1.5    14.7    52.6    37.5       9.3
Principal Repayent of Long
Term Loan                       0.2     0.2      -       -       -        -       -       -        -       5.0    10.0    10.1
loterest Expenses                 -       -        -       0.3     0.2      0.2     0.2     0.5      7.5     7.4     6.9      6.2
Increase In Wiorking Capital      0.1     0.1      1.5     0.8     0.4     0.4      0.5     9.5      1.1     1.1     -       -
Special Pund Bxpediture           1.2     1.2      1.0     0.8     0.9      0.9     0.9      1.0     1.S     1.6      1.6     1.7
Other Applications                0.2     0.2      0.2     0.0     0.1      0.1     0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1     0.1      0.1
Total Applications          t3   -T                   r tTT  T 7   WI   V. 1T3*  ITT  I1T   152
ldCrease in Cash                        0.1     0.3      0.1     -       4.3    (2.1)   (0.3)   (1.6)    6.9    19.4    24.0    26.8
C. Balance Sheets
Current Assets:
Csh                               0.3     O.t      0.9     0.9     5.2      3.0     2.7     1.1      8.0    27.4    51.4    78.2
Inventories                       6.5     6.2      5.7     6.7     5.3      5.4     5.8    13.4    14.0    15.1    16.2    16.9
Raeidvables                       1.3     0.4      5.l     4.0     2.4      2.5     2.5     2.9      5.3     6.3     7.5      7.8
Total Current Asets          8.T     7.    1T7    Tr11.          i!    ITO   lT       17       7.3    48.8    i1    I AT
Fixed Assetst
Net Fixed Assets                 38.0    37.8    37.8    36.6    34.3    32.1    29.8    27.5   140.9   131.9   122.8   113.8
Iork-tn Progress                  1.8     0.8      1.3     1.1      I.S    16.2    69.5   109.1      -       -       -        -
Other Fixed Aset                  0.8     1.0      1.1     1.2     1.3      1.4     1.6     1.7      1.9     2.0     2.1      2.3
Total Fixed Assets         UTT  W T  WI   WI   WT 4T9  TT Ti;I  1W!  TW!  11 1T
(srrant Wiabilitiest
Payables                          1.3     0.7     2.8      2.0     0.8      0.9     1.0     1.1      1.4     1.6     1.9     2.0
Short Tare Loan                   1.6     1.8      4.4     3.9     3.9      3.9     3.9    11.9
Current Portion of L.?. Loan      0.3     -        -       -       -        -       -                5.0    10.0    10.1    10.2
Total Current 1iabitltaee      2 .5 7. 5       .    9       -; .8:Ts                 T  ;t 1.r    12.0 21
Long Term Liabilities:
World Dank Loan                   -       -        -       -       t.0      8.3    33.6    52.9    60.0    54.2    48.3    42.4
Capital Constructton Los                  -       -        -L                      21.3    35.5    34.0    30.5    26.9    23.3
Total L.T. Liabilities       -       -        -       -       T8.T ;7IT llJ P9 8   75.2   65.7
equitys
State Fixed Funds                38.0    37.8    37.7    36.6    34.3    32.0    29.8    27.5    25.3    23.0    20.7    18.4
State Circulatiug Funds           3.9     3.9      3.6     3.6     5.1      5.4     5.8    13.4    14.0    15.1    16.2    16.9
Special Fund Reserves             3.7     2.6      3.4     S.4     4.6    10.0    16.7   13.2    30.4    48.3    76.0   105.8
Total Equity                ff.    W4.    WT 7t 4T   .4 7                      5tT    54.     6!    86.    DT!   141.1
D.; Ratios
Net Profit/Groas Sales (2)             19.4    19.7    14.5    10.7    13.4    14.3    15.1    15.2    23.9    23.6    30.0    31.3
Operating Income/Average Assts ia
Service (2)                           12.4    13.7      8.1     7.9    10.3    12.3    14.5    15.6    16.1    17.0    23.8    27.0
Debt Service Coverage (tins)           13.8    14.5       VA    13.0    29.0    31.4    33.9    17.9       4.3     2.8      2.5     2.8
Currant Ratio (time)                    2.6      2.9     1.6     2.0      2.7     2.3     2.3      1.4     4.3     4.2      6.3     8.5
Long Tom Debt/Equity                  0:100   0:100   0:100  OlOO    2s98   15:85   51:49   62:38   57:4    50s50   40:60   32:68
Industr7 Dpartmnt
Nteeh 1987



- 62 -
jAlflIf 7-_
CINA - FBlTILIZER RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
LCFC- A Sw-_ of Hiatorical and Pro1ected FInancial Statements
(in dillion yuann unlesn othertise stated)
---Actual---    Prot.                    -                                      Pooject
1983    1984   1985   1986   1987    1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
A. locose Statements
Gross Sales Revenue                   27.4  30.7   21.8    26.4  29.0   30.9   32.9   35.0   64.6   77.1   90.7   94.8
LeOS: Production Tax                    .9   1.2    1.2               -      -       -           -       -       -      -
Variable Cost                   17.4  18.6   12.8    16.7  18.0   19.1   20.4   21.7   25.2   30.1   35.3   36.9
Fixed Costo                      4.5   4.9    5.1        5.5   5.1    5.3    5.3    5.3   15.3   15.4   13.6   15.7
General Sal. & Admin. EIp.       2.0   2.0    2.2        0.3   3,5    3.7    3.9    4.2    4.4    8.5    8.9    9.3
Operating Income                       2.6   4.0    0.5        3.9   2.4    2.8    3.3    3.8   19.7   23.1   30.9   32.9
Lesst Financial charges                -      -       -       0.3   0.5    0.4    0.4    0.5    9.0    9.2    8.5    7.6
Not Income                             2.    Z        ; T:5     T      31'    1T       9    TT       "      13.9   22. ;25.3
Lfsst Loan Amortlzation                -      -      -        -      0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    6.5   12.8   12.8
Taxes & Other Remittence         1.5   2.2    0.4       -      -       -       -
Reserved Profits                       1.1   1.8    0.1       T5   1T6    1T71    177       En    104                      12.5
8. Funds Flo, Statements
Sources of Funds from Operations:
Retained Profit                  1.1   1.8    0.1        3.6   1.6    2.1    2.7    3.0   10.4    7.5    9.6   12.5
Depreciation                     1.6   1.7    1.8        1.8   2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4    7.1    7.1    7.1    7.1
Interest 'xpansee                -      -       -       0.3   0.5    0.4    0.4    0.5    9.0    9.2    8.5    7.6
Other Adjustsents               (1.4)  (2.3)   (.3)    0.1   0.4    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    6.5   12.8   12.8
Internal Cash Generation      1.2   1.2    1.6       358 S'        -M      'i:w    tT    26.8    3.230i  38.0   40.0
Sources of Funds From Outside:
18RD Loan                        -      -      -        -      1.0    7.2   26.2   19.7    6.4
Domestic Long Term Loan          -      -       -       -      -       1.0   27.4   11.6       -       -      -       -
Domaestic Short Term Loon       (1.4)   (.1)    2.3    (0.2)  -        -       -       4.7   (8.7)
Budget Allocation
Total Outside Sources      (1.4)  (01       T      (.)  1T)   r1.  8.2r   36.0   S2)
Applications of Funds:
Investment in Fixed Assets       0.6   3.0    0.6    (1.8)   1.5   15.2   55.6   40.1    9.8
Principal Repayment of Long
Term Loan                      -      -       -       -      0.3    0.3    0.3       G.3    0.3    6.5   12.8   12.8
Interest Expenses                -      -      -        0.3   0.5    0.4    0.4    0.5    9.0    9.2    8.3    7.6
Increase in Working Capital     (1.2)  (3.7)   2.4      2.7   0.5    0.5    0.6    0.6    0.5    1.1    1.2    0.0
Special Fund Expediture          0.6   1.1    1.6       0.9   1.0    1.0    1.1    1.2    2.3    2.4    2.5    2.6
Other Applications               0.1   0.1      -       -      0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1         0.1    0.1
Total Applications           .1   0.        5       E       5    175 T T:T 7V1 75 2         2 .0        1937 25.1 
Increase in Cash                       -      0.5   (0.7)     3.4   2.0   (4.2)    1.3   (0.6)    2.5   11.1   13.0   17.0
C. Balance Sheets
Current Assets:
Cash                             0.5    1.0    0.3      3.7   5.7    1.5    2.8    2.2    4.7   15.8   28.8   45.8
Inventories                      8.7   7.7   11.3    11.0   6.7    7.2    7.6    S.1    3.1    3.6    4.3    4.5
Receivables                      4.3   3.7    4.6       1.1   2.4    2.5    2.7    2.9    5.3    6.3    7.5    7.8
Total Current Assets      -TaT   13.5   16.2    T571 13.1    1             3.2 13. 1 T    E1T  l5       4       35T
Fixed Assets:
Net nxed Assets                 49.4  50.2   49.6    49.2  46.8   44.4   42.0   39.6  162.5  155.4  148.3  141.2
Work-in Progress                 0.8   2.3    1.7        3.3   1.5   16.8   73.4  116.0        -       -      -       -
Other Fixed Assets               0.4   0.5    0.5       0.5   0.6    0.7    0.8    0.9    1.0    1.1    1.2    1.3
Total Fixed Assets 5.6 3§;2 3.0    377                   IiW  .5  163.5         135.5  1T49 .5         TWI    U"
Current Liabilities:
Payebles                         1.5   0.7    4.2       2.0   1.0    1.1    1.2    1.3    1.4    1.7    2.0    2.0
Short Term Loan                  2.0   1.9    4.2       4.0   4.0    4.0    4.0    8.7        -       -       -       -
Current Portion of L.T. Loan     -      -       -       0.5   0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    6.5   12.8   12.8   12.9
Total Current Liabilities  T17.T   TT    -M         6.5   5.3    35    tT        T        l 7.9 *14.    14.T 14.9
Long Term Lisbilities:
World Bank Loan                  -      -       -       -      1.0    8.3   34.5   54.2   61.4   55.3   49.5   43.4
Capital Construction Loan        -      -       -       3.4   2.7    3.4   30.4   41.7   42.7   38.0   33.4   28.7
Total L.T. LUsbilities      -      -       -                            -35    3.    TYw    64.  3v T  10.   138. 7-n 5
Equity:
State Fixed Funds               46.9  45.5   36.4    49.2  46.8   44.4   42.0   39.6   37.2   34.8   32.4   30.0
State Circulating Funds          6.6   6.4    3.7       6.0   6.7    7.2    7.7    8.1    3.1    3.6    4.3    4.5
Special Fund Reserves            6.8  10.8   19.5       3.8   1.1    4.5    9.3   15.8   24.2   35.8   55.7   79.1
Total Equity                            59.6  ;7 5 4. 5     6. 1                 6.0' 63 . T           -74.2 92.   113.6
D. Ratios
Net Profit/Gross sales(t)              9.7  13.2    2.4    13.1   6.9    8.0    9.0    9.5   16.6   18.2   24.8   26.8
Operating Incole/Average Assets in
Service (U)                           4.5   7.0    0.8       6.8   4.3    5.5    6.6    8.0   12.1   15.6   20.1   22.4
Debt Service Coverage (times)         IN/A   N/A    N/A    21.5   6.0    6.8    7.6    7.2    2.9    1.9    1.8    2.0
Current Ratio (times)                  3.8   4.7    2.0       2.5   2.8    2.1    2.4    1.3    1.7    1.8    2.8    3.9
Long Term Debt/Equity                OlO:0  0:100   0:100    5:93   6:94   17:83   52:48   60:40   62:38  55343   47t53   32:68
Industry Departent
Nereb 1987



- 63 -
AIU  7-5
CaIM  - FEILIIER RATI0NALIZATION PMOBCr
IICC      Sa    f AH        e etical and Projected Financial StaentS
{lihillion yuens unless otherwise stated)
--Actu5l-       Prel. -                                     Projected
1983    19U4    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    199I    1991    1992    1993    1994
A. Income Statements
Cross Sales Revenue                    35.4    37.9    14.7    42.7    38.7    41.2    43.9    46.7    64.6    77.1    90.7    94.8
Least Production Tax                    1.1     1.3     0.5      -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -
Variable Cost                    16.4    16.2     7.2    21,8    21.4    22.8    24.3    25.9    26.3    31.4    37.0    38.6
Fixed Costs                      11.0    12.1     3.3    11.7    14.0      9.6     9.6    10.1    19.0    19.3    20.8    21.0
General Sal. & min. Esp.          0.2     0.2     3.3      2.9     3.3     3.5     3.8      4.0     4.2     8.9     9.3      9.7
operating Incoms                        6.7     8.1     0.4      6.3     4.1     5.3      6.2     6.7    15.1    17.5    23.6    25.5
Lesst  Financial charges                -       -       -        1.2     0.2     -        -       -       6.5     6.8      6.3     5.7
Net Income                              KT7      6;                                               i7      ET    T"       17: !     r 
Lesst Loan Amortization                 -       -       -                    -                    -       -       9.6      9.2     9.2
Tax"e & Other Remittance          5.6     6.0     0.1      3.6
Raserved Profits                        1;.1    2.1      T.3     1.      3.9       5 37            7      1   T   1!               5T
B. Funds Flow Statemwnts
Sources of Funda From Operationsa
Retained Profit                   1.1     2.1     0.3      1.5     3.9     5.3     6.2      6.7     8.6     6.1     8.1    10.6
Depreciation                      1.3     1.8     1..0    2.6      2.1     2.1     2.1      2.1     8.0     8.0     8.0      8.0
Interest Expenses                 -       -       -        1.2     0.2     -       -       -        6.5     6.8     6.3      5.7
Other Adjustmsnts                (0.3)   (0.7)   (2.1)   (0.6)    0.3      0.3     0.3      0.3     0.4     5.0     9.7      9.7
Internal Cash Geration         2.1     3.2   (6.8) 4t.T-  -T!           7      *17T    '7   1172  5     25.9    32.1    34.0
Sources of Funds Prom Outsidet
IBID Loan                             -       -           -        1.0     7.0    25.1    18.8      6.2                     -
Domestic Long Term Lon                -       -                    - -     4.1    11.6    10.3
Domestic Short Term Loan         (0.7)    2.6     7.7     -       (6.1)    -
Budget Allocation                 1.4     -       -
Total Outside Sources        0.7    *7I    -T        -         T (,  17    W2F    *71
Applications of Funds:
lovestment in Fixed Assets        3.2     4.7     2.6     0.7      1.5    14.1    50.7    36.3      9.1
Principal Repayment of Long
Term Loa                        -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       4.6     9.2      9.2
Interest Expenses                 -       -       -       -        0.2     -       -       -        6.5     6.8     6.3      5.7
Increase in Working Capital      (1.7)   (0.2)    3.9    (4.8)    0.6      0.7     0.7      1.8     1.3     1.4     0.0      0.0
Special Fund Expediture           1.5     2.0     0.2     0.3      1.0     1.1     1.1      1.2     0.9     0.9     0.9      1.0
Other Applications                0.2     0.1     0.1     -        0.1     0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1     0.1     0.1     0.1
Total Applications           3.2     6.6     6.8    (3.8)    3.4    160    52.6         T      T      13.8   16.5    16.0
Increase in Cssh                       (0.4)   (0.8)    0.1      8.5    (2.0)    2.8    (7.3)   (1.2)   11.8    12.1    15.6    18.0
C. Balance Sheets
Current ssets:
cash                              1.2     0.5     0.8     9.3      7.4    10.3     3.0      1.8    13.7    26.0    41.6   59.7
Inventories                       5.9     7.0    19.2     9.5      7.9     8.4     8.9     9.5      5.2     6.2     7.2     7.5
Receivables                       4.0     2.2     5.7     2.2      3.2     3.4     3.6     3.8      5.3     6.3     7.5     7.8
Total Current Assets        11. 1          -25.7      1      18.5    22.1    15.5   T17                 2      4.2 3 6.3    75!W
Fixed Assets,
Nat Fixed Assets                 29.4    31.0    35.5    35.3    33.2    31.2    29.1    27.0   136.9   128.9   120.9   112.9
Vork-in Progress                  7.8     6.4     1.5      2.1     1.5    15.7    67.1   104.9      -       -       -
Otber Fixed Aasets                0.2     0.3     0.3     0.4      0.4     0.5     0.5     0.6      0.6     0.7     0.7     0.8
Total Fixed "sets          ITT 4     7.7   11!    'T;:    =7         7t=    17   flSET  T17T   IZ9.61  T121,   TMT
Current Liabilities:
Psyables                          3.7     3.4    11.4     0.6      1.2     1.3     1.3      1.4     1.4     1.8     2.0     2.2
Short Term Loan                   2.3     4.9    12.6     6.1      -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -
Current Portion of L.T. Loan      - -     -       -                -         -     -       -        4.6     9.2     9.2     9.3
Total Current Liabilities            S.0      MU  2T4 -:               1   S          T               TT      M1.     7II.Z1T
L,ong Term Liabilities:
korld Bank Loan                   -       -       -       -        1.0     8.0    33.0    51.8    58.8    53.1    47.3    41.5
Capital Construction Loan             -       -           -        -       4.1    15.7    26.0    27.0    24.1    21.3    18.4
Total L. T. Liabilities      -       -       -              -1 0      21    .7       77.T        8    77.2    68.6 60 .7
Equity:
State Fixed Funds               29.4    31.0    35.5    35.5    33.3    31.2    29.1    27.0    24.9    22.8    20.7    18.7
State Circulating Funds           2.7     2.7     2.7      2.3     7.9     8.4     8.9     9.5      5.2     6.2     7.2     7.5
Special Fund Reserves            10.3     5.4     0.8    14.3    10.2    16.5    24.1    31.8    39.9    51.0    70.0    91.1
Total Equity              -! .      1 5 .T    W!    52.1    51.4    317T   1gT                       -W.T  m7T    117.3
D.  Ratios
Nat Profit/Gross Sales (2)             19.8    21.0     0.9    12.7    11.0    13.6    14.9    15.0    14.1    14.4    19.6    21.4
Operating Income/Average Amsts in
Service (2)                           20.0    24.7     0.9    14.5    12.7    13.5    16.5    17.5    17.9    18.4    19.1    20.9
Debt Service Coverage (times)           NA      NA     NA        NA     37.4     NA      NA       NA      3.6     3.3      2.1     2.3
Current Retio (tims)                    1.8     1.2     1.1      3.2    15.5    17.4    11.4    10.5      4.0     3.5      5.0     6.6
1n  Term Debt/Equity                 0:100   OtOO   OtlOO   0:100    2:98   18:82   44:56   53:47   55:45   49s51   42:58   33:67
ntduatry Department
March 1987



KUIC - A Sui Mwof Ristorloal  od  rojyd S-       -
Peel
(i *ultpasuls ot    so  ta:sz
-Actual    ltd.                           -.--tJeS5
1983    198    1985   1986   19879M 88    1            190    191    1992    1993   1994
A. Incam Statmnts
Cross Sales Revenue                  70.7   74.6   75.1    77.8  83.3   SS87    94.3  100.7  113.0  127.7  143.5  150.0
Lose: Production Tax                  4.4    5.5    5.7       6.4   3.8    4.1    4.4    4.6    4.8    5.1    5.3    5.5
Veaible                        37.9   39.1   46.7    47.9  50.4   53.6   57.1   60.8    55.0   62.1   69.7   72.8
Fixed cotst                    10.7   10.9   11.7    12.3  18.4   19.1   19.8   20.6   30.5   34.9   31.7   32.5
Coneral Sal. 6 Amin. Sgx.               1-0   .42        1.4    1.9  2        .1       2.3    2.4    3.9    4.0   _4.2
Operating tncoe"                     17.2   18.1    9.8        9.8   8.8    9.9   11.1   12.4   20.3   25.6   32.8   35.0
Lesas Pinea  ial charges              -       -       -        4    0-       0.3    0.2    0 2    61    6.6    6.1    5.5
Not Income             wi   17                          -            VT   VTr  VT  i,er    f  i8   N7   WY
ls8:  LAn A11  ortisa1tion            2.6    2.4    2.2        2.4   0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    4.8    9.2    9.2
Taxes & Otber sattanc          12.7   13.7    5.5        S 4    5.4    5.9    6.1    7.6       7 9    8.0    8.1    8.2
Isservod Ptofits                     -1r    T-u      VT        .7T     1     r.      ET      r        T     rT ;T          rr1
B. Funds Flow StatalntA
Sources of Funds from Operations
Retaind Ftofit                  1.9    2.0    2.1        1.7   2.7    3.3    4.4    4.2    5.9    6.2    9.4   12.1
Depreciatton                    3.6    3.7    3.7        3.9   5.3    5.4    5.5    5.6   10.8   10.8   10.9   11.0
Interet 8xpenses                -       -       -       0.3   0.3    0.3    0.2    0.2    6.1    6.6    6.1    5.5
Other Adjustments               0.2   (0j2)   0.3        1.1   0.3    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    4.8    92           9.2
Internal Casb Onoaation    - .7    5.       7T 70  'Tr   -10 1 T    l-T    VTY    UT    !3 Xi
Sourcos of Funds From Outidas
Ilnl Los                        -       -      -        -      1.0    6.5   23.2   17.8    6.0        -
Dometic Wug Taern               -       -       -       -      -       -      10.7    9.1    6.6       -       -      -
Domestic Short Tew  Loan        1.7    1.9    0.6        1.3  -3.9     -       -       -       -      -       -       _
Bsudgt Allocation              -2 3    -0 6     9.6     -    -         -       -       -       -       -       -
Total Outside Soures    * At '            TET       1.3 -r        6 s      5 :r   w.r   T.        -       -
Applications of Funds:
Invetontn to ed Assts           1.6    1.9   10.7       3.2   1.5   12.2   43.4   31.8    6.4
Principal Repeymnt of Lo"
TOM l                         -       _       -        2.4   0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    4.8    9.2    9.2
interet Es                      -       -      -        0.3   0.3    0.3    0.2    0.2    6.1    6.6    6.1    5.5
Inre"a  in working capital      2.3    0.1    2.1        1.2   0.8    0.8    0.9    0.9    0.7    1.6    1.7    -
Special Fund Ispodtture         2.1    2.6    2.7       2.1   2.2    2.4    2.5    2.7    3.6    2.1    2.1    2.1
Otber Appliction 0s1    0.2    0.2                      0.1   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1
Total Applications         t.    -VT    T5 -T        T    5    2 Td rYy ,.              Tr  ;    Tf       1     16 9
Increaa  in Cas                       1.0    2.0    0.6    -1.0   0.5   -0.3   -3.1          1.2   18.5   13.2   16.4   24.9
C. Balance Sheets
Current Assets
O ah                            1.8    4.0    4.7       4.1   5.1    5.3    2.7    5.0   24.4    9.0   57.5   81.7
Iaventerie                      8.5    8.6   14.8    19.8  13.4   14.3   15.2   16.2   10.6   12.0   13.4   14.0
Receivables                     1.2    1.6    8.0       1.3   6.9    7.3    7.8    8.3    9.3   10.5   11.8   12.3
Total Current Assets    T1   it 2 7       .       W    15.  l3   l;   l9. 44      . 61.  lET 108.
Fixed Assets:
Not  ixed Assa                 65.2   61.0   72.2    51.5  47.2   43.3   39.4   35.5  128.7  119.6  110.6  101.6
Work-in Progres                 5.2    9.2   14.1       4.8   1.5   13.7   57.5   90.4                -       -       -
Ote  Fixed Assets               0.4    0.4    0.6       0.7   0.8    0.9    1.0    1.1    1.2    1.3    1.4    1.5
Total Fixed Assets        7       7VT    iT        570   49.5            VTE 9. 1J7.   1WV   i0"    iT1. 1T0T
current Liabilittes
P Dyable                        4.4    2.7   20.7        8.9   2.5    2.6    2.9    3.0    2.8    3.1    3.5    3.6
Short TrM Loan                  2.0    4.7    5.8       3.9    -       -      -        -       -      _       _       _
Current Portion of L.T. Ion     -       -       -       -      0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    4.8    9.2    9.2    9.3
Total Cugrrnt Llabilitie                                                 -6r    -;r    ?{  lTET    1212.7T  Ml
Loag Term Liailitiess
World  ank Lon                  -       -       -       -      1.0    7.5   30.8   48.5   55.3   49.9   44.5   39.0
Capital Wastructton Lo          -       -       -       4.2   3.4    2.9   13.2   21.9   28.2   25.0   21.8   18.5
Toul L.T. loan             -       -                                     4.4 10.5   4.T   UT 7           T      W 
Equity:
Stet  Fixsd Funds              65.2   61.0   72.2    51.1  47.2   43.3   39.4   35.5   31.7   27.W   23.9   20.0
State Circautig tudo            5.6    6.4    6.4       5.6  13.4   14.3   15.2   16.2   10.6   12.0   13.4   14.0
Specil food ResUv               5.7   12 7    9.9       8.6   7.0   13.7   21.8   30.9   40.9   55.6   78.5  106.7
Total Squity                              970.  l MTlE   WE  71T 73T-2IT -VT lET  ITrE   I
0. Retina
Sot Profit/good Sales (2)            24.3   24.3   13.1    12.7   10.8   11.4   12.1   12.9   13.4   16.0   20.0   21.8
Oerating In /Avsa  Assets in
Swivi, (X)                          23.9   26.0   13.7    14.1  14.6   17.5   20.8   21.1   21.9   23.4   26.3   30.1
Debt SUVA" Coverage (ties)            S/A ll   /A    U/A      2.8  13.7   14.6   17.1   18.7    3.7    2.6    2.5    2.8
Crrt Ratio (tims)                     1.9    2.3    1.1       2.0   8.7    8.8    7.9    8.7    5.9    5.0    6.5    6.4
lon Te  Debt/Dnity                  0OO  0:100  01O0    644  6t94   13t87   36MM    46tS4   50JS0   44:56   36:4  29:71
lustry DOpartn
"rWb 198"7



- 65 -
Anex 7-7
CHINA - flRTILIZ    MAUO_ALIZ M-OM  PSOJtCT
Incremsntal Cossandb"efit St 5         for Ml  Celcalations
(in d lUon of 1987 yu a)
-                                             |R             YCIC
Capital   Vorking   Production    soles         Not          Capital   Votkag   Production        Sales       Net
Costs    Capital  _  Cos         Re          Casb Flow       Costs    Cgitj         Costs       Revenue   Cash Flow
1987            2.6                                           (2.6)           1.0                                           (1.0)
1988           28.2                                          (28.2)          12.3                                          (12.3)
1989           60.6                                          (60.6)          42.1                                          (42.1)
1990           74.4                                          (74.4)          26.5                                          (26.5)
1991           23.2                                          (23.2)           6.9      7.4          7.8         20.8        (1.2)
1992            15.8     23.7          60.2      104.7         5.0                     008         10.3         27.7        16.6
1993                      3.2          71.2       131.0       56.5                     0.8         12.9         34.6        20.9
1994                      3.0          81.5       155.5       71.0                                 l2.9         34.6        21.7
1995                                   81.5      155.5        74.0                                 12.9         34.6        21.7
1996                                   81.5      155.5        74*0                                 12.9         34.6        21.7
1997                                   81.5      155.5        74.0                                 12.9         34.6        21.7
1998                                   81.5      155.5        74.0                                 12.9        34.4         21.7
1999                                   61.5      155.5        74.0                                 12.9         34.6        21.7
2000                                   81.5       155.5       74.0                                 12.9         34.6        21.7
2001                                   81.5      155.5        74.0                                 12.9         34.6        21.7
2002                                   81.5       155.5       74.0           (8.8)    (9.0)        12.9         34.6        39.5
2003           (20.8)   (29.9)         81.5      155.5       124.7
Return on Investment * 19.72                                               Retura  on Investsaent - 15.72
LCPC                                                       XCFC
Capital   Working   Production       Sales      Net          Capital   Ueokiag   Production       Sales      Net
Costs    Capital       Costs       Revenue   Cash Flow       Costs   C0sotal        Costs       Revenue   Cash Flow
1987             1.0                                          (1.0)           1.0      -            -            -           1..0)
1988           12.8                                          (12.8)          11.8      -            -           -          (11.8)
1989           44.6                                          (44.6)          40.6      -            -           -          (40.6)
1990           28.5                                          (28.5)          25.6      -            -            -         (25.6)
1991            7.4       5.7           6.1       20.8         1.6            6.8      2.0          6.1         13.7        (0.9)
1992                      0.8           8.8       27.7        18.1            -         1.0        19.0        20.6         10.7
1993                      0.8          11.5       34.6        22.)            -        1.0         11.8         27.5        14.8
1994                                   11.5       34.6        23.1            -        -           11.8        27.5         15.8
1995                                   11.5       34.6        23.1            -        -           11.8        27.5         15.8
1996                                   11.5       34.6        23.1            -        -           11.8         27.5        15.8
1997                                   11.5       34.6        23.1            -        -           11.8        27.5         15.8
1998                                   11.5       34.6        23.1            -        -           11.8         27.5         15.8
1999                                   11.5       34.6        23.1            -        -           11.8         27.5        15.8
2000                                   11.5       34.6        23.1            -        -           11.8         27.5         15.8
2001                                   11.5        34.6       23.1            -        -           11.8         27.5         15.8
2002            (9.3)    (7.3)         11.5        34.6       39.?           (8.6)    (4.0)        11.8         27.5        28.3
Return on Investment c 16.22                                               Return onalnvestaent *  11.92
MC                                                     Overall Pro act
Capital  Working   Production    Sales          Net          Capital   Vorking   Production       Sale.      Net
Costs    Capital       costs      Rgvenue   Cash Flow        Costs    Canital       Costs       Revenue   Cash Flow
1987             1.0                                          (1.0)           6.6                                           (6.6)
1988            10.2                                         (10.2)          75.3                                          (75.3)
1989           34.6                                          (34.6)         222.5                                         (222.5)
1990           22.3                                          (22.3)         177.2                                         (177.2)
1991            6.1       0.1          (2.3)       5.8         1.9           50.5     14.6         16.6         59.3       (22.4)
1992                      1.2           1.0       12.7        10.5           15.8     27.4         86.1        191.4        60.1
1993                      1.2           4.3        19.5       14.1                     6.9        110.5       245.1        121.7
1994                                    4.3       19.5        15.3                      3.0       120.7       269.7        145.9
1995                                    4.3       19.5        1503                                120.7       269.7        148.9
1996                                    4.3       19.5        15.3                                120*7       269.7        148.9
1997                                    4.3       19.5        15.3                                12007        269.7       148.9
1M98                                    4.3       19.5        15.3                                120.7        269.7       148.9
1999                                    4*3       19.5        15.3                                120.7       269.7        148.9
2000                                    4.3        19.5       15.3                                120.7        269.7       148.9
2001                                    4.3        19.5       15.3                                120.7        269.7       148.9
2002            (7.2)    (2.5)          4.3        19.5       24.9          (34.0)   (22.0)       120*7        269.7       205.0
2003                                                                        (20.8)   (29.9)        61.5        155*5       126.7
Return on Investment a 13.X                                                Return  n looVWtusat   16.72



- 66 -
ANNEX 8-1
Page 1 of 4
CHINA - FERTILIZFR RATIONALIZATInN PROJECT
Assumptions Underlying Economic Analysis
A.   General
1.        The economic rates of return (ERRs) have been calculated on an
incremental basis for the five medium-size fertilizer plants. Prices are
expressed in constant January 1987 1U.S. dollars. The economic life of
plants, both with and without rationalization, is assumed to be 12 years.
Salvage value of new investments is assumed to be 10% of the original value
of fixed assets at the end of the economic life of the project. The
assumptions for production levels of the plants with and without the
Project are presented in Table I of Annex 7-l, The following conversion
factors, which have been provided by Bank economic work, are applied to the
financial prices of non-tradeable goods and services to derive their
economic prices:
Non-tradeable Items                          Conversion Factor
Ulnskilled Labor                                0.25
Technical Labor                                 4.00
Managerial/Administrative Labor                 1.00
Electricity                                     1.50
Rail Transport                                  2.05
Local Machinery                                 1.34
Construction                                    1.08
B.   Capital Cost
2*        The economic capital cost of each subproject expressed in January
1987 prices has been obtained from the financial base capital cost after:
(a) deducting duties and taxes on equipment and other items; (b) deducting
the costs of those spare parts which are to be included in operating
costs; and (c) applying conversion factors to non-tradeable goods and
services for economic valuation.
C.   Working Capital
3.        Incremental economic working capital requirements for each
subproject have been derived by comparing goods and services employed in
process for production with and without rationalization.
D.   Economic Benefits
4.        Economic benefits for the Project come mainly from five major
sources, namely: (a) phosphate fertilizer (DAP) production utilizing
locally available phosphate rock, pyrites, and ammonia which Is currently
used for ABC production; (b) improvement in economic efficiency of
production through conversion of low economic value fertilizers (ABC) to



- 67 -
ANNEX 8-1
Page 2 of 4
high economic value fertilizers (urea, DAP and NPK); (c) expansion of
ammonia production; (d) improvements in the energy efficiency of ammonia
production; and (e) savings in transportation costs of products mainly due
to the higher nutrient content of urea (46% N), PAP (18%N, 46% P205) and
NPK (16% N, 16% P205 and 16% K20) compared with ABC (17% N). Economic
prices of internationally traded products are derived from their latest
projected international prices taking into account marine freight from the
origin of export to China ports, unloading and port handling charges, and
inland rail freight to the plant sites. Marine freights, estimated from
the latest statistics, are assumed to change in line with international
energy costs.
5.        Projections of economic prices for each product are given in
Table 2 of this Annex. Key assumptions are summarized below:
(a) Urea. Bulk urea is imported from Western Europe and bagging is
done in China;
(b) Ammonium Bicarbonate. Since ammonium bicarbonate (ABC) is not
traded in the international market, its economic value is derived
from the economic value of urea, taking into account the relative
nutrient contents (Urea, 46% N; ABC, 17% N) and attributes of the
two products. The economic value of nitrogen from ABC has been
conservatively estimated to be lower by 12.3% than that from
urea, based on the analysis of relative nitrogen losses between
ABC and urea during various stages of transportation, storage,
and application (See Table 1 for details). In addition, ABC has
other qualitative, non-quantifiable, disadvantages such as: (i)
difficulty in handling and application because of its small
particle size (available only in powder form) and accelerated
coking, particularly in using top dressing method; (ii) high
handling and storage cnsts for ABC due to low nitrogen content
and high bag breakage rates; and (iii) unsuitability for bulk
blending because of physical and chemical incompatibility with
other fertilizer compounds;
(c) Di-ammonium Phosphate (DAP). Since China will continue to import
phosphate fertilizers in the foreseeable future, the import
parity price of DAP is derived from imported bagged DAP from
Morocco plus transport cost to the Yunnan area by train; and
(d) NPK (16-16-16). The import parity price of NPK is based upon
imported straight fertilizers such as urea, DAP, and potash
fertilizer using appropriate mixing formula and costs.
6.        Savings in transportation costs are attributed mainly to the
reduction of transportation volumel/ because of higher nitrogen contents
of urea vis-a-vis ABC. Potential savings in terms of transportation
distance of products have not been considered because of measuring
difficulties.
I/   Average transportation distances between each plant and retail outlets
are: (a) 400 km for YXCFC; (b) 895 km for YCFC; (c) 500 km for LCFC;
(d) 727 km for XCFC; and (e) 453 km for BCEC.



- 68 -
ANNEX 8-1
Page 3 of 4
B.   Operating Costs
7.         Tradeable Raw Materials, The economic cost of exportable inputs
has been derived by adding to the netback prices, from exports at the
production sites, the inland transportation costs between the production
sites and the plant sites. The netback value of inputs at the production
sites is calculated by deducting inland freight between the sites and
exporting ports from the FOB export prices. The economic value of major
tradeable inputs based on EPD's price projections are given in Table 3 of
this Annex. Key assumptions are summarized below.
(a) Anthracite and Coke. Anthracite and coke are currently exported
from coal mines in China. The economic costs of anthracite and
coke delivered at the plant sites are derived from the netback
from export prices;
(b) Bituminous Coal. The plants use low quality coal for steam
production. Since this coal is not tradeable, the long-term
marginal production cost is used as its economic value; and
(c) Fuel Oil. Since China is a net exporter of fuel, the economic
value of fuel oil is based on the netback prices received from
exports of fuel oil to Sirgaporeo The international price of
fuel oil is expected to move in line with international crude oil
prices, as currently projected by the Bank.
8.        Other Non-tradeable Items.  The economic value of non-tradeable
inputA is based on their long-term marginal production costs plus inland
trans 'rtation costs adjusted by specific conversion factors. Assumptions
for major non-tradeable inputs are as follows:
(a) Phosphate Rock. Although phosphate rock is actively traded in
the international market, phosphate rock used for the Yunnan
plant is assumed to be non-tradeable since it is not conceivable
that China will export phosphate rocks in the foreseeable future
in light of the country's general shortage of phosphate
fertilizers, which is expected to persist within the next 15
years;
(b) Pyrites. Pyrites are not actively traded in the international
market. Pyrites used for the Yunnan plant cannot be exported
economically because of their grade and the unfavorable location
of their source; and
(c) Utilities, Bagging Materials, and Chemicals. The economic costs
of other non-tradable items including utilities and locally
purchased chemicals are derived from their financial costs by
applying specific conversion factors,
9.        Fixed Costs.  The economic cost of fixed cost elements comprising
labor, maintenance, overhead and selling costs are based on financial costs
adjusted by specific conversion factors,



- 69 -
ANNEX 8-1
Page 4 of 4
F.  Economic Evaluation of the Existing Facilities
10.       The net present of future net benefit streams obtained from
continued operations of the existing facilities over the life of the plant
is compared with their estimated scrap value as follows:
PV vs SV of the Existing Facilities
(in millions of January 1987 US Dollars)
YXCFC    YCFC    LCFC   XCFC    BCEC
A.  Present Value (at 12X)         32.5    34.5    26.9   40.4    45.3
B.  Scrap Value                    12.2     8.1      8.1    8.1    16.2
C. Net Benefits from
continued operations          20.3    26.3    18.8   32.3    29.1
Industry Department
March 1987



- 70 -
ANNEX 8-1
Table 1
CHINA - FERTILIZER RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Relative Nitrogen Losses (%) Retween ARC and Urea
Differential
ARC             I1rea            Assumed
(a)  Prebagging          Neglible if low mois-   None           No difference
evaporation loss   ure content is bagged                  assuming good
immediately after                     practices of
production                            ARC Production
(h)  Loss from hag       4% (recovery is vir-    n.75%             3.25%
breakage            tually impossible)      (initial
loss of 3%
with recoverv
of 75% o0 the
initial loss)
(c)  Volatilization             8%               Negligible        8%
loss from
unbroken bags
during storage
due to decompo-
sition
(d)  Loss after
application
?i)  Rasal
application                                        No difference
(55%)
(ii) Top dressing       75.8%                  66.2%    1% assuming that
(45%)                                              75% of farmers
applying ABC
using top
dressing method
will use
advanced techno-
logva/ in the
future
((75.8 - 66.2)
0.45 x n.25)
(e)  Differential in                                                     12.3%
cumulative losses                                                   -__
a/   No difference after application if ARC is applied bv advanced
technology.
Industry Department
March 1987



CHINA - FP.RTILI.R RATIONALIZATION PRtjtCr
IMPORT PARITY PRICKS OF FItRTILIZVIRS FOR ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(in t9q1  11 dnitsr'  per ton of prnmuct)
tlar1ne Freixht and
Insurance from                                                           Inland Tr. ~Zrt Cost Between 8/
FOS Price  _riin   t                          Unloading    Prokdutet    Rngging I      niJ fInand /             ntnjln- Tlan  TianJ ni   Zhanjang/
Product                   ttrigtn     1991      199S    2t8tk     Tianjtin    7hanhiag       cost        Losses      Cost       Yuanping    Xuanhua       huvang      Beijing      Yunnan
Urea (Btlk)              W. tBurope    192.6    tf1t.2   196.8        35.t         -            5.)          2.5        I5.0          6.8         2.2        8.36         1.5        1.5
ontim Bicarbonate   Not Traded                -        -         -           -            -           -            -           -                  -                       -            -
Dl-Aaonium
Phosphate (DAP)        lbrocco        229.2    249.6   259.2          -          33.0          5.n          4.5        15.0)        -           -           -            _            6.5
NP  bt/                                21S.7    224.6   218.8          -           -            1.4:1        -          15.0          -           -           -            -           1h.5
er_t Parity Prices At
Yuanping     _          _  Xuanhua                      LAoyang    _eiJinj                     __    nce
1991     1995      2000      1991      1995    213tt1)   1991    1995    2000      1991    1995    2001)      9919   1995    20fIJ'
Urea (B aed)                254.9      24S.5    259.1   250.3    238.9   254.5   256.5    245.1  260.7    249.6  238.2   253.87    261.6  250.2   265.K
A,_oniu 81carNinate
(Sagged) ±'                 81.9       8tl.1     5.3    82.4      73.6*   83.8    84.4       80.7   85.8      t2.1   78.4    83.5        86.t   82.3    87.5
Di -Amonitum
Phosphate (DAP)              -          -         -                                                                                      3t3.2  323.6   335.2                                           F
MPK                           -          -         -       -         -        -       -         -      -         -       -       -        248.6  257.5   271.7
a/  Transportation distance by rafI:  Tianjin - Yuanptnr. 70t) kme; Tr.anjIn-Mianhwu, 270 km; TiAJin-Lnoyang,
1.000 km; Tianjin-SeIjint, IStn km; Zbangtiant-Yunnan, 2,000 Km.
b/  Based on iaported straipht fertilit.ers ,slxesi locally.
ct ttiing cost.
d/ Derived frome urea, prie-s by multiplytng their relative nttrngen content ratio (.17t.46) with a 12.37..
discotnt againot amanottun htcarbonate based on the analtyis oaf nttrogen losses dtring transportation, storage, and rppIiration.
Industry Department
narch 1987
IL



CHINA - FERTILIZER REHA5BLITATION PRDJECT
ECONOMIC PRICES FOR TRADEABLE INPUIS
(tn 1987 US dollars per too)
artne Freight and Ioslrance
CIF Destination Prices           to Destination from
Export Destination      1991    1995    2000    Qiobhuagao    TYeulitn   Ebanlang
Anthracite            Far East               -       -       -           -             -
Coke                  Far East               -       -       -           -             -
Fald Oil             Singapore              56.3     65.8   80.2        -            (8.8)       (6.0)
F05 Prices at Exportins Ports
QIakhangdiao              Tlanl in               ZhasViat
199-t  1995   2000    1991    1995    2000    1991   19"5   2000
Anthracite        45.6    50.4   57.6    45.6    50.4    57.6    45.6   50.4   57.6
Coke                -        -      -     50.2    55.4    63.4    50.2   55.4  63.4
Fuel Oil            -        -      -     47.5    57.0    71.4    50.3   59,8   74.2
Ioland Transport Cost from origin to Exporting Ports
Jin Cheng/     Ningxial    Inner Nongolial  Jtaoo/   Betijitg   Xuan Met/    Yunnan/
Qingbangdao   Qinghanadao    oinghbngdao    Tlanjin    TiasjIn   Zhalimang   Zhanliang
Antbractte         12.5          13.3             -             9.3         -          -           -
Coke                -              -            13.3             -         2.0        6.3          -
FuelOtl             -              -             1.3             -         1.3         -         12.7
Intaad Transport Costs frorm Ori4n to Plaets
Jtn Cbang/   IingzLa/    Irner 4ongolta/    Jiaoauo/  LUnru/         Usijingl Xuan 14t1
TYanpiRa     R boa Xnhuuanbua                Luovn       LMoyan     E1na    Yuaonnan
AnthrecLte             2.1       8.3              -                1.7         - 7
Coke                    -         -              8.3               -          0.9       -          8.3
Fael O11                                          -                            - _
Economic Costs of Dellvered Inputs at Plants
YuoapLng                 Xuanhua                   LYOuan Beijing                                  TUnan 
1991    199     20         991    1"5    2000    1991   1"995    2000    1991    195   2000    1991   1995   2000
Anthracite         35.2    40.0    47.2        -       -       -      38.0     42.8     5.0      -        -      -       -      -       -
Coke                -        -      -       45.2    50.4    58.4       -         -       -      48.2   53.4   61.4      50.2  55.4   63.4                           W
Fuel Oil            -        -      -          -       -                -        -       -      46.2   55.7   70.t      37.6  47.1   61.5
Industry Department
March 1987



-73 -
Annex 8-2
CHINA - 18RTILIZUR RATIONALIZAlTON PROJee!
Zacraomutal Cosgt and fenef it Stream for ERR CalulationAs
(in .illton of 1987 US dollars)
YXCFC                                                          YCFC
Capital   Working   Production                    Not         Capital   Working   Production                    Net
Costs    Capital       Costs      sanefits   Cash Flow        Coats    Capital        Costs      Benefits   CashFlov
1987             0.7      -             -           -          (0.7)           0.3       -            -                       (0.3)
1988             9.5      -             -           -          (9.5)           3.8       -            -            _          (3.8)
1989            18.8      -             -           -         (18.8)          13.3       -            -            -         (13.3)
1990            21.8      -             -           -         (21.8)           8.1       -            -            -          (8.1)
1991             6.8      -             -           -          (6.8)           2.1       1.6          2.5         10.1          3.9
1992             4.4      5.9          20.6        3S.1         4.2            -         0.1          3.5         13.3         9.7
1993             -        0.9          25.2        44.8        18.7            -         -            46.5        16.5         12.0
1994             -        0.8          29.5        54.1        23.8            -         -            4.8         16.3         11.5
1995             -        -            29.6        S5.2        25.6            -         -            4.9         16.1         11.2
1996             -        _            29.9        55.5        25.8            -         -            4.9         16.3         11.4
1997             -        -            30.1        55.9        26.0            -         -            5.0         16.5         11.5
1998             -        -            30.3        56.2        26.1            -         -            5.1         16.7         11.6
1999             -        -            30.5        56.6        26.3            -         -            5.1         16.9         11.8
2000             -        -             30.5       56.9        26.4            -         -            5.1         17.1         12.0
2001             -        -             30.5       56.9        26.4            -         -            5.1         17.1         12.0
2002             -        -             30.5        56.9       26.4           (2.8)    (1.7)          5.1         17.1         16.5
2003            (6.0)    (7.6)          30.5       56.9        40.0
Return on Investment - 23.31                                                Return on Investment  *  28.32
L-CIC                                                          XCFC
Capital   Working   Production                    Not         Capital   Working   Production                     Net
Costs    Capital       Costs      Beneflts   Cash nlow        Costs    Capital        Costa      Benefits   Cash Flow
1987             0.3      -             -           -           0.3            0.3       -            -            -           (0.3)
1988             4.0      -             -           -           4.0            3.7       -            -            -           (3.7)
1989            13.8      -             -           -          13.8           12.5       -            -            -          (12.5)
1990             8.7      -             -           -           8.7            7.8       -            -            -           (7.8)
1991             2.2      3.8           2.0         9.6         1.6            2.0       0.4          1.0          5.4          2.0
1992            -         0.1           3.0        12.9         9.8            -         0.2          2.1          8.7          6.4
1993            -         0.1           4.1        16.1        11.9            -         -            3.3         12.0          8.6
1994             -        -             4.3        IS.9        11.6            -         -            3.9        .11.9          7.9
1995             -        -             4.4        15.7        11.3            -         -            3.9         11.8          7.9
1996            -         -             4.4        15.9        11.5            -         -            3.9         11.9          8.0
1997             -        -             4.5        16.1        11.6            -         -            3.9         12.1          8.1
1998             -        -             4.5        16.3        11.8            -         -            4.0         12.2          8.3
1999             -        -             4.6        16.5        11.9            -         -            4.0         12.4         8.4
2000             -        -              4.6        16.7        12.8           -         -            4.0         12.5          8.5
2001             -        -              4.6        16.7       12.1            -         -            4.0         12.5          8.5
2002            (2.9)    (4.0)          4.6        16.7        19.0           (2.6)    (0.6)          4.0         12.5         11.7
Return on lnvestment .  26.22                                               Return on Investment  a  21.3S
8CEC                                                      Overall Project
Capital   Working   Production                   Not          Capital   Working   Production                    not
Costs    Capital       Coats      bDnefits   Cash Flow        Costa    Capital        CoWta     Benefits   Cash Flow
1987             0.3      -             -           -          (0.3)            1.8                                            (1.8)
1988             3.1      -             -           _          (3.1)          24.1                                            (24.1)
1989            10.5      -             -           _         (10.5)          68.9                                           (68.9)
1990             6.6      -             -           _          (6.6)          52.9                                            (52.9)
1991             1.8      -            (1.1)        1.7         0.9           14.9       5.8          2.9         26.7          3.2
1992             -        0.2            0.1        5.0         4.7            4.4       6.5         29.3         75.0         34.7
1993             -        0.2            1.3        8.3         6.8                      1.6         38.3         98.0         58.0
1994             -        -              1.3        8.2         6.9                      1.0         43.8        106.4        61.6
1995             -        -              1.0        8.1         6.8                                  43.9        106.9         62.9
1996             -        -              1.3        8.2         6.9                                  44.2        107.8        63.5
1997             -        -              1.3        8.3         7.0                                  44.5        108.8        64.2
1998             -        -              1.3        8.4         7.1                                  44.8        109.8         64.9
1999             -        -              1.3        S.5         7.2                                  45.1        110.8         65.6
2000             -        -              1.3        8.6          7.3                                 45.4        111.8         66.9
2001             -        -              1.3        8.6         7.3                                  45.4        111.8         66.4
2002            (2.2)    (0.4)           1.3        8.6         9.9          (10.7)    (7.3)         45.4        111.8         84.4
2003                                                                          (6.0)    (7.6)         30.5         56.9         40.0
Retur  on Investment a 20.42                                                Return on Investment  *  24.02
a/   Benefits inelude savings in transport coats of products due to higher nutrient content of urea (462 SO, compared with
ARre 172 N).



7                                                         -  T  I _                   160- _
_.g ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                  ~ \ 70  N0 90  0°°
NJ' ~ ~   ~
|~~~~ V
Tht M A" been mpwod by                           -
?*U wo  "S SW AgR ,v   *
kV t
( dM wd it  \S l     i  .
C-pm*kn~~ebfmo Me                                                                   M  O  N  G  O  L
an~ ~ ~ VWhoZ -W dof n  nV
lio flh. ha b\r 'wue                                                                            _.
W fThe ItbWBa,t* 0  Fle .xcS
S  , *xvm on  t                                       -                       \'                          X-1-
ofo VW Wweo9. or 
b aiwe' or' Te       80eo8eO
OLc, , CD h 2
ary 4vaf en ie lega o                                                        .Sa-kaS
Iored nw.t or aocegfao f          I    N
bandhaes /XW 
FERTILIZER RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
UNDER      TO BE RATIONALIZED
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION  UNDER THE PROJECT 
no                              ~~~~~~~~Large Size Nitrogen PlantsXA
U                      B     ~     ~~~~~~~~ Medium Size Nitrogen Plants
A    A                ~~~~~~~~A Large I Medium Size Phosphate Plants
~ Coal Fields                                 Roads                                                re c
(2    S4 Oil Fields                          Double Gauge Railroads
Q2t,1   Gas Fields-'-  Single Gauge Railroads                                ~''~                    VIETN
(en  dPhosphate Mines                     -Major Ports                                             ' 
~( Pyrite Min'es                                                               5#.LC   EPLECS":1.
International Boundaries          2*        LoMCATIC9
'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~EUs IC '  
TH-AILAND                 N
1000



IBRD 20217R
,  .                         1,                              I
(' .-.                                         2
¢  'O1.j.^ \ i JiW8S. ' ' Q
aanb4Jlor  \S~~~~~S/   5\>    {sh   4 4 *  [      ;'    t  f4As~~~vloiwl ok4n
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T~r kt   u Vlodwfosot o
*11
/ \ / A DEMOCRATIC
RePUB3LtC                    JAPAN
11ohlaot - -SANH/-DzTllUxo rg     4      <. D4noto .<           OF KOREA
5C tdo Bi f? ii,¢ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pronongya. / Tre
oto                                                                                                  ey
\  {  <   4  -0  sg           xJ$O~~~~~~~~~~~alian -,-r 
h                        8ooqnq
KOREA
-ft  U         j>n   , '  /jBng
Zhhngrng0a
F          *       ~~ ~ ~~~                   ~~~~an  'gt
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
@) .    ChonFs  - 2ii  hongf.o   X.ome
tr z St wtL,you20
e  4O                      I )p         7Wno
Nonn, .-bon
PHILiPPINES              KILOMETERS
* ,   -"-7-    '0                                                                                             s0  o 7pA   10D 8
+-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6    6  -.  -.r0
; i                          -                            °   ~~~~~~~         ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES   
5>t   Xsiss^~~~~ 1 ff ~PHUlPPINES
Y     ,t                                         t20°                                             130'
i,                                                                            AA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AY 1987



