Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2838 CHA
(Fertilizer Rationalization Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
YUNNAN XUANWEI CHEMICAL FERTILIZER COMPANY
YUANPING CHEMICAL FERTILIZER COMPANY
LUOYANG CHEMICAL FERTILIZER COMPANY
XUANHUA CHEMICAL FERTILIZER COMPANY
and
BEIJING CHEMICAL EXPERIMENTAL COMPANY
Dated December 28, 1987
LOAN NUMBER 2838 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 28, 1987, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and YUNNAN XUANWEI CHEMICAL FERTILIZER 
COMPANY, YUANPING CHEMICAL FERTILIZER COMPANY, LUOYANG CHEMICAL FERTILIZER COMPANY, 
XUANHUA CHEMICAL FERTILIZER COMPANY and BEIJING CHEMICAL EXPERIMENTAL COMPANY 
(hereinafter called the Companies).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to ninety-seven million 
four hundred thousand dollars ($97,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Companies agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and each of the Companies, part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the 
Loan Agreement will be made available to each of the Companies on the terms and 
conditions therein set forth; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Companies, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in 
this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall 
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to 
this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings 
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Each of the Companies declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out its Part of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and with 
environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank, and shall make adequate and timely 
budgetary provisions for the
implementation of such Part.
Section 2.02. Each of the Companies shall maintain the Project Implementation 
Unit established for the purposes of carrying out such Company's respective part of 
the Project. 
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and employment of engineering firms and consultants required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. Each of the Companies shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and each of the Companies' respective Part of the Project.
Section 2.05. Each of the Companies shall duly perform all its obligations under 
its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
none of the Companies shall take or concur in any action which would have the effect 
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving its Subsidiary Loan Agreement to affect 
the provisions of paragraph (f) of Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) Each of the Companies shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progression of its Part of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Each of the Companies shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its Part of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under its Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07. Each of the Companies shall develop by December 31, 1987 for 
review with the Bank, the training program under its respective Part of the Project 
specified in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and shall thereafter implement, in 
consultation with the Bank, such training program.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Each of the Companies
Page  3
Section 3.01. Each of the Companies shall carry on its operations and conduct 
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Each of the Companies shall at all times operate and maintain its 
plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and administrative practices, and environmental and safety 
standards acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.03. Each of the Companies shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Each of the Companies shall maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations and 
financial condition, including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts 
reflecting all expenditures for its respective Part of the Project.
(b)
Each of the Companies shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) 
and the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial statements 
for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and 
financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals are requested from 
the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, each of the Companies 
shall: 
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
separate records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such separate accounts are included in the annual 
audits referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report thereof contains, in respect of 
such separate accounts, a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
proceeds of 
the Loan withdrawn in respect of such expenditures have been used for 
the purpose for which they were provided.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, none of the 
Companies shall incur any debt, unless the net revenues of such Company for the fiscal 
Page  4
year immediately preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month 
period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be 
at least 1.2 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of such Company for 
any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of the Company, including the debt to be 
incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of such Company maturing by 
its terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of 
payment on the date of such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a 
guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has 
been entered into.
(iii)
The term "net  revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
adjusted to take 
account of the Company's prices in effect at 
the time of the incurrence of 
debt even though they were 
not in effect during the twelve-month period to 
which 
such revenues relate and net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, but excluding 
provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and interest 
and other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred  in  the 
generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, 
debt.
 
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms 
of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation 
shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such 
other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, none of the 
Companies shall incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt 
to equity shall be greater than 75 to 25.
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of such Company maturing by 
its terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a loan contract 
or agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or 
for the modification of its terms of 
payment on  the date of 
such contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a 
Page  5
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has 
been entered into.
(iii)
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, retained 
earnings and reserves of such Company not 
allocated to cover specific liabilities.
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms 
of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation 
shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such 
other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each Company shall 
maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.2.
(b)
Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, each Company shall, on the 
basis of forecasts satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following 
fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its 
completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that such Company would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the fiscal years covered by such review, 
such Company shall promptly take all necessary measures in order to meet such 
requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "current assets" means cash, all assets which could in 
the ordinary course 
of business be converted into cash within 
twelve months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable 
securities, inventories and pre-paid expenses properly 
chargeable to operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
(ii)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could under circumstances then 
existing be called for payment within 
twelve months, including 
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service 
requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(iii)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, 
debt.
 
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms 
of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation 
shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such 
other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.05. Each of the Companies shall prepare and review with the Bank, by 
October 31 of each year, starting October 31, 1987 and ending October 31, 1992, its 
five-year rolling financial plans, including production, marketing and investment 
plans, in the form of projected financial statements.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Page  6
Section 5.O2. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the 
Companies thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify each of the 
Companies thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such 
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For YXCFC:
Yunnan Xuanwei Chemical Fertilizer Company
Xuanwei County, Yunnan Province
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
8644
Xuanwei, Yunnan
China
For YCFC:
Yuanping Chemical Fertilizer Company
Yuanping County, Shanxi Province
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
0053
Yuanping, Shanxi
China
For LCFC:
Luoyang Chemical Fertilizer Company
Yiyang, Henan Province
People's Republic of China
Page  7
Cable address:
0553
Yiyang, Henan
China
For XCFC:
Xuanhua Chemical Fertilizer Company
Xuanhua District, Zhangjiakou, Hebei Province
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
8003
Xuanhua, Hebei
China
For BCEC:
Beijing Chemical Experimental Company
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
7653
Beijing
China
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of any of the 
Companies may be taken or executed by the General Manager of such Company or such 
other person or persons as such General Manager shall designate in writing, and such 
General Manager shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Bilsel Alisbah
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia
YUNNAN XUANWEI CHEMICAL FERTILIZER COMPANY
YUANPING CHEMICAL FERTILIZER COMPANY
LUOYANG CHEMICAL FERTILIZER COMPANY
XUANHUA CHEMICAL FERTILIZER COMPANY
BEIJING CHEMICAL EXPERIMENTAL COMPANY
Page  8
By /s/ Han Xu
Authorized Representative
