Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2838 CHA
(Fertilizer Rationalization Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 28, 1987
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 28, 1987, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by Yunnan Xuanwei Chemical 
Fertilizer Company (hereinafter called YXCFC) with the Borrower's assistance, and as 
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to YXCFC part of the 
proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(C)
Part B of the Project will be carried out by Yuanping Chemical Fertilizer 
Company (hereinafter called YCFC), Luoyang Chemical Fertilizer Company (hereinafter 
called LCFC), Xuanhua Chemical Fertilizer Company (hereinafter called XCFC), and 
Beijing Chemical Experimental Company (hereinafter called BCEC), with the Borrower's 
assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to each 
of YCFC, LCFC, XCFC and BCEC part of the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Whenever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"MCI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Chemical Industry or any successor 
thereto; 
(b)
"YXCFC" means Yunnan Xuanwei Chemical Fertilizer Company, a state-owned 
enterprise of the Borrower established and operating pursuant to its Charter;
(c)
"YCFC" means Yuanping Chemical Fertilizer Company, a state-owned 
enterprise of the Borrower established and operating pursuant to its Charter;
(d)
"LCFC" means Luoyang Chemical Fertilizer Company, a state-owned 
enterprise of the Borrower established and operating pursuant to its Charter;
(e)
"XCFC" means Xuanhua Chemical Fertilizer Company, a state-owned 
enterprise of the Borrower established and operating pursuant to its Charter;
(f)
"BCEC" means Beijing Chemical Experimental Company, a state-owned 
enterprise of the Borrower established and operating pursuant to its Charter;
(g)
"Companies" means YXCFC, YCFC, LCFC, XCFC, and BCEC and "Company" means 
any of the Companies; 
(h)
"Charter" means the YXCFC Charter, the YCFC Charter, the LCFC Charter, 
the XCFC Charter and the BCEC Charter dated December 27, 1986, December 30, 1986, 
November 18, 1986, November 19, 1986 and November 17, 1986, respectively; 
(i)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the 
Companies of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(j)
"YXCFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and YXCFC, pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
YXCFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(k)
"YCFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and YCFC pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
YCFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(l)
"LCFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and LCFC pursuant to Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
LCFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(m)
"XCFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and XCFC pursuant to Section 3.02 (d) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
XCFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(n)
"BCEC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and BCEC pursuant to Section 3.02 (e) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
BCEC Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
Page  3
(o)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the YXCFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement, 
the YCFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the LCFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the XCFC 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the BCEC Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(p)
"BICEM" means Beijing Institute for Chemical Engineering and Management, 
established and operating under the supervision of MCI;
(q)
"Special Account" means the account to be opened and thereafter 
maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(r)
"tpd" means metric tons per day; and 
 
(s)
"tpy" means metric tons per year. 
 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to ninety-seven million four hundred thousand dollars 
($97,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars, a special account in a bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is  signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of the 
Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as a 
percentage per annum, as 
reasonably determined by the Bank.
 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
Page  4
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Part C of the Project through MCI with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under 
the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cause each of the Companies to perform all its 
obligations set forth in the Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable each of the Companies to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the equivalent of forty-two million 
three hundred thousand dollars ($42,300,000) out of the proceeds of the Loan to YXCFC 
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and YXCFC 
under the terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which 
shall include, inter alia, those specified in paragraph (f) of this Section.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the equivalent of thirteen million eight 
hundred thousand dollars ($13,800,000) out of the proceeds of the Loan to YCFC under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and YCFC under the 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall 
include, inter alia, those specified in paragraph (f) of this Section.
(c)
The Borrower shall relend the equivalent of fourteen million dollars 
($14,000,000) out of the proceeds of the Loan to LCFC under a subsidiary loan 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and LCFC under the terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall include, inter 
alia, those specified in paragraph (f) of this Section.
(d)
The Borrower shall relend the equivalent of thirteen million four hundred 
thousand dollars ($13,400,000) out of the proceeds of the Loan to XCFC under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and XCFC under the 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall 
include, inter alia, those specified in paragraph (f) of this Section.
(e)
The Borrower shall relend the equivalent of twelve million six hundred 
thousand dollars ($12,600,000) out of the proceeds of the Loan to BCEC under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and BCEC under the 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall 
include, inter alia, those specified in paragraph (f) of this Section.
(f)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the relending terms and 
conditions between the Borrower and the Companies shall, inter alia, include: (i) 
interest rate of 7.92% per annum; (ii) commitment charge calculated in accordance with 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement; (iii) repayment period of 15 years, including a grace 
period of five years; and (iv) each of the Companies shall bear the foreign exchange 
risk for its subsidiary loan.
(g)
In addition to proceeds of the Loan relent to the Companies pursuant to 
Section 3.02 (a) through (f) above, the Borrower shall relend to each Company under 
the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement the equivalent of ninety thousand dollars 
($90,000) for consultants' services under Part C (i) of the Project, on the following 
terms and conditions: (i) service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent 
(3/4 of 1%) per annum; (ii) commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum; (iii) repayment period of 15 years, including grace 
period of 5 years; and (iv) the Company shall bear the foreign exchange risk.
Page  5
(h)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements to affect the provisions of paragraph (f) above.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain the Project Coordination Unit 
established within MCI to coordinate implementation of the Project, with staff and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and employment of engineering firms and consultants required for the Project, to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports and 
maintenance, respectively) in respect of Parts A and B of the Project, shall be 
carried out by each of the Companies pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall allow the Companies to sell their entire output 
of fertilizer outside the state allocation plan, at market-related prices.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall carry out the management efficiency study under 
Part C (i) of the Project in accordance with terms of referrence agreed with the Bank, 
and shall complete and review such study with the Bank not later than June 30, 1989.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall carry out the program for strengthening BICEM 
under Part C (ii) of the Project in accordance with the scope agreed with the Bank, 
and shall complete such program not later than December 31, 1990.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part C of the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including the Special Account, for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
accounts and the audit 
thereof and said reports as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
Page  6
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such separate accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report thereof contains, in respect of 
such separate accounts, a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
proceeds of 
the Loan withdrawn in respect of such expenditures have been used for 
the purpose for which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
any of the Companies shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that any of the Companies will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement; 
(c)
any of the Charters shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
respective Company to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement; and
(d)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any of the Companies or for the 
suspension of any of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and the respective Company; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower's State Council has approved the Loan Agreement; and
 
(b)
each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and the respective Company.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, executed 
and delivered on behalf of each of the Companies, and is legally binding upon each of 
the Companies in accordance with its terms; and
Page  7
(b)
each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and the respective Company, and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and such Company in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Han Xu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Bilsel Alisbah
Page  8
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
Parts A and B of the Project
(1)  Equipment and              75,000,000      100% of foreign
     materials                                  expenditures, and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory)
(2)  Engineering,                9,300,000      100% of foreign
     licensing and                              expenditures
     technical
     services
(3)  Overseas visits             1,000,000      100%
     by local staff
(4)  Overseas                    1,200,000      100%
     training
(5)  Unallocated                 9,600,000
Part C of the Project
(6)  Equipment and                 420,000      100% of foreign
     materials                                  expenditures, and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory)
(7)  Consultants'                  450,000      100%
     services for
     Part C (i)
(8)  Consultants'                  430,000      100%
     services and
     overseas
     training for
     Part C (ii)
           TOTAL               97,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
Page  9
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$2,100,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2) and (3) on account of payments 
made for expenditures  before that date but after February 1, 1987.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are (a) improvement in production efficiency of 
existing medium-size plants through technical renovation and energy saving measures; 
(b) reduction of nutrient imbalances through capacity expansion of phosphate 
fertilizers; and (c) improvement of institutional efficiency of the fertilizer sector 
through the introduction of modern economic, financial and operational systems and 
techniques.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Phosphate Fertilizer Development
 
(i)
installation of a 200,000 tpy pyrites-based sulfuric acid plant, 
an 80,000 tpy P2O5 
phosphoric acid plant with a 4,200 tpy fluoride 
processing capacity, and a 240,000 
tpy DAP/NPK granulation plant;
 
(ii)
establishment of utilities and offsites including raw material 
handling and storage 
facilities and a site for phosphogypsum 
disposal;
(iii)
implementation of energy saving measures in the existing 
coal-based ammonia plant;
(iv)
overseas and local training for operations and technical staff; 
and
(v)
overseas visits by local staff in relation to Project 
implementation.
Part B:
Nitrogenous Fertilizer Rationalization and Expansion
 
(i)
provision of energy saving modifications in existing coal-based 
ammonia plants;
(ii)
expansion of ammonia capacities to 80,000 tpy; 
 
(iii)
installation of a 132,000 tpy (400 tpd) urea plant, based on most 
appropriate 
current international technology;
 
(iv)
installation of all utilities/off-sites required for smooth plant 
operation, 
including storage facilities for 800 m3 of ammonia 
and 3,000 tons of bagged urea;
(v)
training in operations and maintenance; and
 
(vi)
overseas visits by local staff in relation to Project 
implementation.
Part C:
Institutional Development
 
(i)
carrying out a management efficiency study to design improved 
management systems 
for the Companies, and implement such systems 
for BCEC and YXCFC on a pilot basis; 
and
 
(ii)
carrying out a program to strengthen the quality of training at 
BICEM through 
curriculum restructuring, overseas training of 
Page  10
teaching staff, and provision of 
consultants' services and 
equipment.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                       (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
     beginning March 15, 1993
     through   March 15, 2007                     3,245,000
On September 15, 2007                             3,295,000
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The interest rate (ex-
                                         pressed as a percentage
                                         per annum) applicable to
                                         the balance outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
Page  11
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                          1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference 
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Equipment for which there are only limited number of suppliers, as determined by 
the Bank, estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than $500,000 per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $9,500,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the basis 
of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of qualified suppliers, to be 
agreed with the Bank, eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 
2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than 
$250,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$8,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations solicited from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Proprietary items estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount of $5,300,000 
equivalent may be purchased directly under negotiated contracts in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of more 
than $750,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank, pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d), shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
Page  12
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the 
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of the Loan Agreement and Section 4.01 (c) (ii) 
of the Project Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ 
engineering firms and consultants, whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), 
(7) and (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $4 million 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the basis of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with 
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Page  13
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such 
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such 
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either of the 
following situations first arises:
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the 
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, 
minus the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall 
be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
