Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3345-1-TU
Loan Assumption Agreement
(TEK Restructuring Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
TURKIYE ELEKTRIK DAGITIM A.S.
Dated July 5, 1995
LOAN NUMBER 3345-1-TU
LOAN ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 5, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and TURKIYE ELEKTRIK DAGITIM A.S. (the Borrower or TEDAS).
WHEREAS (A) by a loan agreement between the Bank and Turkiye Elektrik Kurumu 
(TEK), dated September 13, 1991 (the Loan Agreement), the Bank made a loan (the TEK 
Loan) to TEK in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $300,000,000 on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement;
(B)
by a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Turkey (the Guarantor) 
and the Bank, dated September 13, 1991 (the Guarantee Agreement) the Guarantor 
guaranteed all the obligations of TEK contained or referred to in the Loan Agreement 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement;
(C)
by Decree No. 93/4789 of the Guarantor, Turkiye Elektrik Iletim Ve Uretim 
A.S. (TEAS) and the Borrower were created and TEAS assumed TEK's functions, assets and 
liabilities relating to power generation and transmission and the Borrower assumed 
TEK's functions, assets and liabilities
relating to power distribution;
(D)
TEAS has agreed to assume a portion of the TEK Loan in the amount of 
Page  2
$260,000,000 equivalent, of which an amount of about $80,000,000 equivalent was 
disbursed and outstanding as
of November 20, 1994;
(E)
the Borrower has agreed to assume a portion of the TEK Loan in an amount 
of $40,000,000 equivalent;
(F)
the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Loan Assumption Agreement, has requested 
the Bank to agree to the undertaking by the Borrower of the obligations in respect of 
the Loan as provided in this Loan Assumption Agreement;
(G)
the Bank has agreed to the request of the Borrower;
 
(H)
this Loan Assumption Agreement and the Loan Assumption Agreement of even 
date herewith between the Bank and TEAS supersede the Loan Agreement;
(I)
by an amended guarantee agreement between the Guarantor and the Bank of 
even date herewith (the Amended Guarantee Agreement) the Guarantor guaranteed all 
obligations of the Borrower contained or referred to in this Loan Assumption Agreement 
on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Amended Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to enter 
into this Loan Assumption Agreement on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Loan Assumption Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(b)
"CPP" means the Corporate Performance Plan referred to in Section 3.02 
(a) of this Agreement;
(c)
"FMIP" means the Financial Management Improvement Program referred to in 
Part B (1) (c) of the Project;
(d)
"OMIP" means the Operational Management Improvement Program referred to 
in Part B (1) (b) of the Project;
(e)
"MIS" means the Borrower's Management Information System referred to in 
Part B (1) (d) of the Project;
(f)
"DSI" means Devlet Su Isleri, the hydraulic works agency of the 
Guarantor;
Page  3
(g)
"Program" means Turkey's least cost Investment Program for the power 
sub-sector;
(h)
"Lira" means the currency of the Guarantor; 
 
(i)
"Decree No. 93/4789 of the Guarantor" means the Law pursuant to where the 
Borrower was established and is operating; and
(j)
"Energy Sales Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 
(c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Borrower agrees to assume a portion of the TEK Loan in the 
amount of forty million dollars ($40,000,000) equivalent in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of forty million dollars 
($40,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank or in the Central Bank of the 
Guarantor on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined 
in respect of such Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed. 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
Page  4
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of 
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower 
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount 
outstanding 
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable 
during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect 
of such Quarter."
 
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, engineering and public utility practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
said Part A of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall enter into an energy sales agreement with TEAS, on the 
basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the energy 
purchase and sales arrangements between the Borrower and TEAS.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (a) prepare, following an exchange of views 
with the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, by October 31 in each year, a Corporate 
Performance Plan (CPP) for the following fiscal year of the Borrower, which shall set 
forth, in a manner consistent with the Borrower's obligations under the Loan 
Agreement: (i) the physical targets for the Borrower, including the components of the 
Program to be carried out during the concerned fiscal year and the
investments under such components to be financed from the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) 
the financial targets for the Borrower, including a financial projection showing 
whether the Borrower would comply with its obligations under Section 5.02 (a) of this 
Agreement, the measures for financial restructuring and the actions to be taken 
towards implementation of the FMIP, (iii) the operational and commercialization 
targets for the Borrower, including actions to be taken towards  implementation of the 
OMIP, and (iv) the Borrower's levels of services, borrowing needs, financing plan and 
Page  5
tariff levels and structures;
(b)
obtain the Guarantor's approval of the CPP and of the actions required 
thereunder, and furnish to the Bank the final version of each CPP prior to the start 
of the year covered by
it; and
(c)
exchange views regularly with the Bank with respect to progress in the 
carrying out of the CPPs.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of 
Part A of the Project;
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Bank's comments 
thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and public 
utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate  numbers.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and public utility practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall not, without the consent of the Bank, sell, 
lease, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any of its properties or assets which shall 
be required for the
efficient carrying out of its business and undertakings, including the carrying out of 
Part A of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
Page  6
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited; and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
(i) produce, for each of its fiscal years, funds from internal sources equivalent to 
not less than 35% for the fiscal year 1995 and in each succeeding fiscal year of the 
average of the Borrower's capital expenditures during the fiscal year concerned; (ii) 
maintain, beginning with the fiscal year 1995, a ratio of current assets to current 
liabilities of not less than 1.0; and (iii) ensure that the
estimated net revenues of the Borrower shall be at least 1.5 times in 1995 and each 
succeeding fiscal year, the estimated maximum debt service requirements of the 
Borrower for any such fiscal year on all debt of the Borrower.
(b)
If any projection referred to in Section 3.02 (a) (ii) of this Agreement 
shows that the Borrower would not meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for 
the Borrower's fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take 
all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or 
levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements. 
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 
consumer 
deposits and consumer contributions in aid of 
construction, net 
non-operating income and any reduction 
in working capital other than 
cash; and
 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes (excluding provision for 
depreciation and other non-cash 
operating charges and 
Page  7
income taxes), debt service requirements, all 
cash 
dividends and other cash outflows other than capital expenditures, 
increase in working capital other than cash and any payments made by 
the Borrower to the Guarantor's Public Participation Administration for 
hydro generation. 
(ii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(iii)
The term "working capital other than cash" means the difference 
between 
current assets excluding cash and current liabilities 
at the end of each 
fiscal year.
 
(iv)
The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other 
than cash 
which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within 
twelve months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories and prepaid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses 
within the 
next fiscal year.
(v)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could under circumstances then existing be 
called for payment 
within twelve months, including accounts 
payable, customer advances, debt 
service requirements, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(vi)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
 
(vii)
The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures incurred on 
account of 
fixed assets, including interest charged to construction, 
related to 
operations, averaged over a three-year period 
covering the year concerned and 
the year preceding and the year 
succeeding such year.
(viii) The term "current assets" means cash, all assets which could in 
the ordinary 
course of business be converted into cash within twelve 
months, including 
accounts receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories and prepaid expenses 
properly chargeable to operating 
expenses within the next fiscal year.
(ix)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by 
its terms 
more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(x)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
adjusted to 
take account of the Borrower's tariffs in effect at 
the time of the 
incurrence of debt even though they were 
not in effect during the 
twelve-month period to which such 
revenues relate and net non-operating 
income; and
 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes, but excluding provision 
for depreciation, other non-cash 
operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt.
(xi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
Page  8
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall take all action required on its part to ensure 
that the outstanding amounts in the Borrower's accounts receivable will represent, on 
average no more than the equivalent of two months' billing thereafter.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
that Law No. 233 or Decree No. 93/4789 of the Guarantor or the Bylaws of 
the Borrower governing the Borrower's activities, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement, shall have been further amended, or suspended, or abrogated, or repealed, 
or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of the 
Borrower to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in this 
Agreement; and
(b)
that the Energy Sales Agreement between the Borrower and TEAS, as amended 
to the date of this Agreement, shall have been further amended, or suspended, or 
abrogated, or repealed, or waived in such a way, as to materially and adversely affect 
the ability of the Borrower to carry out the covenant agreements and obligations set 
forth in this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date
Section 7.01. (a) This Loan Assumption Agreement shall become effective on the 
date upon which the Bank dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of 
evidence that:
(i)
the execution and delivery of this Loan Assumption Agreement on 
behalf of the 
Borrower has been duly authorized or ratified by all 
necessary governmental 
and corporate action;
 
(ii)
the Energy Sales Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and 
TEAS with terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank;
(iii)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the TEAS Loan 
Assumption 
Agreement and the Amended Guarantee Agreement have 
been fulfilled, other than 
those related to the effectiveness of 
this Loan Assumption Agreement; and
(iv)
the Borrower has furnished to the Bank the Borrower's CPP, 
approved by the 
Guarantor, for the 1995 calendar year.
 
(b)
As part of such evidence, there shall be furnished to the Bank an opinion 
satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank showing, on behalf of the 
Borrower, that
this Loan Assumption Agreement and the Energy Sales Agreement have been duly 
authorized or ratified and executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and are 
legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with their terms.
Section 7.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  9
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The General Manager of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For the Borrower:
Turkiye Elektrik Dagitim A.S.
Genel Mudurlugu
Inonu Bulvari, No. 27
Bahcelievler
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:
Telex:
 
TEK
42247 TEK TR
Ankara
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Rachel Lomax
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
TURKIYE ELEKTRIK DAGITIM A.S.
By /s/ Mahfi Egilmez
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Page  10
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated              % of
                            (Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Goods (including          35,000,000            (a) 100% of
    associated works                                foreign expendi-
    and services)                                   tures and 100%
    under Part A of                                 of local ex-
    the Project                                     penditures (ex-
                                                    factory cost)
                                                    with respect to
                                                    contracts for
                                                    goods only; and
                                                    (b) 85% with
                                                    respect to turn-
                                                    key contracts,
                                                    providing for the
                                                    supply of goods
                                                    in addition to
                                                    associated works
                                                    and services
(2) Consultants'               3,000,000            100%
    services under
    Part A of the
    Project
(3) Unallocated                2,000,000
                              __________
        TOTAL                 40,000,000
                              ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payments under any contract to be financed under Category (1) 
unless such contract is required for the carrying out of an investment included in a 
CPP which has been approved pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist in the carrying out of the Program and 
the corporate restructuring and privatization of the Borrower (TEDAS) and TEAS.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Page  11
Part A:
TEAS Component
 
(1)
Restructuring of TEAS
 
The carrying out of measures for the restructuring and privatization of TEAS, 
including:
(a)
The preparation and implementation of a policy for electricity pricing by 
TEAS, providing for the setting and adjustments of tariff levels on the basis of the 
economic cost of electricity supply under the Program.
(b)
The implementation by TEAS of an Operational Management Improvement 
Program (OMIP), including the establishment of a proper costing basis and a modern 
cost accounting system, formulation of basis for the tariff system, implementation of 
measures for optimal utilization by TEAS of hydro and thermal generation plants and 
for recovery of its fuel costs, identification of efficiency levels and the potential 
for efficiency improvements in all areas of TEAS' operations, and the establishment of 
commercially-oriented cost centers for each of TEAS' generation plants and for its 
general management organization and transmission system.
(c)
The implementation by TEAS of a Financial Management Improvement Program 
(FMIP), including the remodeling of its accounting policies and practices, recasting 
of its financial position in accordance therewith and improving its billing and 
collection practices.
(d)
The formulation and implementation by TEAS of a management information 
system (MIS).
(e)
The restructuring of TEAS' capital and debt, through infusion of equity 
and modification of the terms of debt.
(f)
The privatization of selected portions of TEAS' infrastructure.
 
(g)
The maintenance within TEAS of a Department for the Environment to be 
responsible for the preparation of environmental assessments of all major power 
investments, coordination and monitoring of environmental policies and standards, 
evaluation of environmental technologies and
training of staff of TEAS on aspects related thereto.
(2)
Power Investments by TEAS
 
The provision, as projected in the CPPs, of equipment, material and services 
required for power generation and transmission under the Program, including 
transmission lines, substations, generation equipment and spares.
Part B:
TEDAS Component
 
(1)
Restructuring of TEDAS
 
The carrying out of measures for the restructuring and privatization of TEDAS, 
including:
(a)
The preparation and implementation of a policy for electricity pricing by 
TEDAS, providing for the setting and adjustments of tariff levels on the basis of the 
economic cost of electricity supply under the Program and the agreed financial 
covenants for TEDAS under Article V of this Agreement.
(b)
The implementation by TEDAS of an Operational Management Improvement 
Program (OMIP), including the establishment of a proper costing basis and a modern 
cost accounting system, formulation of basis for the tariff system, identification of 
efficiency levels and the potential for efficiency improvements in all areas of TEDAS' 
operations, and the establishment of commercially-oriented cost centers for each of 
the distribution enterprises and for its general
management organization.
(c)
The implementation by TEDAS of a Financial Management Improvement Program 
(FMIP), including the remodeling of its accounting policies and practices, recasting 
Page  12
of its financial position in accordance therewith and improving its billing and 
collection practices.
(d)
The formulation and implementation by TEDAS of a management information 
system.
(e)
The restructuring of TEDAS' capital and debt, through infusion of equity 
and modification of the terms of debt.
(f)
The privatization of selected portions of TEDAS' infrastructure.
 
(g)
The establishment within TEDAS of a Department for the Environment to be 
responsible for the preparation of environmental assessments of all major power 
investments, coordination and monitoring of environmental policies and standards, 
evaluation of environmental technologies and
training of staff of TEDAS on aspects related thereto.
(2)
Power Investments by TEDAS
 
The provision, as projected in the CPPs, of equipment and materials required for 
power distribution under the Program, including distribution lines, substations, 
distribution equipment and spares.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                               Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
    beginning November 15, 1996
    through   November 15, 2007                     1,665,000
and on May 15, 2008                                 1,705,000
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the dollar equivalent determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                        The interest rate (expressed
                                        as a percentage per annum)
                                        applicable to the Loan on the
Page  13
                                        day of prepayment multiplied
                                        by:
Not more than three years                           0.18
    before maturity
More than three years but                           0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                             0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                          0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
More than 15 years before                           1.00
    maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I:
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the following 
additional procedures:
(a)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete 
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The 
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the 
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to 
reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. 
Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid 
evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior review in 
accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 of this Section, the Bank's prior approval 
will be required for (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period of 
extension exceeds sixty (60) days, and (ii) any subsequent extension of the bid 
validity period.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes 
of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally 
recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Turkey may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Spare parts estimated in the aggregate to cost the equivalent of not more than 
$670,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison price 
Page  14
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from three member countries eligible 
under the Guidelines in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part A of the Project, the 
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the 
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The 
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant 
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such 
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' 
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the 
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply 
to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising 
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 
equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall take all action required on its part to ensure: (a) the 
preparation and implementation, by December 31, 1995, of the electricity pricing 
policy referred to in Part A (1) (a) of the Project; and (b) until such policy is 
Page  15
implemented, the maintenance of electricity prices to final consumers, net of all 
payable taxes and levies, at a minimum average equivalent to $.06 for each Kwh of 
electricity sold.
2.
The Borrower shall ensure the development of the costing basis for tariffs 
required for the carrying out of Part A (1) (a) of the Project, by December 31, 1995.
3.
The Borrower shall ensure the implementation, with the assistance of advisers to 
be employed in accordance with time schedules satisfactory to the Bank, of resources 
included in the FMIP and the MIS by December 31, 1995 and December 31, 1996, 
respectively.
4.
The Borrower shall: (a) implement the recommendations of its ongoing 
environmental review of proposed distribution systems investments in the course of the 
design and construction thereof; and (b) establish and adequately staff, by December 
1, 1995, the Environmental Department referred to in Part A (7) of the Project.
5.
The investments included in the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, shall be selected by the agreement of the Borrower and the Bank and shall 
be incorporated in the CPP for the year concerned, together with the corresponding 
financial plans.
6.
The Borrower shall: (a) appoint, under a time schedule satisfactory to the Bank, 
an adequately staffed committee under its Assistant General Manager to oversee the 
implementation of
the Project, and a Project Manager to be responsible for the technical and 
administrative functions under Part A of the Project and for coordinating the 
procurement of goods thereunder; and (b) cause such committee, in particular, to 
monitor the implementation of obligations and achievement of
targets set forth in the CPPs.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories (1) and (2) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,800,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,400,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $8,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  16
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account  shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the
Page  17
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
