Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3345 TU
(TEK Restructuring Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
TURKIYE ELEKTRIK KURUMU
Dated September 13, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3345 TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 13, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and TURKIYE ELEKTRIK KURMUMU 
(the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) Republic of Turkey (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date 
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to 
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to 
undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; 
and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as 
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under 
which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with 
the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of 
Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to Section 2.02 
(b) of this Agreement;
(b)
"CPP" means the Corporate Performance Plan referred to in 
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(c)
"FMIP" means the Financial Management Improvement Program, 
referred to in Part A (3) of the Project;
(d)
"OMIP" means the Operational Management Improvement Program, 
referred to in Part A (2) of the Project;
(e)
"MIS" means the Borrower's Management Information System, 
referred to in Part A (4) of the Project;
(f)
"DSI" means Devlet Su Isleri, the hydraulic works agency of 
the Guarantor;
(g)
"Program" means Turkey's least cost Investment Program for 
the power sub-sector; and
(h)
"Lira" means the currency of the Guarantor.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agree-ment, various 
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of 
three hundred million dollars ($300,000,000), being the sum of 
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by 
the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
Page  3
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open 
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank or 
in the Central Bank of the Guarantor on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including, should the special account be opened in a 
commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such later 
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the 
Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal 
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at 
the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the 
Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on 
the date immediately 
preceding each date 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
     (ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as 
reasonably determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such 
borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph 
(a) of this Section.
          (iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second 
six months of a calendar 
year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six 
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this 
Section shall be amended to read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a 
rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified  Borrowings 
determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one 
percent (1/2  of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Page  4
Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, 
the Bank shall notify 
the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of 
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of  such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing 
on January 1, April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, engineering and 
public utility practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (a) prepare, following an 
exchange of views with the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, by October 31 
in each year, a Corporate Performance Plan (CPP) for the following fiscal 
year of the Borrower, which shall set forth, in a manner consistent with 
the Borrower's obligations under the Loan Agreement: (i) the physical 
targets for the Borrower, including the components of the Program to be 
carried out during the concerned fiscal year and the investments under 
such components to be financed from the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the 
financial targets for the Borrower, including a financial projection 
showing whether the Borrower would comply with its obligations under 
Section 5.02 (a) of this Agreement, the measures for financial 
restructuring and the actions to be taken towards implementation of the 
FMIP, (iii) the operational and commercialization targets for the 
Borrower, including actions to be taken towards implementation of the 
OMIP, and (iv) the Borrower's levels of services, borrowing needs, 
financing plan and tariff levels and structures;
(b)
obtain the Guarantor's approval of the CPP and of the 
actions required thereunder, and furnish to the Bank the final version of 
each CPP prior to the start of the year covered by it; and
(c)
exchange views regularly with the Bank with respect to 
progress in the carrying out of the CPPs.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out its operations and 
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, 
Page  5
engineering and public utility practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain 
its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to 
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals 
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and public 
utility practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank 
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be 
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall not, without the consent of the 
Guarantor and the Bank, sell, lease, transfer, or otherwise dispose of 
any of its properties or assets which shall be required for the efficient 
carrying out of its business and undertakings, including the carrying out 
of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its 
operations and financial condition.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
months after the end of each such 
year (A) certified copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited; and (B) the report of such audit 
by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
    (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records, accounts 
and financial statements as well 
as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
     (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
    (iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such 
records; and
Page  6
     (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall (i) produce, for each of its fiscal years, funds from 
internal sources equivalent to not less than 10% for the fiscal year 
1992, 25% in the fiscal year 1993, 30% in the fiscal year 1994 and 35% in 
each succeeding fiscal year of the average of the Borrower's capital 
expenditures during the fiscal year concerned; (ii) maintain, beginning 
with the fiscal year 1993, a ratio of current assets to current 
liabilities of not less than 1.0; and (iii) ensure that the estimated net 
revenues of the Borrower shall be at least 1.1 times in the fiscal year 
1992 and at least 1.5 times in each succeeding fiscal year, the estimated 
maximum debt service requirements of the Borrower for any such fiscal 
year on all debt of the Borrower.
(b)
If any projection referred to in Section 3.02 (a) (ii) of 
this Agreement shows that the Borrower would not meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower-'s fiscal years covered by 
such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures 
(including, without limita-tion, adjustments of the structure or levels 
of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "funds from internal sources" means the 
difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations, consumer 
deposits and consumer 
contributions in aid of construction, net 
non-operating income and any reduction in working capital 
other than 
cash; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, 
including administration, 
adequate 
maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes (excluding provision for depreciation and other non-cash 
operating charges and income taxes), 
debt service requirements, all 
cash 
dividends and other cash outflows other than capital expenditures, 
increase in working capital other than cash and 
payments made by the 
Borrower to the Borrower's 
Public Participation Administration for 
hydro generation.
     (ii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the 
difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those 
related to operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu 
of taxes, incurred in 
the generation of reve-nues 
in (A) above.
    (iii)
The term "working capital other than cash" means the 
difference between 
current assets excluding cash and 
current liabilities at the end of each 
fiscal 
year.
Page  7
     (iv)
The term "current assets excluding cash" means all 
assets other than cash 
which could in the ordinary 
course of business be converted into cash within 
twelve months, including accounts receivable, marketable 
securities, 
inventories and prepaid expenses 
properly chargeable to operating expenses 
within the next fiscal year.
(v)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabili-ties 
which will become due 
and payable or could under 
circumstances then existing be called for payment 
within twelve months, including accounts payable, customer 
advances, debt 
service require-ments, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
     (vi)
The term "debt service requirements" means the 
aggregate amount of repayments 
(including sinking fund 
payments, if any) of, and interest and other charges 
on, debt.
    (vii)
The term "capital expenditures" means all 
expendi-tures incurred on account of 
fixed assets, 
includ-ing interest charged to construction, related to 
operations, averaged over a three-year period 
covering the year concerned and 
the year preceding and the 
year succeeding such year.
   (viii)
The term "current assets" means cash, all assets 
which could in the ordinary 
course of business be 
converted into cash within twelve months, in- cluding 
accounts receivable, marketable securi- ties, inventories 
and prepaid expenses 
properly charge-able to operating 
expenses within the next fiscal year.
     (ix)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the 
Borrower maturing by its terms 
more than one year after 
the date on which it is originally incurred.
      (x)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations adjusted to 
take account of the 
Borrower's tariffs in effect at the time of the 
incurrence of debt even though they were not in 
effect during the 
twelve-month period to 
which such revenues relate and net non-operating 
income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to opera- 
tions, including 
administration, adequate 
maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, other 
non-cash 
operating charges and interest 
and other charges on debt.
    (xi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be 
necessary to value, in 
terms of the currency of the 
Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate 
of exchange 
at which such other currency is, at the time of 
such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall take all action required on its 
part to ensure that the outstanding amounts in the Borrower's accounts 
Page  8
receivable will represent, on average no more than the equivalent of 
three months' billing during the year 1992 and no more than the 
equivalent of two months' billing thereafter.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall, not later than January 31, 1992, 
take all action on its part to increase its paid-up capital consequential 
upon the approval of the proposal referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of 
the Guarantee Agreement for the conversion into paid-up capital of debt 
owed by the Borrower to the Guarantor on account of payments made by the 
Guarantor to service the Borrower's foreign debt in 1991.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that Law 
No. 233 of the Guarantor governing the Borrower's activities (as amended 
to the date of this Agreement) shall have been further amended, or 
suspended or abrogated or repealed or waived in such a way as to 
materially and adversely affect the ability of the Borrower to carry out 
the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that the 
event specified in Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower or the Guarantor has furnished to the Bank 
evidence satisfactory to it that the Borrower and the Guarantor have 
taken all necessary action to enable the Borrower to meet its projected 
financial deficit for 1991, including, but not limited to, the evidence 
that: (i) the Borrower's paid-up capital has been increased by the amount 
of 2,273 billion liras; (ii) the Borrower is currently maintaining its 
tariffs at the level referred to in paragraph A (1) (b) of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement; and (iii) the Guarantor has abolished, as of January 1, 
1991, the levy charged, as a contribution to its Mass Housing Fund, on 
the Borrower's electricity sales.
(b)
the Borrower has contracted the services of the consultants 
required to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Part A.3 of the 
Project.
Section 7.02. The date 90 days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The General Manager of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
Page  9
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For the Borrower:
Turkiye Elektrik Kurumu
Genel Mudurlugu
Inonu Bulvari, No. 27
Bahcelievler
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:
Telex:
TEK
42247 TEK TR
Ankara
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ram Chopra
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
TURKIYE ELEKTRIK KURUMU
By /s/ Falih Selekler
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be 
Financed
Page  10
(1)
Goods (including
   275,500,000
(a) 
100% of
associated works
foreign 
expendi-
and services)
tures 
and 100%
of 
local ex-
penditures (ex-
factory 
cost)
with 
respect to
contracts for
goods 
only; and
(b) 85% 
with
respect 
to turn-
key 
contracts,
providing for the
supply 
of goods
in 
addition to
associated works
and 
services
(2)
Consultants'
    10,000,000
100%
services
(3) Unallocated
    14,500,000
TOTAL
   300,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Guarantor; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to 
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate 
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $30,000,000 may be made on account 
of payments made before that date but after June 1, 1990; and (b) 
payments under any contract to be financed under Category (1) unless such 
contract is required for the carrying out of an investment included in a 
CPP which has been approved pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  11
The objective of the Project is to assist in the carrying out of 
the Program and the corporate restructuring of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Restructuring of the Borrower
The carrying out of measures for the restructuring of the Borrower, 
including:
1.
The preparation and implementation of a policy for electricity 
pricing by the Borrower, providing for the setting and adjustments of 
tariff levels on the basis of the economic cost of electricity supply 
under the Program and the agreed financial covenants for the Borrower 
under Article V of this Agreement.
2.
The implementation by the Borrower of an Operational Management 
Improvement Program (OMIP), including the establishment of a proper 
costing basis and a modern cost accounting system, formulation of basis 
for the tariff system, implementation of measures for optimal utilization 
by the Borrower of hydro and thermal generation plants and for recovery 
of its fuel costs, identification of efficiency levels and the potential 
for efficiency improvements in all areas of the Borrower's operations, 
and the establishment of commercially-oriented cost centers for each of 
the Borrower's generation plants and distribution enterprises and for its 
general management organization and transmission system.
3.
The implementation by the Borrower of a Financial Management 
Improvement Program (FMIP), including the remodeling of its accounting 
policies and practices, recasting of its financial position in accordance 
therewith and improving its billing and collection practices.
4.
The formulation and implementation by the Borrower of a management 
information system.
5.
The restructuring of the Borrower's capital and debt, through 
infusion of equity and modification of the terms of debt.
6.
The establishment within the Borrower of a Department for the 
Environment, to be responsible for the preparation of environmental 
assessments of all major power investments, coordination and monitoring 
of environmental policies and standards, evaluation of environmental 
technologies and training of staff of TEK on aspects related thereto.
Part B:
Power Investments
The provision, as projected in the CPPs, of equipment and materials 
required for power transmission and distribution under the Program, 
including transmission lines, substations, distribution equipment and 
transmission spares.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning November 15, 1996
Page  12
through   May 15, 2008
12,500,000
________________________
*
The figure in this column represents the dollar equivalent 
determined as of the respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General 
Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium 
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid 
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment 
below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate (ex-pressed as 
a percentage 
per annum) applicable to the Loan 
on the day 
of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I:
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set 
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the 
Guidelines).
Page  13
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures 
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Turkey may be granted a 
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions 
of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 
of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
Spare parts estimated in the aggregate to cost the equivalent of 
not more than $6,100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least 
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final 
contracts:
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures 
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) 
shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment 
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-ceding 
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to 
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the 
other information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said 
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not 
apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized 
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-graph 4 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
In order to assist TEK in carrying out the Project, TEK shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such 
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as 
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Arrangements
A.
Part A of the Project
(1)
The Borrower shall take all action required on its part to ensure 
(a) the preparation and implementation, by December 31, 1992, of the 
electricity pricing policy referred to in Part A (1) of the Project; and 
(b) until such policy is implemented, the maintenance of electricity 
prices, net of all payable taxes and levies, at a minimum average 
Page  14
equivalent to 6 cents in the currency of the United States of America for 
each Kwh of electricity sold.
(2)
The Borrower shall ensure the development of the costing basis for 
tariffs required for the carrying out of Part A (1) of the Project, by 
September 30, 1992.
(3)
The Borrower shall ensure the implementation, with the assistance 
of advisers, to be employed in accordance with time schedules 
satisfactory to the Bank, of measures included in the FMIP and the MIS by 
December 31, 1992, and December 31, 1993, respectively.
(4)
The Borrower shall (a) by October 30, 1991, invite proposals for 
the provision of consultancy services required to assist the Borrower in 
the carrying out of the OMIP under Part A (2) of the Project, and (b) 
ensure the conclusion of the contract for the provision of such services 
by February 29, 1992.
(5)
The Borrower shall: (a) implement the recommendations of its 
ongoing environmental review of proposed transmission systems investments 
in the course of the design and construction thereof; and (b) establish 
and adequately staff, by June 30, 1992, the Environmental Department 
referred to in Part A (6) of the Project.
B.
Part B of the Project (the Investment)
The investments included in the Program and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, shall be selected by the agreement of the 
Borrower and the Bank and shall be incorporated in the CPP for the year 
concerned, together with the corresponding financial plans.
C.
Project Management and Monitoring
The Borrower shall: (1) appoint, under a time schedule satisfactory 
to the Bank, an adequately staffed committee under its Assistant General 
Manager to oversee the implementation of the Project, and a Project 
Manager to be responsible for the technical and administrative functions 
under the Project and for coordinating the procurement of goods 
thereunder, and (2) cause such committee, in particular, to monitor the 
implementation of obligations and achievement of targets set forth in the 
CPPs.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent 
to $25,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 
the Special Account, pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
Page  15
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits 
into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to para-graph 4 of 
this 
Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in 
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
Page  16
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
