Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3345-0-TU
3345-1-TU
Amended Guarantee Agreement
(TEK Restructuring Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 5, 1995
LOAN NUMBER 3345-0-TU
3345-1-TU
AMENDED GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 5, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (the Guarantor) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) by a loan agreement between the Bank and Turkiye Elektrik Kurumu 
(TEK), dated September 13, 1991 (the Loan Agreement), the Bank made a loan (the Loan) 
to TEK in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $300,000,000 on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement;
(B)
by a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Turkey (the Guarantor) 
and the Bank, dated September 13, 1991 (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor 
guaranteed all the obligations of TEK contained or referred to in the Loan Agreement 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement;
(C)
by Decree No. 93/4789 of the Guarantor, Turkiye Elektrik Iletim ve Uretim 
A.S. (TEAS) and Turkiye Elektrik Dagitim A.S. (TEDAS) were created, and TEAS assumed 
TEK's functions, assets and liabilities relating to power generation and transmission, 
and TEDAS assumed TEK's functions, assets and liabilities relating to power 
distribution;
(D)
by a loan assumption agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Page  2
TEAS (TEAS Loan Assumption Agreement), TEAS has agreed to assume a portion of the Loan 
to TEK in the amount of $260,000,000 equivalent, of which the principal amount of 
about $80,000,000 equivalent was disbursed and outstanding as of November 20, 1994;
(E)
by a loan assumption agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
TEDAS (TEDAS Loan Assumption Agreement), TEDAS has agreed to assume a portion of the 
Loan to TEK in the
amount of $40,000,000 equivalent;
(F)
the TEAS Loan Assumption Agreement and the TEAS Loan Assumption Agreement 
between the Bank and TEDAS, both of even date herewith, supersede the Loan Agreement; 
and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the TEAS Loan Assumption Agreement and the 
TEDAS Loan Assumption Agreement, both of even date herewith, has agreed to guarantee 
the obligations of TEAS and TEDAS in respect of the Loan to TEAS and the Loan to TEDAS 
and to undertake such other obligations, all as provided in this Amended Guarantee 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments to the Guarantee Agreement
1.
Section 1.01 of the Guarantee Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
"Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" 
of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in 
Section 1.01 of the 
Loan Assumption Agreements (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement."
 
2.
Section 1.02 of the Guarantee Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
"Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in 
the General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Assumption 
Agreements have the 
respective meanings therein set forth."
 
3.
Section 2.01 of the Guarantee Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
"Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the 
Projects as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Assumption Agreements 
and, to this end, 
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Amended 
Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby 
unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and 
not as surety merely, the due and 
punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and 
other charges on, 
the Loans, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loans, and 
the punctual 
performance of all other obligations of TEAS and TEDAS, all as set forth in the 
TEAS Loan Assumption Agreement and the TEDAS Loan Assumption Agreement."
4.
Section 2.02 of the Guarantee Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
"Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of 
Section 2.01  of this Amended Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor shall (a) whenever 
there is reasonable 
cause to believe that the funds available to TEAS or TEDAS 
will be inadequate to meet the 
estimated expenditures required for the carrying out 
of the Project for which TEAS or TEDAS 
is responsible, make arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide TEAS or 
TEDAS or cause TEAS 
or TEDAS, as the case may be, to be provided with such funds as are 
needed 
to meet such expenditures; and (b) ensure that the departments, agencies and other 
entities of the Guarantor shall pay amounts due for electricity supplied to them by 
TEAS or 
TEDAS within three months of the billing date."
 
5.
Section 3.01 of the Guarantee Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:
Page  3
Section 3.01. The Guarantor, acting in conjunction with TEAS and TEDAS, 
shall: (i) 
ensure, by December 31, 1995, the preparation and the start of 
implementation of the 
electricity pricing policy referred to in Part A (1) 
of the Project; (ii) until such policy 
is implemented, enable TEAS and TEDAS to 
maintain electricity prices at least at the minimum 
level specified in paragraph A 
(1) (b) of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement; and (iii) by 
July 31, 1995 take 
all measures to eliminate the obligation of TEAS to make payments to the  Guarantor's 
Public Participation Fund all amounts which shall accrue from that day onwards 
on 
account of hydro generation.
ARTICLE II
Effective Date
Section 2.01. (a) This Amended Guarantee Agreement shall become effective on the 
date upon which the Bank dispatches to the Guarantor notice of its acceptance of 
evidence that: (i) the execution and delivery of this Amended Guarantee Agreement on 
behalf of the Guarantor have been authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental 
action; and (ii) all conditions precedent to the TEAS Loan Assumption Agreement and 
the TEDAS Loan Assumption Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to 
the effectiveness of this Amended Guarantee Agreement.
(b)
As part of such evidence, there shall be furnished to the Bank an opinion 
satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank showing, on behalf of the 
Guarantor,
that this Amended Guarantee Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified and 
executed and delivered on behalf of the Guarantor and is legally binding upon the 
Guarantor in accordance with its terms.
ARTICLE III
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 3.01. The Undersecretary of the Treasury of the Guarantor is designated 
as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 3.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Basbakanlik Hazine
Mustesarligi
Inonu Bulvari
Emek - Ankara
Republic of Turkey
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MALIYE-HAZINE
821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or
821-42689 (ANK-TR)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
Page  4
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By /s/ Mahfi Egilmez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Rachel Lomax
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
