Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3345 TU
(TEK Restructuring Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 13, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3345 TU
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 13, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF 
TURKEY (the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Turkiye Elektrik Kurumu (the 
Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Bank and the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the 
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to three hundred 
million dollars ($300,000,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the 
Page  2
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in 
respect of such loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's 
enter-ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so 
to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the 
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in Section 1.02 
of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set 
forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan 
Agreement, and, to this end, without limitation or restriction upon 
any of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the 
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and 
not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal 
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, 
if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance 
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in 
the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the 
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor shall 
(a) whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the funds 
available to the Borrower will be inadequate to meet the estimated 
expenditures required for the carrying out of the Project, make 
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the 
Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as 
are needed to meet such expenditures; and (b) ensure that the 
departments, agencies and other entities of the Guarantor shall pay 
amounts due for electricity supplied to them by the Borrower within 
three months of the billing date.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor acting in conjunction with 
the Borrower, shall: (i) ensure, by December 31, 1992, the 
preparation and the start of implementation of the electricity 
pricing policy referred to in Part A (1) of the Project; and (ii) 
until such policy is implemented, enable the Borrower to maintain 
electricity prices at least at the minimum level specified in 
paragraph A (1) (b) of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
(b)
The Guarantor shall take all necessary action to: (i) 
enable the Borrower to meet the projected financial deficit 
referred to in Section 7.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement; and (ii) 
include in the 1992 Budget Law a proposal to convert into paid-up 
capital debt owed by the Borrower to the Guarantor on account of 
Page  3
payments made by the Guarantor to service the Borrower's foreign 
debt in 1991.
Page  4
ARTICLE IV
Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Undersecretary of the Treasury and Foreign 
Trade of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Basbakanlik
Hazine Ve Distecaret Mustesarligi
  Yeniehir, Ankara
Republic of Turkey
Cable address:
Telex:
MALIYE
821-42285 (MLYE-TR) 
or
Hazine, Ankara
821-42689 (ANK-TR)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
     INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
     Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
                                                 82987 (FTCC) 
Page  5
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their 
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be 
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, 
United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By /s/ Falih Selekler
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ram Chopra
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
