Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16545
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2895-BR)
May 1, 1997
Natural Resources, Environment and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit at Appraisal1:                   Brazilian Cz$
Rate at Appraisal:                             US$ 1/Cz$26. 16
Currency Unit at Completion:                   Real (R$)
Rate at Completion:                            US$1/ R$0.968
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
A new currency, the Real, was introduced in 1994.
Vice President:    Shahid Javed Burki
Director:          Gobind T. Nankani
Division Chief     Constance Bernard
Task Manager:      Robert D. Kirmse



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACESITA            Acos Especiais Itabira S.A.
AMUC              Management and Administration of Protected Areas
BCR               Borrower's Completion Report
BDMG               Minas Gerais Development Bank
BIRD               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
CEMIG              State Electricity Company
CENIBRA            Celulose Nipo Brasileira S.A.
COPASA             State Water Supply Company
EMATER             Brazilian Agricultural Extension Service
EPAMIG            Minas Gerais Agricultural Research Company
FAO/CP            World Bank Cooperative Program of the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations
FFP                Forest Farmer Program
FISET              Fund for Sectoral Investments
FRR                Financial Rate of Return
FUNAI              National Indigenous Foundation
GMG               Government of Minas Gerais
GPS               Global Positioning System
ICMS              Value Added Tax
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
IERR               Internal Economic Rate of Return
IPC                Official Price Index
NGOs               Non-Governmental Organizations
NPV                Net Present Value
PROFLORESTA    Minas Gerais Conservation and Forestry Production Program
PRPNE             Private Reserves of Natural Heritage in Minas Gerais
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SEPLAN             State Planning Secretariat
SFI                State Forestry Institute (Instituto Estadual de Florestas)
TR                Exchange Rate
UNICEF             United Nations Children's Fund
VAT                Value Added Tax
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2895-BR)
Table of Contents
PREFACE ......                .........................................................    I
EVALUATION  SUMMARY .............................................................. 2
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ....................................................... 6
A .  INTRODUCTION   .............................................................. 6
B. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES .........................................            .           6
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES .............................................................. 7
D. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ................ 8
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ...................................                       ........................... 11
F. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK ................................ .................................................. 12
G. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER ........................ ................................................ 1 3
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                            .....................                                 13
I. FurURE OPERATION OF THE PROJECT ...................... .................................................. 14
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ................................. 1 5
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                       .          .         ... ..................... 18
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ...................... ........    ..................................... 1 8
TABLE 2. RELATED BANK LOANS ........................... 20
TABLE 3. PROJECT TIMETABLE .................................................................................... 21
TABLE 4. LoAN DISBURSEMENTS ............................... 22
TABLE 5. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ............................... 23
TABLE 6. STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ............................... 24
TABLE 7. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ................................ 25
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ............................... 26
TABLE 9. BANK RESOURCES: STAFF NPUTS ............ .................................................... 27
TABLE 10  BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS                          .                 ............................... 28
ANNEX  1: CREDIT FOR INDUSTRIAL PLANTATIONS (COMPONENT A) . ..................... 29
ANNEX 2: SMALL-SCALE REFORESTATION (COMPONENT B) AND INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING  (COMPONENT D)  ................................................                  ...    ........    33
ANNEX  3: FOREST CONSERVATION  (COMPONENT C).. _   ............................................. 41
ANNEX 4: PROJECT ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL RESULTS    ......................                                          45
ANNEX  5: BORROWER COMPLETION  REPORT (SUMMARY) .................                                   ...................... 51
MAP: IBRD 16561 R






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2895-BR)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Minas Gerais Forestry
Development Project in Brazil, for which Loan 2895-BR in the amount of US$48.5 million was
approved on December 17, 1987 and made effective on June 19, 1989. The State Government's
contribution to the project was estimated at around US$8.2 million, while subborrowers were
expected to contribute US$43.3 million.
2.    The project was to have closed on June 30, 1995, but the Bank agreed to the
Government's request that it be extended to December 31, 1996. The Bank and the Government
also agreed to cancel one component together with US$8.0 million of the US$11.0 million which
remained unspent under that component at that time.
3.    Terms of Reference for the Borrower's Completion Report (BCR) were prepared during a
Bank supervision mission in April 1996, while preparation of this report was initiated immediately
after the Bank's final supervision mission in November, 1996. The ICR was prepared by Richard
Owen, Ivo Marzall and Juan Morelli of the Food and Agriculture Organization, Cooperative
Program (FAO/CP) and Robert Kirmse, LAIER. The ICR was reviewed by Constance Bernard,
Chief, LAIER; Luis Coirolo, Brazil Portfolio Manager, LA1ER; Anna Roumani, Consultant,
LAIER; and Orville Grimes, Projects Adviser, Country Department 1.
4.    The ICR is based on material in the project file, evaluation reports, supervision reports,
the BCR and discussions with a wide spectrum of participants and beneficiaries. The summary of
the BCR is attached (Annex 5). Borrower comments on the Bank's draft ICR were taken into
consideration during the preparation of the final version.






-2-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2895-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Minas Gerais is the largest producer and consumer of charcoal in the world and accounts
for 85 percent of Brazil's output of charcoal smelted pig iron and steel. In 1985, the annual
consumption of fuelwood in the state was around 115 million m3, most of which (77 percent)
was converted into charcoal. In 1985 some 85 percent of this fuelwood came from native
forests. Because of this fuelwood harvesting, the state has suffered widespread deforestation and
little primary forest remains. The 1970s and 1980s witnessed a sharpening of environmental
awareness in Minas Gerais, and in 1991, in a bid to halt deforestation, the state enacted Law
10,561 which obliges all wood-using industries to become self-sufficient in wood from plantation
sources by 1998. It was against this background that the Minas Gerais Forestry Development
Project (Loan 2895-BR), the Bank's first forestry project in the state, was conceived.
Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the project were to: (i) increase industrial wood and charcoal
production by expanding reforestation, increasing native forest productivity through better
management and improving charcoal manufacturing technology; (ii) reduce degradation of native
forests through rehabilitation and conservation; (iii) alleviate rural poverty through employment
generation; (iv) improve environmental protection through conservation education, state parks
management and environmental research; and (v) strengthen the management capabilities of the
State Forestry Institute (SFI). These objectives were appropriate at the time of appraisal and
remain top priorities for the Government of Minas Gerais today.
3.    To achieve these objectives, the project had five components: (i) Component A--credit
for the establishment of 165,000 ha of privately owned eucalyptus plantations, mainly for charcoal
making (US$84.0 million); (ii) Component B--a smallholder reforestation program which aimed
to establish 41,300 ha of plantations, 82 percent of which would comprise eucalyptus and the rest
indigenous species (US$6.4 million); (iii) Component C--forestry conservation which included
improved monitoring of forest exploitation, the development of improved forest management
systems, improved fire control, the promotion of improved technologies for charcoal production,
conservation education and the development of protected areas (US$5.6 million); and (iv)
Component D--Institutional Development and project evaluation (US$2.7 million). Together
with contingencies (US$1.3 million), the total project cost was US$100.0 million, of which the
Bank would finance US$48.5 million.



-3-
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The project is rated Satisfactory overall because it achieved most of its objectives by
providing 22 million cubic meters of industrial wood, by conserving 159,000 ha of native forests
through product substitution, by prohibiting logging in 390,000 ha of native forest, by eliminating
fires in and around the newly created state parks, by increasing the state's protected area system
by 71 percent (i.e., 47, 000 ha) and by helping to reform the State Forestry Institute (SFI). It
also contributed to rural poverty alleviation by providing around 25,000 person years of
employment and by diversifying small farmer income through support to farm forestry; in
addition, employment has been generated as a result of growth in eco-tourism. Environmental
protection has been greatly improved through the creation of additional protected areas, the
creation of eleven environmental education centers, the implementation of environmental
education programs and ecological research. The project has also paved the way for increased
private sector participation in industrial plantations. The project's IERR is higher (26.6 percent)
than originally estimated, but the FRR (10.4 percent for large scale industrial plantations and 12.5
percent for small farmers) is somewhat lower, although still positive. Because of loan
repayments, the project-initiated reforestation effort is capable of being sustained. Because of
increased revenue collection and a greatly enhanced institutional framework, the other project-
initiated activities could also be sustainable, but this will depend on Government's willingness to
allow the SFI to retain and manage own-generated revenues for this purpose.
5.    This project has produced many important lessons that should be directly applicable to the
design of similar environmental protection and natural resource management projects in other
states of Brazil as well as in other Latin American countries.
Key Lessons Learned
6.    The key lessons learned from this project, most of which confirm wider Bank experience,
are as follows:
*  Predicting the demand for credit proved difficult under the project, largely because of
economic uncertainty. If a project is to be formulated under such circumstances, it
would be advisable to avoid credit altogether;
*   This project clearly demonstrates the value of mid-term reviews. If there had been a
mid-term review (it was not called for in the Loan Agreement), it would have been
apparent that the credit component for plantations was running into difficulties and
that remedial action was urgently required. If this approach had been taken, the
possibility of switching funds from less successful activities (credit) to more
successful ones (i.e., small farmer afforestation, protected areas and forest
monitoring) could have been explored;
*   The project's credit line suffered from an over-concentration of borrowers; to avoid
this, projects that include credit should always contain criteria that place limits on the
amount that individuals or groups can borrow;



-4-
*  Bank audit and administrative requirements for credit unduly penalized small
borrowers because of the high costs associated with these activities; to cater to small
borrower needs, alternative instruments such as small, community-managed revolving
funds, or municipal funds, should be considered,
*  The project has demonstrated that project performance is highly dependent on the
quality of local management and the political weight it carries. Moreover, this
experience confirms that, given a dynamic personality responsible for project
management, success depends more on the person than on the context, and that when
that driving force leaves, the context (in this case the economic instability of the
country) begins to matter more. For a project to have the best chance of success, the
Bank should carefully monitor the interest and performance of key local staff and
strive to ensure that capable individuals are retained;
*  Multiple changes of task managership (this project had five), an absence of forestry
expertise in some Bank supervision missions at critical periods of the project's
developoment, and severe shortage of supervision funding can have a corrosive effect
on project implementation and on the Bank-client relationship;
v   The project has shown that high quality technical assistance contributed greatly to
implementation performance. Moreover, the project has shown that forestry
extension (a new concept for most LAC countries) is most effective when combined
with agricultural extension, possibly because of farmer familiarity with these existing
systems. This indicates that, where forestry technical assistance is to be provided at
the field level, close ties need to be developed with established and known agricultural
extension;
e  Municipal interest in the creation of protected areas was subdued before the
introduction of fiscal incentives (VAT retention) which benefited the municipality.
But after the introduction of the incentives there was a remarkable change of attitude,
with municipalities taking the lead in proposing new areas. Therefore, projects that
anticipate the creation of protected areas should explore the possibility of having
benefit-sharing mechanisms with local governments, as this appears to be a very
effective way to ensure local interest in the creation of new protected areas;
*   Concerning the development of new protected areas, the project has clearly
demonstrated the importance of: (i) prioritizing area development, taking into
account local interest and participation, as well as biodiversity/ecosystem
representation; (ii) having fall-back options in the phasing of developments in new
protected areas so as not to be hamstrung by the inevitable bureaucratic delays to the
legal transfer of the land to the state, required for works to begin; and (iii) preparing
and updating participatory management plans prior to initiating developments in new
parks;



-5-
*   The project demonstrated that tree-planting, besides contributing to soil conservation,
can be an attractive economic alternative for small and medium farmers on land with
low potential for crops. The project also demonstrated that smallholder reforestation
can be as cost-effective as large-scale reforestation;
* Small farmers, being commercially oriented, were quick to embrace tree-planting
under the project because of the favorable market conditions for wood and because of
the potential it offered for income generation. This confirms that access to markets is
critical and, if a project is to include small farmer tree planting, a wood demand
analysis should be conducted as part of project preparation; and
*   This experience has shown that a project with an important message to the farmers
(such as the component's small-scale eucalyptus reforestation and the mata ciliar
program) and a motivated, committed staff (as brought about by improved working
conditions) can greatly improved the credibility, trust, and effectiveness of a public
institution. Even though the project made a disappointing start, and encountered
considerable early implementation difficulties, it nevertheless enabled the state of
Minas Gerais to make important advances in the forestry sector.



-6-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
MINAS GERMS FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2895-BR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    The recent history of the State of Minas Gerais, which is about the size of France, has
been dominated by mining and a concern for the amount of native forest-derived charcoal used by
the iron producing industry. The iron smelting industry came into being because of the proximity
of iron ore and the abundance of fuelwood needed for the manufacture of charcoal for the
smelting process. Today, Minas Gerais is the largest producer and consumer of charcoal in the
world and accounts for 85 percent of Brazil's output of charcoal smelted pig iron and. In 1985,
the annual consumption of fuelwood was around 115 million m3, 77 percent of which was
converted into charcoal. The principal source of the fuelwood was the native forests or cerrado,
which in 1985 accounted for 80 percent of output. Consequently, the state has suffered
widespread deforestation. Little primary forest remains and secondary forests have been badly
degraded by years of overcutting.
2.    The 1970s and 1980s witnessed a sharpening of environmental awareness in Minas Gerais,
a state through which Brazil's second largest river, the Sao Francisco, flows. In a bid to halt
deforestation, the state enacted Law 10,561 in 1991 which obliges all wood-using industries to
become self-sufficient in wood from plantation sources by 1998. It was against this background
that the project, which was the first Bank-financed forestry project in the state, was conceived.
The project was prepared locally by the State Forestry Institute (SFI) with assistance from the
Bank and the FAO/CP.
B. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
3.    The objectives of the project were to: (i) increase industrial wood production by
expanding reforestation and increasing native forest productivity through better wood utilization;
(ii) reduce degradation of native forests through rehabilitation and conservation; (iii) alleviate
rural poverty through employment generation; (iv) improve environmental protection through
conservation education, state parks management and environmental research; and (v) strengthen
the State Forestry Institute (SFI).
4.    The objectives of the project were relevant to the needs of the state which had been
experiencing deforestation and environmental degradation caused by fuelwood gathering for



-7-
industrial uses. The main objective of the project was to reverse this trend by providing
alternative sources of wood for charcoaling, by creating and improving protected areas and by
improving public awareness of environmental problems. The project was also strongly
supportive of government policy, as set out in Law 10561, and complemented its poverty
alleviation policy by providing the rural poor with employment and improved income
opportunities.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTWES
5.    Despite experiencing many difficulties, the project largely succeeded in achieving its
overall objectives:
(a) Industrial wood production will be increased as a result of the establishment of 63,800
ha of industrial plantations and 43,700 ha of smallholder plantations. With growth
rates of 35 cubic meters per ha per annum over a seven year rotation, the area planted
will produce around 26.3 million cubic meters of industrial wood, or 22 million if one
allows 15 percent for losses.
(b) The increased production of wood will also lead to reduced degradation of native
forests. It has been estimated that if the plantations had not been established, some
159,000 ha of native forest would have had to be felled to provide the wood so
produced. Furthermore, the acquisition of vegetation maps, satellite imagery and
regionally based global positioning systems has enabled SFI to prohibit logging on
390,000 ha of native forest, while the creation of 22 fire brigades has succeeded in
eliminating fires in and around the newly created state parks. Finally, conservation in
the state will be vastly improved by increasing the state's protected area system by 71
percent (i.e., 47, 000 ha). Overall, these project-sponsored efforts to increase the
supply of plantation-grown wood and to improve forest monitoring capacity have
contributed to reducing the rate of annual deforestation in the State from 500,000 ha
in 1990 to about 190,000 ha today.
(c) The project has contributed to alleviating rural poverty by providing employment and
by diversifying small farmer income. According to research undertaken by the
University of Vicosa, around 19,700 person-years of employment were provided
during plantation establishment in Component A and 5,383 person years under
Component B. Additional employment will also be created when the wood is
processed. In addition, the 43,700 ha of plantations established by small farmers
should produce around 10.3 million cubic meters of wood, or around 9 million cubic
meters allowing for 15 percent losses. With an average sale price of US$14 per cubic
meter (mill-gate) the average gross income generated by each of the 25,460 farmers
who participated in components A and B would be around US$5,000. Furthermore,
employment has been generated as a result of the growth in eco-tourism. In the Rio
Doce Park, visitor numbers have increased from zero in 1991 to 24,000 by the end of
the project, and this is expected to continue to grow and generate additional
employment. Efforts of any future projects in the state with poverty alleviation as a



-8-
main objective should probably be focused in the northern part of the state, where the
incidence of poverty is the highest.
(d) Environmental protection has been greatly improved through the creation of additional
protected areas, the creation of 11 environmental education centers, the
implementation of environmental education programs and improved information on
critical ecosystems, provided by the project-supported ecological research.
(e) The effectiveness of the State Forestry Institute (SFI) has been greatly improved
through decentralization, the strengthening of its 14 regional offices and training. The
decentralization of authority and budgetary control has greatly improved SFI's
outreach program to include universities, local governments, NGOs, agricultural
communities, and private firms. Consequently, SFI's ability to carry out research,
management, development and conservation activities, environmental education and
fire control has much improved. Its improved effectiveness is witnessed by the fact
that there is growing demand for SFI staff to visit other states in Brazil to help design
similar service structures. In recognition of its contribution to environmental
conservation, the SFI was awarded the Organization of American States' Latin
American Environrmental Prize in 1995.
6.    To achieve these objectives, the project had five components: (i) Component A--credit
for the establishment of 165,000 ha of privately owned eucalyptus plantations, mainly for charcoal
making (US$84.0 million); (ii) Component B--a smallholder reforestation program which aimed
to establish 41,300 ha of plantations, 82 percent of which would comprise eucalyptus and the rest
indigenous species (US$6.4 million); (iii) Component C--forestry conservation which included
improved monitoring of forest exploitation, the development of improved forest management
systems, improved fire control, the promotion of improved technologies for charcoal production,
conservation education and the development of protected areas (US$5.6 million); and (iv)
Component D--Institutional Development and project evaluation (US$2.7 million). Together
with contingencies (US$1.3 million), the total project cost was US$100.0 million.
D. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
7.    Project Effectiveness and Closing. The project was approved on December 17, 1987
and becane effective on June 19, 1989. The closing date had been scheduled for June 30, 1995
but, with the exception of Component A, which was canceled in June 1995, the project was
extended once to December 31, 1996 because of the good progress being made at that time
towards the achievement of objectives.
8.    Project Costs and Financing. The actual project cost was US$72.5 million as opposed
to the US$100 million estimated at appraisal. Most of the shortfall was accounted for by the
cancellation of Component A, where expenditure totaled US$56.3 million as against the US$84.0
million estimated. The SFI's decision to reduce fertilizer subsidies and to use lower cost
insecticides also resulted in savings of US$1.6 million on Component B.



-9-
9.    Disbursement. Disbursement performance was satisfactory (83 percent) in FY90 but in
the following three years it slowed significantly (Table 4 ). This was caused by macroeconomic
instability (monthly inflation of 30 percent) which led to the abolition of the Inflation Index to
which subloans under Component A had been fixed. This had the effect of paralyzing the credit
line which, until then, had been working quite well. The credit line was made inoperable for a
further year while the government created the legal framework for the Fundo ProFloresta, which
was to be the new legal instrument for financing afforestation. Between 1993 and 1995 not a
single subloan was approved and because of this the credit component was canceled in June 1995,
by which time 75 percent of Component A funds had been disbursed. Disbursements under the
other components were severely hampered by counterpart funding shortages. In the sixth year of
the project, disbursements picked up to 79 percent. Extension of the project coincided with the
introduction of the Plano Real and, because of the period of fiscal restraint which followed, the
project was again affected by counterpart funding shortages. However, despite these problems
(which affected all multilateral investment projects in Minas Gerais) the SFI showed considerable
ingenuity by maintaining project momentum using its own resources, and by obtaining help from
NGOs, private firms and universities.
10.  Implementation Problems. After Board approval in December 1987, political conflicts
in the Minas Gerais State Assembly (which were unrelated to the project), along with a decision
by the Brazilian Govemment that all Bank loans must be approved by the Federal Senate prior to
signing, delayed approval of the project by the State legislative body until September 1988.
Shortly thereafter, a change in interest rate indexing policy by the federal government delayed
effectiveness until June 1989. As a result of these delays, which were not specific to agricultural
loans, project implementation and disbursements were about 18 monthys behind appraisal
forecasts. During the early start-up period of the project, the macroeconomic instability in the
country, which led to the abolition of the Inflation Index, effectively paralyzed lending under the
credit line. Also during these early years of implementation, many potential sub-borrowers lost
interest in borrowing because of the high cost of credit, the demanding conditions (audits and the
excessive amount of detail needed in applications) attached to sub-loans, the one month time-lag
between sub-loan approval and payment, and the declining demand for charcoal. Implementation
was also hindered initially by institutional limitations, power struggles between SFI and the
Coordinating Unit in SEPLAN, and political interference. Further problems were caused by a
change of government in March 1991 which, faced with economic chaos, introduced a program
of strict fiscal restraint which included a freeze on both project financing and recruitment.
Because of the lack of progress in the first two years of the project, the Bank threatened to
suspend disbursements in 1991 if the situation did not improve. Consequently, the government
put in a new but experienced and politically strong management team in the same year and matters
began to improve. However, the precarious financial position of the state government remained
unchanged and counterpart funding shortages continued to be a chronic problem. An account of
the performance of individual components follows.
11.   Credit for Industrial Reforestation (Annex 1). The objective of Component A
proved the most difficult to fulfill. First of all, the planting target had to be reduced from 165,000
ha to 87,000 ha because of higher than expected planting costs. Secondly, in Year 2, the demand
for credit dropped sharply and, between 1993 and 1995, not a single sub-loan application was
approved. This, together with the fact that two out of the 24 borrowers accounted for 85 percent



-10-
of all borrowing, led the Government and the Bank to cancel the component in June 1995. These
problems caused a 27 percent shortfall in the areas planted-- i.e., 63,800 ha as opposed to 87,000
ha. On the other hand, with the initiation of the Fazendeiro Florestal program, the component
catalyzed a far greater-than-expected growth in the participation of small farmers in farm forestry.
Under the Fazendeiro Florestal program, large companies provided technical assistance and
planting material to small farmers to establish small woodlots (at least 10 ha) on their land.
Working with 460 farmers, 5,300 ha were established in this way under the project. Of greater
importance, however, is the fact that the popularity of the program spread spontaneously so that
an additional 64,000 ha were established by small farmers without project assistance during the
project period.
12.   Smallholder Reforestation (Annex 2). Component B made a slow start but eventually
proved extremely successful, exceeding its physical targets (41,000 ha) by over 26 percent
(51,800 ha). Activities were particularly successful in areas in which the SFI worked in
collaboration with agricultural extension and where the emphasis on planting of native species was
focused on the protection of water courses, or mata ciliares as they were called. Some 25,000
farmers participated in the component, each planting an average of 2.0 ha. The component will
undoubtedly have a positive impact on income generation and environmental conservation; it has
also helped to nurture a forestry culture among small farmers.
13.   Forestry Conservation (Annex 3). Component C was largely successful in that work
on almost all the subcomponents (Control of Forest Harvesting, Forest Fire Control,
Environmental Education, Research and the Development of Parks and Reserves) was
successfully concluded. Using satellite imagery and field checks, the SFI has been able to improve
forest fee collection (from US$0.2 million in 1991 to US$5.6 million in 1996) and to prohibit
logging on 390,000 ha of native forest. Forest fires were completely eliminated in the project area
and protected areas were increased by 71 percent or 47,000 ha. Two parks (Rio Doce and
Ibitipoca) experienced a massive increase in visitors and are now being used as centers for
research and environmental education. Because of user fees, these parks are now approaching
self-sufficiency. Municipality interest in park creation has also been awakened by virtue of Law
20,040, which earmarks 0.33 percent of the Value Added Tax (ICMS) collected in the state for
social and environmental activities. Under this program, municipalities with protected areas may
draw upon this facility. The number of environmental education courses carried out (137) was
nearly double the number programmed. The only two activities which were not undertaken were
Improved Charcoaling Technologies and Research on Native Forest Management. In the case of
the former, the government decided to drop the activity because it considered it to be the
responsibility of the private sector. In the case of the latter, fiscal restraint prevented the
recruitment of staff to carry out the work. To overcome this constraint, however, this research
activity was subsequently contracted out to the University of Vicosa.
14.   Institutional Development (Annex 2). Component D surpassed its original aims of
identifying skills gaps and providing training. In addition to this, the project assisted--through
technical assistance, training and equipment purchase--in decentralizing (including decision
making and budgetary allocation) the SFI to its 14 regional offices, each of which now has its
own data bank and monitoring system. It also succeeded in removing many of the administrative



-11-
bottlenecks that existed between the central office and the regions and has greatly improved SFI's
links with other government institutions, communities and NGOs.
15.   Project Evaluation.  This activity was satisfactorily contracted out to the University of
Vigosa, which produced a project monitoring report each year. The Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) estimated an internal economic rate of return (IERR) of 16.6 percent for the project as a
whole and a financial rate of return of between 14 percent (industrial-scale plantings) and 20
percent (small-holder plantings) for the productive activities of the project. It is expected,
however, that the economic rate of return (Annex 4) will be as high as 26.6 percent, mainly
because plantation wood will be sold not only for charcoal, as originally anticipated, but also for
pulpwood, which currently has a higher price than does wood for charcoal. By contrast, the
financial rate of return (FRR) for industrial scale plantations is likely to vary from 4.0 percent for
pulp to 16.8 percent for charcoal; and for small farmers the FRR is likely to be between 9.6
percent and 15.3 percent. The lower than expected returns for pulp producers (mainly the firm
CENIBRA) are due to very high plantation establishment costs, but these may be more apparent
than real because, with an integrated operation, tax advantages may accrue to inflating the raw
material costs. On average, returns for industrial plantations are estimated to be around 10.4
percent, whereas for small farmers they will be around 12.5 percent.
16.   Consultant Services. Consultant services financed by the project were contracted locally
and were quite modest relative to the size of the project (around US$1 mllion for monitoring,
training and biological studies). Despite implementation delays, the quality of services delivered
was quite satisfactory. Perhaps the most effective activity was training, which took two forms:
training of SFI staff and training of primary school teachers. In all, 137 courses were
implemented, nearly double that programmed, with environmental courses being clearly directed
to areas which expressed an interest in such training and where environmental problems were
known to exist.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
17.   Despite its early difficulties, the project made good headway in its last three years and
institutional and economic conditions for the sustainability of most project activities appear good.
First, a solid and decentralized institution with well-trained staff (the SFI) is now in place.
Secondly, loan repayments under Component A are high (95 percent) and the capitalized
repayments for the period 1997 - 2007 will total US$66.0 million. This will be sufficient to
provide around US$8.0 million a year to the new Forestry Credit program (ProFloresta) until it
expires in 2004. Moreover, the strong interest in planting by both large and small holders alike
suggests that the reforestation activity will be sustained in the future. Thirdly, the upsurge in
ecotourism in the Rio Doce and Ibitipoca parks indicates that protected areas can be made self-
sustaining.
18.   Concerning revenue generation, the earning potential of the SFI has greatly improved
over the life of the project; the collection of royalties (stumpage) rose from US$1.56 to US$16.0
million between 1991 and 1996, while fees earned from inspections and permits increased from
US$0.2 million to US$5.3 million over the same period. Moreover, the SFI estimates that this
may be only 50 percent of potential collections and that with improved monitoring much greater



-12-
revenue collection is possible. It has also been estimated that stumpage and Value Added Tax
(ICMS) on the round wood and processed wood from the project-sponsored plantations will total
US$12.5 million and US$93.5 million respectively. With this leverage of increased revenues, the
SFI has been able to increase its annual budget from US$2.9 million in 1991 to US$28.3 million in
1996. Whether this translates into sustainability of project-initiated activities, however, will
depend on a decision by the GMG to allow SFI to retain and manage these funds.
19.   The SFI has prepared an Implementation Plan for the continuation of project activities
beyond the project's Closing Date. That plan, PROFLORESTA--Plano Operativo; Continuidad
das Acoes, which was attached to the aide memoire of the last supervision mission dated
November 13, 1996 (in project files), confirms that the project-initiated activities can in fact be
sustainable, if the GMG allows the SFI to retain and manage its own-generated revenues. This
caveat suggests a degree of uncertainty in an otherwise bright forecast of sustainability.
F. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK
20.   The Bank's performance during Identification, Preparation and Appraisal was satisfactory
in that it provided the State with sound backup in refining a conceptually sound local initiative
into a well-defined project proposal. The Bank's assessment of the State Government's
commitment to the project was well balanced. Commitment was strong at the time of project
preparation, and still is; the then Director of the SFI was a strong supporter of the project and he
had strong political backing. On the other hand, the initial shortcomings of the SFI were clearly
identified and provision was made to address them under the project. However, the need to
decentralize the institution was not identified, but this took place nevertheless. The BDMG was
correctly judged to be capable of efficiently managing the credit line.
21.   An assessment of project risks included "economic uncertainties" which, it was thought,
could deter borrowing over the long term. This, in fact, proved to be a far more serious problem
than anyone could have anticipated. However, the Bank wrongly anticipated that the demand for
charcoal would increase; in fact, the reverse happened. Useful Key Project Performance
Indicators were included at the time of preparation and were used during implementation, but a
Project Implementation Plan was not included. While this was not normal practice at the time,
even if one had been included, it is difficult to see how it would have helped to resolve the
project's problems.
22.   The Bank's performance during implementation was mixed and at times deficient. After
starting off well and helping to ensure that the project got underway, supervision and decision-
making during the economically turbulent period of 1992/3 seems to have been inadequate. For
example, there was no mid-term review in 1993 (nor was it called for in the Loan Agreement),
which was a critical time for the project. If there had been, it would have been apparent that the
credit component for plantations was running into difficulties and that remedial action was
urgently required. If this approach had been taken, the possibility of switching funds from less
successful activities (credit) to more successful ones (i.e., small farmer afforestation, protected
areas and forest monitoring) could have been explored. It was not until two years later, in mid-
1995, that a Bank mission concluded that further disbursements under the credit component were
neither likely (no subloans since 1993) nor desirable (the concentration of beneficiaries) and that



-13-
the component should be canceled. This decision was taken far too late. A lack of continuity of
Task Managers was also a problem--the project had five Task Managers in six years. With more
active mid-term supervision and fewer changes of Task Manager, it is probable that the project
would have been more successful.
G. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
23.   Implementation. The performance of the SFI and the BDMG was satisfactory
throughout. The main problem faced by the SFI was a shortage of counterpart funds and a
temporary freeze on recruitment. However, to its credit, SFI managed to keep project activities
going by bridging funding shortages with its own resources and by obtaining help from NGOs,
private firms and universities. Progress was temporarily impaired in 1990 by the promotion and
transfer of the Director of SFI early on in the project. He had been deeply involved in project
preparation and had been a major driving force behind it. Fortunately for the project, that
Director returned to SFI in 1991, and both he and his successor did all they could to keep the
project going. This experience confirms that, given a dynamic personality responsible for project
management, success depends more on the person than on the context, and that when that driving
force leaves, the context (in this case the economic instability of the country) begins to matter
more. The BDMG had no major difficulties in managing the sub-loan portfolio.
24.   Legal Covenants. The most serious non-compliance with Legal Covenants concerned the
non and late allocation of counterpart finds by the state government. This was a continual
problem throughout the project, the reasons for which have already been explained. Generally,
procurement and auditing were implemented according to Bank standards, however, on three
occasions audit reports were four months late and on one occasion it was six months late. There
was no evidence that the Bank threatened to suspend and subsequently cancel the Loan because
of the events described in this paragraph, nor that the Bank threatened cancellation of the use of
SOEs because of the delays in presenting auditing reports.
H. AssEssMENT OF OUTCOME
25.   The project is rated Satisfactory because it achieved most of its objectives and has paved
the way for increased private sector participation in industrial plantations and has greatly assisted
small farmers to diversify their income through commercial forestry. The project also succeeded
in relieving pressure on the natural forest and in stimulating local level interest and concern for
conservation issues and for the development of protected areas. Above all, it has helped to
create a solid and efficient institution for forestry and conservation in the state. The project's
IERR is higher than estimated, but the FRR is somewhat lower, although still positive. Because
of loan repayments and improved revenue collection, project activities are capable of being
sustained, but this will depend largely on whether the state government is prepared to allocate the
necessary funds on time.



-14-
I. FuTURE OPERATION OF THE PROJECT
26.   As already mentioned, the SFI prepared an Implementation Plan for project activities
beyond December 1996. Activities under the Credit for Industrial Reforestation Component
(Component A) will continue under the Fundo Profloresta, which has an average of US$8.0
million available each year for the next seven years. Thereafter, the annual amount will be phased
out over a period of seven years. Following the lessons learned from the project, under the
Fundo Profloresta: no individual or group will be allowed to borrow more than 30 percent of the
available funds, 50 percent of the fund will be earmarked for charcoal producers, and priority will
be given to borrowers who have a Fazendeiro Florestal program.
27.   The SFI intends to expand activities under the Smallholder Reforestation Component
(Component B) to 38,400 ha per year--21,600 ha of exotics for plantations and 12,900 ha of
native species for protection and conservation. Funding of US$13.7 million will be needed mainly
for extension and planting materials and this could be made available from stumpage fees. But the
future of this program will depend heavily on whether the state government will allocate the
necessary funds.
28.   Detailed plans have been prepared by the SFI for the continuation of activities under the
Forest Conservation Component (Component C), and the Institutional Development Component
(Component D) for the next five years, within which a system of monitoring has been included.
These will require an annual expenditure of around US$4.8 million, which is well within the
revenue earning capacity of the SFI. However, as with Component B, the successful
implementation of the proposed work will depend on the timely and adequate allocation of funds
by the state.
29.   To monitor the lasting impact of what appears to be a successful project, an ex-post
evaluation mission would be desirable in late 1998 so as to track progress over the two year
period immediately following loan closure. This would not only give a clearer picture of the long-
term prospects for the project but would also strengthen the SFI's leverage on state budgetary
resources. A two-person mission (an economist and a forester) for two weeks would be
sufficient, with the mission focusing on: areas planted and by whom under the ProFloresta
program; areas planted and by whom under the Small Farmer Afforestation program; the number
of protected areas with active management plans and the trends vis-c<-vis revenue and expenditure
balances in selected parks; the annual rate of deforestation; the number of forest fires and areas
burnt each year and the revenue and expenditure balance of the SFI.
30.   Concerning future Bank lending operations in the state, much will depend on the
creditworthiness of the state government. If and when the state returns to creditworthiness, it
would be opportune to examine ways of improving land and water management. Watershed
management is of particularly high priority in Minas Gerais, which is the source of some 70
percent of the country's non-Amazonian water and is the headwaters of the Sao Francisco river,
the second largest river basin in Brazil. Over the last two centuries, deforestation and
inappropriate land management have led to soil degradation, erosion and a loss of biodiversity.
Consequently, land and water management are high priorities for both the Federal and state
governments, with the latter having already approached the Bank for possible support. The Bank,



-15-
with the benefit of its experience with this project and land management and poverty alleviation
projects in other states, is well-placed to provide valuable assistance in this respect.
31.   This project has produced many important lessons that should also be directly applicable
to the design of similar environmental protection and natural resource management projects in
other states of Brazil as well as in other Latin American countries.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
32.   The key lessons learned from this project, most of which confirm wider Bank experience,
are as follows:
*  Predicting the demand for credit proved difficult under the project, largely because of
economic uncertainty. If a project is to be formulated under such circumstances, it
would be advisable to avoid credit altogether;
*  This project clearly demonstrates the value of mid-term reviews. If there had been a
mid-term review (it was not called for in the Loan Agreement), it would have been
apparent that the credit component for plantations was running into difficulties and
that remedial action was urgently required. If this approach had been taken, the
possibility of switching funds from less successful activities (credit) to more
successful ones (i.e., small farmer afforestation, protected areas and forest
monitoring) could have been explored;
*  The project's credit line suffered from an over-concentration of borrowers; to avoid
this, projects that include credit should always contain criteria that place limits on the
amount that individuals or groups can borrow;
*  Bank audit and administrative requirements for credit unduly penalized small
borrowers because of the high costs associated with these activities; to cater to small
borrower needs, alternative instruments such as small, community-managed revolving
funds, or municipal funds, should be considered;
*   The project has demonstrated that project performance is highly dependent on the
quality of local management and the political weight it carries. Moreover, this
experience confirms that, given a dynamic personality responsible for project
management, success depends more on the person than on the context, and that when
that driving force leaves, the context (in this case the economic instability of the
country) begins to matter more. For a project to have the best chance of success, the
Bank should carefully monitor the interest and performance of key local staff and
strive to ensure that capable individuals are retained;



-16-
*   Multiple changes of task managership (this project had five), an absence of forestry
expertise in some Bank supervision missions at critical periods of the project's
development, and severe shortage of supervision funding can have a corrosive effect
on project implementation and on the Bank-client relationship;
*   The project has shown that high quality technical assistance contributed greatly to
implementation performance. Moreover, the project has shown that forestry
extension (a new concept for most LAC countries) is most effective when combined
with agricultural extension, possibly because of farmer familiarity with these existing
systems. This indicates that, where forestry technical assistance is to be provided at
the field level, close ties need to be developed with established and known agricultural
extension;
*   Municipal interest in the creation of protected areas was subdued before the
introduction of fiscal incentives (VAT retention) which benefited the municipality.
But after the introduction of the incentives there was a remarkable change of attitude,
with municipalities taking the lead in proposing new areas. Therefore, projects that
anticipate the creation of protected areas should explore the possibility of having
benefit-sharing mechanisms with local governments, as this appears to be a very
effective way to ensure local interest in the creation of new protected areas;
*   Concerning the development of new protected areas, the project has clearly
demonstrated the importance of: (i) prioritizing area development, taking into
account local interest and participation, as well as biodiversity/ecosystem
representation; (ii) having fall-back options in the phasing of developments in new
protected areas so as not to be hamstrung by the inevitable bureaucratic delays to the
legal transfer of the land to the state, required for works to begin; and (iii) preparing
and updating participatory management plans prior to initiating developments in new
parks;
*   The project demonstrated that tree-planting, besides contributing to soil conservation,
can be an attractive economic alternative for small and medium farmers on land with
low potential for crops. The project also demonstrated that smallholder reforestation
can be as cost-effective as large-scale reforestation;
*   Small farmers, being commercially oriented, were quick to embrace tree-planting
under the project because of the favorable market conditions for wood and because of
the potential it offered for income generation. This confirms that access to markets is
critical and, if a project is to include small farmer tree planting, a wood demand
analysis should be conducted as part of project preparation; and



-17-
*  This experience has shown that a project with an important message to the farmers
(such as the component's small-scale eucalyptus reforestation and the mata ciliar
program) and a motivated, committed staff (as brought about by improved working
conditions) can greatly improved the credibility, trust, and effectiveness of a public
institution. Even though the project made a disappointing start, and encountered
considerable early implementation difficulties, it nevertheless enabled the state of
Minas Gerais to make important advances in the forestry sector.



-18-
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2895-BR)
TABLE 1(A). SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of objectives         Substantial       Partial        Negligible       Not Applicable
Macro policies                                                                               X
Sector policies                                                                              x
Financial objectives                     X                                                              ll
Institutional development                X
Physical objectives                                      X                                              l
Poverty reduction                        X                                                              l
Gender issues                                                                                X
Other social objectives                                                                      X
Environmental objectives                 X
Public sector management                                                                     X
Private sector development               X
Other (specify)



-19-
TABLE 1(B). SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
B. Project sustainability
Likely             Unlikely             Uncertain
x2
C. Bank performance
Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                                                X
Preparation assistance                                        X
Appraisal                                                     X
Supervision                                                  XI
D. Borrower performance
Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory           Deficient
Preparation                               X
Implementation                                                 4
Covenant compliance                                                                 5
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of outcome
Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory        Highly Unsatisfactory
x
2 While the sustainability of industrial forest plantings in Minas Gerais is ensured because of the establishment and full funding of the Fundo Profloresta, and
because of the general interest and knowledge of reforestation that this project has helped to foster, the sustainability of other project components are more
dependent on GMG willingness to allow SFI to retain and manage its own-generated revenues for these purposes.
3Overall the quality of supervision was quite good; however, a highly satisfactory rating was not given because of the frequent changes of task managers (five
in total) and the lack of divisional budget allocation for supervision missions during an 18-month period beginning in early 1995.
4Despite the general fiscal problems that caused shortages in counterpart funding for all multilateral investment projects in Minas Gerais in 1995/96, the SFI
made good efforts to maintain project momentum by using own resources where possible, as well as by obtaining help from NGOs, private firms and
universities. Because of these efforts by SFI, most project components were implemented satisfactorily.
5Covenant compliance has been rated deficient because of the chronic shortages of counterpart funds.



-20-
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2895-BR)
TABLE 2. RELATED BANK LOANS
Project Title/Loan No.                   Purpose             Date          Status
Approved
Minas Gerais Rural                           Rural Development          Feb.23,   Closed Dec.
Development 1 (Ln.1362-BR)                                               1977    31,1984
Minas Gerais Rural                           Rural Development          Sept.15,   Closed Dec. 31,
Development 2 (Ln. 1877-BR)                                              1980    1987
Northwest Agricultural                       Ag. Development and        Dec. 15,  Closed March
Development & Environmental Protection Project  Environmental            1981    31, 1990
(Ln. 2060-BR)                                Conservation
Northwest Agricultural Development 2 (Ln. 2353-  Ag. Development and    Dec.15,   Closed March
BR)                                          Environmental               1981     31, 1990
Conservation
Northeast Rural Development Project-- Minas  Rural Development/        June 30,   Closed Sept. 30,
Gerais (Ln. 2861-BR)                         Rural Poverty Alleviation   1987    1996
* In addition, projects under the Northeast Development Program contained forestry components.



-21-
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2895-BR)
TABLE 3. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Step in Project Cycle      Date Planned           Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Identification          June 1986               June 1986
Preparation             Late 1986                October-December 1987
Appraisal               March 1987              October 1987
Negotiations                                    May 1987
Board Presentation      September 1987          December 17, 1987
Loan Signing                                     September 30, 1988
Loan Effectiveness      May 1989                June 19, 1989
Loan Closing *          June 30, 1995           December 31, 1996
Project Completion      June 30, 1995           December 31, 1996
* Extension to Dec.31, 1996 authorized on June 29, 1995.



-22-
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2895-BR)
TABLE 4. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million)
Fiscal Year6     Appraisal Estimate       Actual      Actual as % of Estimate
1989                      11.1               4.14                  38
1990                      21.3               17.65                 83
1991                      31.0               18.78                61
1992                      38.7               21.92                 57
1993                      43.6               27.43                63
1994                      47.0               36.81                 79
1995                     40.57               37.65                 93
1996                      40.5               38.05                94
6Braz Fiscal Year.
7USS 8.0 million of loan anceled on June 29, 1995 at reques of borrower



-23-
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2895-BR)
TABLE 5. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
(as of November 15, 1996)
COMPONENTS                           UNITS            APPRAISAL           REACHED           BUDGET 1996
ESTIMATE         UNTIL 11.15.96       ESTIMATE
A, Credit for Industrial Reforestation         ha                           165,000             64,000                 -0-
B. Small-Scale Reforestation Program
Area Planted in Eucalyptus                   ha                            34,000             43,700                 -0-
Area Planted in Native Species               ha                             7,300               8,180                -0-
Beneficiaries of Eucalyptus Planting         farmers                       15,000              18,300                -0-
C. Forestry Conservation
Cl. Control of Forest Harvesting               unit                               I                  I                 -0-
A Create CETEC/SFI Monitoring Unit           km2                          582,000            647,221             117,000
A  Land Use Map of State                     km2                               -0-                  -
B. Establish Regional Cerrado Mgt Plots      unit                               8                  4                 -0-
C. Fire Control Brigades                     unit                              36                 20                   5
C. Fire Towers                               unit                               6                  5                 -0-
C. Visits/Discuss Control of Burning         visits                         2,000              10,598              1,200
D. Charcoal Technology/Training              course                           130                 -0-                -0-
D. Charcoal Technology/Distribution Manuals  manual                         5,000                 -0-                -0-
D. Charcoal Technology/Audiovisual           unit                               1                 -0-                -0-
C2. Education on Forestry Conservation
Video Cassette                               unit                               2                   1                  2
Audiovisual                                  unit                               I                 -0-                -0-
Radio Spots                                  unit                             752                547                600
Pamphlets on Reforestation                   unit                         220,000             110,000             40,000
Fire Control Education for Community Leaders  course                           32                 27                  21
Education of Fire Control Posters            unit                          10,000              10,000             10,000
Education of Forest Conservation/Posters     unit                          25,000             40,000              20,000
Environmental Education for Teachers         course                          N/A                  26                  10
C.3 Development of Parks and Reserves
State Master Plan for Parks and Reserves     unit                                                                    -0-
Rio Doce                                                                        I                  I                 -0-
Itacolomi                                                                       I                   I                -0-
Ibitipoca                                                                       1                  1                   2
Create Urban Park Planning Unit              unit                               I                 -0-                -0-
Assist municipalities in Creating Park Units  unit                             50                  4                 -0-
Towers in Parks for Fire Control/Protection  unit                               S                  2                 -0-
Management Plan: Rio Doce Park               unit                               I                  I                 -0-
Park Infrastructure                          unit
Rio DocePark                                                                                        I                  I
Itacolomi                                                                                          I                   I
Jaiba Park                                                                                          I                -0-
Itacolomi                                                                                          1                  I
Mata de Acaua Biological Reserve                                                                    I                -0-
Nova Baden Bilogical Reserve                                                                        1                -0-
Mar de Espanha Biological Reserve                                                                 -0-                -0-
Mats dos Ausentes Biological Reserve                                                              -O-
D. Institutional Development
Training Course for SFI Personnel:
Seedling Production                                                                               I1                   4
Seed Collection/Storage                                                                            8                   I
Legal Aspects of Burning                                                                           8                   3
Fire Control and Prevention                                                                        3                 -0-
Management                                                                                         4                   3
Financial Decentralization                                                                                            14
Computer Programs                                                                                 to                   5



-24-
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2895-BR)
TABLE 6. STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
STUDY                                                                 OBJECTIVE                                STATUS                                                       EMPACT
1. Inventory and Monitoring of Fish Population in Lake                                         Monitoring of exotic species                         long termn    Training of Park staff in fish control, especially exotics, to
Helvecio                                                                                  population in the Helvecio                                                 favor indigenous species
A                                                                                         ........................................................ ............................................................................................................................... ..agon............
2. Selection of legumes for rehabilitation of degraded areas    Identification of native species                                                      long term            Identification of leguminous species for environmental planting
suitable for rehabilitation                                               in degraded areas
- --......I.-........ ..                                                                 ..                                    .             ..                              .             ..                             .              .- .  - .,p.ant ng .. .
3. Monitoring activities of predatory cats of domestic stock in  To obtain information on cat                                                         long term            Access to reliable information on cat attacks on domestic stock
Rio Doce Valley                                                                           populations and maintain records                                           outside parks
of attacks on domestic animals
4  Reintroduction of orchids to Rio Doce park                                                   Reintroduce orchids into Rio                          completed    Species diversification, conservation and environmental
.........  ..........................  ................  .....................................   ................................   ..  .................. .................................   .............  DoDak.......  ....   .. d c t o
5. Study of history and culture of Itacolomir Park                                              Literature review and                                 completed    Being used for park planning and infrastructure development
......................................................................................................... ..............................................ctognofioraon......................
caalgungof inf.ormnation
.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
6 ...Studyqyof private distribution in.Ibitipoca Park                                           Toivnoypiatsopee                                                              eommendations madefior better.plannig andconservation
7  Study of bird distribution in Biological Reserve of Acaua    Record distribution of birds in                                                       completed    Improved conservation and environmental education
.~~~~~~~the park
.-...................................................................................................................................... ..   *.......... .........................................................    ...................     ..............................:..... - ........................    ...
8  Studv of geology of Italcomi Park                                                            Gather information on geology    completed   Improved environmental education
of park
9. Study of animal health in conservation units in Italcolomi   Identify parasites diseases in                                                        completed    Record parasitic diseases of birds and assess their impact on
Park                                                                                      birds                                                                      bird population
10. Study of fauna in Ibitipoca State Park                                                      Information on fauna                                 completed    Information for environmental education. Identify endangered
distribution                                                              animal species
...................................... ............. .................... .................................................................    .......................................... .................................  ................. ......   e. i s
I1. Study of flora distribution in Ibitipoca State Park                                         Gather information on vegetation  completed    Information for zoning and environmental education. Record
.in par                                                                    nwseies, endenuc species, andrr  pce
............................  .....................................  ..............................  ...................................                                                                                                   .  .... ...........................................inak................
12. Study of selected endemic species of Italcoloni Park                                        Gather information on vegetation  completed    Information for park zoning and environmental education
of Itacolomid Park_____
13. Study of bird population of Italcolomi Park                                                 Record bird population in park                       completed    Training technicians for zoning and environmental education
_____________ _        and identifying endangered species
14. Study of history and cultural aspects of Ibitipoca Park                                     Record history of park                               Reports               Information and data available on history of park
received .   ........................................................  ......... ...........................................................
15.  Study of geopalaentology of Ibitppca Park                                                              ---------------------                    canceled                                                     ---------------
16. Collection and recycling of waste in Rio Doce Park                                          Improved collection and                              Ongoing               Better trained staff, environrmental education in surrounding
.. .yclin&9.. .   waste                                                   communities
17. Study of frog population in Rio Doce Park                                                   Improved knowledge of frog                           Ongoing               Research and environmental education
pliOn .... ............................................................... ..............



-25-
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2895-BR)
TABLE 7. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
(US$ Million)
Item               Appraisal Estimate                   Acutal/Latest Estimate
Local    Foreign      Total          Local      Foreign       Total
Cost      Cost                       Cost        Cost
1. Project Costs       90.4        9.6      100.0           65.30       8.10           73.4
2. Loan Amount         39.0        9.5       48.5           32.40       8.10          40Q58
3. Disbursed             --         --         --           29.06       7.34           36.4
4. Canceled              ----                                             --           4.19
B. Project Financing
(US$ Million)
Source           Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
Local       Foreign             Local                Foreign
Costs        Costs              Costs                 Costs
IBRD                     39.0             9.5                29.06                     7.34
State Government          8.2             0.0                 8.60                     0.00
Subborrowers             43.3             0.0               28.40                      0.00
Total                    90.5             9.5                66.02                     7.34
s After cancellation of Component A, and its remaining US$8 million, in lune 1995.
9 Cancellation still pending.



-26-
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2895-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement    Loan/        Text Ref.         Covenant         Status      Original      Revised       Description of Covenant                                     Comments
Credit No.                    Class(es)                    Fulfill       Fulfill
Date          Date
LOAN                      3.01 (aXi)        3               NC                                       Provideffundsinatimelymanner                                Flowofcounterpartfisndshasbeenerratic
throughout
3.0 1(a) (ii)     10              C                                        Cause BDMG to perform satisfactorily                       BDMG is performing diligently
3.01(cXi)         3               C                                        Provide funds to BDMG for credit                           Credit operations canceled on June 30, 1995
3.02              10              C                                        Procurement according to Bank's guidelines                 Complied with
3.03(a)           10              C                                        Insurance                                                  Conceming plantation of eucalyptus, the Bank
agreed not to impose fire insurance on
plantations, if fire fighting measures are in place
3.03(b)           9               C                                        Semi-annual progress reports                               SEPLAN provided semi-annual reports
3.03(c)           9               C                                        Annual evaluation by independent consultant                Complied with by the Federal University of
Viscosa (UFV)
3.04              10              C                                        Maintain project implementation unit within SFI            SFI coordinated components B, C and D of the
project
3.05              10              C                                        Maintain a project coordinating unit within SEPLAN          A new unit, SUCEA, was created within
SEPLAN
3.06(c)           4               CD                                       Not later than October 31 each year, provide budget allocation of   Chronic delays in release of counterpart fanding
counterpart finds                                          has been a constant problem
4.01              1               CD                                       Maintain separate accounts, and have these accounts audited  Audits of annual accounts were done by Moreira
Auditores Brasileiros Associados. Project Audit
report for 1994 was 5 months late
PROJ.                     2.01(a)           10               C                                       BDMG's commitment to the objectives ofthe project           BDMG respected the objectives as stted
2.0 1(a)          10              C                                        Agreements with participating bank                          An agreement signed
202(a)            10              C                                        Subloans made in agreement with Bank guidelines             Remaining credit operation was canceled on June
30, 1995.
2.02(b)           10              C                                        Exercise its rights and protect BDMG's and the Bank's interests.   Complied with
2/03              10              C                                        Insurance                                                  See Loan Agreement, 3.03 (a)
2.05(a)           9               C                                        Exchange views with the Bank                                Done during supervision minions
2.05(b)           9               C                                        Inform Bank of any threat                                  Complied with.
Status:   C        - Complied with
CD        - Compliance after Delay
NC        - Not Complied with
SOON    - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Shodl time
CP        - Complied with Partially
NYD       -Not yet Due



-27-
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2895-BR)
TABLE 9. BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Planned        Revised        Actual
US
Staff]    US$   Staff '  US$   Staff   $
Weeks           Weeks          Weeks
Through Appraisal                                        30.1
Appraisal - Board                                        28.0
Board - Effectiveness                                     1.5
Supervision                                             125.3
Completion                                               11.0
Total           183 6                           195.9
1. No breakdown available.



-28-
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2895-BR)
TABLE 10. BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating
Stage of Project Cycle    Month/Year        No. Of       Specialized staff skills    Impl. Status    Develop.              Types of Problems
Persons           represented                            Objectives
Through Appraisal        November 1987   8               Forester
Environmentalist
Institutions
Credit
Appraisal through Board   December 1987    11            As above
Approval
Board Approval through    June 1989        3             Forester                                                   Delayed Effectiveness
Effectiveness                                            Economist
Credit
Supervision              May 1990          7             Forester                 2                2                Institutional Weakness
Economist                                                 Counterpart
Credit                                                     Funding Shortages
Institutions                                              Economic Instability
Environmentalist
July 1991        4              Forester                 3                3               Institutional Weakness
Sept. 1991                      Economist                                                 Counterpart Funding Shortages
Credit                                                     Economic Instability
Institutions
January 1992     3              Forester                 2                2               Counterpart Funding Shortages
June 1992                       Institutions                                              Economic Instability
Credit                                                    High Planting Costs
May 1993         3              Forester                 1                1                Counterpart Funding Shortages
Institutions
Credit
October 1993     5              Economist                2                2                Counterpart Funding Shortages
Forester                                                  Low Demand for Credit
Credit
Agronomist
Anthropologist
August 1994      7              Forester (2)             S                S                Counterpart Funding Shortages
June 1995                       Economist                                                  Low Demand for Credit
Credit
Environmentalist
Financial Analyst
May 1996          1             Forester                 S                S                Counterpart Funding Shortages
Completion               November 1996    3              Forester                 S                S                None
Agronomist
Economist
(*) Sometimes more than one mission.



-29-
ANNEX 1: CREDIT FOR INDUSTRIAL PLANTATIONS
(COMPONENT A)
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    This annex forms part of the Implementation Completion Report for the Minas
Gerais Forestry Development Project (Loan 2985-BR). It contains an evaluation of
Component A - Credit for Industrial Plantations, the cost of which was estimated to be
US$84.0 million. The contents of the annex draws heavily on thk- World Bank
Supervision Report of May 1995, the recommendations of which led to the cancellation of
the component with effect from June 30,1995.
B. OBJECTIVES AND FINANCING
2.    The main objective of the component was to increase industrial wood supplies to
the charcoal, ceramics and lime making industries and to conserve native forests through
the reforestation of 165,000 ha of private industrial plantations. Funds for plantations
were provided to interested borrowers in the form of loans dispersed through the Minas
Gerais Development Bank (BDMG). The BDMG and other participating banks appraised
loan applications in accordance with the BDMG' s technical, economic and financial
criteria. The duration of subloans was up to 14 years, with grace periods of up to seven
years. Subloans were to be subject to full monetary correction based on the National
Treasury Board Funds, plus a variable interest rate based on the cost of Bank funds to the
state (which at the time of appraisal was eight percent) plus a two percent spread. The
State Forestry Institute (SFI) was responsible for monitoring the quality of planting, forest
management and wood harvesting.
C. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
3.    The component proved difficult to implement. First of all, due to an
underestimation of plantation establishment costs (US$500 - US$800 per ha estimated, as
opposed to between US$600 and US$1,500 per ha in reality), the planting target had to be
reduced from 165,000 ha to 87,000 ha in June 1992.
4.    Secondly, loan disbursements were adversely affected by a highly unstable national
economy and frequent changes in economic policies and, because of this, disbursements
ceased after October, 1993. Furthermore, only two firms (one of which was a pulp
producer) accounted for 70 percent of all suborrowing, an undesirably high concentration.
Also, the supply, demand and prices for eucalyptus wood, charcoal and pulp (the major
products form Brazil's plantations) fluctuated greatly after the project became effective.
All these factors seriously affected interest in reforestation and the demand for credit to
finance it. The main difficulties faced by the component are described below.



-30-
5.    Slow Disbursement. In spite of nearing 80 percent disbursements by late 1993,
the component moved far more slowly than expected due to a number of factors outside
the control of either the component's executing agency (BDMG) or the subborrowers.
These factors include:
(i)   Constant Changes in the Brazilian Economy - among the more
important changes since the project became effective (6/19/89),
were those in the official inflation index by which the interest rates of
subloans were periodically adjusted. The official price index (IPC)
first used was abolished in late 1992 and the credit line was left
paralyzed for nearly a year until the Taxa Referencial (TR) was
adopted and legally "regulated". The credit was further paralyzed
during most of 1994 when the government of Minas Gerais (GMG)
created a Fundo Pro-Floresta -- a rotating fund established to
channel state budget allocations, international loan funds and other
moneys to reforestation. The fund was also to receive all principal
and interest payments from outstanding loans for reforestation,
including those under the project. Since the fund was not legally
established until December 1994, approval of loans and
disbursements were frozen for the entire year. Finally, in late 1994,
the government adjusted the TR upward as part of a national
monetary policy aimed at reducing borrowing, increasing savings
rates and reducing inflation. While it succeeded in doing this, it also
made the cost of the project's credit line prohibitively high. As a
result, there were no loan applications in 1994 and 1995.
(ii)  Cost of Credit - The direct and indirect costs of the credit were
considered too high by many smaller sub-borrowers. The indirect
costs included the requirement that independent accountants audit
each subborrower's loan accounts at the subborrower's expense.
There were also bureaucratic obstacles to applying for and receiving
the credit (e.g., subborrowers complained that too much detail was
needed in applications and that disbursements did not coincide with
the need for funds, for example, during the planting season).
(iii) Reduced Demand for Plantation-based Charcoal - Several
charcoal-producing firms, which at the time of project design and
appraisal were enthusiastic supporters of the credit line, did not
borrow any funds at all, and other firms participated only marginally.
In order to hedge against the volatility of the supply and price of
charcoal, several firms converted to cheaper imported coke. Also,
plantation charcoal had difficulty competing with native forest
charcoal, which despite increasing legal restrictions, continued to
come in from neighboring states at low cost. As a result, charcoal
consumption and the need for additional plantations for its
production fell significantly. One firm actually sold some of its



-31-
plantations, and several are now developing new markets (e.g.
furniture, sawnwood, pulp chips) for the wood to be produced.
6.    Concentration of Beneficiaries - Just two firms accounted for 70 percent of all
subloans (45 percent and 25 percent respectively). While it was recognized at the time of
appraisal that the pool of potential borrowers was relatively small (about 25 companies
producing pulp or charcoal-based steel), it was considered acceptable because: (a) of the
capital-intensive, large-scale nature of the two industries; and (b) the expectation that,
despite the small number of subborrowers, the benefits of the credit-financed investments
would be spread throughout the state through the complimentary small-scale reforestation
component (Component B). Also, it was correctly anticipated that there would be an
evolution of industrial reforestation to include small farmer planting known as the
Fazendeiro Florestal Program (FFP). The FFP, allowed project credit provided to large
companies to be used to provide seedlings, materials (fertilizer, insecticide, hand tools
etc.) and technical assistance to owners of small and medium-sized land holdings -- a type
of out-growers program. This was very successful and eventually accounted for just
under 10 percent of total reforestation under Component A.
7.    High Cost of Reforestation - While the non-weighted average cost of planting
and maintenance under the credit line was about US$480 per ha, the cost of the principal
client's plantations exceeded US$1,500 per ha. The main reason given for this high cost
was the difficult terrain of the company's land which required more expensive manual land
preparation, planting and stand maintenance methods rather than more efficient,
mechanized techniques. The firm maintains that high growth rates make its wood
competitive with other sources, and the availability of low-cost rail transport for its final
product compensates for higher plantation establishment costs.
8.    Because of the difficulties associated with the component, the World Bank mission
that visited Minas Gerais in May 1995 recommended the cancellation of the remaining
US$8.0 million loan amount under the credit line. The GMG agreed with this position,
but requested that the cancellation not take effect until after June 30, 1995, since one of
the subborrowers has a subloan approved by BDMG in the amount of US$2,765,000,
whose disbursement would be valid until that date.
D. RESULTS
9.    Despite the difficulties, the component succeeded in establishing 63,800 ha of
industrial plantations, or 73 percent of the amended target. Of greater importance,
however, was the catalytic effect it had on encouraging small farmers to plant under the
Fazendeiro Florestal Program. Under this program, the project helped 460 small farmers
to plant 5,300 ha of plantations, with an additional 64,000 ha being planted without
project assistance. Using average growth rates of 35m3 per ha per annum over seven
years, it has been estimated that the 63,800 ha planted under the component will produce
15 million m3 of wood. It has also been estimated that 159,000 ha of native forests have
been spared from deforestation as a result. The component will also generate US$12.5
million in stumpage fees and US$93 million in Value Added Tax. Moreover, this project



-32-
activity is estimated to have created some 19,700 person years of employment in the state.
Consequently, the component can be considered to be reasonably successful in reaching its
objectives.
E. SUSTAINABILITY
10.   Loan repayments are running at high levels (95 percent) and capitalized
repayments will be more than enough to provide around US$8.0 million per year to the
Fundo Pro-Floresta which will provide loans for tree planting over a seven-year period.
Having designed the program based on the experience from this Bank-financed project,
the operational guide for the Fundo Pro-Floresta provides that: (i) 50 percent of the fund
will be earmarked for charcoal producers; (ii) priority will be given to borrowers who have
a Fazendeiro program; and (iii) no individual or group will be allowed to borrow more
than 30 percent of available funds. The size of the Fundo Pro-Floresta, together with the
fact that farmers are also planting spontaneously without project assistance, augurs well
for the sustainability of this project-initiated activity.



-33-
ANNEX 2: SMALL-SCALE REFORESTATION
(COMPONENT B) AND INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING (COMPONENT D)
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    This annex is part of the Implementation Completion Report of the Minas Gerais
Forestry Development project (Loan 2895-BR). It contains an evaluation of the
implementation performance of the project's Smallholder Reforestation Component (B)
and Institutional Strengthening Component (D).
B. SMALL HOLDER REFORESTATION
(Component B)
2.    Objectives and Costs. The objective of this subcomponent was to expand small
scale reforestation through the establishment of an additional 34,000 ha of small woodlots
(mainly eucalyptus) on 14,300 farms. An additional 7,300 ha of native species were to be
planted under a special program aimed at widening the genetic base of plantations in order
to reduce the risks inherent to exotic monocultures. The component would not involve
credit, but rather seedlings and extension would be provided to the farmers who, in turn,
would supply the labor to plant and maintain the trees on their land. Some inputs (e.g.
fertilizers and insecticides) would be distributed cost-free in the poorest regions. The
expected benefits of the smallholder reforestation component were consistent with the
project's overall rationale. The expected benefits were based mainly on poverty
alleviation and the advantages the activity would bring to the charcoal-consuming steel
sector, as mentioned in the implementation summary (August 1989), namely:
* The wood/charcoal-consuming industries would not need to purchase additional
land to reforest, as the forest farmers would provide it at no cost;
* The woodlots could be located close to the mills, thus reducing transport costs;
* Smallholder reforestation was significantly more cost-effective than high-
technology industrial plantations;
* Much of the small/medium farmers' land was marginal for crops and livestock and
the plantation of trees would provide increased income and reduce erosion;



-34-
* Reforestation would protect the remaining natural forests, since each hectare of
planted forest would produce as much wood as ten or more hectares of cerrado
(the main source of charcoal for the mills).
3.    The component's total baseline costs were estimated at US$6.4 million (6.5
percent of total project baseline costs), of which the state would finance US$3.3 million
and the loan US$3.1 million.
4.    Summary Evaluation and Results. This component has been most successful,
particularly in the planting of 40,548 ha of eucalyptus, working with some 18,300
beneficiaries. This represents 129 percent of the target area to be planted. The planting of
7,320 ha of native tree species proved more difficult, mainly because of their slower
growth and the lower financial returns. Recognizing this, the State Forestry Institute
(SFI) refocused the program on protection planting in microcatchments and along river
banks, the so-called matas ciliares program, the objective being to protect watercourses
and to reduce erosion. Since the beginning of the project, SFI has worked with some
6,900 beneficiaries who have planted 8,180 ha of native species, or 1 12 percent of the
original target. A key element in the success of this new initiative has been the
participation of municipal governments, producer associations and other non-
governmental organizations (NGOs). Using such partnerships, the SFI has been able to
establish 120 local nurseries which are capable of producing some 3 million seedling per
year. Such has been the success of the program that the demand for native species
seedlings has doubled since 1994; at present it stands at around one million seedlings per
year.
5.    The distribution of exotic species (mainly eucalyptus) was handled directly by SFI
as planned, as was the provision of other inputs (fertilizers, insecticides), and extension to
small and medium farmers through the institute's 14 regional and 120 local offices.
Although the smallholder reforestation got off to a slow start -- mainly because of funding
constraints (especially lack of vehicles and operating funds) caused by fiscal restraint --
the eucalyptus annual planting targets were generally surpassed.
6.    No explicit farmer eligibility criteria were included during project preparation, and
applications for project assistance were evaluated mainly on the basis of farmers'
reforestation capacity, the existence of a land title and land availability. Project
assistance was limited to a minimum of one hectare and a maximum of 10 ha (or 20,000
seedlings) per farmer per year. This enabled some farmers to plant 50 ha or more of
eucalyptus with project incentives, although the average area was below 3 ha per farmer.
7.    The seedlings were produced in SFI's own nurseries, or municipal nurseries, and
distributed generally cost-free to the participating farmers, together with a package of
inputs (fertilizers and insecticides). The cost of free inputs was, however, significantly
below estimates-- 62 percent for eucalyptus and only 23 percent for native species. This
was due to: (i) the SFI decision to reduce the subsidies on fertilizers; and (ii) the
replacement of chloride-based insecticides (use of which was prohibited in 1986) by
myrex ant-bait. The efficiency of operations was also greatly assisted, especially the



-35-
timely transport of the seedlings to remote planting sites, by the active role taken by
municipalities and NGOs.
8.    Technical assistance and supervision was provided by SFI's own extensionists, as
well as by extensionists from EMATER (the Federal Agricultural Extension Service or
Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extension Rural), employees of private firms such as
Celulosa Nipo Brasileira S.A.(CENIBRA), and various NGOs. An important factor
contributing to the success of this activity was the collaborative work with EMATER.
The number of participating farmers exceeded the appraisal projection by 122 percent, and
farmer interest in planting was higher in the Zona da Mata where SFIIEMATER
collaborative work was strongest - possibly because EMATER has 20 years of experience
in the area. By contrast, there was little collaboration in the north and other areas of the
state and the number of participating farmers in those areas was much lower. The success
of this component was also helped by the intensive training of SFI field staff, combined
with the institute's decentralization carried out after 1991.
9.    Native Species. The demand for native species for conservation reforestation was
initially low because farmers preferred to plant the fast-growing eucalyptus, rather than the
slower-growing native species. By 1992, only 18 percent of the planting target for native
species had been achieved, most of which was planted for omamental purposes or for the
production of fruits and fodder. Interest in planting native trees was eventually stimulated
through a successful state-wide SFI promotion campaign launched in 1994. This program
(matas ciliares), focused on the rehabilitation of degraded river banks and riverine
forests, with the objective of protecting springs and watercourses. Another important
factor which stimulated interest in planting native species was the elimination of the
minimum size (i.e., the one ha minimum limit) of area to be planted by each participating
farmer. Many more farmers were able and willing to plant smaller areas, thus allowing
more farmers to participate in the program.
10.    With the support of the municipalities and local NGOs, a substantial area of
riveraine forests in selected microcatchments (mainly those relevant for urban water
supply) has since been reforested with native tree species, or has been protected for
natural regeneration. By mid-1996, the native-species reforestation target had been
surpassed by 12 percent -- a remarkable achievement in less than two years. Local NGO
participation in the outreach effort was fundamental to the success of this activity, and
augurs well for its sustainability. In fact, several NGOs have started to implement matas
ciliares programs of their own, often in cooperation with SFI and private firms.
11.   The mata ciliar campaign has also motivated the steel and paper pulp industries, as
well as COPASA (the state water supply company) and CEMIG (electricity), to initiate
their own conservation reforestation around dams, lakes and watercourses within their
respective areas of influence. While no statistical data are at present available, it is
estimated that the total area already reforested with native species by these firms since
1994 is considerably larger than the area reforested by participating small farmers under
Component B. Furthermore, to support the mata ciliar program, a modest native species
research program was initiated in the Rio Doce park, aimed at defining native species for



-36-
conservation reforestation in the Atlantic Forest of eastern Minas Gerais. This research
aims to help promote soil and water conservation as well as to stimulate the expansion of
land and aquatic fauna in this important and endangered ecotype.
Smallholder Reforestation: Main Achievements
Average Area
Activity                 Target       Achievement   Percent    Per Farmer
1. Eucalyptus
Area (ha)                      34,000           43,700        129         2.39
Beneficiaries (no.)            15,000           18,300       122
Seedlings: (i) Produced (1000)    81,600      101,300        124
(ii) Distributed (1000)  70,000       80,000        115
Inputs (tons)                  3,740             2,300        62
Technical Assistance (Farmers)    15,000         8,600        57
2. Native Species
Area (ha)                       7,320            8,180        112         1.19
Beneficiaries (no.)             3,000            6,900       229
Seedlings: (i) Produced (1000)  4,760           2,780         58
(ii) Distributed (1000)   3,660        2,670        73
Inputs (tons)                    805              188         23
Technical Assistance (Farmers)  3,000            3,184       106
12.   Costs and benefits. SFI's total expenditure on Component B over the project
period (1991-1996) was around US$8.8 million, resulting in an average cost of US$170
per ha reforested (eucalyptus and native species included) and around US$350 per
beneficiary. This cost per hectare is within the expected range of costs for other
reforestation projects in Brazil and the technical quality of the planted woodlots is
generally good. While no growth measurements have been conducted by the project, it is
estimated that average yields are about 30-35 m3/ha/year, which is 25-30 percent below
capital intensive, large-scale reforestation yields. The financial rate of return of the
component's eucalyptus reforestation has been estimated at 15.3 percent (Annex 4). This,
of course, does not include the conservation benefits of reforestation (improved soil and
water conservation, increased wildlife and improved water quality) which are difficult to
quantify.
C. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
(Component D)
13.   Objectives and Costs. The component's main objective was to help SFI
overcome its managerial and technical capacity and skill gaps, mainly through training
courses on mapping, computer programming and management and administration skills
development. The component also included a monitoring subcomponent, managed by the



-37-
SEPLAN-MG coordinating unit. Total baseline costs were estimated at US$1.9 million,
of which the state would finance US$1.0 million and the loan US$0.9 million.
14.   Summary Evaluation and Results. SFI has successfully decentralized its
structure by strengthening its 14 regional offices with additional staff, training and
equipment, as well as increased autonomy and authority. It has also developed a broad
training program for its staff in the areas of administration and technical skills. Its
outreach efforts have also advanced significantly, including universities, local
governments, NGOs, agricultural communities, and private firms. This collaboration has
vastly increased SFI's ability to carry out research, management, field monitoring,
development and conservation, environmental education and fire control (Annex 3). SFI
intends to continue to adjust its role from that of being a regulatory agency to one of
providing normative guidelines, technical assistance and financing. Its transparency has
been greatly improved by its having established a highly participatory Conselho de
AdministraVdo, which is open to the general public
15.   Implementation Experience. During the first year of project implementation,
SFI decided that, without an in-depth reorganization, the project-supported training
activities would have a limited impact. It therefore decided, in agreement with the Bank,
to include structural changes (proposed in the 1992 SFI reorganization law) as a
subcomponent of Component D. The most important aspect of the structural
reorganization was SFI's decentralization, which successfully transferred most decision-
making to the regions, and considerably simplified and streamlined the institute's
bureaucracy. Decentralization and training enabled SFI to improve its financial
management, intensify its assistance to farmers, and consolidate its presence in the entire
state. SFI's institutional strengthening enabled it to not only execute project activities, but
also to comply with its new mandate (as redefined by the 1991 state forest law), such as
authorizing and monitoring deforestation and forest exploitation activities, collecting taxes
and fines, and providing the basic support to the newly created State Secretariat of the
Environment. In addition, SFI's strengthened presence contributed to the successful
launching of the "forest farmer" program, described in Annex 1.
16.   The restructuring of SFI involved an increase in the number of regional offices
from 9 to 14 and the strengthening of the 120 local offices through training and equipment
purchase. In addition, 35 forest and biodiversity protection areas were created in the
state, together with 11 environmental education centers within these same units. The
technical staff was increased from 12 in 1989 to 207 in 1996, and average professionals
salaries were increased from about US$300 (when morale was quite low) to about
US$1,000 per month. The originally planned training program was intensified after the
restructuring, and a total of 137 courses (193 percent of the target) was carried out,
benefiting a total of 628 trainees.
17.   The project's training efforts to improve the forest monitoring capacity of the
newly decentralized field offices, along with the mapping of the forest area of the state and
the procurement and installation of the hardware and software needed to tract
deforestation at the field level, the SFI was able to greatly improve its capacity to monitor



-38-
forest harvesting and to expand and improve the institute's services. During the life of the
project, revenues from inspections and control activities grew from about US$200,000 to
about US$5.3 million, while other revenues (from cadastre, registering of forestry
enterprises, issue of forest exploitation licenses, fines and sale of seedlings, etc.), although
less important, also increased. One notable area in which an increased presence has paid
off is the control of deforestation. Between 1989 and 1995, some 58,000 deforestation
licensing inspections were carried out, covering about 1.5 million ha of native forests. As
a consequence, deforestation on about 400,000 ha of native forests was prevented.
18.   SFI's improved forest monitoring capacity made it possible to increase forest tax
collections from US$1.56 million in 1991 to about US$16.0 million in 1996 (a 925
percent increase). This increase in forest tax revenues, which are submitted directly to the
State Treasury, allowed SFI to become financially self-sufficient for operational costs
only. However, because of public budget regulations and due to the State's fiscal deficit,
the State Treasury was obligated to use any excess forest tax revenues to cover general
budgetary deficits. If SFI were allowed to retain and manage these revenues, rather than to
deposit them in the central treasury as currently mandated, the institute cold most certainly
cover the costs of counterpart funds for a project on the scale of the Forestry
Development Project.
19.   Yet another indicator of the development impact of this activity is the growing
demand for SFI staff to visit other states in Brazil to help design similar institutional
structures in those states. It seems that the SFI has become an institutional model in
Brazil. Moreover, in 1995 the SFI was awarded the Organization of American States
"Latin American Environment Prize" in recognition of its innovative participatory
approach to biodiversity and environmental protection. The institute also enjoys the
strong support of the environmental NGO community in the State.
D. FUNDING PERFORMANCE OF COMPONENTS B AND D
20.   Total disbursements under Component B were US$8.8 million (138 percent of the
appraisal estimates). The relatively slow rate of disbursements at the beginning of the
project is attributed to the restricted demand for smallholder reforestation, mainly
because of SFI's weakness and initial incapacity to promote these activities at field level.
After running at low levels for four years, disbursements finally picked up, due mainly to
the positive impact that institutional strengthening activities had on SFI's capacity to reach
out to farmers and the community at large. Component D disbursed US$4.3 million (226
percent of estimates). The higher than predicted investments in institutional strengthening,
particularly during the initial years of the project (see table below), indicate the importance
correctly given by SFI and the Bank to restructuring and training. The table below also
shows the highly volatile nature of disbursements over the life of the project, which mainly
reflects the highly volatile nature of the country's economy.



-39-
SAR Cost Estimates and Actual Disbursements for Components B and D. (US$
million)
Component  1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   Total
Comp. B
Appraisal    0.3    1.2    1.3    1.3    1.0    0.6    0.4    0.2    6.4
estimate
Disbursed    0.4    0.1    0.6    0.9    0.9    1.0    4.9    0.05   8.8
percent     133    8      46      69     90      167    1,225  25     138
Comp. D
Appraisal    0.1    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.3    0.2    0.1    0.1    1.9
estimate
Disbursed    0.7    1.6    0.4    0.3    0.3    0.6    0.4    0.005  4.3
percent     700    400    100    75      100    300    400    5       226
E. LESSONS LEARNED
21.   The project demonstrated that tree-planting, besides contributing to soil
conservation, can be an attractive economic altemative for small and medium farmers on
lands with low potential for crops. The project also demonstrated that smallholder
reforestation can be very cost-effective.
22.   The project has shown that high quality technical assistance and supervision
contributes greatly to implementation performance. Due to SFI's collaboration with
EMATER in the Zona da Mata region, much better results (both in the number of
farmers assisted and in the quality of the woodlots planted) were achieved there than in
areas where collaboration was less intensive. Furthermore, in northem Minas Gerais
where forest cover is still dense and where there are few wood-buying firms, farmers
were reluctant to plant. This confirms that strong wood markets are essential to the
success of small holder tree planting programs.
23.   Component B has shown that a project with an important message to the farmers
(such as the component's small-scale eucalyptus reforestation and the mata ciliar
program) and a motivated, committed staff (as brought about by improved salaries and
training, as fostered by the project) can greatly improved the credibility, trust, and
effectiveness of a public institution.



-40-
F. SUSTAINABILITY
24.   Because of strong farmer interest in tree planting, the improved revenue earning
and operational capacity of the SFI, strong markets for wood, strong collaboration
between the SFI , Municipalities, EMATER, NGOs and the private sector and the
improved moral of the SFI, the prospects for sustainabilty look very promising.



-41-
ANNEX 3: FOREST CONSERVATION (COMPONENT C)
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    This Annex forms part of the Implementation Completion Report for the Minas
Gerais Forestry Development Project. It contains an evaluation of Component C - Forest
Conservation, the cost of which was estimated to be US$5.6 million. The component had
six subcomponents: (a) Control of Forest Harvesting; (b) Native Forest Management; (c)
Forest Fire Prevention and Control; (d) Education and Forest Conservation; (e)
Development of Parks and Reserves; and (f) the Transfer of Charcoal Manufacturing
Technology to Small Producers.
B. OBJECTIVES AND COSTS
2.    The overall objective of the component was to reduce degradation of the native
forest and to improve environmental conservation. The cost of each subcomponent was
as follows: Control of Forest Harvesting, US$3 50,000; Native Forest Management,
US$280,000; Forest Fire Prevention and Control, US$470,000; Education and Forest
Conservation, US$1.4 million; Development of Parks and Reserves, US$3.1 million; and
transfer of Charcoal Manufacturing Technology, US$98,000.
C. IMLEMENTATION EVALUATION AND RESULTS
3.    Control of Forest Harvesting. This program was successful in preparing forest
cover and land use maps for the entire state (at scales of 1 :100,000 and 1:50,000) for use
by monitoring units in the field. These maps (about 1,000) have been distributed to all 14
regional offices, and nine of the regional offices have been equipped with the work
stations needed to update the maps with real-time vegetative cover data. Of the nine
installed systems, four are fully operational, and these are currently being used to train the
other five regional offices. All 14 regional offices and many of the 120 local offices have
been equipped with the global positioning systems (GPS) needed to make field monitoring
work more efficient. Some 112 technicians (from the 14 regional offices and from 99
local offices) have received training in the use of these maps and GPS, and they are
already making use of this information to focus forest control work. A second full set of
satellite images (about 289 images) has been procured and about 10 percent of those have
been analyzed in the before and after process of locating illegal deforestation.
4.    SFI has discussed ways of keeping the monitoring system up-to-date with the
University of Vicosa, especially with reference to keeping the technology current and to
making the system more flexible and useful for field monitoring. As part of this effort, SFI
is to move its monitoring unit to Vicosa and will sign a convenio with the University of
Vicosa, which will set up a Model Regional Office on campus and use it to develop
training for more effective forest monitoring systems.



-42-
5.    Native Forest Management. Because of staff and funding shortages, very little
was achieved under this activity, which was intended to produce norms for forest
management. Recognizing that they lack the technical expertise to do this, the SFI has
signed a convenio with the University of Vicosa (for work in Atlantica forests) and with
the University of Lavras (for work in the Cerrado forests).
6.    Forest Fire Prevention and Control. The SFI has created (organized, equipped
and trained) 22 fire-fighting brigades to combat fires in the municipalities surrounding its
protected areas. The SFI has installed a radio communications network linking its parks,
regional offices and headquarters to rapidly respond to any future fire threat. An
important element of this fire-fighting strategy is SFI's efforts to educate the general
public on the dangers and ecological damage caused by uncontrolled fires.
7.    A possible indicator to assess the impact of this activity is the relative decrease in
number and extent of fires in the protected areas covered by these fire brigades. For
example, in 1996 there were no fires in the project area but in 1993, 1994 and 1995, 4,700
ha, 2,500 ha and 28 ha respectively were destroyed by fires.
9.    Education in Forest Conservation. The project has established 11
environmental education centers, one in each of the state's conservation areas. These
centers are voluntary and highly participatory, involving schools, municipal groups and
NGOs. The project implemented double the number of training courses estimated and
produced audio-visual aids in support of training. Training was also provided to 145 first-
level teachers in 60 schools, and 295 first-level schools have introduced environmental
training into the curricula. In addition to the foregoing, the component also carried out a
wide range of ecological studies in the project area.
9.    Development of Parks and Reserves. The creation and consolidation of state
park lands has been a very successful activity and has led to greatly improved protection
of the state's ecosystems and a vastly increased demand for the parks' recreational
facilities. Thanks to the development of these parks, an eco-tourism industry has begun to
take hold in the state, thus addressing the project's objective to alleviate rural poverty
through tourism-related employment in rural areas. Since the beginning of the project,
five new protected areas have been established, increasing the state's total protected area
by 71 percent (i.e., from 66,269 ha in 1988 to 113,013 ha in 1996), and a total of 24 state
protected areas (up from five in 1988) are now properly equipped to ensure the protection
of the natural habitats contained in these areas, thus helping to meet the project's objective
of improving environmental protection.
10.   The state's flagship park, the Rio Doce State Park, was developed into what is
today considered to be Brazil's best developed park and has served as a model for such
development in other parts of the country. Because of the project's initiative's, the park
was re-opened to the public in 1992 and tourism has grown to 24,000 visits per year. Use
of this park as a center for environmental training has also grown to capacity, where SFI,
universities, and other pri-; ate and public agencies are booking the use of the park for



-43-
environmental events year-round. This was an unforeseen project benefit, and strengthens
the probability of sustainability. In fact, this park is approaching financial self-sufficiency.
11.   Through project investments, the Ibitipoca State Park is also reaching financial
self-sufficiency, mainly through an increase in tourism--from 12,000 in 1990 to 38,000 in
1995--after infrastructure developments were completed. It is also reported that
economic development and employment have greatly increased in Conceipcao do
Ibitipoca, the small town near the entrance of the Ibitipoca State Parks. This increased
economic activity is best demonstrated by the construction of twelve pousadas, two
restaurants and two souvenir stores; the opening of a bus line to the park from
Conceipcao; and the opening of a construction material business. It has also been
reported that youth are now beginning to return to the village because of the new
economic opportunities found there. Moreover, the municipal governments now sees the
establishment of the park as being in the interest of the community, while before it had
resisted the idea of park establishment.
12.   Another benefit of the infrastructure developments in the Rio Doce and Tbitipoca
Parks is that now that research facilities are available, universities and NGOs are
conducting and funding most (i.e., 25) of the biodiversity studies in and around these
parks, thus helping to ensure a better understanding and hence protection of these
ecotypes. This is another indicator of the sustainability of project-initiated activities.
13.   To ensure the good management of the state's parks, SFI initiated a training
course on park management (AdministraVao e Manejo de Unidades Conservacao -
AMUC), which is held each year in the Rio Doce Park to train park managers from Minas
Gerais as well as from other Brazilian states and other countries in Latin America. In
1995, SFI trained 25 park specialists through this course. To ensure sustainability for this
project-initiated activity, SFI has sought funding help from, inter alia, the US Fish and
Wildlife Service to expand and continue the course.
14.   To help to ensure sustainability of the park developments, and to obtain local
participation in their protection and management, the state enacted Law 20,040 which
created the ICMS (Imposto sobre Circulagdo de Mercadorias e Servigos) Ecologica
program. This ICMS Ecologica program ensures that 0.33 percent of the state's 17
percent consumption tax is earmarked for environmental and social development programs
in the communities in which state parks are located. This facility, which is intended to
compensate these municipalities for the productive activities lost to the establishment of
protected areas, has already provided some US$2.8 million and has begun to win the good
will of some 98 neighboring municipalities. In fact, while at the beginning of the Bank-
financed project communities were not interested in the development of new protected
areas in their back yard, there is now good public participation in these park developments
and many other municipalities make inquiries each year to SFI for the development of new
protected areas. This could form the basis of a greatly expanded Bank-financed
investment program, especially in view of the fact that only about one percent of the
state's total area is included in its system of protected areas.



-44-
15.   Transfer of Charcoal Manufacturing Technology. In agreement with the Bank,
the government decided to drop this activity because it was considered contrary to policy
and more the responsibility of the private sector.
D. LESSONS LEARNED
16.   The main lessons learned apply to the development of the Parks and Reserves
subcomponent. Firstly, it is essential to prioritize area development, taking into account
local interest and participation, as well as biodiversity/ecotype representation. To do this,
an institutionalized mechanism is needed to systematically evaluate: (i) the
biodiversity/scenic importance of the area; (ii) the current status and land ownership of the
proposed area; (iii) the probable investment and maintenance costs for establishing and
operating the area; and (iv) the interest of the neighboring municipalities/communities and
how best to ensure local participation in park establishment and protection (without which
there would be no guarantee of sustainability).
17.   Secondly, it is important to be flexible and to have fall-back options in the phasing
of developments in new protected areas. This would have been useful in the development
of infrastructure in three of the new protected areas proposed under the project -
Itacolomi, Peruacu and Rio Preto - where progress was delayed due to the legal transfer
(regularizagdo fundiaria) of the land to the state. A possible solution to this problem
would have been the establishment of incentive and regulatory mechanisms to help private
landowners establish and maintain protected areas on privately-owned land. As a result of
this experience, the SFI has prepared and sent to Congress for consideration, a draft law
entitled Reservas Paticulares do Patrimonio Natural Estaduais.
18.   Thirdly, it is important to prepare and update participatory management plans
prior to initiating developments in either new or already established parks. The SFI now
accepts this and has developed the Planes Operacionais approach which involves local
communities, local governments, NGOs, universities and private firms, it has also
developed a formal system and schedule for preparing management plans to ensure better
development planning. Such an approach would have been useful in Ibitipoca Park where
a tourism plan would have been valuable to better manage the rapid growth of tourism.
Tourism plans are now being prepared for the parks where tourism is taking hold, but eco-
tourism management, along with concession management are new developments in Minas
Gerais (as well as in most of Latin America) that need to be strengthened.
E. SUSTAINABILITY
19.   Prospects for sustainability of all activities look promising because of SFI's
improved financial position (Annexs 1 and 2); the use of improved, low-cost, satellite
technology for monitoring; project support training; the revenue earning potential of
selected parks; and the far greater involvement of communities, municipalities, NGOs and
the private sector in fire control and parks management.



-45-
ANNEX 4: PROJECT ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL
RESULTS
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    The project SAR estimated an internal economic rate of return (IERR) of 16.6
percent for the project as a whole, considering only the benefits of the project's productive
components, which represented 93 percent of total costs. Non-quantifiable benefits not
taken into account included: (i) educational activities; (ii) reduced pressure on existing
native forests; (iii) increased employment; (iv) improved sustainable productivity resulting
from research; (v) improved land-use; and (vi) improved soil quality and decreased
erosion. The SAR' s sensitivity analysis indicated that a 20 percent increase in costs or a
20 percent decrease in benefits would reduce the IERR to 13.8 and 13.1 percent
respectively, whereas a one-year delay in achieving expected benefits would reduce the
IERR to 13.4 percent.
2.    For the participants of Component A (industrial plantations), the financial rates of
return (FRR) were estimated to be 14 percent for large investors and 20 percent for small
farmers. For Component B, an FRR of between 15 and 20 percent was estimated for
medium- and small-scale planters respectively. Cost recovery under Component A was to
be carried out through loan repayments. For the other components, costs (including small
subsidies to encourage small farmers to reforest) were to be partially recovered through
forestry taxes on wood extracted from natural forests and plantations.
B. FINANCIAL RESULTS
3.    In order to estimate the financial rates of return for reforestation activities, four
representative models were analyzed: (i) the CENIBRA company's plantations for
pulpwood; (ii) the iron industry (MANNESMANN) plantations for charcoal production;
(iii) an 8 hafazendeirosflorestais plantation with CENIBRA and (iv) a 2.4 ha smallholder
plantation under Component B. The results of the analysis, using 1996 costs and prices,
are presented in Tables I to 4 (in project files) and are summarized in the table below.



-46-
Results of the Models
Model                          FTRR         NPV (I1% dluunt rite):
%                  in S---
Planting of 4980 ha for paper pulp (CENIBRA 1995)  4.0              - 4.064.160
Planting of 4650 ha for charcoal (MANNESMANN 1996)  16.8             2.287.980
Planting of 8 ha with forest fanner (CENIBRA 1992)  9.6               - 170
Planting of 2.4 ha with Forestry Promotion (Component B)  15.3         583
4.    The results suggest lower than predicted returns in CENIBRA pulpwood
plantations, while satisfactory results appear to be obtainable for iron producing
companies that have planted for charcoal. The low returns from CENIBRA pulpwood
plantations are attributed to the high costs of reforestation, which averaged US$2,000 per
ha, excluding land costs. This compares with US$500-600 per ha for companies
reforesting for charcoal production. However, even with CENIBRA' s high establishment
costs and low returns, the company continues to plant, which suggests that actual
financial returns may be more favorable than they appear. This could be explained by the
fact that CENIBRA runs an integrated forestry and pulp operation and exports most of its
output. It may also be that there are tax advantages to be gained from inflating the cost of
wood raw materials.
5.    Another indication that returns on plantations may be higher than they appear is
that loan repayments are running at over 95 percent (only one of the 24 operations under
Component A may have difficulties in repaying its debts). This may be explained by the
fact that wood prices are recovering and that alternative markets are developing for wood
products. According to one reforestation company with large areas of industrial
plantations, it will be able to repay 100 percent of its debt by selling only 10 percent of the
first harvest (the best quality, large dimension material) as sawn timber. It seems,
therefore, that prospects for returns on plantations are improving because markets are
developing for better quality, knot-free wood for sawrnilling, parquet flooring and
furniture making.
C. COST RECOVERY
7.    Of the US$72.5 million invested in the Minas Gerais Forestry Development
Project, US$56.3 million was accounted for by Component A, 50 percent of which was
financed by beneficiaries and the remaining 50 percent (US$28 million) by Bank funds
channeled through the Minas Gerais Development Bank (BDMG). According to BDMG
estimates, credit recovery will exceed 95 percent (23 out of the 24 operations financed
have been able to repay their sub-loans). As a consequence of indexing, the capital sum
due on the US$28 million of loans will be US$44 million; with interest, some US$66
million will be recovered between 1997 and 2009. This means that between US$8 million
and US$10 million can be made available annually as credit for reforestation over the next
seven years through the Fundo Profloresta (see Annex 1). Consequently, with the
creation of the Fundo Proflorresta with Component A subloan repayments, the
sustainability of credit-supported industrial reforestation appears assured.



-47-
8.    Other project costs, which totaled around US$18 million, will be recovered
through an improved control and inspection system which will enable the State Forestry
Institute (SFI) to better collect the various forestry taxes, such as taxes generated by
lumber and charcoal transport, taxes on wood processing for pulp production, and taxes
on pulpwood exports. In its evaluation of Loan 2895-BR, the University of Vi,osa
estimated that, during the planting cycle (14 years with two fellings in the case of pulp,
and 21 years with three fellings in the case of charcoal), reforestation carried out under the
framework of the project would generate US$12.5 million in revenue through the
Forestry Tax and US$93.5 million through the ICMS (Value Added Tax) tax. As
discussed below, each hectare of eucalyptus pulp plantation will also generate economic
benefits of over US$500 in taxes per year, so that the 35,000 ha planted for pulp (as
opposed to charcoal) will generate around US$17.5 million in revenues per year.
D. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
9.    Prices. For the economic analysis, the only market price adjustments made were
those of the principal products; that is, wood for pulpmaking and charcoal for energy
generation in the steel industry. For pulpwood, the export parity price was used because
90 percent of pulp is exported. For charcoal, the import parity price of coke, which is the
only viable alternative for smelting steel, was used.
10.  In the case of paper pulp, CENIBRA's average FOB export price between 1991
and 1996 was US$485 per ton (varying between US$756 and US$327 in 1995 and 1993,
respectively). As estimated by the Resources Information Systems, Inc., prices of pulp
are projected to stabilize at around US$700 per ton by the beginning of 1997. The
following table shows the financial price and the import parity price estimate used as the
economic prices of pulpwood:



-48-
Cost Structure and Parity Price for Pulpwood
Concept                   Financial Price    Economic
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _P rice
1. FOB price of pulp (USS/ton)                   485            485
2. Fixed Industrial Costs                        200            200
2.1 Personnel                                  55             55
2.2. Materials                                 11             11
2.3. services                                  24             24
2.4. Depreciation of equipment                 109            109
2.5. Others                                     I              1
3. Variable Industrial Costs                     185            453/
3.1. Fuel                                       19            19
3.2. Chemicals                                 15             15
3.3. Pulpwood                                  130
3.4. Fuelwood                                   10
3.5. Others                                    11             11
4. Margin                                        100
5. Economic Value (after taxes)                                 240
6. Taxes                                   |    (100)           100
7. Financial price paid for pulpwood required to  1402
make one ton of pulp
8. Economic price of pulpwood (5+6)                            340
9. Volume of wood needed to make one ton of pulp  5.67          5.67
10. Financial price Pulpwood (USS/m3) (7/9)      24.7
11. Economic price of pulpwood (USSIn3) (8/9)     -             60
Various taxes included in processing
2. To estimate parity prices, the cost of wood has been excluded because it is a variable cost, the
economic price of which is reflected in the residual value.
Value assigned by the Industry (3.3 +3.4)
11.    In the case of charcoal, MANNESMANN Forestal, one of the largest steel
producers in Minas Gerais with over 100,000 hectares of its own plantations, provided the
necessary information. This company has carried out an exhaustive analysis of the
economic aspects of substituting charcoal with imported coke. Taking account of the cost
of imported coke and the investments needed to convert from charcoal to coke, including
the removal of sulfur that coke requires, wood for charcoal would need to cost US$38 per
m3 for it be competitive with coke. Consequently, for the economic analysis, this price
was used instead of the US$24 currently being paid by the industry for a cubic meter of
wood.
12.    Costs, Benefits and Results. As in the SAR, the economic evaluation considered
costs involved in productive and non-productive components. It also included the benefits
derived from 14 of the 24 reforestation subloans issued under Component A (which
accounted for 95 percent of the component's resources and 82 percent of the reforested
area), together with benefits from the 43,712 ha of eucalyptus planted under Component
B. The budgeting of the program's overall benefits and costs are presented in Table 5 (in
project files). As summarized in the following table, the overall IERR for Component A
was 29.89 percent, which is the weighted average of the plantations for pulpwood and the
plantations for charcoal wood. The overall IERR for Component B was 16.5 percent, the



-49-
model for which included both the costs and benefits for 43,700 ha of eucalyptus
plantations and only the costs of the 8,180 ha of native forests plantations( in which the
benefits could not be quantified). The IERR for the overall project was estimated at 26.6
percent, significantly higher than that estimated in the SAR. The following table
summarizes the results of the evaluation for the productive components and for the project
as a whole.
Economic Results of Evaluation
internai Econontic Rate of    Present Net Value
Return: (%a)      (10%/ t DiscountRaWtc
Component A                                  29.8%             US$211.3 million
Plantations for pulp                       32.0%             US$183.6 million
Plantations for charcoal                   21.7%              US$27.7 million
Component B                                  16.5%             US$14.9 million
Eucalyptus plantations                     17.3%              US$16.4 million
Native forest plantations                                    -(US$1.5 million)
Other Components (C, D and E)                                  -(US$8.1 million)
Total costs (incl. components C, D & E)      26.6%             US$218.1 million
Productive components (A and B-Eucalyptus)   28.1%             US$227.7 million
13.   There are various reasons why the returns exceeded expectations:
* The planting of nearly 35,000 ha of eucalyptus for pulp production shows an IERR of
32 percent, compared to 21.6 percent if used for charcoal and fuelwood only (the
SAR anticipated that most plantations would be used for charcoal production). The
higher economic value from pulp production is because the 50 m3 yearly wood
production from each hectare of plantation translates into an FOB value of
US$4,275/ha/year, once that wood is converted into 8.8 tons of pulp. Of this, the
producer receives 23 percent, the State 21 percent through various taxes, and the
remaining 56 percent is accounted for by transportation, industrial inputs, margins and
salaries. In the case of charcoal, the economic value is limited to the possibility of
substitution with imported coke as an energy source and reducing agent for steel
production. In this case, the econonic value of the 50 cubic meters produced per
hectare per year would be around US$1,050 (i. e., 25 percent of that generated by the
paper pulp chain).
* Real wood prices in Minas Gerais during the period rose faster than the costs of
reforestation, thus improving profitability. This is mainly a consequence of a growing
scarcity of wood caused by past deforestation. This is evidenced by the fact that
charcoal produced from plantation-grown wood increased from 3.6 million cubic
meters in 1984 to 10.9 million cubic meters in 1994. This means that only 17 percent
of charcoal was produced from plantation wood in 1984, while more than 50 percent
was produced from plantation-grown wood in 1994. Wood prices have also risen
from about US$10 in 1984 to about US$24 per m3 in 1996. When expressed in 1996



-50-
US dollars (discounting dollar inflation), this translates into a real price increase of
over 70 percent (i.e., from US$14 to US$24 per cubic meter).
E. CONCLUSIONS
14.   The economic returns of the project will likely be higher than estimated in the
SAR, and positive financial returns are most likely to be realized where tree growing is
linked (integrated) to processing, i.e., when tree planting is part of the overall production
process of paper pulp and/or steel. Higher financial returns will also be realized if the
better quality wood is sold for sawmilling and furniture making. If this does not occur,
financial returns will be low because of the high cost of credit. In the case of small,
independent growers (small farmers), subsidies, such as those provided in Component B,
will probably be needed to make tree planing financially attractive. This explains why only
large companies with integrated operations applied for credit under the project in
Component A.
15.   Prospects for sustainability and cost recovery appear favorable because of loan
repayments and the fact that a strengthened SFI is better able to control logging in natural
forests and to better collect tax revenues, which will allow it to finance the continuation
of project activities. Because of growing wood scarcities and tighter control over
deforestation, wood prices are rising and are beginning to approach their true social
value.



-51-
ANNEX 5: BORROWER COMPLETION REPORT"0
(SUMMARY)
MINAS GERAIS STATE FORESTRY CONSERVATION AND PRODUCTION
PROGRAM - PROFLORESTA
1.    The Minas Gerais State Forestry Conservation and Production Program --
PROFLORESTA was implemented at a time of great uncertainty concerning the Brazilian
economy. Monthly inflation rates were extremely high and correction measures were
thought to feed the inflationary mechanism. The forestry sector was ignored; it was felt
that the official resources of the Sectoral Investment Fund - FISET were not sufficient to
finance needed planting to make the State's industrial sector self-sufficient. There was no
explicit policy for forest industry development, nor for forestry development at the level of
small farmers, and forestry conservation efforts were only cautiously carried out by the
State Forestry Institute - SFI which, in turn, lacked institutional development efforts.
2.    The project was submitted by the State of Minas Gerais (borrower) to the World
Bank. The Loan Agreement (2895-BR) for US$48.5 million was signed on September 30,
1988. This loan was to be repayable in 15 years by means of a fixed, programmed
amortization, including three years of grace, using the Bank's standard variable interest
rate.
3.    The total amount of the Program also included US$8.1 million from the State of
Minas Gerais and US$43.5 million from companies participating in the Industrial
Reforestation Component. In total, the Program's initial budget was US$100 million.
The State Government canceled around US$8 million referring to Component A:
Industrial Reforestation.
4.    Objectives and Description. The Program's objectives were to: increase industrial
timber production through expanded reforestation, and increase the productivity of native
forests through more appropriate management; reduce the degradation of native forests
through rehabilitation and conservation; reduce rural poverty through employment
generation; improve environmental protection through conservation-oriented education,
manage State Parks and conduct environmental research; and strengthen the State
Forestry Institute.
5.    The Program was to finance: (a) the establishment of around 165,000 ha of forest
plantings for industrial purposes (especially charcoal for steel production) through a line of
credit; (b) the planting of approximately 40,000 ha forests on small- and medium-scale
properties; (c) staff, equipment and consulting services for forest conservation, including
(i) control, supervision and management of forest extraction, (ii) conservation-oriented
10 Acccording to Bank Guidelines, this English translaton of the BCR has not been edited.



-52-
education, and (iii) development of parks and reserves; (d) institutional development to
strengthen SFI; and (e) an evaluation of the Program.
6.    Implementation of PROFLORESTA: Implementation occurred in different ways
under the various components of the Program, by means of loans, donation of inputs,
courses and training with specific contents; all of this was done in the framework of
providing technical assistance for activities that would be of interest to the public. During
the implementation of the Program, the country continued to experience a series of
economic difficulties. In addition, various federal government stabilization programs were
put into practice, causing companies to feel uncertain about the country's situation.
7.    For the implementation of industrial reforestation at the beginning of the Program,
there was no defined financial correction mechanism for investments, which should be
done by means of a "currency basket", using the US dollar as the principal reference.
Businessmen were hesitant to borrow, especially because of the risk of a major
devaluation of the cruzeiro, as had occurred in the past. This resulted in decreased loan
demand until the State assumed the risk and opted to correct the Consumer Price Index
(IPC), at which time investments began.
8.    Despite constant delays in the transfer of financial resources to SFI, small-scale
reforestation was implemented without major problems. It should be noted, however, that
eucalyptus reforestation was more successful than that of native species, due to producers'
preferences.
9.    SFI developed major partnerships with various governmental and non-
governmental agencies, facilitating the implementation of intervention strategies in its
components. However, because the Program's targets were not outlined with a full
understanding of SFI's physical conditions and sometimes without proper precision, its
execution and evaluation were hindered.
Results and Benefits of the Program
Component A - Industrial Reforestation (Amount: US$56,309,280.66)
10.   Despite the country's economic instability, which lasted throughout nearly the
entire implementation period of PROFLORESTA, and which seriously jeopardized this
component by discouraging long-term investments in reforestation, as well as the
problems that arose during its execution, the Program's performance may be considered
good in light of the achievement of the following results:
(a) Up to June 1995, when Component A financing was closed, 63,834 hectares
of eucalyptus were planted, corresponding to 73,3% of the physical target.
Investments under Component A were US$62,996,996.00, or 74.6% of the
financial target. BDMG loans totaling US$27,954,890.00, or 76.4% of the
target. Some 15.7% of the State's total reforested area is attributed to this
project.



-53-
(b) Production from these project financed plantations is estimated at 18,336,868
steres (cubic meters) paper pulp, 3,900,944 steres firewood, 10,020,077 cubic
meters charcoal, and 12,000 tons per year of green material for extraction of
essential oils.
(c) Unproductive areas were incorporated in the production system, in particular
reforestation with the fazendeirosflorestais Program totaled 5,300 hectares,
of which 1,500 ha were planted by CBCC, 2,000 ha by Aracruz Celulose and
1,800 ha by Cenibra.
(d) During the 21 -year cycle of eucalyptus production, the Program will employ
39,560 man-years of unskilled labor and 7,050 man-years of more skilled labor,
such as tractor or chain saw operators, etc., totaling 46,610 man-years of
employment created.
(e) The reforestation carried out will replace the consumption of firewood and
charcoal from 159,607 hectares of native forest.
(f) Increased demand for PROFLORESTA, since the number of proposals not
approved (27) exceeded the number of those approved (24), corresponding to
14 companies.
(g) Generation of US$12,547,456 revenue for SFI from the Forest Tax to be paid
during the exploitation of these plantations.
(h) Generation of US$93,528,380 of revenues for the State, from the ICMS (i.e.,
IVA)on products stemming from these plantations.
(i) The economic analysis of projects, with the determination of the Internal Rate
of Return (IRR) and Net Present Value (NPV), showed that these are all
economically viable.
(j) Creation, by the State Government, of the PROFLORESTA Fund on January 6,
1994, with funds from payments of BDMG subloans.
(k) In July 1996, an agreement was signed by SFI and Sindifer - the Union of Iron
Industries of the State of Minas Gerais--for the purpose of developing a joint
reforestation program withfazendeirosflorestais, using 25% of the resources
from the Forest Tax, as legally stipulated, with an expected initial investment
of around US$4,000,000.00, since the expected tax collection for this year is
US$16,000,000.00.
11.   Experts and all who participated in the Program learned lessons from
PROFLORESTA by observing negative and positive points. Some of the problems and
their respective solutions are indicated below:



-54-
(a) At the beginning of negotiations of the Program, there was a delay in its
approval by the relevant agencies and a lack of definition of a financial
correction mechanism for investments, which should be done by means of a
"currency basket", using the US dollar as the principal reference. Businessmen
were hesitant to borrow because of the risk of a major devaluation of the
cruzeiro, as had occurred in the past. This resulted in decreased loan demand
until the State decided to assume the risk and opted to correct the Consumer
Price Index (IPC), at which time investments then began.
(b) The delay in releasing loan tranches, normally made at the end of the month,
after the twentieth of each month, jeopardized borrowers since there was no
currency correction from the first of the month. During this period of high
inflation, this problem discouraged others who might have been interested in
the Program.
(c) The need for an external audit of the company was another drawback for the
Program, since the cost of this audit made loan proposals unfeasible. This
problem was partially solved, at the suggestion of the Evaluation Team, by
foregoing this audit for loans up to US$300,000.00. It should be noted here
that this audit is no longer necessary for financing under the PROFLORESTA
Fund, in light of BDMG's experience with this project and since this was a
World Bank requirement for project it financed.
(d) BDMG's bureaucratic requirements for loan approval, as well as those
required by the Operational Guidelines for Financial and Related Institutions,
should be noted. BDMG is studying the possibility of streamlining these
steps for loan analyses under the PROFLORESTA Fund.
(e) The complexity and level of detail of reforestation projects were strongly
criticized by businessmen. According to BDMG, these project proposals could
be simplified with the PROFLORESTA Fund which is no longer subject to
World Bank guidelines.
(f) The interest rate was considered high, especially when the Reference Rate (TR)
was used to index the monetary correction of loans, since the TR was above
the inflation rate. For the PROFLORESTA Fund, this rate was set at the
lowest amount, 6%.
(g) The large concentration of loans to only two companies should be considered a
negative point which, however, this did help create the PROFLORESTA Fund,
since otherwise there was not enough demand for resources available under
Component A. For loans under the PROFLORESTA Fund, there is a financial
limit for companies, according to suggestions by the Evaluation Team, and
priority is given to projects withfazendeirosflorestais and to companies that
use charcoal, which was not one of BDMG's initial priorities.



-55-
Component B - Small-Scale Reforestation (Amount: US$4,855,351.32)
12.   In general terms, Component B achieved its goals, particularly with regard to
eucalyptus plantings. A total of 43,713 ha were planted, equivalent to 129% of the
original target of 34,000 ha. Eucalyptus reforestation was successful for a number of
reasons, including the need for an on-farm reserve of firewood and timber, as well as the
economic aspects involved in this activity. It is worth noting that the owner indicates
areas for planting which he himself considers unsuitable for other activities, or degraded
areas. This practice is the result of the environmental education efforts made by the
Program and the media which have shown the need to preserve the environment and the
benefits derived from this practice.
13.   The planting of native species was also successful. Around 8,180 ha were planted
with native species, corresponding to 112% of the original target. It was noted that
producers are afraid to plant these species because they cannot economically exploit them
in the future. Moreover, they said that eucalyptus gives a quick return and a greater
volume of timber. It was observed that when producers received eucalyptus seedlings,
they opted to receive some native species seedlings as well, but they were more interested
in planting eucalyptus.
14.   An average of 2.39 ha of eucalyptus and 1.19 ha of native species were planted on
each farm. The number of farmers assisted indicated an interest in planting larger areas
with eucalyptus. The target of benefiting 15,000 farmers with eucalyptus was met by
122%, while the goal of assisting 3,000 farmers with native species was met by 229%.
15.   Component B also shows a good trend for employment generation. From the
stage of implementing eucalyptus until second coppicing, a total of 2,582,796 man-days
should be used. This amount is equivalent to a total of 8,609 jobs.
16.   A field survey showed that the average production of the first cut in the Program
region was 243.54 st of timber per hectare, and the largest production was in the regions
of Vale do Rio Doce, Alto Paranaiba and Sul de Minas. Production in the Program areas
is considered very good since state-wide production varies from 105 st to 280 st per
hectare, averaging 175 st/ha.
17.   Average gross revenue per hectare was R$2.601.21 during the first cutting, and
R$1,930.88 during the second cutting.
18.   The following are some of the lessons learned from Component B:
(a) The first is the decision of farmers to participate in the Program, planting
eucalyptus and putting native species in second place. The reasons that lead a
farmer to choose eucalyptus are strictly economic. However, it was noted that
areas selected for planting were unsuitable for farming and livestock, or were
degraded. This is certainly an ecological choice that merits attention.



-56-
(b) Plantings of native species only increased when SFI began to intensify its
efforts with respect to gallery forests. This is a lesson for SFI's future efforts.
(c) Finally, the need for SFI to prepare itself for the future should be stressed. Its
current structure does not meet technical assistance demands. Its staff, despite
being increased with PROFLORESTA, is still too small to handle its
commitment to enforce, promote environmental education, manage data on
forestry and the forestry sector, promote State forest policies, interact with
reforestation companies, etc.
Component C - Forest Conservation (Amount: US$6,801,913.77)
19.   In general, the performance of Component C may be considered good. Even
considering SFI's lack of technical experience, the lack of initial infrastructure, resources
and other factors, PROFLORESTA allowed the Institution to achieve significant results
between 1989 and 1995.
20.   Under the Forest Harvesting Control Subcomponent, the mapping of the entire
State of Minas Gerais was consolidated, which led SFI to become a point of reference for
the production of mapped data. From 1989 to 1995, approximately 392,000 hectares of
native forests were preserved (area not released for clearing). At the same time, the
Forest Fire Prevention and Control System reduced and prevented the occurrence of fires
within and outside State conservation units, thereby avoiding incalculable material and
environmental damage.
21.   Under the subcomponent dealing with Forest Conservation Education, SFI,
besides intensifying its awareness efforts among the population (especially in buffer areas
of conservation units), formally introduced Environmental Education as part of the
curriculum of 190 public elementary schools, with the involvement of over 1,000 teachers.
22.   Under the Parks and Reserves Development Subcomponent, thanks to
PROFLORESTA over 20,000 m2 of works and repairs were carried out in the
conservation units. In the Rio Doce State Park alone, over 5,000 m2 of works were
constructed. The creation of a Secretariat of Environment, Tourism and Development
within the Rio Doce State Park, and the creation of the Ecological ICMS (Tax on Goods
and Services - State Law n 12.040 dated December 28, 1995) were major achievements.
The flow of tourists increased, especially in the Ibitipoca and Rio Doce State Parks. For
this reason, the significant increase in economic activity in communities adjacent to these
parks improved the population's level of employment and income. The creation of five
new conservation units increased by 71% the area preserved in the State of Minas Gerais.
23.   Research performed using PROFLORESTA funds allowed 25 new research
projects to be installed in the Rio Doce and Ibitipoca State Parks, under the responsibility
of the research institutions themselves and with funding from other financial sources.



-57-
24.   In all projects under Component C, PROFLORESTA gave SFI a greater capacity
to seek partnerships to carry out its activities.
25.   The Charcoal Technology Transfer Project, under an agreement with CETEC - the
Minas Gerais Technological Center, which was expected to train SFI technical staff as
well as rural farmers, was suspended in 1990 because it was contrary to SFI's
conservation policy. The Native Forest Management Project was abandoned due to the
lack of a defined, suitable methodology for the management of forest species in the State
of Minas Gerais. This project should be reactivated thanks to the agreements that SFI is
signing with the Federal Universities of Vi,osa and of Lavras.
Component D: Institutional Development (Amount: US$4,287,527.85)
26.   The objective of this Component is to strengthen SFI's management capacity, with
specific emphasis on improving its technical, administrative and organizational capacities.
27.   In relation to the definition and implementation of interventions, there are two
reference frameworks to guide such interventions. The first identifies the organizational
deficits obtained through the System for Analysis of Institutional Capacity, and the second
stems from the enactment of the Forestry Law and the Law on the Reorganization of the
State Forestry Institute. The latter is dependent upon the former. Both are implemented
through training courses, meetings, symposia and speeches. 137 training courses were
presented, benefiting a total of 628 trainees.
28.   The following results were identified:
*  The initial intervention of PROFLORESTA allowed SFI's expenses to be
covered so that it could carry out its basic functions.
*  The cooperation with the Joao Pinheiro Foundation to prepare the
administrative restructuring proposal.
*  Administrative decentralization, accompanied by computerization in the areas
of management, promotion, finance and budget.
*  Reduction in paper flow, thereby streamlining decision-making.
*  Training of technical staff and improvement of the Institution's infrastructure.
* Between 1990 and 1995, provision of technical assistance on forest promotion
to 13,281 farmers, and guidance on forest development techniques to 50,000
other rural land owners.
*  Communication between experts and farmers has improved.
*  The formation of databases that will provide information on the State's plant
coverage.
*  The strengthening of SFI's efforts within the State.
The following impacts were noted:
* Provision of infrastructure and organizational conditions to financially support
the Institution with resources from the Forest Tax and revenue from forest
control and enforcement. The Forest Tax increased from US$1.56 million in



-58-
1991 to the US$16.0 million expected for 1996. Revenue from the control
and enforcement of forest activities grew from US$200,000 in 1991 to the
R$5.3 million expected for 1996.
*  The Institution became financially capable to fund the counterpart part of
future investment programs. The Institution's overall budget increased from
R$2.94 million in 1991 to the R$28.3 million expected for 1996.
*  Organization and implementation of six Regional Training and Technology
Dissemination Centers.
*  Increase in the number of new positions for decentralized technical functions.
There are seven new occupations and 195 new positions in SFI.
*  Greater security for experts in transmitting data, participating in public events
and speaking on local radio programs.
*  Increase in the number of institutions interacting with SFI, particularly local
governments, firemen, PRODEMGE, Copasa, Aracruz Celulose, UPL of Uba,
SindiGusa, Ministry of Environment, Military Police, FUNAI, Secretariat of
Education, NGOs, UNICEF, Federal Universities of Ouro Preto, Juiz de Fora,
Vi,osa and Minas Gerais, Empresa Minera,co Brasileira Reunidas, ACESITA
and EPAMIG.
*   SFI is becoming an organizational model for the establishment of similar
Forestry Institutes in other Brazilian states.
29.   PROFLORESTA resources are needed to continue providing specific training
courses, purchasing equipment and making investments.
30.   For the preparation of the operational plan, the institutional development gap were
identified. Areas reviewed were: suitability of methods and strategies for improving
organizational procedures; specific training on financial programming and administration,
project administration, management and human relations, involvement of local offices in
institutional development planning; and research on SFI's relationships/dealings with
clients and users.
31.   Sustainability: The Program's sustainability, in terms of production, under
Components A and B has excellent prospects, especially due to investment returns,
motivation of businessmen and producers, the positive effect of education campaigns for
environmental conservation and prospects for a stable economy. On the institutional side,
however, the Program's sustainability is dependent on the SFI-generated resources that
the State allows this agency to retain and manage. It will also depend on partnerships with
other government agencies and other companies. The process of modernizing the
institution, and its efforts to promote environmental education, enforce and encourage
new reforestation and generate forest policies, are seriously dependent on resources. The
amount of resources generated during the implementation phase and future prospects are
enough to ensure the Program's sustainability. However, these resources must return to
SFI. Consideration must also be given to SFI's institutional interaction with State
Universities, with NGOs, with companies dealing with the forestry sector and other
institutions. Moreover, PROFLORESTA's sustainability has a greater chance of success



-59-
if one considers the PROFLORESTA Fund's great potential for maintaining the growth of
the State forestry sector.
32.   Lessons Learned. The lessons learned from PROFLORESTA may be summarized
as follows:
(a) Despite understanding the need to follow banking procedures to minimize
risks, in programs such as PROFLORESTA one must seek the proper terms by
which bureaucratic and project demands can be minimized.
(b) The regulations that govern a program such as PROFLORESTA must be clear
and any decision on change must be taken promptly so as to avoid losses, since
this program is related to biological cycles.
(c) For future projects it is necessary to understand the demand of potential users
in order to be able to set goals. SFI' s field technicians recognize, as was
confirmed throughout implementation, that in order to work with native
species the Program would be more effective through smaller projects dealing
with gallery forests.
(d) SFI, despite being strengthened following the implementation of
PROFLORESTA, still has weak points in meeting demand for technical
assistance in the State, since the decisions concerning institutional development
is concentrated at Headquarters and at Regional Offices.
(e) There is proven potential for ecotourism in state parks, with quite positive
impacts on regional economies.
(f) The absence of a conceptual model for Program evaluation made it difficult to
interpret the impacts and nature of interaction among PROFLORESTA's
components.



IBRD 16561R
B R A Z I L
MINAS GERAIS FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  'B
_:           Esstn9 FotesO-y DeoeIopotent _nder                                                             (                                                                                                 BA        I
tr K         MG I ond MG I Ro,.l De-I.op-ent Pro-et)
Enosting Iniros,tonor                                                           A >         s/                                                        5  
13 Reg.o1 Offi...
*       F,eld Offcer
Q   Phy-nol B.-,e
>)      NuStOie p0&                              F\ -t                                                     1                                                                                                                    tlrob  - -
;FEDERAL DISTRI                                                                                                                                                           ...D
*       Net-onol C.ptlol                         \         Brosillo              NJj i.0P                                                                                                                              3-
           Stlteni Ci$Bop,tl           o. de                      -no  -                                                           i)oI0n                                                                       *@ ed       i     *)AIenr  ............. 
"I . dY M.- ~    ~              ~             ~             e"~~ 
-MLcro.Reg.on 8oundorns( 2,    ieo Mgl
-.  -         State Boundories                                                                 _nJcpl                                             Cr Odess /                                  o                                   oom
.Internot,ono B oundor,ies
K,Iometn'0t         50        100        150
M,1e0                                                    1 s                                                                                                                                                               Aguos Fo-.osos
X   3 2 A  z  | L  pX                                         gL  g                      %                 relo n dioC  bo                                                                          \ ja  * 
- J EOLIVI2L 2 ~TaaC*  _  Algu  2ontob             '           8           c          d           loae   ouo                         Fl go_-
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~01
.                                                                                                      ,                                                                                                                   JULY 19d7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P  
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
0,,~~~~~~~~0
0!5      7                                    CERp-onno AtboBx
Oo                                                                                                   D-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IL~O                                                                                             20 et 
~~~~~~~~~~~~I    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                                                                         
'I                                                                      '-'   '                   _    N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
SUVE.EZUl. ,rA  N,                                                                                     P. -                                                 d
COLOJ0G   V 8-
E ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UY18









IMAGING
Report No.:           16545
Type:      ICR



