Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAI. USE ONLY
4,4 ZC?sr
Report No. 6919-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS FORESTRY DEVELOPiAENT PROJECT
November 18, 1987
Conntrv Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
I his document has a reoricted distribution and mna be used by recipients onlv in the perfonnance of
their vilicial duties. Its contents ma% not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Brazilian Cruzado (Cz$)
US$1.00         =  Cz$ 26.16
Cz$1.00         =  US$0.0382
Cz$1 millicn   =  US$38,226
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used tnroughout the report.
M3              =  cubic meter of wood (solid)
stere (st)     =  cubic meter of wood piled (i.e., with
air spaces and bark) equal to 0.7 m3 of
solid wood.
mdc             =  cubic meter of charcoal
ha              =  hectare (about 2.5 acres)
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Brazil    =  January 1 to December 31
State of Minas Gerais       January 1 to December 31
Project                  -  January 1 to December 31
1/ Average exchange rate at the time of appraisal (May 1987)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ABRACAVE -   Associacao Brasileira de Carvao Vegetal
(Brazilian Charcoal Association)
BDMG     -    Banco de Desenvolvimento de Minas Gerais
(Minas Gerais State Development Bank)
BNDES    -    Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social
(National Economic and Social Development Bank)
CETEC    -    Fundacao Centro Technologico de Minas Gerais
(Minas Gerais Techr.ology Center Foundation)
EMBRAPA  -    Empresa Brazileira de Pesnuisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilian Agricultural Research Company)
FISET    -    Fundo de Investimentos Setoriais
(Fund for Sectoral Investments)
FJP      -    Fundacao Joao Pinheiro
(Joao Pinheiro Foundation)
GCGP     -    Grupo de Coordenacao Geral de Programas
(General P.rogram Coordinating Group)
IBDF     -    Instituto Brasileiro de Desenvolvimento Florestal
(Brazilian Institute for Forestry Development)
IEF      -    Instituto Estadual de Florestas
(State Forestry Institute)
IGA      -    Instituto de Geociencias Aplicadas
(Institute of Applied Geosciencies)
SEF      -    Secretaria da Fazenda do Estado Minas Gerais
(Secretariat of the Treasury of the State of Minas Gerais)
OTN      -    Obrigacoes do Tesoro Nacional
(National Treasury Bonds)
SEPLAN/MG-    Secretaria do Estado de Planejamento e Coordenacao Geral
(State Secretariat of Planning and General Coordination)
STN      -    Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional
(Secretariat of the National Treasury)
URF      -    Unidades Regionais de Fiscalizaco
(Regional Supervisory Units of IEF)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their c1lcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............. ..............           I
II. ;HE FORESTRY SUBSECTOR.                                           3
National Forestry Policy ............  ................         3
Forestry Institutions ...5...........5
The State of Minas Gerais                      . . .5
Experience with past Bank lending                               8
III. THE PROJECT       ...............  ............. . ...            8
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement    ......             8
Project Objctives and        Description                        9
Detailed Project Description.                                   9
Project Cost      . ..       ..........................         13
Financing Plan     .       .........   ..     .........         14
Coordination and Management               ..                    15
Procurement ......              ......................          16
Disbursevents and Special Account                               17
Projects Accounts and Auditing                                  18
Cost Recovery     .      ............................           19
Fiscal  Impact  .....................19
Environmental Impact      .      ......... . .....              19
Financial and Economic Analyses      ......    .........        20
Employment   ...........................                        21
Project Risks....................                               21
IV.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED                                   21
Annex 1 - Table 1 : Annual Phasing of Project Costs                     24
Table 2 : Estimated Schedule of Bank
Disbursements ......... .............              25
Table 3 : Allocation of Loan Proceeds .............          26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil during May 1987. The mission comprised Messrs. W. Beattie (mission
leader), F. M. Crowe (Bank) and D. Paul (FAOICP).



Annex 2 - Survey of Potential Subborrower Interest in
Industrial Reforestation Credit   ..................    27
Annex 3 - The Minas Gerais State Development Bank (BDMG) .....      28
Annex 4 - Small-scale and Industrial-Scale Reforestation
Models and Financial IRR Calculations .............    39
Annex 5 - Table 1 : Project Economic Analysis ................    45
Table 2 : Sensitivity Analysis of Economic
Rate  of  Return   ..........................  47
Annex 6 - Bra4ilian Forest Policy  ..... # .....................    48
Annex 7 - Detailed Description of the Forestry Conservation
Component   .........................................     53
Annex 8-  Documents Available in Project File .................   57
MAP       IBRD No. 16561 R



BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS FORESTRY PROJECT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          State of Minas Gerais
Guarantor;         Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing          Minas Gerais Development Bank (BDMG)
Agencies:          State Forestry Institute (IEF)
Amount:            US$48.5 million equivalent
Terms:             Repayable over 15 years on a fixed amortization
scheduled, including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Intermediaries:   The Minas Gerais Development Bank and participating
commercial banks.
Beneficiaries:    For Part A of the Project, about 30 medium and large,
integrated wood consuming firms (mostly charcoal-based
steel companies) and, for Part B of the project, about
20,000 small and medium-scale farmers.
Project
Objectives:        The project has the objectives of:  (a) increasing
industrial wood production by expanding reforestation and
increasing native forest productivity through better
management and wood utilization; (b) reduc2.ng degradation
of the native forests through rehabilication and
conservation; (c) alleviating rural poverty through
employment generation; (d) improving environmental
protection through conservation education, state parks
management and environmental research; and (e)
strengthening the State Forestry Institute.
Project
Description:       The project would finance: (a) the establishment of up to
165,000 ha of forest plantations for industrial purposes
(principally charcoal for steel production) ,d the
building of charcoal manufacturing kilns and related
infrastructure through a line of credit; (b) the planting
of about 40,000 ha of woodlots on small and medium-sized
farms; (c) staff, equipment and consulting services for
forestry conservation including (i) control, supervision
and management of forest harvesting and wood utilization,
(ii) conservation education, and (iii) development of
parks and reserves; (d) institutional development to
strengthen IEF; and (e) project evaluation.
Project Risks:    The main project risk is that current economic
uncertainties might slow execution of industrial
reforestation. However, the increasing cost of charccl
and reduced availability of fiscal incentive



funds for financing reforestation are likely to reduce
this risk. Furthermore, according to a recent survey of
potential borrowers, there is strong interest in
borrowing for reforestation.
Total Proiect Costs and Financing
Local   Forlatn  Total
(US9IlliOn) 
Estimated Costs:
Credit for Industrial-Scale Roforostatlon     75.6     8.4      84.0
Small -Scale Reforestation                    5.9      0.5       6.4
Eucalyptus                                   4.8       0.4       5.2
NaW ive Species                               1.1      0.1       1.2
Forestry Conservation                         5.2      0.4      65.
ontro, o Forest Harvesting                   T1                  1.2
Conservation Education                        1.1      0.2       1.3
Parks and Reserves Development                8.0      0.1       3.1
Institutional Development                     1.9      0.0       1.9
Project Evaluation                            0.7      0.1       0.8
Total Baseline Costs                          89.3     9.4      98.7
Contingoncies a/                              1.2      0.1       1.8
Pysical Contingencies                         171      i-0       171
Price Contingencies                          0.9       0.1       1.0
Total Project Costs                          90.5      9.6     100.0
Financing Plan:
Covernment of Minas Gerals                   8.2       0.0       8.2
IBRD                                         89.0      9.6      48.6
Subborrowers                                 48.8      0.0      43.8
Total /                          90.6      9.5     100.0
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY         1988  1989   1990   1991   1992   1993  1994   1995
----------S------(US$ millions)-------------------
Annual          1.9     9.2   10.2    9.7        7.8     4.9     3.4      1.4
Cumulative      1.9   11.1   21.3   31.0   38.8   43.7   47.1   48.5
Rate of Return: 17Z
MAP IBRD No. 16561 R
a/ No contingencies included for the line of credit for industrial-scale
reforestation.
b/ Including about US$3.0 million in taxes.



- 3 -
II. THE FORESTRY SUBSECTOR
2.01     Brazil has a total land area of about 850 million ha, of which
some 350 million ha (or 402) are covered by dense forests. Of these,
roughly 330 million ha are tropical hardwood forests, almost all in the
Amazon region, and the remaining 20 million ha are Parana Pine (Araucaria
angustifolia) stands in the South. An additional 140 million ha of "open"
forest exist, of which about 110 million ha are cerrado, or savanna, areas
covering a wide strip of land from the Southwest to the Northeast of
Brazil, and 30 million ha are caatinga, or thorn brush, located mostly in
the Northeast.
2.02     The forestry subsector accounts for about 22 of Brazil's GDP.
Overall production of industrial roundwood and fuelwood in Brazil was
estimated at 380 million cubic meters in 1981, of which firewood accounted
for more than 77Z; charcoal for some 12X; and industrial roundwood for some
liz.
2.03     In the last five decades, Brazil has witnessed large-scale removal
of its Parana Pine forests for sawtimber and pulpwood. Also, the cerrado
areas have been progressively cut to provide land for agriculture and as a
source of construction materials, fuelwood and charcoal for the oteel
industry (the latter concentrated in the State of Minas Gerais). Some 15
million ha of the Amazonian rain forest were removed by end-1983, largely
for agricultural settlement. Estimates by the Brazilian Forestry
Development Institute (IBDF) indicate that this area converted from forest
to agricultural land, tripled by June 1986 to 45 million ha, or nearly 14X
of the Amazon Region. Unfortunately, little of the wood cut in the Amazon
is used (it is generally burned on-site); consequently, the Amazon provides
only 10? of the national wood supply.
2.04     Until 1967 a total of only 500,000 ha of forest had been planted
in Brazil. However, since the establishment of the fiscal incentive
program for reforestation in 1966 (now part of the Fund for Sectoral
Investments--FISET (paras. 2.07-2.08) plantings have totalled over 5.0
million ha, of which 80% are eucalyptus and pine. A total of about 240,000
ha was planted in 1986 alone. While this planting is substantial, it falls
far short of what Brazil needs to achieve self-sufficiency in plantation
wood-supply. Experience of over 20 years with planted forests has shown
that wood yields of well-established industrial plantations average between
15 and 20 cubic meters of wood per hectare per year for selected eucalyptus
species; exceptional plantations have reached 100m3/ha/yr. This growth
compares well with well-managed pine plantations in the southern USA
(10m3/ha/yr), Canada and Scandinavia (3-6m3/ha/yr). Unfortunately, not all
plantations have been well established.
National Forestry Policy
2.05     Although forestry has received considerable Government attention
since the late 1960s, the country still lacks both a clear, comprehensive
forestry policy and, because of the weakness of IBDF, the institutional
framework within which such a policy could be developed. A summary of



- 4 -
Brazil's de facto forest policy follows. A detailed discntssion is in
Annex 6.
2.06     Native Forest Development and Conservat4.on Policy.  A Forestry
Code governing the development and conservation of Brazil's forests was
enacted in 1965 and since the early 1970s, the Federal Government has tried
to define forest management and land use policies for special regions, such
as the Amazon. Nevertheless, the current policy environment in Brazil
generally works against natural forest developaent and conservation.
Because of a resistance to land reform and population control, the
Government has had to give priority to expanding the agricultural frontier
in order to avoid massive food imports to feed its rapidly growing
population. Also, the policy of developing the Amazon area for national
security purposes has led to road construction which has glven access and
stimulated spontaneous colonization. Consequently, the forests of Brazil
and in particular, the Amazon, have been subjected to increasing removals
(para. 2.03). These settlement policies would not be so serious a problem
if Government worked to assure that: (a) wood removed was properly
utilized; (b) only areas suitable for sustained agricultural activities
were converted; (c) settlers obtained the necessary credit, technical
assistance and infrastructural support to develop permanent, financially
viable farms; and (d) representative samples of tropical ecosystems and
Amerindian reserves were demarcated and protected. Unfortunately, this has
happened only to a very limited degree.
2.07     Industrial Plantation Policy.  Through the FISET program, which
permits corporate taxpayers to apply funds, otherwise due as income taxes,
to reforestation, the private sector has modernized and greatly expanded
its planting activities. In spite of its high cost (over US$3.0 billion
since 1967) and the high productivity possible in Brazil (para. 2.04), the
reforestation financed by FISET has been inadequate in terms of both area
planted (over 5 million ha) and wood produced. Many plantations were
poorly established or were planted far from existing markets to avoid high
land costs. This resulted largely from the IBDF's failure as the
responsible agency, to develop adequate technical and financial criteria
for evaluating the projects.
2.08     As a result, the Government has paid an average of over US$750/ha
to reforest and in many cases more than US$1,000/ha. In contrast, Chile
has been able to plant radiata pine for less than US$200/ha and in the
southern United States planting costs rarely exceed US$500/ha. 1
Moreover, the Federal Government has gradually reduced funding for FISET,
by reducing the percentage of taxes due which could be committed to FISET
from 50Z in 1967 to 25X in 1974 and just 17.52 presently. The funds
available for reforestation under FISET have decreased from a high of
US$375 million equivalent in 1974 to US$185 million in 1986. Also, the
Federal Government has shifted 502 of those diminished funds to the
economically underdeveloped North and Northeast regions of Brazil, far from
the forest industry centers. As a result, FISET currently finances less
1/ There is some justification for higher planting costs in Brazil,
however. The poorer soils, drier climate and more fragile eucalyptus
seedlings require transplanting of seedlings with small sacks of soil
while pines are planted bare rooted in the US. Also, controlling the
leaf-cutting ant in Brazil requires costly annual applications of
fungicides which destroy the ants' food supply in their nests.



than 120,000 ha per year in the State of Minas Gerais (401 of the planting
necessary for the State's industrial sector to attain self-sufficiency).
2.09     Forest Industry Development Policy.  There is no policy for forest
industry development in Brazil except for the National Pulp and Paper
Prcgram which was initiated in 1974. It had the overly ambitious goal of
expanding pulp and paper production from less than one million metric tons
in 1974 to over 29.5 million mt/yr by the year 2000, of which 20.0 million
mt/yr would be exported. The goal was simply too ambitious for the
prevailing world market conditions and the government was unable to support
its program avith adequate investment capital. Nevertheless, pulp and paper
production has expanded by a healthy 350? since 1974.  Today Brazil's total
pulp production capacity is about 4.5 milliorn mt/yr. A new pulp and paper
development plan, currently being prepared by the National Industrial
Development Council, would seek to satisfy growing domestic demand for
paper while exports would be maintained at current levels at least through
1995 (about 1.0 million mt/year of pulp and 500,000 mt/year of assorted
papers).
2.10     Forest Energy Development Policy.  In the 1970s fuel oil accounted
for more than 45? of the energy consumed in Brazil and only 202 of this
fuel oil was domestically produced. In response to the oil crisis and
increasing prices of petroleum in the late 1970s, Government policies
sought to substitute nationally produced alcohol, firewood, charcoal,
national coal and oil for imported fuels, especially in energy-intensive
industries such as lime, cement, ceramics and grain-drying. The fuel oil
substitution program was completed in Minas Gerais on schedule in 1984 by
which time 30? of the fuel oil consumed by industry was replaced with
charcoal whose consumption increased from 16 million ms/yr in 1982 to 24
million m3/yr in 1985. These developments have given added urgency to
expanding reforestation.
Forestry Institutions
2.11     In order to develop and coordinate Government forestry policies,
the Brazilian Institute for Forestry Development (IBDF) was established in
1967. While IBDF has a comprehensive mandate to develop forest policy and
implement ti;e Forestry Code (Annex 6, Footnote 1), it has had to
concentrate on administering the FISET program. IBDF recognizes that its
staff and budget are inadequate to carry out its mandate. In those states
which have forestry institutions (Minas Gerais, Sao Paulo, Parana, and
Rondonia), IBDF has entered into agreements whereby those institutions
assume many of its responsibilities such as the control of forest
harvesting, forestry extension, and the supervision of reforestation. The
creation and strengthening of state forestry institutions would probably
be the best long-term strategy for developing Brazil's forestry sector.
The State of Minas Gerais
2.12     General Features.  Minas Gerais, the sixth largest state in
Brazil, is centrally located, and has a total area of 587,170 km2 (72 of
Brazil) and a population of 16.4 million (102 of Brazil). Its natural
resource base has favored mining, agriculture and industrial development.
Its location and climate make Minas Gerais particularly suitable for
forestry production: the '-ate is situated between the 15th and 22nd
parallel where solar radiation is intense. Both summer and winter



- 6 -
temperatures favor growing and annual rainfall, which varies from 1,000 mm
to 2,250 mm, is adequate; however, a i.elatively long, dry season in the
north limits growth. Soil quality varies but is generally good for forest
plantations although acidity correction and fertilization are recommended
to guarantee high eucalyptus yields.
2.13     Economy.  In 1985, the industrial sector contributed 352 to the
total state GDP, agriculture 14X, mining 32 and the service sector 482.
Iron and steel manufacture, which is the State's most important industry,
produces 85X of Brazil's charcoal-smelted pig iron and steel. There is,
therefore, a large assured market for forestry products, and in fact,
forestry, including charcoal manufacturing is the second most important
industry and generates lZ of the State's GDP.
2.14     Population and Employment.  The total population of the State is
estimated at 16.4 million people of which 28% (or 4.6 million people) lives
in rural areas. While the urban population is growing at an average annual
rate of 4Z, the rural population is decreasing at an average annual rate of
2.52. This is due to the traditional rural-urban migration of workers in
search of better pay and standards of living. About 292 of the
economically active population is employed in agriculture (including
forestry), 14Z in industry, 562 in the service sector and 1Z in mining.
(The rural-urban migration has led, in some areas, to a scarcity of labor
for forestry and charcoal processing activities and, in turn, has resulted
in an increase in the employment of women. More than half of all nursery,
planting and harvesting employees are now women). Average per capita
ii.come the State in 1985 was approximately US$2,140. However, it is
estimated that the poorest 5Z of the population, a large part of which is
rural, had an average annual income of only US$500.
2.15     State Forest Resources, Production and Demand.  As recently as
1911, 48Z of the State's area was under undisturbed forest. Today, with
the exception of a few small state parks, there are virtually no 7irgin
forest areas left, although an estimated 25.7 million ha (432 of the total)
are classified as "forest" lands (most of these, however, are covered with
heavily degraded forests due to repeated wood removals) including 2.1
million ha of plantations. The 2.1 million ha were acquired and planted by
industrial enterprises in Minas Gerais between 1966 and 1986. (This is
more than 402 of all reforestation in Brazil.) Over 70? of the State's
plantations are in eucalyptus species which were planted principally to
produce charcoal for the iron and steel industry. Some forests, however,
(about 200,000 ha or 10? of the total) have been established specifically
to provide wood for the fiberboard and pulp and paper industries.
2.16     Total wood consumed in Minas Gerais in 1985 was about 115 million
m3 of which 772 was transformed into charcoal, 15% was used as domestic
fuelwood, 52 was used as industrial fuelwood, 2% went for pulp, and the
remainder, less than 1%, was used for a variety of other purposes. Despite
large-scale reforestation and increasing supervision and control of forest
cutting by the IEF (albeit with limited technology), more than 80? of the
fuelwood used for charcoal production still comes from native forests,
mostly from the cerrado areas.   Although much of this fuelwood comes from
land clearing which would have occurred anyway, the increasing industrial
demand for fuelwood, the loss of forests due to repeated uncontrolled
burning of pasturelands and the rudimentary and somewhat inefficient
charcoal manufacturing methods used, have led to an increase in the rate at



- 7 -
which native forests have been cut. This rate cannot be sustained by
natural regrowth, particularly since no serious attempt has been made to
date, to manage the native forest with a view toward increasing its
productivity. As a result, the procurement area for charcoal continues to
expand into other states.
2.17     State Forestry and Credit Institutions.  In 1962, the State
Forestry Institute (IEF) was created. IEF is a semi-autonomous agency
dependent on the State Secretariat of Agriculture and charged with
formulating, coordinating and executing forest policy in the State. IEF is
regarded as the best of Brazil's four state forestry institutes and has
provided consultants to other states (e.g., Rondonia) in the creation and
organization of their institutes. It performs all of its tasks adequately
but could be strengthened to be even more effective for example, in the
areas of: control of forest harvesting, technical assistance to charcoal
manufacturers, forest fire control and management of native forests (paras.
3.14-3.17), education of the general public in conservation matters (para.
3.18) and development of state parks and reserves (para. 3.19). It is
managed by a Director General who is assisted by an Administrative Council
chaired by the State Secretary of Planning and including the State
Secretary of Agriculture, and the other Directors of IEF. The IEF has a
staff of about 1,360, including 110 foresters, 27 agronomists and 78
forestry technicians. Eight regional offices and 118 field offices are
located throughout the State in addition to 132 permanent nurseries and 28
temporary nurseries (see Map). IEF has put increasing emphasis on
conservation and on the environmental and social aspects of forest
production, harvesting and management through its highly successful small-
scale reforestation program (para. 2.21). In addition, it supervises all
transportation of wood products in the :tate as part of its agreement with
the IBDF and maintains state parks and biological reserves. In spite of
the importance of the forestry sector to the State's economy (11 of GDP)
and the IEF's considerable responsibilities, the budget for IEF represents
less than 1? of the State's total annual budget.
2.18     Most forestry research in Minas Gerais is being carried out by the
large commercial reforestation firms often in conjunction with the Federal
University of Minas Gerais, the Federal University of Vicosa, the State
Technical Center (CETEC), the State Agricultural Research Institute and the
Brazilian Agricultural Research Company (EMBRAPA). An informal information
network has ensured that this information is available to all interested
parties. The State's research includes: (a) state-of-the-art tissue
culture and vegetative reproduction rooting methods which permit cloning of
superior growing stock; (b) testing the quality and yields of charcoal and
pulp from different eucalyptus species; and (c) cost-effectiveness of
different planting and management techniques. The new technology has
permitted firms to increase per hectare yields by over 30Z in the past
decade. A summary of forestry research 's in Working Paper 1 (Annex 10).
2.19     The State Development Bank, BDMG, which would handle the
industrial reforestation credit operations, is the largest, and probably
the best of Brazil's state development banks, with total assets of around
US$800 million equivalent and a staff of some 200. Its objectives for the
next two years include strengthening its financial autonomy and earning a
return of 13Z on its net equity. The overall financial position and
performance of BDMG is one of reasonable stability. Its profitability was



low in the early 1980s due to pressure to lend for "social" and political
purposes, but has improved in recent years. Its portfolio is somewhat
concentrated: in 1986, for example, 15 firms with an average of 20 loans
each during the year accounted for 50? of the value of all contracts
approved. The main cause for concern at present is the high level of
overdues, which were equivalent to 702 of net equity and 11% of the total
portfolio at the and of April 1987. However, overall, BDMG is a well-
staffed institution, with sound lending procedures and a responsible
management. A more detailed description of BDMG and its operation can be
found in Annex 3.
Experience with Bank Lending
2.20     The Bank has made 45 loans totalling US$3,470.7 million (net of
cancellations) for agricultural and rural development in Brazil. The loans
include one agricultural credit and export loan for US$303.0 million; one
credit and marketing reform loan for US$500 million, supplemental financing
for US$30.5 million under the Special Action Program; three loans for
US$503.6 million for agroindustries; three for US$111.5 million for
livestock; one  Jr US$18.2 million for grain storage; two for US$100.0
million for agricultural research; two for US$255.0 million for
agricultural extension; one for US$100.0 million for land tenure
improvement; and 31 loans totalling US$1,548.9 million for various
settlement, irrigation, and rural development projects.
2.21     The Bank has not yet financed a free-standing forestry project in
Brazil, but the M4inas Gerais Rural Development (MGRD) Projects I and II
(Loans 1362-BR and 1877-BR), the Northwest Agricultural Development
Projects I and II (Loans 2060-BR and 2353-BR), and all the projects under
the Northeast Rural Development Program contain forestry components. In
addition, the Agricultural Research II Project (Loan 2016-BR) includes
support for forestry research, and projects for land management and soil
conservation as well as for environmental improvement are in the initial
stages of preparation. The small-scale reforestation components of the
MGRD Projects I and II, implemented by IEF, have been highly successful in
planting over 40,000 ha in plots averaging 2 ha. For many of the
participating farmers the sale of wood products from these plantations is
now their main source of cash income. The traditional view of farmers that
forests are an obstacle to their agricultural activities is consequently
changing rapidly.
III. THE PROJECT
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.01     Origin.  A reforestation project aimed at financing 40,000 ha of
industrial-scale reforestation was appraised in April 1982 and a Staff
Appraisal Report drafted (dated September 27, 1982). However, negotiations
did not proceed because the Federal Government stated that it intended to
prepare a national reforestation program which would duplicate the proposed
project and compete with the credit line as proposed under the project.
3.02     The national reforestation program did not materialize due to lack
of government financing, but the depletion of forest resources in Minas
Gerais has acceletated (paras. 2.15, 2.16). The distance over which rative



forost charcoal has to be transported to consumption centers has gradually
increased to over 1,000 km (transportation now accounts for up to 75X of
the cost of delivered native forest charcoal). Resources for financing
large-scale industrial reforestation in Minas Gerais, however, are scarce,
and in late 1985 the State Government again approached the Bank for
financial assistance for a forestry project. A revised and updated project
was prepared by the State Government with FAOICP and Bank assistance. A
Bank, FAO/CP mission appraised that revised project in May 1987.
3.03     Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The Bank's strategy in Brazil is
aimed at promoting sustainable economic growth. At present, the future
growth of some major industries (e.g., iron and steel) in one of the most
important industrial states in the country, Minas Gerais, is in jeopardy
because the natural resource base (forests) on which these industries
depend, is being depleted. At present, the supply of financial resources
needed to support both the private and public investments required to
protect and expand that resource base are limited and shrinking. The
Bank's involvement in the proposed project is essertial for providing the
necessary financial support to help to establish a more cost-effective and
sustainable alternative to FISET for financing industrial reforestation.
3.04.    Furthermore, the Project would enable the IEF to continue
strengthening its small- and medi"m-scale reforestation capabilities as
well as its other forestry development and conservation responsibilities.
This would likely not be carried out with the same intensity without the
encouragement provided by Bank financing.
Project Obiectives and Description
3.05     The project has the objectives af:  (a) increasing industrial wood
production by expanding reforestation and increasing native forest
productivity through better management; (b) reducing degradation of the
native forests through rehabilitation and conservation; (c) alleviating
rural poverty through employment generation; (d) improving environmental
protection through conservation education, state parks management and
environmental research; and (e) strengthening the management capabilities
of the IEF. The entire state of Minas Gerais would comprise the project
area for all components.
3.06     The project would finarce: (a) through a line of credit, up to 80Z
of any subproject's total costs (except land) but no more than 502 of the
total costs of all subprojects financed by the credit line, to plant up to
l1S,000 ha of industrial-scale forests and to build charcoal manufacturing
kilns and related infrastructure; (b) about 40,000 ha of snmall-scale wood
lots as a continuation of the successful program initiated( under the two
Bank-financed Minas Gerais Rural Development Projects; (c) forestry
conservation including (i) control, supcrvision and managenment of forest
harvesting, (ii) conservation education, (iii) development of parks and
reserves; (d) institutional development to strengthen IEF; and (e) project
evaluation.
Detailed Proiect Description
3.07     Credit for Industrial Reforestation.  This component wotuld help
finance the expansion and rehabilitation of the industrial foiost area in
Minas Gerais needed to produce charcoal for the steel industry and
industrial fuelwood for the ceramics, cement and lime industtiis, among



- 10 -
others. Eligible investments would include the establishment of nurseries
and plantations as well as charcoal kilns and associated equipment and
infrastructure. The reforestation of up to 165,000 ha, is expected to be
financed; this, if used exclusively for charcoal, would produce a yearly
average of some 2.5 million m3. Integrated charcoal steel firms are
expected to account for a:ound 85Z of the total investments.  The total
investment cost for this component is estimated to be about US$84.0 million
equivalent.
3.08     A survey of potential subborrowers (Annex 2) indicated 15
companies were interested in borrowing a yearly average of approximately
US$52 million equivalent over the next four years to plant about 67,000 ha
each year. Under the project, the line of credit would finance up to 80X
of any subproject's planting costs (excluding land cost), and maintenance
costs for the first four years of plantation este3lishment. Total
financing from the credit line, however, would not exceed 50? of the total
costs of all subprojects financed. Subborrowers would finance the
remainder of subproject costs from their own resources (a minimum of 20? of
subproject costs) and from other sources. FISET funds could be used to
fir,ance up to 30? of total subproject costs but they could not substitute
for any part of the 20X of subproject costs to be financed from the
subborrowers own resources. National firms, for example, could use credit
available from the National Economic and Social Development Bank (BNDES) to
complement this proposed project's credit. BNDES credit is also channeled
through BDMG. Plantation and maintenance costs through year 4, are
expected to be between US$500 and US$800 per hectare depending on terrain
conditions, soil quality, land clearing requirements, the location of the
plantations and whether the project involved new plantings or the
"rehabilitation" of existing, low productivity plantation areas. An
estimated 55% of the plantings are expected to be new plantations while the
remaining 452 would be of the "rehabilitation' type. The main cost
components would be the cost of machinery, equipment and their operators
and inputs such as seedlings, fertilizer and labor. The IEF would
supervise the planting, management and harvesting of the plantations.
During negotiations, BDMG provided assurances that it and the participating
commercial banks would appraise the proposed subprojects using BDMG's
technical, financial and economic criteria which have been adopted from
those criteria used by BNDES which, in turn, have been developed in
association with the Bank under ongoing operations.
3.09     The terms of subloans would be up to 14 years in the case of
plantations and 4 years for charcoal infrastructure, with grace periods of
up to 7 years and 1 year, respectively. Subloans would be subject to full
monetary correction, based on the National Treasury Bonds index (OTN), plus
a variable interest rate based on the cost of Bank funds to the State of
Minas Gerais (currently just under 8?), and a 2.0? spread to cover the
costs of the participating banks. When BDMG makes the credit funds
available to other participating commercial banks (i.e., any commercial
bank with headquarters in Minas Gerais which wishes to participate and
which is approved by BDMG and the Bank), BDMG would retain 0.5? to cover
the costs of administration and the participating banks would have a 1.52
spread. There would, however, be a cap of 10? on the onlending rate for
the life of subloans approved during the first year of project
implementation and a cap of 11? for the life of subloans approved
thereafter. The State would pey the cormnitment fee and assume the foreign
exchange risk and any interest costs above t,-e 102 and 11? caps for
subborrowers. These measures are considered justified on the grounds that



- 11 -
the investments concerned: (a) are slow maturing with the associated risk;
and (b) have considerable indirect economic benefits for the State's
economy. Also, a slightly favorable interest rate on this credit would be
an important means of 'weaning' reforestation firms from the highly
subsidized (but diminishing) FISET fiscal incentive financing. The credit
line is therefore an intermediate step toward a fully commercial system for
financing reforestation at terms which are far more cost-effective than
FISET (paras. 2.07, 2.08).
3.10     During negotiations the BDMG provided assurances that it would
submit the names and necessary financial data of proposed participating
commercial banks to the Bank for review and agreement (para. 4.02 (b)).
Also, during negotiations the State and BDMG provided assurances that the
terms and conditions of the subloans as outlined above would be followed by
the rDMG and participating commercial baniks and that these agreed onlending
terms and conditions including the use of the OTN as the basis for full
monetary correction of the subloans, would be subject to annual review and
agreement by the Bank. The Bank would reserve the right to not authorize
or approve new subloans in the event that BDMG and the Bank do not reach
agreement on the onlending terms to be applied to new subloans (paras. 4.01
(a) and 4.02 (c)). In addition, during negotiations, the BDMG provided
assurances that the first two subloans approved, and any subsequent subloan
cf US$4.0 million equivalent or more, would be submitted to the Bank for
approval before the signing of the subloan contrac.ts (para. 4.02 (d)).
3.11     Small-scale Reforestation Program.  The project would continue the
Bank's involvement in the successful small-scale reforestation program in
Minas Gerais. In this proposed project, the entire State of Minas Gerais
would be included in the program which, through December 1985, had
established over 47,000 ha of small woodlots on the land of over 26,000
participating farmers. The component would establish an additional 34,000
ha on over 14,300 properties over the seven and a half year life of the
project. An additional 7,300 ha of native species trees would be planted
under a special program aimed at widening the genetic base of plantations
in order to reduce the risks inherent in exotic monocultures.
3.12     The small-scale reforestation program does not involve credit.
Seedlings and extension would be provided free to farmers who, in turn,
supply the labor to plant the trees on their land. The IEF has plans to
charge for some materials (e.g., fertilizer, formicide) in those regions
where farm income is relatively high and distribute them cost-free in the
poorer regions. Such subsidies to small farmer forestry activities are
justified in order to promote a relatively new activity, among conservative
farmers. The total cost of this component is estimated to be about US$6.4
million.
3.13     Forestry Conservation.  The forestry conservation component
includes three subcomponents: control of harvesting, conservation education
and the development of parks and reserves.
3.14     The control of harvesting subcomponent would make IEF's field
personnel more effective in controlling the cutting of forests,
particularly in the remaining natural forest areas. While IEF staff are
doing a satisfactory job under the circumstances, the Project would provide
additional technology to improve their effectiveness. Specifically, a
monitoring system using satellite images is being added to the existing
system of field visits by IEF foresters and the Forestry Police Group. The



- 12 -
project would finance the new monitoring activities including thL
preparation and annual updating of a state forest inventory and vegetation
maps and the establishment of a computerized data bank on vegetation types,
their location and areas, volumes of standing timber and per-hectare wood
production.
3.15     The subcomponent would also include development of management
techniques for the cerrado for energy production. The purpose of this
activity is to increase the productivity of this fo: est type, which is the
principal source of fuelwood and charcoal for Minas Gerais (para. 2.16).
It would finance five technical staff to install and manage experimental
plots to determine the fuelwood/charcoal yields obtained using different
management techniques, and a central coordination group to evaluate the
data from the experiments.
3.16     The subcomponent would also include the creation of a forest fire
prevention and control service. IEF technicians are generally poorly
trained in the proper techniques of controlled burning to prevent the
spread of such fires to forest areas. The project would finance the
staffing and equipping of a State Operational Center and Regional
Operations Centers in existing IEF field offices of those regions
considered to have priority. The project would also finance the
construction of six fire towers in strategic locations in the state (an
additional five towers would be built under the Parks and Reserves
Development subcomponent), and the contracting of fire control consultants
(for about one consultant month).
3.17     The fourth ac-ivity of the subcomponent would be the transfer of
charcoal manufacturing technology to small producers. The purpose of this
activity is to increase the productivity of those small producers. The
project would finance: the training of IEF field staff in oven
construction and charcoaling techniques, 130 courses by CETEC staff for the
snmall producers; preparation of manuals and audio visuals of the new
techniques. The total subcomponent cost would be approximately US$1.2
million.
3.18     The conservation education subcomponent would include training for
IEF staff and communication campaigns for education of the general public.
The project would finance staff, audio visual equipment, a mobile training
unit, and the preparation of pamphlets and other extension materials. The
cost of this subcomponent would be approximately US$1.4 million.
3.19     The parks and reserves development subcomponent would include: (a)
improving the infrastructure and staffing of State parks and reserves; (b)
development of an Urban Parks Planning Unit to assist municipalities in
planning and establishing parks, recreation areas and green belts; and
(c) ecological research to finance specific research projects. A full list
of experiments and the agencies responsible for their execution can be
found in the IEF preparation documents in project files (Annex 10). The
total cost of this subcomponent would be about US$3.1 million.
3.20     Institutional Development.  The IEF has prepared a comprehensive
Institutional Development component consisting of two subcomponents:
Organizational Development and Monitoring. For Organizational Development
ILF has prepared a comprehensive outline of its objectives,
responsibilities and tasks. Organizational units and persons responsible
for each task have been identified and institutional capacity gaps and



-  13  -
skill gaps have been noted. Almost all of the subcomponent's US$1.2
illion costs consist of technical assistance and training activities to
overcome these capacity and skill gaps. A total of 71 courses are planned
for IEF personnel including mapping, computer programming and management
and administration skills development. Details of the analysis of IEF can
be found in the documents on the Institutional Analysis System in the
Project file (Annex 8).
3.21     IEF has also  prepared a detailed monitoring system for the
project. Basic information would be collected periodically and made
available to the evaluation team (para. 3.22). This monitoring system
would be part of the project's overall monitoring program (para. 3.33)
which would be used by the SEPLAN-MG coordinating unit for the preparation
of semestral progress reports. During negotiations the State Government
provided assurances that as part of its responsibilities for general
project coordination SEPLAN-MG would prepare and submit to the Bank,
semestral project monitoring reports no later than March 31 and September
30 of each year (para. 4.01 (b)). Also during negotiations the State
provided assurances that IEF would maintain the project implementation unit
within its existing General Program Coordinating Group (GCGP) (para. 3.30)
with organization, structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and
staffed with personnel in numbers and with qualifications satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 4.01 (c)). Total cost of the institutional development
component would be about US$1.9 million.
3.22     Proiect Evaluation.  To complement monitoring activities, which
are intended as a management tool, project evaluation would aim to provide
SEPLAN/MG, the BDMG and IEF with the necessary information to adjust, when
appropriate, project strategy and policies. It would also provide federal
authorities with key information for the development of comparable forestry
programs for other states. Evaluation activities would attempt to
formulate and measure the impact of the project on the development of
forestry in the State. SEPLAN would be responsible for coordinating
Project evaluation which would be contracted to an independenlt consultant
firm. The evaluation would consist of baseline studies, the preparation of
annual evaluation reports, and a post-project evaluation. Annual reports
would call forestry development trends to the attention of the lEF and BDMG
management boards and would contain appropriate recommendations. The post-
project evaluation would assess the initial impact of the full project, and
would assist the State in preparing the Project Completion Report. During
negotiations, the State provided assurances that the terms of reference,
qualifications and experience of the consultants responsible for project
evaluation would be reviewed by and acceptable to the Bank, the annual
evaluation reports would be presented to the Bank not later than June 30 of
each year for the preceding project year (January-December), and that the
ex-post evaluation would be submitted within six months after project
completion (para. 4.01 (d)).
Project Cost
3.23     Total project cost over the seven and a half year project
implementation period is estimated at US$100.0 million, including a foreign
exchange cost of about US$9.6 million, or about 10?, and taxes of about
US$3.0 million (about 32). No contingencies were computed for the line of
credit for industrial-scale reforestation. For other components, physical
contingencies total US$0.3 million, or 22 of baseline costs, and price
contingencies total US$11.0 slldllion, or 7? of baseline costs plus physi:al



- 14 -
contingencies. Price contingencies were estimated in US dollar terms,
based on international inflation rates estimated at 1.OZ for 1988 to 1990,
and 3.52 p.a. thereafter.
3.24     It was assumed that periodic currency adjustments  estimated on a
purchasing power parity basis, would compensate for differences between
projected US dollar inflation and local inflation rates. The project would
require about six consultant-years of contracted services, largely for
staff training. The project cost summary is given in the Loan and Project
Summary (Chapter 1), and the yearly phasing is detailed in Annex 1, Table
1.
Financing Plan
3.25     The proposed financing plan for the project would be as follows:
Table:    Proposed Financing Scheme
(US8 mill ion)
Subborrowers
and Participating
State   Bank       Banks        Totals
InductriaD I-sclo
Reforestation         -         40.7    4J.8         84.0
Small-scale
Reforestation !/      8.8       8.1      -            6.4 a/
Forestry Conservotion    2.9       2.7      -            6.8
Institutional Devolopment   1.0    0.9      -            1.9
Project Evaluation       0.4       0.4      -            0.8
Contingencies            0.8       0.       _            IJ
Total Project Costa      8.2      48.5    43.3         100.0
0 of Total Project Costa   8.2    48.6    43.3         100.0 b
a/   Excluding small farmer contributions of labor and seedling transport.
'5   Including taxes of about US$3.0 equivalent.
3.26     The Bank loan of US$48.5 million would amount to 50? of project
costs net of taxes (or 48.52 of total costs). The local cosc financing is
justified to enable a reasonable Bank contribution to this innovative
reforestation program which has a low foreign exchange content but
significant import substitution energy and conservation benefits and a
large number of low-income farmers among the direct beneficiary group.
3.27     The Goverrment of Minas Gerais would be the borrower of the Bank
loan. The Treasury of the State of Minas Gerais would provide counterpart
financing to cover 50? of all project components except the line of credit
for industrial reforestation. That component, as explained in para. 3.08,
would obtain an overall average of 502 of its financing from the Bank loan
(while individual subprojects could have up to 80? of their costs financed
by this credit), a minimum of 20X from the subborrowers' own capital and up
to 302 from other national resources (e.g., BNDES n"' additional



- 15 -
subborrower capital). The Bank loan term would be 15 years including 3
years of grace. Th4 Central Bank would open a project Special Account and
would act as the channel for Bank loan disbursements for both the credit
component to BDMG and all components undertaken by IEF. BDMG would channel.
credit funds to participating private banks. During negotiations, it was
confirmed that the State would (a) assume the foreign exchange risk and
part of the interest rate risk associated with the Bank loan (para. 3.09);
(b) assume the obligation of servicing the costs associated with the
different grace periods of the Bank loan (3 years) and the loans to final
borrowers (up to 7 years). In addition, the State Government provided
assurances that it would supply adequate counterpart funding for the
effective and timely execution of the components to be implemented by IEF
(para. 4.01 (e)). As conditions of loan effectiveness, the State would
allocate no less than US$2.0 million of counterpart funding in the 1988
state budget and sign a subsidiary loan agreement with BDMG (para. 4.03).
Receipt by the Bank of a satisfactory signed agreement between BDMG and
each participating Bank, specifying responsibilities and subloan terms and
conditions, would be a condition of Bank disbursement for the first subloan
presented by each participating bank (para. 4.03).
3.28     Retroactive financing of up to US$1.0 million was agreed upon to
help cover expenditures for training, consultant services and production of
seedlings for the small-scale reforestation component made after the June
1, 1987 appraisal mission departure, but before loan signing.
Coordination and Management
3.29     General project coordination and the contracting of project
evaluation would be performed by SEPLAN/MG throagh an existing unit set up
especially for that purpose. SEPLANIMG which has had experience
coordinating the more complex, Bank-financed Minas Gerais Rural Development
projects I and II, would, inter alia, produce project progress reports,
authorize the State Secretariat of the Treasury (SEF) to pass funds to IEF
and to BDMG. SEPLAY,/MG has performed the role of coordinator
satisfactorily in the Bank-financed Minas Gerais Rural Development Projects
I and II. The SEF would authorize the Central Bank of Brazil to pass money
from the project Special Account through the State Treasury, to BDMG for
the credit component. The BDMG would manage the line of credit fox
industrial reforestation including the channelling of funds to
participating commercial banks (BDMG has had experience administering the
similar BNDES credit line). IEF would supervise the industrial
reforestation (i.e., planting, management and harvesting), as it has
satisfactorily done in the past for FISET-financed plantations, and execute
all other project components.
3.30     The IEF is considered capable of coordinating and managing the
small-scale reforestation, forestry conservation and institutional
development components through the existing Project Implementation Unit in
the GCGP which is headed by an Executive Program Coordinator responsible to
IEF's Director General. The GCGP would review draft annual operating plans
and long-term development plans for consistency and integration. The GCGP
would be assisted, at the field level, by eight Regional Supervisory Units
(URFs) which would oversee IEF's local executive offices (see Map). IEF
would be assisted in these tasks by consultants including the technical
staff of CETEC.
3.31     The URFs have the capacity to handle the field-level coordination,



- 16 -
acting as a link between IEF's field personnel and the GCGP. The
participation of project beneficiaries in the formulation, execution,
monitoring and evaluation of project activities would also be facilitated
and encouraged through the proposed conservation education component and
through specialized training of participating agency staff. This system of
coordination and management of IEF has worked satisfactorily in executing
the forestry components of the Bank-financed Minas Gerais I and II
Projects.
3.32     In Jusy of each year, each executing agency (IEF and BDMG) would
prepare an annual plan, detailing the activities and expected expenditures
for the following calendar year.  These plans would be discussed and
reviewed with GCGP, and presented to the IEF Administrative Council for its
review and approval.  The working plan and budget would be presented before
August 30 to the State Government to s.cure adequate funding in the State
Budget.  During negotiations, the State provided assurances that the annual
budget proposal for project activities would be made available to the Bank
by October 31 each year for review and comments (para. 4.02 (f)).
3.33     Monitoring.  Project monitoring would be executed by the BDMG and
IEF through their existing monitoring units. IEF's monitoring abilities
would be strengthened by reinforcing its Technical Assistance Planning
Group. The basic information for monitoring would be provided by IEF's
executive field offices. BDMG and IEF would prepare semestral reports,
giving details of project progress and expenses. IEF and BDMG would work
closely with the project evaluation team to refine the key indicators and
select monitoring data in order to ensure that the evaluation team would
have adequate information to perform its task. The BDMG and IEF monitoring
units would also be responsible for preparing a Project Completion Report.
During negotiations, the State would provide assurances that these
semestral monitoring reports would be made available to the Bank within
three months of the end of the period under review (i.e., by September 30
and March 31 of each year) (para. 4.01 (b)).
Procurement
3.34     The procurement procedures and amounts for the various project
elements are shown in the table below. The range of goods to be financed
under the project's credit line for industrial reforestation would be
varied and, in the case of most subprojects, would not be suitable for bulk
procurement. Accordingly, procurement for subprojects would be in
accordance with standard practice for loans of this type and would follow
the normal commercial practice of private sector enterprises, the main
beneficiaries of the proposed credit lines.
3.35     With respect to the non-credit components, civil works would be
procured under local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures satisfactory to
the Bank. Local competitive bidding would be justified because contracts
for the buildings would be small and the construction would be carried out
at different, geographically dispersed locations.
3.36     Almost all equipment, inputs and supplies for laboratories and
field work, would be purchased in small quantities (amounting to no more
than US$20,000 per contract) at various locations and over the four-year
project implementation period. Consequently, these would be acquired
through prudent local shopping (at least three quotations). If any
contracts for the purchase of equipment, inputs and supplies are over



- 17 -
US$20,000 but under US$250,000 they would be purchased in accordance with
LCB procurement satisfactory to the Bank. ICB would not be justified in
the proposed project as there are no expected equipment or supply purchases
over US$250,000 equivalent. However, the first five LCB contracts,
irrespective of size, and all subsequent LCB contracts over US$100,000
would be subject to prior Bank review of procurement documentation. The
balance of contracts would be subject to random post- review by the Bank
after contract award. Vehicles and microcomputers are the two categories
of goods required by the project which are considered to be reserved
procurement items and they are not included in the project cost and are not
financed by the proposed loan but would be procured by the Government in a
timely manner. Consultant services would be selected in accordance with
Bank guidelines. During negotiations, the State provided assurances that
it would make available sufficient funds (i.e., about US$1.0 million) for
the purchase of vehicles and microcomputers necessary for project
implementation but not subject to Bank financing and that the other
procurement procedures outlined in paras. 3.34-3.36 would be followed
(para. 4.01 (g)).
Procurement Arrangements a/
Project                                                     Total
Expenditure                ICB    LCB    Shopping   Other  Costs
_____-----_---  (US$ million)  ----------------
Civil Works                 -      0.2       -          -      0.2
(0.1)                       (0.1)
Equipment and
Materials                                3.2                3.2
(1.5)             (1.5)
Consultant Services b/      _      _        _           0.5    0.5
(0.3)  (0.3)
Credit for Industrial
Reforestation             -      -        -          84.0   84.0
(40.7) (40.7)
Project Adm. and Training  -       -        -          12.1   12.1
(5.9)  (5.9)
Total                       0.0    0.2      3.2        96.6  100.0
(0.0)  (0.1)    (1.5)      (46.9) (48.5)
a/ Values in parentheses are the estimated respective amount to be
financed by the Bank.
b/ Largely locally contracted services for training of IEF staff.
Disbursements and Special Account
3.37     The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed on the basis
of: 1002 of the amount disbursel for subloans under the line of credit for
industrial reforestation; 100? of foreign expenditures and 502 of local



- 18 -
expenditures for equipment, materials and consultant services; and 502 of
expenditures for civil works. Disbursements for the project administration
and training, which has a high rate of recurrent costs, would be made at a
rate of 601 of expenditures up to an aggregate of U.S.$3.5 million, 30Z
thereafter until the aggregate reaches U.S.$5.0 million and 10 thereafter.
Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditures .SOEs)
prepared by BDMG in respect of local credit disbursements and disbursements
for less than US$100,000 equivalent would be made against SOEs prepared by
IEF in respect of other expenditures. Supporting documentation for
salaries, administrative expenses, credit and construction under force
account would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be retained by the
BDMG and the IEF and made available for inspection by the Bank during
project supervision missions. SOEs would be subject to annual independent
audit (para. 3.42).
3.38     To facilitate Bank disbursements, a Special Account would be
opened in the Central Bank with an initial deposit of US$2.5 million.
Withdrawals from the Special Account would be supported by the required
documentation. The amount deposited in the Special Account may be
increased or decreased by the Bank as required for project execution but
should not exceed the amount of the initial deposit which is equivalent to
four months of average disbursements. Foreign expenditures would be
disbursed directly from the loan account. Furthermore, the State of Minas
Gerais has a law stipulating that all Bank funds must pass from the Special
Account through the State Treasury to the executing agencies. As a
condition of loan effectiveness, the State would approve an administrative
regulation assuring that project funds would be retained in the State
Treasury for a period no longer than one working day before being passed on
to the executing agencies (IEF and BDMG) in order to ensure that these
funds are received by those agencies on a timely basis. This same
regulation would also require the project coordinating unit in SEPLAN-MG to
review and respond to executing agencies' requests for reimbursement of
eligible project-related expenses within three working days (para. 4.03).
3.39     Disbursements are expected to occur over about seven and one half
years as shown in the estimated disbursement schedule in Annex 1, Table 2.
Project expenditures incurred prior to loan signing but after June 1, 1987,
would be eligible for reimbursement through retroactive financing up to
US$1.0 million (para. 3.28). The closing date of the loan would be June
30, 1995.
Project Accounts and Auditing
3.40     The Central Bank would maintain the Special Account, based on
which the Central Bank would prepare a "Statement of Transactions and
Availability of Funds" for the year, which would be presented to the audit
of either the Secretariat of the National Treasury (STN) as is the case for
all externally funded projects in Brazil, or an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank. After the audit and not later than six months
after the close of its fiscal year, the Central Bank would transmit to the
Bank, certified copies of the audited account, together with a certified
copy of the auditor's report.
3.41     During the course of annual audits of the BDMG project funds and
the IEF project accounts, the independent auditors would test check the
preparation of SOEs supporting disbursement requests, the internal controls
over project transactions and of the implementation of these controls, the



- 19 -
supporting evidence for the expenditures and the eligibility of the
expenses in accordance with loarn agreements. The audit report should also
include a description of the audit procedures followed. BDMG and IEF would
maintain separate project accounts of project expenditures in accordance
with the chart of accounts for the project that would be presented to the
Bank for review and approval. Statements of project accounts of the IEF
and BDMG would be consolidated by and retained in the SEPLAN-MG office in
Minas Gerais and made available for Bank supervision.
3.42     During negotiations, the State Government and BDMG provided
assurances that: (a) the Special Account, the BDMG and participating banks
investment credit accounts, and the IEF project accounts mentioned above
would be maintained and audited annually according to standards and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank and the STN; (b) terms of reference for
the auditors to be prepared by the STN and acceptable to the Bank would
include, inter alia, detailed procedures for the examination and
verification of the Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for the project
accounts; and (c) copies of these audit reports would be submitted to the
Bank within six months of the close of each project fiscal year (paras.
4.01 (h) and 4.02 (e)).
Cost Recovery
3.43     For the industrial reforestation credit line, cost recovery is
expected through repayment of the credit by the subborrowers. As noted
above (para. 3.12), however, the small-scale reforestation program is a
grant system in which seedlings, extension services and some materials
(fertilizer, formicide) are provided free to the farmers who provide their
own labor to plant the trees. A part of the costs would be recovered
through the Forestry Tax which is levied on wood produced from native
forests and plantations (para. 3.44). Such subsidies to small-scale
forestry activities are justified as a short-term measure to induce
producers to begin planting trees.
Fiscal Impact
3.44     The economic activities generated by this project are expected to
provide the State of Minas Gerais and the Federal Government with
additional revenue averaging about US$5.5 million per year. These would
come from payment of: (a) the federal Forestry Tax at harvest time (this
is passed directly to the State of Minas Gerais specifically for IEF's
budget); (b) the federal tax on the circulation of goods (ICM) as applied
to charcoal (this is also passed directly to the State Treasury); and (c) a
federal rural social security charge (FUNRURAL) which is placed in account
for the benefit of the State's rural workers. As regards the ICM, the tax
will be charged on the incremental production sent to the market by the
direct participants in the project. Additional proceeds would be generated
by the higher taxes on the incremental personal income generated by the
project.
Environmental Impact
3.45     The project is expected to have a positive impact on the
environment by financing systems for controlling cutting of native forests,
forest fire prevention and control, conservation education for the general
public and conservation training for state employees, and the largest
ecological research program in the State's history. As a result, the



- 20 -
small-scale and industrial plantations to be established would (a) take
considerable pressure off the native forests as suppliers of wood raw
material (the plantations established would produce up to ten times the
wood material produced by the native cerrado forests) and (b) reduce
erosion by covering deforested areas.
Financial and Economic Analyses
3.46     The financial rates of return for the four small-scale models vary
from 15.1? to 20.0?. The two industrial-scale models have IRRs of 14.1?
and 15.0% (Annex 4, Tables 1 to 6). An economic rate of return of 16.6?
has been calculated for the directly productive components (representing
about 93? of project costs) with readily quantifiable economic benefits
(Annex 5, Table 1). In the case of the large-scale, vertically integrated
charcoal producers, the benefits have been estimated as the difference in
the costs of delivering charcoal to the user industries with and without
the project. Without the project, the costs of charcoal are expected to
rise over time, as the user industries have to go further out for their
supplies. No attempt has been made to quantify or place values on other
benefits, such as the positive effects on soil quality and erosion
reduction. As for the small-scale producers, it has been assumed that
their charcoal production is incremental and would not have been produced
without the project. The market price of charcoal has been used to value
this production.
3.47     The economic costs include all the investment and operating costs
of establishing and maintaining the large plantations in the case of the
large producers and the small wood lots in the case of the small producers
(Paper 2, Annex 10).
3.48     It should be rioted that some of the project components would  have
significant benefits that could not be quantified. For example, the
education activities are certain to have demonstration effects on other
farmers in the State, particularly since the direct participants represent
only a fraction of the total number of farmers in Minas Gerais and will be
located in almost all the municipalities of the State, thereby multiplying
the chances of diffusion of successful new forestry production techniques.
Also, the savings to the Government, in terms of reduced revenue losses and
the increased plantation productivity from credit-financed reforestation,
as opposed to fiscal incentive financed planting, could be significant
(para. 2.07).
3.49     Furthermore, the estimated rates of return do not fully capture
the importance of the project to Brazil's forestry sector since they
exclude benefits from: (a) the reduced pressure on existing natural
forests; (b) increased employment, especially for women in impoverished
rural areas; (c) the increased forest productivity from the application of
the results of the research trials and experiments to be conducted; (d) the
increased scope for investment in the sect r and reduced per hectare
planting costs by a strengthened and more experienced IEF; (e) the
decreased costs per hectare and increased productivity expected with the
substitution of fiscal incentives by credit for financing reforestation;
((f) the improved utilization of land resources by substituting marginal
agricultural activities (i.e., extensive grazing) with productive forests.
3.50     The results of various sensitivity tests are summarized below.
Details are shown in Annex 5, Table 2).



- 21 -
Internal Economic Rate of Return
Best Estimate:         16.6              Costs up by 20? and
Costs up by 20X:       13.8              Benefits down by 202:  10.4
Benefits down by 20?: 13.1               Delay of one Year in
Benefits                13.4
Employment
3.51     Employment generated for unskilled laborers in the planting,
maintenance, harvesting and charcoal manufacturing activities is about 0.32
worker-years per hectare of industrial-scale forest over its 19 years
rotation. Using these coefficients and projections of planting of
industrial-scale plantations established under the project, it is estimated
that employment in the plantinglmaintenancelharvesting phase will average
about 3,000 full-time jobs annually from 1988 to 2014. The more labor-
intensive small-scale plantations would generate an average of 2.45 man-
years of work per hectare over the 26 year project period or over 5,000
full-time jobs each year through the year 2014.
Project Risks
3.52     With the industrial-scale reforestation component, the main
project risk is that current economic uncertainties or reluctance by
commercial enterprises to borrow for projects with a long pay-back period
(with inherent associated risks) might slow disbursement of the industrial
reforestation credit component. However, increasing demand for and cost of
charcoal, the reduced availability of wood from native forests and the
continuing reductions in FISET funds for reforestation are likely to reduce
this risk. Furthermore, the survey of potential subborrowers (Antlex 2)
shows a clear interest in borrowing for reforestation. The companies
responding indicated thay would borrow about US$41 million per year to
plant an average of 67,000 ha annually (total investment per year: US$51
million). On the munagement side, risks are considered minimal in view of
the good record and reputation of both IEF and BDMG. Also, at appraisal, a
comprehensive institutional development component was prepared and a
agreement among the executing agencies was signed to assure a smooth flow
of resources and information during project execution.
IV. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED
4.01     During negotiations, the State Government provided assurances
that:
(a)  the terms and conditions of the subloans, as outlined in para.
3.09, would be followed by BDMG and participating commercial banks
and that the;e agreed onlending terms and conditions including the
use of the OTN as the basis for adjustment for full monetary
correction of the subloans, would be subject to annual review and
agreement by the Bank with particular emphasis on the extent to
which the OTN index reflects inflation (para. 3.10).



- 22 -
(b)  As part of its responsibilities for general project coordination,
SEPLAN-MG would prepare and submit to the Bank, semestral project
monitoring reports no later than March 31 and September 30 of each
year (para. 3.21);
(c)  IEF would maintain a project implementation unit within its
existing General Program Coordinating Group (GCGP), with
organization, structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank,
and staffed with personnel in numbers and with qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.21).
(d)  the terms of reference, qualifications and experience of the
consultants responsible for project evaluation would be reviewed
by and acceptable to the Bank, the annual evaluation reports
coordinated by SEPLAN-MG would be presented to the Bank not later
than June 30 for the preceding project year (January-December),
and that the ex-post evaluation would be submitted within six
months after project completion (para. 3.22);
(e)  it would (i) assume the foreign exchange risk and a part of the
interest rate risk associated with the Bank loan; (ii) assume the
obligation of servicing the costs associated with the different
grace periods of the Bank loan (3 years) and the loans to final
borrowers (up to 7 years); and (iii) provide adequate counterpart
funding for the effective and timely execution of the project
components to be implemented by IEF (para. 3.27);
(f)  the annual budget proposal for project activities would be made
available to the Bank by October 31 each year for review and
comments (para. 3.32);
(g)  it would make available sufficient funds (i.e., about US$1.0
million) for the purchase of vehicles and microcomputers necessary
for project implementation but not subject to Bank financing and
that the other procurement procedures outlined in paras. 3.34-3.36
would be followed (para. 3.36);
(h)  (i) the Special Account, the BDMG investment credit accounts, and
the IEF project accounts would be maintained and audited annually
according to practices satisfactory to the Bank and the STN, (ii)
terms of reference for the auditors to be prepared by STN and
acceptable to the Bpnk would include, inter alia, verification of
the Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for the project accounts and
(iii) copies of the audit reports would be submitted to the Bank
within six months of the close of each project fiscal year (para.
3.42);
4.02     During negotiations, the BDMG provided assurances that:
(a)  it and the participating banks would appraise the proposed
subprojects using BDMG's technical, financial and economic
criteria based on the BNDES criteria which had been developed in
association with the Bank and adopted by BDMG specifically for
this project (para. 3.08);



- 23 -
(b) it would submit the names and necessary financial data of proposed
participating commercial barks t., the Bank for review and
agreement (para. 3.10);
(c) the terms and conditions of the subloans, as outlined in paras.
3.08 and 3.09, would be followed by it and participating
commercial banks and that these agreed terms and conditions
including the use of the OTN as the basis for adjustment for full
monetary correction of the subloans, would be subject to annual
review and agreement by the Bank (para. 3.10);
(d) the first two subloans approved under the project, and any
subsequent subloan of US$4.0 million equivalent or more, would be
submitted to the Bank for approval before the signing of the
subloan contracts (para. 3.10);
(e) the investment credit accounts would be maintained and audited
annually according to practices satisfactory to the Bank and the
STN and copies of these audit reports would be submitted to the
Bank within six moni;hs of the close of each project fiscal year
(para. 3.42);
4.03     As conditions of loan effectiveness, the State would (a) allocate
adequate counterpart funding in the 1988 state budget (i.e., no less than
US$2.0 million equivalent) (para. 3.27); (b) sign a subsidiary loan
agreement with BDMG (para. 3.27) and, (c) approve an administrative
regulation assuring that (i) the project coordinating unit in SEPLAN-MG
would review and respond to executing agencies' requests for reimbursement
of eligible project-related expenses within three working days and, (ii)
project funds would be retained in the State Treasury for a period no
longer than one working day before being passed on to the executing
agencies (IEF, BDMG) in order to ensure that those funds are received by
those agencies on a timely basis (para. 3.38). Receipt by the Bank of a
satisfactory signed agreement between BDMG and each participating Bank,
specifying responsibilities and subloan terms and conditions, would be a
condition of Bank disbursement for the first subloan presented by each
participating bank (para. 3.27).
4.04     With the above assurances and conditions, the project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$48.5 million with a term of 15 years including a
grace period of three years.
November 18, 1987



BRAZIL
MASGERAS FORESTRY DEVQOPMEJNT PROJECT
Annual Phasing of Proect Costs
(Cz$ and USS milion)
Year 1        Year 2          Year 3          Year 4          Year 5          Year 6         Year 7        Year 8           Tot al     Baseline
Costs
CZC US$    C4         US$    CZ$    usS    C          uSS    CzS    US$    CZ$    US$    CZ$   USS   CZ$   USS    Cz$             USS
tndu;Tricl Sc3lo Retoresltlaon   a7.9   3.4  417.5   16.0  461.5   17.6  439 5   16.8  351.6   13.4  219.7   8.4  153.8   5.9  65.9   2.5  2197.4   84 0   85.1
Small.-scoo  Foresiry Develop    6.7   0.3   31.8        1.2   35.2    1.3   33.5       1.3   26.8       1.0   16.7   0.6   11.7   0.4    5.0   0.2   167.4          6.4    6.5
Euca:YPL,r, ar!as(rs           54    02    258        ' 0    286      I1    27.2      1 0    21 8     08    136    05        9.5   0.4    4 1   02    1360        52    5.3
rJavo Scrc Fratoins             1 3    0 0    6 0     0 2     6 6     0 3     6 3     0 2     5 0     0 2     31    0 1      2.2   01    0 9   0 0       31 4      1 2    1.2
Foreatry Conservation             5.9   0.2   27.6    1.1   30.6    1.2   29.3          1 .1   23.4     0.9   14.6   0.6   10.3   0.4    4.4   0.2   146.5           5.6    5.7
Contol oi Forest               I sorg  13    0 0  6 0  0 2    6 6     0 3     6.3     0 2     5.0     0 2     3.1   0.1      2 2   0 1    0 9   0 0      31 4     1 2    1.2
Coriscaton Educa on             1 4    0 1    6 5     0 ?     7 1     0 3     6 8     0 3     5 4     0 2     3 4    0.1     2.4   0.1    1 0   0 0      34 0      1 3    1.3
Paas adReseres Deetovpmen!    3 2    0 1    15 4      0 6    17 0     0 7    16 2     0 6    13 0     0 5     8.1    0 3     5 7   0.2    24   0.1    81.1         3.1    3.1
lnsitutional Devolopment          2.0   0.1    9.4       0.4   10.4    0.4    9.9    0.4        8.0     0.3     S.0   0.2      3.5   0.1    1.5   0.1      49.7      1.9    1.9
Project Evaluation                0.8   0.0      4.0    0.2    4.4    0.2    4.2    0.2         3.3    0.1    2.1   0.1        1.S   0.1    0.6   0.0    20.9        0.8    0.8
Baseline Cosgt                 103.3   3.9  490.0   18.8  542.2   20.7  516.4   19.7  413.1    15.8  258.2    9.9  180.7   6.9   77.5   3.0  2582.0   98.7  100.0
Contingencies aW                  0.5   0.0    2.9    0.1    4.0    0.2    6.5    0.2           7.4    0.3    6.0   0.2    S.1   0.2    2.6   0.1          35.0      1.3
Pltysicai                      0.3    0 0     1 5     0.1     1.6     0 1     1.5    0.1      1.2     0 0     0.8   0.0      0.5   0.0    0 ?   0.0       7 7     0 3 b
Pric                           0 2    0.0     1 5     0.1     2 4     0.1     5.0    0.2      6.2    0.2      5.2   0.2      4 6   0.2    2.4   0.1      27 3     1.0 c/
Total Project Cost             104.7   4.0  497.2   19.0  549.6   21.0  523.4   20.0  418.7   16.0  261.7  10.0  183.2   7.0  78.5   3.0  2617.0  100.0
' Years from dato of Board Approval whtch is expected December 15. 1987.
a  No contngences induded tor the fine of credit for industnal-scale reforestaBon
bt  This represents 2% of U S. $ 14 7 miltior which Is baseline CoSts excluding the ltine of credit for industnal-scate relorestation.
cr Tt:s represents 67% of U.S 6 150 mdilhon which is baseline costs exciuding the lIne o1 credit for industrial-scate reforestafion
ptus physical contngences and was based on ntemational inflation rates estimated at 1.0% for 1988-90 ard 3.5% thereaft&r.
-r



-  25  -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Disbursement    Cumulative
Bank Fisca'      Quarter           During          Amount         Balance
Year                           Quarter          Disbursed      of Loan
1988           March 31, 1988        2.5 1/          2.5             46.0
June 30, 1988         0.0             2.5             46.0
1989           Sept. 30, 1988        2.1             4.6             43.9
Dec. 31, 1988         2.1             6.7             41.8
March 31, 1989        2.2             8.9             39.6
June 30, 1989         2,.2           11.1             37.4
1990           Sept. 30, 1989        2.5            13.6             34.9
Dec. 31, 1989         2.5            16.1             32.4
March 31, 1990        2.6            18.7             29.8
June 30, 1990         2.6            21.3            27.2
1991           Sept. 30, 1990        2.4            23.7             24.8
Dec. 31, 1990         2.4            26.1            22.4
March 31, 1991        2.4            28.5             20.0
June 30, 1991         2.5            31.0            17.5
1992           Sept. 30, 1991        2.0            33.0             15.5
Dec. 31, 1991         2.0            35.0             13.5
March 31, 1992        1.9            36.9             11.6
June 30, 1992         1.8            38.7              9.8
1993           Sept. 30, 1992        1.3            40.0              8.5
Dec. 31, 1992         1.2            41.2              7.3
March 31, 1993        1.2            42.4              6.1
June 30, 1993         1.2            43.6              4.9
1994           Sept. 30, 1993        0.9            44.5              4.0
Dec. 31, 1993         0.9            45.4              3.1
March 31, 1994        0.8            46.2              2.3
June 30, 1994        0.8             47.0             1.5
1995           Sept. 30, 1994        0.8            47.8              0.7
Dec. 31, 1994         0.7            48.5             0.0
1/ Represents initial deposit of US$2.5 million into the Special Account.



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount
Category                 Items                    U.S. Million
I            Civil Works.                           0.1
502 of expenditures.
II           Project Adm. and Training              5.2
502 total expenditures
(salaries and allowances will
be financed on a declining basis:
602 of expenditures up to an
aggregate disbursement
U.S.$3.5 million; 30X
thereafter until the aggregate
reaches U.S.$5.0 million;
and 10? thereafter.
III          Consultant Services and Training       0.2
100? of foreign expenditures, and
SO? of local expenditures
IV           Equipment and Materials                1.4
100? of foreign expend'tures, and
5O0 of local expenditures
V            Credit                                36.8
1002 of the amount disbursed
for subloans
VI           Unallocated                            4.8
TOTAL                      48.5



~aN~OF 9011F3 4A.L 5"BOORO IN4TEREST IN 1l41TPW1A1 RE70R?S1A7IW4 CREDT (1900- 1991)
R ...b.   . ....     ..t .      - - - -- - - -- - - -   -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -
N pi Mtst.~~&'    pltt~                TOTAL       loe. pionta.1W.O     PI*.  6...".         TOTAL        loe@ pleftliticas    P*...6.tiq...       7014
Cq.po.y                             t E...     me    eq....'     "a     Eq....'    Pb     Eq....     He     Eau..      MD    Equi..    lb        Eau.,.   "a    Eq..v.    Ilm    Eqi...
(low)             (1000)            (1000)            ('000)            (l0o0)            (l0ow)             (0law)           (l000)             ('coO)
Ac*-. En,go.t.c  S/4                 6.000    7.013        -             6.600    7.013    0.600    7,013         -        -   0.600    7.018    6.000    7.016         -             6000    7.015
0.s.I..o S.d0..'.G.o Ltd.p             2.000    2.392        -2.000    2.392    2.000    2.892                      -        -   2.000    2,892    2,000    2.80          -             2.000    2.89
51. Corbo'                               -            1 0.500   30.391   30.500   10.393       -         -   10.W00   10.891   10.600       M  10.8to1.8SW   10.601   10.600   10.801
CosoLol S,do,wvg,. 3(A                 1.000      503    8.034    3.620    9.634    4.129    i.oo0       801    9,079    8.014   10.079    4.815    c,00       g01   10.724    0.751   11.726    5.252
MeteS..' FIe.'@.t..I S(A     1.500      929    3.500    1.656    5.000    2.71 M     .0       ,9       .0       .1      6.00     2.17      .6I no    a      1.96     1.100    0.000    1.M1
MetteSed.' Ltd.                        1.10 S     0i         -        - 150          .9        .0 1,091  -  -   1,500    1.001                      1..60 1.091     -  1.800 aw1.093 
Pm....  o.'..t.' ~~~~~        .894    3.256    4.00     2.5 0.9            .292    6.880    4.050    4.000    2.909   t0o0       7,5       .72     589       .0       .28i   10 772    0.801
Q....oa J.h..or                            .        - 1.350         032    1.180      an                   -    3.150      an    1.160       a          -        -    1.160      an     1.180      a
0i.u.ce Ref#oreatedors SIA             84600    5.906        -        -   0.600    5.906    0am0   5,906    2.000          000   10o600     .714   10,000    6.01         -            io2.00o    G.M;
S.d...'... 06.. M.'.. 3(41.045    1.099          300      176   2.14S    1.277    1.940    1.144        30       176    2.240    181      1.2      1,4        80       17     201      1.5
S.8..'w.'.ce 1tot.... $/A              $.166    2.262    2.040    1,34.7    6.000    8.410   83174    2.8311    .00        866    4.574    2.678    2.976    2.10"      900      86    8.67      2.5M
m.b.* 5.4..'Q.cb~.' P.4d'. "e.a* S/A   1.000      727    2.500    1,036    3.800    2.546    1.000       727    2,500    3.010  8sl0w    2.845    1.000        VW7   2.800    1,010    8,800    2.54
V.t-of..  Motolm.,g, S/A                Sao      364        -        -      S00      364       800      364        -        -      800      364      N00      84         -        -      800      364
9.14-01 Si-r, S/A                        oco      3se        .         .     mo         s.     354N      3                          600      a"4               a"4        -        -      SW       664
4~de'wwcw 54t. L.q.q. L3.d.           3,674    1.50       059      566    2.538    2.157    1.716    1,454         -        -    1.710    1,464    1.060      WI7    947        10    2.007    1.713
TOTAL.                                36.479   2? 406   34.0a3  22.454   70,562   49.951  36.500   M901    34.229   23,133   70.609   62.148   87, 188   29.742   62.971   23.505   70.106   58.247
Me. PS.,tqt.q.e pl...it,.0*         TOTAL       fie. Plntatio..      ripSa1.iamo           TOTAL
Comm-7                      EWlb La..  oft    Eq....     "a     Eq..'.     ph      .i~..      Me     EMtSb             E..'
......... ------------('000)                         ('000)             (p9*0)            C'00)                               VOOO (00)
Ac.o,. E...6c   /                      09* GM    .013        -              .600    7.013   26.400   26,054        -        -23.000   20,084
0.ls.t.                                2.000    2,392                 -   2.000    2.392    0.000    9,87                        09 9.0     ,507
Si.  Qwb.,*                                           10. S    10.391   t0,So0   10.891        -        -  42.000   41.504   42.000   43,564
C.mt.,t  S'."'o      A 1                          Sol050   Soo   4.525    1.gas    5.026    4.09*    2,006   26.545   10.710   82.545   18,721
Mete...do PS'9td*   /A1.300                       665    1.950    1.123    3.250    3.960    500o    8.757   10.700    5,928   10,500    9.GM
Pe.S...a  cL'tof./                     1. S     3Q091        -        -    1.800    1.091    6.000    4.301        -         -   6.090    4,36)
Ps~~.~e PSo.q0tai S/A        4~. MS    4.525    4.000    3.297    6.70    7.621   24.301   3.7,70   160.90   11.474   40.303   29,233
~~.. pa ~~~~.. .o.'           . ~~~~   -    118        9*     1.15 IS    a          -        -   4.600    8.32         a"60   3.329
ft90.. 4V So'..tAe.*S/A         30.00     s.e. SW                   10.000    6.06    37.200   25.0S49    2.000      GM   39.000   26,357
S-4.d..'0.'g.c  0.o". 0b-s  S/A        1.665    1.115      9*0      170    2.165   13.293    7.575    4.525    1.200      711    0775    5.236
us.e'...'s,..I.,Q.0 ...   #*.A'2.930    2.133               20      230    3. 444    2.343   12.21.4   0.672    5,600    2.287   17.90 3.5
Lb....o S,dt.1....,.c   S/A.  e.'  (   1,000      727    2.5SW    1.610    3.50O    2,045    4.09*    2.909   10.9*0   7.02   14.9o   10,101t
V.te'..0  Mee...   /4                    500      3-                  -      500      364    2.9*    1.454          -        -   2.000    1.454
V.t,.',C.c S.e'..goS/                     0       364        -               500      864    2.000    1,454                  -   2.000    1.454
S.d..'.,'C..re tto L*y.*  314.  o       eas90               -    1,060      905    5.716    4.045    1.606    1.802    7.322    8.230
TOtAL                       ~~~~~~~~~33-004  200062   231034   2234   58.0ft  51,25   145.240  11S.t10  122,31?   91,406  267.80   206.0



- 28 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 11
THE MINAS GERAIS STATE DEVELOPMENT BANK
General
1.       The Minas Gerais State Development Bank (Banco de Desenvolvimento
de Minas Gerais), BDMG, is the largest of Brazil's state development banks,
with total assets of around US$800 million equivalent and a staff of some
800. BDMG was created in 1962 to promote the economic and social
development of Minas Gerais, through the provision of term credits,
guarantees and, on occasion, temporary minority share capital, to Brazilian
firms in the State and through the execution or support of programs of the
State Government.
2.       The share capital of BDMG is wholly owned by the State.  The State
Secretary of Planning and General Coordination is chairman of BDMG's
Administrative Council, the policy-making body for the Bank. While its
policies are closely integrated with those of the State, BDMG seeks to
remain administratively, economically and financially self-sustaining.
3.       BDMG's objectives, as set out in its Strategic Plan for 1987/90,
include strengthening its financial position and autonomy. It hopes to
earn a rate of return of 13Z on its net equity. At the same time, it will
seek to increase its equity to US$40 million equivalent from the present
level of about US$15 million; this increase is expected to come from
retained earnings an equity contributions from BNDES and, to a lesser
extent, the State of Minas Gerais. To achieve these aims, the majority of
its operations will be profit-oriented, but some 'social" lending is
expected to continue and an amount equivalent to 3Z of net equity is
expected to be set aside each year for programs of this type.
Organization and Staffing
4.       The current organization chart of BDMG is attached at Appendix 1.
In summary, nine departments report through the Vice-President to the
President; there is an executive directorate, responsible finally to the
Board of Directors.
The nine departments, together with their present staffing levels, are as
follows:
No. of Staff
(a) administration:
(i) legal                                                  22
(ii) controller's and administration                       242
(iii) coordination and planning                              49
(iv) financial resources                                    98
(v) representation and communications                      33
Subtotal                        444



- 29 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 11
(b) operationst
(i)  sectoral development I (rural; infrastructure          87
and services; small operations)
(Ii)  sectoral development II (mining and basic              72
industry; manufacturing; agroindustries)
(iii)  large operations                                       45
(iv)  special operations                                     30
Subtotal                       234
Total                        678
5.       The functions of the various departments listed above are clearly
indicated by their titles, except in the case of the last named. The
department of special operations, which accounts for 40Z of BDMG's credit
portfolio (para. 12 below), handles what can best be described as problem
projects. These ar.e substantial operations, of around US$400,000 and
above, where the borrowers are overdue in their loan repayments to BDMG.
The firms need additional liquidity or debt restructuring, but have the
management and market potential to become financially viable (if they do
not have this potential, they are put into the hands of the legal
department). This part of the portfolio, which would not be easy to manage
at the best of times, is particularly difficult in present conditions
because the normal BNDES and Central Bank rediscount lines are not designed
to accommodate such firms, and the only funds available on the market are
short-term and expensive.
Lending Procedures
6.       The lending procedures followed by BDMG appear to be sound,
carefully designed and well documented. In the case of rediscount
operations with BNDES, FINAME and the Central Bank, the standard
regulations and procedures are set out in published manuals and followed by
all banks. Like other banks, BDMG has procedures and criteria of its own,
which supplement the above and apply to all its lending operations
including those financed from its own resources and funds raised on the
market.
7.       Copies of the documentation used in the preparation and evaluation
of credit operations, together with a manual (Roteiro para Elaboracao de
Projetos) setting out the steps involved, have been placed on the project
file (Annexi lists these and other documents filed). The main features of
the lending procedures can be briefly summarized as follows:
(a) a letter of inquiry, for which there is a standard format, is
submitted to BDMG by the firm requesting a loan. The letter sets
out details of the firm, its shareholders and management, markets,
proposed project and sources of financing, guarantees and security
offered; it is accompanied by recent balance sheets and other
financial and legal information;
(b) the BDMG department concerned reviews the letter of inquiry and
discusses it with the client. The proposed project, the
particular financial needs of the firm and the types of credit
currently available are covered in these discussions;



- 30 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 11
(c) if the project looks to be acceptable in principle, a detailed
project proposal is prepared, elaborating that outlined in the
initial letter of inquiry;
(d) BDMG staff then evaluate the firm proposing the project, visit the
firm, check the information provided and carry out a first
analysis of the project and the associated risk including, in
particular, the credit risk and the collateral offered as
security;
(e)  after the project is accepted in principle (enquadramento),
detailed financial projections, rate of return calculations and
risk analysis are carried out;
(f) if the project is evaluated as satisfactory and approved by the
appropriate level of management (depending on the loan amount),
the loan contract is prepared and signed. The contract sets out
the terms and conditions of the loan, which normally include 702
financing and first mortgages on the items financed and, if
necessary, on the personal effects of senior officials of the
borrower;
(g' the implementation timetable set out in the project proposal is
checked during routine visits and physical inspections of the
project. Whenever possible, disbursements are made direct to
suppliers; in other cases, advance disbursements may be made and
the expenditures subsequently verified by reference to the
supporting documentation (suppliers' invoices, statements, etc.)
and accounting records.
8.       In practice, the volume of work involved in the above is less than
might appear at first sight. Simplified procedures can be used for small
operations. More important, perhaps, is the fact that many large firms are
the subject of multiple lending operations - in 1986, for example, 15 firms
with an average of 20 loans each during the year accounted for 50Z of the
value of all contracts approved.
Overall Financial Position and Performance
9.       Summaries of BDMG's balance sheets a.id profit and loss accounts
over recent years are set out at Annex 1. More detailed information is
available in the published annual reports and the internal management
reports, copies of which have been placed on the project file. Overall,
the picture is one of reasonable stability. The mdin points can be
summarized as follows:
(a) the volume of lending declined steadily from 1982 through 1985 and
then recovered sharply in 1986;
(b) the total portfolio as a multiple of net equity has ranged roughly
between 9:1 and 10:1 and is now less than 7:1, reflecting cautious
management and, perhaps, the onset of the current recession;



- 31 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 11.
(c) administrative expenses excluding provisions for bad and doubtful
debts have been around 32 - 42 of the average credit portfolio; if
the provisions are included, however, the figure rises to 10X or
more;
(d) the return on net equity was very low in the early 80s, but has
more recently average around 10, and management's objective is to
raise it to 13? (para. 3 above);
(e) the biggest cause for concern would seem to be the amount of
overdues. These represented 702 of net equity and 112 of the
total portfolio at the end of April 1987; they were heavily
concentrated in the department of special operations (para. 5),
which has some 402 of the total portfolio with average overdues
approaching 302.
Changes in the sources and applications of BDMG'n funds and the
relative profitability of different types of operations are discussed in
the following section.
Sources, Applications and Margins
10.      The following table shows the main sources of funds for the credit
portfolio as of 30 April 1987 and also for the credit operations approved
in the first 4 months of the year.
Loan Balances             Loan Approvals
Sources of Funds      April 30, 1987            Jan./April 1987
CZ$'000        2         CZS'OQO             X
BNDES System              9,290           48          1,257            51
Resolution 63             4,587           24             179            7
Own Funds                 1,916           10             966           39
Other                     3,504           18              78            3
Total          19,299          100           2,480           100
Guarantees                4,060                          365
Source: BDMG Management Report, April 19P9 - Table 1.5 and 2.3
11.      The above figures show a sharply increasing share of financing by
BDMG's own funds - essentially raised on the market by the issue of CDs.
There is a corresponding decrease in the share of Resolution 63 funds.
These funds were mobilized by Brazilian banks on international markets some
time ago and retailed to their clients with the foreign exchange risk, plus
an interest rate that is currently around 132. With the cessation of
voluntary foreign lending to Brazil, these funds are becoming increasingly
scarce.



- 32 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 11
12.      Applications of funds are summarized in the foilowing table.  The
figures are shown by department and include guarantees.
Per Staff    Loan Balances         Loan Approvals
Member     April 30, 1987        Jan./April 1987
(CZS'OOO1   _CZs'0       _      _  CZ8'0          _
Department I              36           3,087        18         129          6
Rural                                 612         2         -2
Infrastructure A Services           2,290        10          53          2
Small Operations                      185         1          18          1
Department II             32           1,830         8         849         12
Mining A Basic Industry               48          i2
Manufacturing                         876         8         201          1
Agroindustries                        725         3          88          a
Department III
Large Operations       196          8 931        38       1.432         60
Department IV
Special Operations
(with problems)       818           9.529        41         935         33
Total             i0i         23,367       100       2846 .__
Source: BDIA Mansgement Report, April 1987 - Tables 1.1 and 2.1
13.      The above figures speak for themselves.  About 80% of the
portfolio is accounted for by large operations and special operations with
problems. It is worth noting that the value of the portfolio per staff
member is 6 to 10 times as high in the departments dealing with these
operations as compared with the other departments (I and II), which
suggests that there are wide variations in administration costs.
14.       The margins charged by BDMG (that is the difference between the
cost of funds and the rates charged on loans) varies both by type of
operations and client. A good indication of these different margins, or
spreads, is given by the assumptions made in the preparation of the 1987
budgets. The following spreads were assumed:
(a)  certificates of deposits 5 percent (implying a real interest rate
of 25Z-30Z);
(b)  BNDES and FINAME rediscount operations 1.32 - 2.0X (the standard
spread is 2Z, but BDMG staff say that this is often reduced by
competition from commercial banks, who may accept spreads as low
as 0.5%);
(c) Resolution 63 funds 41
On its own funds - that is to say equity and retained earnings - BDMG's
policy is to charge from 10% to 24% in real terms.



- 33 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 11
15.      BDIG is anxious to get a clearer idea of the profitability of its
various operations and departments. A number of estimates have been made,
but none of them are regarded as fully satisfactory. The main difficulties
concern, first, the opportunity cost to be imputed to its own funds;
second, the allocation of overhead costs; and, third, the treatment of bad
and doubtful debts.
16.      In summary, BDMG appears to be a sound, well-staffed institution
and is almost certainly the best of the state development banks. It has
substantial risks in its portfolio, due to the present economic environment
and some incautious past lending. Only a few years ago, BDMG had a policy
of "zero profits" which was thought to be appropriate to a development
bank. The present objectives of profitability and financial autonomy are
encouraging evidence of more responsible management.
I



- 34 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 11
BDMG Summary Accounts 1983 - 1986
1986   1985      1984   1983
Cz$/US$ at December 31                     14.9   10.5      3.18   0.984
-----     (U.S.$ million)-----
SHORT TERM ASSETS                          250     200       227     252
Credit                               221      170       191     212
Other                                 29       30        36      40
LONG TERM ASSETS                           441     394       416      451
Credit                               424      386       406     442
Other                                 17        8        10       9
PERMANENT ASSETS                            14      12        12       14
TOTAL ASSETS & LIABILITIES           7Q5      606      655      717
SHORT TERM LIABILITIES                    133      129       141     178
Deposits                              12        4        25      57
Repasses - domestic                   94       69        64      65
- foreign                   20       35        32      32
Other                                  7       21        20      24
LONG TERM LIABILITIES                      437     377       421      453
Repasses - domestic                  339      267       296     333
- foreign                    78     109       124     114
other                                 20        1         1       6
NET EQUITY                                 135     100        93       86
OPERATING RECEIPTS                         340     468       460     370
Credit Operations                    300      451       438     355
Other                                 40       17        22      15
OPERATING EXPENSES                         288     404       403     324
Repasses & Deposits                  241      364      372      303
Administration                        21       12        11      12
Provisions                            26       28       20        9
OPERATING PROFIT                            51      64        58       46
MONETARY CORRECTION                        (37)    (52)      (47)    (39)
OTHER                                      ( 1)    (12        -        -
NET PROFIT                            13       12        10       7



-  35  -
ANNEX 3
Page 8 of i
INDUSTRIAL REFORESTATION CREDIT - DRAFT OUTLINE OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS
(Translation from Portuguese)
Objectives
The expansion and rehabilitation of the reforested area in Minas
Gerais, with a view to increasing self-sufficiency in products such as
wood, charcoal and cellulose.
Beneficiaries
National and multinational firms consuming wood products in
industries such as steel, cement and cellulose, whose subprojects would be
carried out in Minas Gerais and would be in accordance with the credit
conditions.
Borrower of External Funds
Government of the State of Minas Gerais
Guarantor
Federal Government
Participating Bank
Development Bank of Minas Gerais (BDUM)
Sources of Funds
The external resources provided by IBRD will cover up to 502 of
investment costs. Sub-borrowers will also be able to seek funds from FISET 1
and, in the case of national companies, from BNDES, provided that the total
financing does not exceed 80Z of the total cost of the subprojects.
Physical and Financial Targets
The program will be implemented over four years and is expected to
call for resources equivalent to US$85 million, of which IBRD would
participate with US$41 million. About 165,000 ha of eucalyptus are
expected to be planted or replanted during the period.
Items Eligible for Financing
The following would be eligible for financing:
(a) preliminary expenses related to the elaboration of projects,
topographic surveys, layout of firebreaks, roads and clearings;
1/ Up to a maximum of 30? of total subproject costs.



-  36  -
ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 1l
(b) the machinery, equipment, installations and inputs needed for the
establishment of nurseries and plantations and the maintenance of
the latter for up to four years (excluding motor vehicles);
(c) independent supervision and verification of sub-projects;
(d) fixed and semi-fixed investments related to the establishment of
infrastructure for charcoal production, construction of ovens and
equipment for the recovery of tar, provided that the wood is from
homogeneous plantings; and
(e) working capital required for drying out the wood.
Credit Terms and Conditions
For plantation and their maintenance through Year 4:
Total term :                     14 years
Grace period:                    up to six months after the first
cut, but in no case more than
seven years.
Debt service:                    charged monthly
Interest rate:                   102 a year, charged quarterly
including the grace period.
Monetary correction:             full correction based on OTN
Disbursements:                   in accordance with expenditures
made by the sub-borrower, in
accordance with the
physical/financial timetable of
the sub-project.
Limit of financing:              up to 50? of eligible costs
Guarantees:                      real guarantees corresponding to
1.3 times the value of the
financing. Sub-projects may build
up the guarantee, whose values
should be incorporated with each
disbursement (progressive
guarantee)
Responsibilities for             BDMG Rural Development Department.
implementation:
For charcoal production and tar recovery systems, including
working capital:



- 37 -
ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 11
As above, with the following differences:
Total terms:                     up to four years
Grace period:                    up to 12 months
Guarantees:                      real guarantees in accordance with
BDMG's usual procedure (in this
case the progressive guarantee
will not apply).
Agencies Involved
Coordination:                    SEPLAN/MG, responsible for the
submission of reports and other
information and any necessary
alterations.
Technical & Financial Analysis: BDMG in accordance with its
prevailing internal regulations.
Supervision & Verification:      IEF, through field visits and
reports.
FMC: mcc



ANNEX 3
-  38  -                  Appendix 1
Page 11 of 11
THE MINAS GERAIS STATE DEVELOPMENT BANK
Summary Organization Chart
Conselho
Directoria
Pre s idente
Vice-Presidente
Legal Counsel
Internal Audit
Legal Department
Control & Administration
Planning
--Financial Resources
l___r= _______-__- _-Representation & Communication
Sectorial Development I
RuraL Development
Infrastructure & Services
Small Operations
Sectorial Devlopment II
Minin- & Basic Industries
Transportation Industries
Agro-industries
Large Operations I and II
Special Operations I and 11



7lis 1 SWALL SCALE RLFOR[S1ATC*TA  TIN CM.C     oVP'mtuu zrfyt3r4 ori FkT Tofrn. (Vals m Ctnruzetot 04i7 C5 2e616-USS 1 0o0)
VEAR    1        2                 4       5       6       7         a       9       I0      11     12       13       14       1S      16      17      Is      19
Cltchm:S                                                  1532.984                                           627.132                                           $23.940
Too ftscr         so 5a              50      so     so      60  $32.984        s0      s0      50      s0      60 627.132        so      So      so      80      60 $23.940
DtITS
Seip   01.442
FoIttlzar    GM3
Trwiapon    G9M
Lwor  53.323   $1.026        55   $171   5171    $171   87,535        55    O399       57     857    657   58.255       S5    6399    557    $57    657   &5.412
Ez'  aon  01.17     S77i       4*
Fer          395     6395       SS    3395      9      395     639S  5a305 o     395     3S    It39S  M  $39S       5      M5395    35       5   695 6S5
TOWlCAM    68.103   52.193   51 .36   $566   5S        U566  813,326   61.250    O74   O         8452   5452    5.M650 31250    8794   545    $452   54S2           415,12
CQ,Ft(S8.103) (82.183) 1(1.t36) ($566) ($SS6) (5566) 819.85   ($1.250) (f794) ($452) ($452) ($452) S20.482  (81.250) (5794) ($452) (8452) ($452) 618.S28
Rr    is 1ta
Tea 2 SMAsA SCALE REFORESTATK)N MODEL H. Ch1wer   Producton Olly-PlanWi en H*t Torran. (Vaktien Cruzadea of 4187: Cz8 26.168USS 1.00)
#EAR     1         2         3        4       S       6       7         3        8      10      tt      12       13        14       15      16      17      18       19
Chorwd                                                        $43.624                                            535.304                                             632,984
Too rAhowm          to        so   C 0          S0      s0   S 0 643.624           so     6o       50     s 00  5 38.304              60      s0      60      60       80 832,984
Seciut    52,163
Fortillaew   5418
Irctort    8950
Labor   84.053    51.197   S1.026    8171    $171    5171   56.994    $1.026    6513    $57    $57    857   88.764    81.026    6513         657    J57    $57   $7,478
EAtaun    $1.157       5771      6386
Fermdo       69        595       69 8395          39    69        6395                                        95 6M $395       6395 S395    $395 8395 5395
Chcmom Mmn                                                         $5.396
To Co=    59.136    82.364   81.807    556    55          565  $15,785    $1.421    6908  $6        8452   $452   $9,160    61,421       We08    $452   5452   6452   $7.478
Ccf F1I  (89.136) (52.364) (01,807) (5566) (6566) (8565) $27.839  (81.421) (8908) (#452) ($452) ($452)  290,144  (61.421) (6908) ($452) ($452) (6452) 825.506
IRR.    19 1%      Tho IRR bt hsy t   n as gmor ftn ha fo Om toffan bmas bt  ode  tem  o  D rgion of Mn Gaes rs am more bUte: hghwer prducvty, tes brttZr eoded.                >
tID I



TICo 3 SMUNL SCALE REFORESTATiON 5sDEL M1 ChatW, Fonc.poai wrn &xadmg Pob Po        m oan FMt Tomrau. (Value in Cnaados of 447. CIS 2616-USS 1.00)
'VEM     1         2         3        4       S       6        7        8        B      10       t       12       13        14       15      16      17      1a       19
OYuaDd                                                        $27.664                                             S22,876                                             821.280
Fariammin                                                                 $~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12.673
B&     Po                                                                                                                                                 $9.364
Too Rowaio          60        s0        60      go      s0      80 u27.664         SD      80      00 512.673       40  $22,876        so      to      80 t9.364       $0 $21.280
SaeUsp  81.442
Forrszoer    6836
Twentpo'1    6950
Lebor   63.3i5    $1,026    855    8171    $171    8171   6,386         855      9       857    8978      657   ,5.268      68S5   6390    657 $1.322         $57   $4,837
?Arisaan   81.157      5771      638s
Formtsdo     6395       6395      6395    5395   8395    8395    $395        395   639S   8          U                                            39S   $395      S
Ch=aS Kiln                                                         $5.396
TorColl  68.106    12.193   61.636    U6;i   8         566 5568  $12,1717    1.250    5794   $4S2   #1.193    8452    5,683    51.250    5794   6452  $1,718    8452   $4.637
CFim  (IS.106) (82.193) 611.636) (6S66) (#566) (8566) 115.487  ($1,250) ($704) ($452) $11,480  (8452) 617.193  (51.250) (8794) (8452) 57.646  (8452) 816.443
IRR.    16 3%
0
Ta  4 SMALL-SCALE REfORESTATK0N  M     IV Choo. Faowop tl werd lmg Pob Prodcon on HN   Trtm. (Vea    Cruzdo of 4'87 CzS 26 16.USS 1.00)
'vUR     1         2         3        4       5       6       7         8        9      10       11      12       13       14       1S      16       17      li       19
OUTPUTS
Ch o                                                          M1135.12                                           50.324                                               s38.19S
Fctn i                                                                                            820.277
Waalin P7lgt $15,185
Tow ld%wwm         s0         60       s0      s0       s0       4 53,112           o     so 8 0  820.277          80 30.324          SO      so0     so0151.85        60 828,199
Scsdhp    52.163
Fontilizor   8418
Troruapan    695
Lbor  $4.053    51,197   81.026    6171   $171    5171   $6.016    51.026    513`        657   11,243    857   57.001    $1,026    5513      657  #2.109      857  "6.420
Exwnuon t1.157         5771     63"
Ffto         G35       GM         3S5    695    13395    5s       6395       395      9    8M         3     8395      8         395   $399    $395    E395   8395
Chorcs  Kiln                                                       85.396
TotsCot    89.138    82.364   51.807    5566    8586    8566  $13,810 81.421  8S8  B 452   51.638   $452   87.396    $1.421    5908    8452 S2.504    84S2   $6.420 |
C= F1   (8$9.136) (52.364) (S1.807) ($566) ($566) (8566) 821.302  (81.421) ($908) ($452) $18.639  (8452) 822.928  ($1,421) (8908) (8452) $12,681  ($452) 521.776 1   XM
IRR.    20 0%      Tho IRR kfw timpif    to   groatgr m  Mm fo fa  irm  bscaut the o    iso   t  a Nft  etaL giongsi of nt Germe wre moro  ilo. ho pdaitcbvtty. Iu ferti inErfeoded.  w 



ot-oC   N^S'n   TF~ _-T  S-;C49~          J^W4~r  'r0a-               Pla lXO c4+ra.rSS5% of tnvctr?V nCZ.tst l -'705Ts
GX-'s   04 A%cn  C--ztwi ;W-cbt S     3t ca  :ytt     w)th-Ne tFT   Cgts-,Fbw   Ca5hFirm   Cmst Rw   CaW, bwl  Ct= FID   cttshFor  Cashtttt  Cz5hFio  Cost% b
stV                  Otwt4                      Po- 'a   . ttbc--  I-0e0v           P'oe-   FOvtt   C. e- O-ctrc vowt  Ptxtmrm4pt  P-bttwp   Plt-amov    Plstnrst   Plantmvt  Pl*mrQtn   Plrtrt Z5O   PtUtrtfn5  PtarKtng
.                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CZ$,    C,$)   XCr5    -. 2S zs iC;S.   X2} zs)      ic2s)      iCr51     kCtSi      Xz)        tCzS)     lCXV       (C:S)l    4C:S)    iczS1
LC-- Volparn 4rf oa;tt                     5 2.'    $,3 310 3tI ISt 2.t 3                                                                                                                              (S4 86)
.? odr a-teo   -.:W -                           S94e    $287                                                   2    (SOM  (P tS2.t39)                                                                 (S2.344)
3  Wa*v5ni rn&xlmfc                               SS44     SS3                                                  3    (,844)    15946) ($12.139)                                                         (S27 75S)
a  W=&V" -fluiwi                                  S230    S59                                                   4    ($230)    (St844)   ($946) j S 12.1 39)                                            li2.7581
toarmnv"                                        Si 7,    539                                                   5    j$1711     S230)    ($644)   (S34S) (S12.1391                                     (S2.317)
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s t|fcc     5'7'     53                                                            71)    (S1 71     (S230)    (S644)    (S946 1 ($12.139)                        (SI se21
-va-tr-P  E27--t ztt- ist r  "I- rp                            525.2 0   $1.09tS  S45.805   S6.8 71  S23.535      S20.364      ISt7l)    (SI 7t)   tS230)   (S644)    (S9461 (512.139)                  (S347)
t-amea ritam. 82tmdS. 23t7*rt 2m  r, piarnn20                Sn,7s0   S1.895  t4e.te7   #69' S   20.a47      tt   ISO'l9)  1;20.B7B     (IS T1)    (SI 71)   (S230)    (SB44)    (S946) (S12.139)  S3.294
H&-wr--fwwD , WmnC  200k., 1tss    Aamnss                    t2s.270   St.895  548.428   S6.se4  S2 . s5     9    IS8tl9)    (5819)  W20,S97      (Si 7t)   (S171)   (S230)    ($644)    IS946)  54.067
Ha1Los*=tJunt  8.-mf. 200xf 4fl  vpamrigtst                  tsM273  st1sfs  s46.740   $7.311  $21,4Tt0   10    (Sit7tj   (SO69)    (SOI9)  52 I.299         (Si 71     (SI 71)    (S230)    15844)  S3.874
Ratettttwtmt. f2pd. 20m  5t?t r. s:ee-Ti                     M2.270   s1.8ss  S47.052   S7.0ss  s21,782    1 1    ($171)   (Ss?st   ($660)    (S$ I )  S21.611          (s1 71)   (SI71)   ($230)  S3.07e
0N47Srt  2rx0e. 2X0tit 5t r  0aramp                   52sno7  Si.695  s4r.3t3   S7.1 Q4  S22.0s3    * 2    jsl71>    ISsrn       tS)($71)   (Ses6)    (ssa9)  S21.922       (Si 7l I  (171)  sI.e3s
f4u.vtmp  42f  2=k  7!r r  pEariip                           S25270   S1 s9s   47.075   $7.151  522.405    1 3  SIt8.954     (SI ?I)   (S1 7i)   (SI 71)   (S669)    (9819)  522.234         (Si 71)  S2.0te
;4f"ta=p    - 42      0>dc ?Oa rm    r   aStotV*             52.270   S1,Ma  s47.sss   S7.1911 s22.71e    1 4    ISero 5) X9.220        IS171)   (SI71)   (S 17 1)    (S$ es)      S91 9)  u22.545   $4.074
ttm{ao                                        $17'    S39                                                   75    (s6esl   ($Bie 9}   1s,4et      (SI 71     (Sr 71 )   ($1 7t1)   ($8e91   ($019)  S3.M
a  17442varbr. ttn                               $89     Si"s 5144 S71)   js66sg  tStt9)  $19.?52                                                               (St7t)   (Si 71)   (SI71)   (SOee)  S3.SG8
9  ianxcn                                        sOF9 s4a4                                                     17    (SI1J1   ($171)   ($80s)    ($s19) S20.01ts    (SI 71)   (SI71)   (SI 71)  V.825
to  t    _coar                                    S 71     We                                                   is   (S17 1    (St71)    ($1711   ($ees)   ($819)  $20.284            (st7)  S71) sS?      r.16n1
t l mcktmw                                        $171     We                                                   t 9  S17.170     (SI71)    (SI711)   (S171)   (Sess)    ($5sts)  tS20550         (sit7t)  $1.29
I 2M=fta                                          St71     S"x                                                  20             St7.391      JSI71)    (S1171)   (SI 7 I)   ose6s)    ($S I9)  s20.e1e   $3707
3  War2mvsp  70. ttm  *vt ro paenv                              521.57$  s1.eXe  s40.e90   86.1os  S19.t2s    21                         Smallt    (SI71)    (s171)    (St 71)    ($sos)    (saig)  S3.5"9
h4t>sMmp  70m4:. 20tsm 2na yr p -go                          S2.573   $1.e1s  SMo.s64   86.145  $srsss      22                                   Ss 7.1332   (SI71)    (SI71)    (SI71)    jsees)  S3,4so
Hwotftw, 70mSc; 20x%< :d y7 pUtEdqX                          521.573   S1.618  S41.230   S6.tes  $19.657    23                                              Ssos2m    (SI71)    (Si I1)    (5IP)  PAU8s
K*v*_V=. IOf. 200t 4tt It. plainrt                           S2.57S   s1.e t  S41.490   Se224  S1s.923    2 4                                                         S118.272     (SI71)    (Si17t)  S1.810
teavvstw ..?r. 7   204%m sth11 pwdn                          Us2,73   s.el8  S41,7eW   S626  Sn.1 89    25sS tes93                                                                           (SI71) s1.2s9
m4oasttor ' 70nw  2mr 51 Jr. PW p                            S 23 U.S73   $1 618  S42.028   SIS.34  U20455    26                                                                            518.713     S5,61
marv ........ 7nf. Z0MM *  VT. pgamtn                        S21.S73    1.e1e   W.294   $6" S20,721
lFV0uns.p  MTC. 20Om 5t r- OSMP                              S2I.S73  $1.etB  S42.s90   SS.WW  5210.987 
Wo.vc                                    SI 71     s3s
t44qmrW  02                                       $Big    $144
1 SPAOMIKiftn t:1                    ~~~sm6    6424
*7 Wafsocl                                        S 71     S"s
I smnuw                                           Si 71    S3s 
I 9H*s"m .        Wrtdrc 20Okm 'art yt  1ithp                    $17.073   61 -W  5#S.OU    SS.257  S17.170
Wa4vavtrmp- sms. 20>m 2n  yr pku*nbr                         sS7.573   5.340  53524   S52s0  $17.39t  RR.-    14.0S           14 2       1s 4      14.e%      14.8s      iss 0%     1.2%      IS.4%    14 5%
t ......m.. 58Y 0tint D0k3d y. pks&---p                      $ 7.873   $S -    $354c    $5.3s s23  V7.611
Hww......._ Semfti. 200m  4Z y pfra.           P              17.S7    Si34 _S35  .70    S S.356 S17,832
Ha;t ...r.m... Sa-c.r 20>tn 5tNs y. planp         S17,873   $1 >0  a3S.925 S5389 S18.052
FteaVtat. Sam*. 200tat CtS yi plAltwt                        StI.873   St.34   S".146   S5.422  SiO272
wmm=tmtz. samft  70m   71m r  pt=inp                         S17.S73  Si>4 -A  $3.3%    5$.45S  Si .493
$Jw*r-Mnvp . Setrs 2=tm Wt r. - atuvp                        S'7.8?3  S1.340  S3.SE8   #5.488  SI 0.713
WQtft  F- to Im_    t4 S%
*TarW urta t3o AW    CzS 733 6>t   CztSltSy - 70 days * 32 matn-  t of twot pot h    r 19 ye   or ana  of 0.02 *marm  ot nptCllomMpi d pw h*txbo per yr
*-Clmh tw tw ach VWe2 mtgod bytoam be d        Ltaboy ' "I htavt bt  Ph~  tlh tAt w w*p rob t     .  SS% ot Lt* r# o  rAt.
* * Czt e-xcTCnS QfrNom  PAd  tO 90%  ety lv kr" Pt;! pM Vtof CtS 2 patr p#l.
t- > w
m
k_D .9
Vt4



'st ter  2'.- 7ear  3ryS    4T yeat rl  SIIr,74        V         711' y44    61'tt4   1ttr4l'*            r111  IflCl.rv,511l8r  tocmentr'ctimt i' tn  'r.mnI-ti   iemntet remern ar  Incrromona re1n1a(-- I te,41t.l  ncmnar
Ecorunc   Emnalm   Ers    Efxqr*   Fatne    Ewnr.r    Ewarm    Ewor*c                    BEreSf,       Bele1rm1       ealu         senrcltr      terndfb      11e'r 1enoUb               9oea1        Bift1
VW   0c1 lbw   Cevir  m   Cow, t(        1 FS   Ccrrrr    Cc i. cat Flow   Cazt F  Cab Fi7r'*I C'r olatrrv   2mt r  ptr o  3 Ss" y; aIaW l(r4th pt oasspth yt SI1' ry p(anlTa 6Tm yr Dl yiafftngs 7h yt r plangc p( Pr*PCS OyT*
(trS 1Wt&t   lCzS         S000) M4  100'1  (CZS 1000)  (lC2  10001   (C1 1000)  (CzI 000)   (CtS 1000    Cr1 1000)
I (6'C '20)                                                                                 ($6, 0701                                                                                                    (533.070)
2    4550t1) (110.108)                                                                        (S'.787)  1(  71.332)                                                                                     (SI73.119)
3    IS5531    tS501) tJ   O. OO                                                             (SI.9721      ($6.4866   (t1169.367)                                                                       t1199.626)
4    (1S139)    ($553)     SSO1) (310.1061                                                     (S494)      (19.366)      (S9.380)  (S180.350)                                                           (S189.591)
5    is,I Oi    i$136)    (5553)    %$5C,) (51 0.1Os                                           (6392)      (52.346)    ($10.354)       (60.933)   S6144.260)                                            ($160.305)
a    ltsto)    (61 10    ($ISD)    (1553.    ($501 ) (10.'08j)                                  S392^       (61.863)      (52,593)     CR9,661)      (17.147)    CR90,175)                               (11I2.030)
7  5108142      iStO       SS (S1 t0)    (3136)    (S553)    (6501) (610.108)                 S64.741      (S1.863)      (62.05i)    (12.470)        (57.086)      (S4 467)    (663.122)                  (S17.127)
0     152951  S10.4S4       l110)    jS110)    (S1I38)    (SS53t) (O5l) (11010)              ($2.127)    $312.447       (12.059)      ($1.981)      (61.876)      It4.930)      (S3.127)   (627.02)   626.16
9     (leI I    (65901   10,724       (St110     (611 0)    (s136)    (1553)    (1So0)           (S39)    (110,101)    S3500t79        (51.961)      (S1.669)      161.235)      (M3.45I)    (S1.340)   6631.014
10   (s6 10)       6511)     1 ss9)  119.015      (611o0)    (6110)    (136)    (S553)          (6392)        (1184)    (611.164)    5339.20          (S.se6)         (6980)        (6864)    (51.478)   13*2.628
I      6s110s)    (110)      (all)   (S696)  119.as05       (1101    (Si10)    ( 136)           (6392)      (5t.663)        (S203)    (110.833)    627s.555           (1960)        16S66)       (R370)   S210.426
12   (S110)    (6SI10)    (11C)         (671)    (6590)  619.596        (SI 0)    (1i10)       (6392)       (11,863)     (62.059)        (6191)      (Se.506)    5174.614          (s8e6)       (1294)   6180.621
13  S6953        (110)    (S 110)    (81I0)        (111)    s5596)  S19.866       (SI0)        S60.496      (51.863)      (S2.059       (5961)          (155)       [.SS3161    1124.164         (6294)   S173,033
4    jssgt  St17201         (S110)    (S110)    l11S0I       (1)l  s(159)  520.177            IS2.127)    5291.Ss6       (12.059)      (11.9611      (61.569)         (197)       6J.721)      S5400      1334.025
A5     (1) I     (6590)  617.449       (8110)    (6silo    (S6110)       (11)    (s5O6)           (139)    (610101)         2           (61.961)      ($11569)        (6980)         (s66)     (S1.595)    310.5s94
16    (Bs' I       111)    Iss96)  t17.697        (Si10)    (S11o0)    (110o)       (S1)         (6392)       (1184)    (111.164)       01 S.755      (S11589)        (s980)        (5666)         (629)   6300.750
I7    16,10)   (s$10)        (6t11)    (596)  S11t45        (611to)    (S  o)    (SIlo)         (6392)      (S1.863)        (6203)    (51.86331    5256.144           (5690)        (1686)       (1294)   8241.093
*6    (SiO       (1SI0)   (S1110)        1s1)    (9ss8)  ST61.193       (1t110)    (S110)        (6392)      IS1,863)      (62.059)       (i193)      (S6.506)      1162.303        (6ss6)       (S294)   6148,310
TO  SI515W        111to)    (1 110)    (St10)      (S11I   (6Se9)    18.441       (8110)       SS4.962      (61.863)      (12.050)      (S1.981)        (SS55)      (SS.316)    1115.161         (6294)   1168.496
20             615.014      (11C)    (Si 5)    (S1110)    i(111)   I(5S9)  51.6S9                           S264.648       (2.OSC9)     (s1,t6)       (S6.569)        I497)       (S3.721)      Ss0,019    136S.262
2                         015.619      (si1o)    (  10)    (silo)        (St1)    (SS19)                                  S26.353       (S1.981)       (61.569)       (S900)         (Se6)      (11.5951)   10.165
22                                   Sb.O2S       is$110)    (1S10)    (1110)       (S11)                                               6285.012      (6S.s69)        (S980)        (s686)         (629)   S262.6
23                                              616.230      (61Io)    (11 0)   (1110)                                                               6231.663         (Ss9o)        (56as)       (S294)    29.70
24                                                         516.436      (StI0)    (8sio)                                                                            s148,623        (8666)        (S294)   8145.64
25                                                                    SS1.641      (S1io)                                                                                        S103,920         (S294)   6108.626
28                                                                               s16.647                                                                                                        645.087      6o.7
th
00
r-h
tl>



'a:;,o ri        l1 REF OPFSTATlCN MODEL , iOne Hectre  Ro!ores!ed Plantat.rrs on Flt Tr'r.o45% ot exetood w4ustrral, etormtoon
1MtuW.VhpJt,.CaMtRoeVrt,oS (Cr5 26 16 . USS t.00. 4"e7)
Weigheod
Coht o   Of W'eth C'lorooarl  O Whrch Clcaa  Of Whc hipiet Fwran      Cah Fbow   Cah Fbw   CabFtlow   Cas Flw   Cash Fbw   Caah Flw   Cdh Flow  Cash Fbw  Cash Fka
tv'rafno,?a Ur,1llod Coats With UnLIAlted Coaft WO UknIrlllo  Bnelits    tst Y a?   2nd Yaw    3rd Yeoa    4tb Year   Smt Yeat   6tt Year   7tb Yea,   eth Yrar    All
Year                  Qpowtion                    Pei M     Labor   Project   Labor   Project   Labor  Of Pro"  Yrwat  Plantinga   Piantwg    Ptaritmrgs   Planrgs   Platings   Plaritrnga   Plantings   Plantngs  Plantinp
Cim,                                         (Cr5)    (Cz$)   (CZ$)    (CzS)   (CrS)    (CAS)    (CzS)               (Cr5)       Cr5)      (CZS)      (CgS)      (CzS)      (CZ5)       (C2S)      (CrS)    (CZ$)
I  Landp.aboratndw4arto                        Sl1t.225  51.310                                                     1 (S11.225)                                                                                  j*449)
2  Wae*lgrldrunantrwr                              5946    $287                                                     2    (5946) ($11.225)                                                                      (S2.1 71)
3  Waop&gmd marmwtoar                              5644     S59                                                     3    (5644)    (S946) (511.22S)                                                            (S2.563)
4  W.eft Cnd fmalr0,wr                             5230     S59                                                     4    (5230)    (5444)    (S946) (S11.225)                                                  (t2.575)
5                                                   tra   $171  S39                                                 5    (5171)    (5230)    ($644)    (5946) (S11.225)                                        (52.1 71)
6  mafrtamn                                        5171      539                                                    6    (S171)    (5171)    (5230)    (S644)    (S948) (S11.225)                              (SI.490)
7  4arvauntrm - t2mdc. 200km ?et Yr prantIgs                      S25.249   51.894  S45.805   S.671  520.556        7  620.35        ($171)    (S1?1)    (5230)    (6644)    (5946) (S11.225)                   I(282)
HarF vttrahp.. 82nrt8c 200km 2Od yr. plantIg.                  525.249   S1t894  SW4.117   5S.918  S20.B68       8     $S819)  $20.697       ($171)    (5171)    (5230)    (5644)    (S946) (511.225)  53.325
Hrarveammp. S2mdC 2m 3rd r. platiga                            525.249   51.894  546.426   $6.964  S21.179       9    (6$69)    (5819)  S21.008         ($171)    (5171)    ($230)    (S644)    (5946)  S4.071
Harvstilrairip.. a2mdc. 200km 4th yr. PantIVg                  525.249   $1.894  S8,740   57.011  521.491    10    (S171)    ($869)    ($819)  521.320             (S171)    ($171)    (5230)    (S644) t3,78
Harmrartap. 82rmdc. 200ktm SIh yr. platinp                      25.249   51.894  S47.052   S7.058   21.803    11    (5171)    (S171)    (S669)    ($619)  S21.632             (6171)    (5171)    (S230)  S3,082
Nafveranap.. 82mdc, 200m 6th yr. plartitp                      S25.249   $1.894  S47.363   S7,104  522.114    12    (5171)    (5171)    (6171)    ($669)    t$819)  S21.943              ($171)    ($171)  5.q S7
H4crwrp.. 82mdc. 200km 7th yr. plantingp                      t25.249   S1.894  547.675   S7,151   s22.426    13   518.972       (5171)    (S171)    ($171)    (S689)    ($819)  S22.255           ($171)  S2.020
HarmVtraop.. S2rdce. 20tkm 8th yr. plantinp                     25.249   51.994  547.986   $7,198  S22.737    14    ($619)  $19,238          ($171)    (S$71)    (S171)    ($669)    ($819)  S22,566   54.078
Mawaamm                                        $171      539                                                    15    ($689)    ($819)  S19.504         (5171)    (5171)    ($171)    (5569)    (51 9)  $3.763
S  Pg raron 01                                       i zS19    $144                                                16    (s$71)    (5669)    ($819)  $19.770          ($171)    (S171)    (5171)    (5669)  53.572
9  R toaftn oi                                     5669    S424                                                    17    (5171)    ($171)    (5669)    ($819)  620,036           (S171)    (5171)    ($171)  S2.S28
Sto    ranao                                       S171      S39                                                    18    ($171)    (Si71)    (S171)    (5689)    ($819)  S20.302            (S17t)    (5171)  $1,673
11  _mtama                                          $171     539                                                    19   517.184     (5171)    ($171)    (1171)    ($669)    (5619)   620,58S           ($S71)  $1.830
12 2manwo                                           S171     539                                                    20              S17.404      (5l71)    (5171)    (S171)    ($i869)    ($S9)  520.S34   S3.710
13 Harvtlltranmp.. 70tc. 200km tst yr pantingS                     $21.556   S1.817  540.698   58,105  $19,t43    21                           S17.624      (S171)    ($171)    ($171)    ($869)    (5819)  S3551
Iarsarp. 70mdc. 200km 2nd yr. planllng                         521.556   $1.617  S40.954   56,145  S19,409    22                                      517.845      (5171)    ($171)    (S171)    (S689)  $3,492
Hae*vr*nap.. 70mfC, 200km 3rd yr. plarntfrn                    $21,558   51.617  S41.230   t5.185  S19.875    23                                                 518,0s5      (S171)    (S171)    (S171)  52.556
f4arveat0vanup., 70rndc. 200km 4th yr. planting                S21.556   51,617  S41.496   56.224  $19.941    24                                                            818.286      ($171)    ($171)  51.81'
Hmarwatrertasp.. 70mdc. 200km Sth yr. plantpi                  521.568   $1,017 S41.762 S5254  520.207    25                                                                           518,50      (5171)  51.290
marvgsvtnsp. 70rdec. 200km 6th yr. plantIng                    $21.55S   S1.67  S42.028   58.304  $20.473    28                                                                                    S18.726     $562        1
Mawatwanap ... 70mdc. 200km 7th yr. platingp                   $21.556  S,617 S42.294    6.344  $20,739
Hmastbwa up. 70nmdc. 200km 8th yr. ptingp                      S21.556   S1.617  S42.560   58.384  521.005
MateSnanw                                      5171      539                                                                                                                                                              J.,
14 Penerattion 02                                   SB19    Si"
I SP g.narabon 02                                  5669    $424
16  MaItw,                                          6171     S.39                                                                                                                                                              I
1   Maktww                                          $171     S39
18  MB*Uu,ww                                       $1   7 .39
19 Hairvosftrnap.. 5Smndc. 200km lot yr. plattnge                  St17.80   51340  U53.044   58257  $17,164
Mwvorwtsap.. SBmXl. 200km 2nd yr. plantg                       517.860   S1340  U53.264    WM0   S17.404  tRa-          14.9%      1S.2%      15.4%      15.6%      15.8%      18.0%      16.2%      16.4%    t5.5%
HareAransp.. WSladc. 200km 3rd yr. plantngsS 517.860   51340  535,484   i5,323  517,624
Hs #vmautnsp.. 59mbc. 200km 411 yr. plantigsm                  517.860   S1.340  S3s.705   S5,356    1 7.845
Hw arap., Sftxk 200km 5th yr. plntingW                         $17,860   $1,340  S35.925   5S.389  510.065
Harvevtraltap.. S8m8c. 200km 6th yr. plantIngs      S17.S60   51.340  836.146   $5.422  516,286
Haiwalsmansp.. SSmdc. 200tm 7th yr. paNtng                     61 7.860   61,340  536.366   65.455  518,506
Harvsatfratsp.. SSmde, 200km 8t yr. phrlenp                    517.860   51.340    6,586   #5.4e   S168.726
Wehetd FmndAl WI9        1 S.S%
* Total nre)td labor . Cz5 7332/ha 0 CrS5 04Afty - 70  y * .32 matyom  of wk per ha owr 19 yeas or att aVa  of 0.02 ct-yeamplyet genrtad per hcta pe yr.
- Cash (lw for  cht yar mt*I  by hee pat. Labor t l hew been pri at the shdow walp rt whidh b 55% of no marlet wamp rat
* Charowol arapotCzS .41ldUkm. RPcduc to kacem by few km per yew or CS 2 pet yea.
oP
t-



Taft 6 (imn.UMu.
fat VW    2nd y_ t   3td yW   4th ypt   #t1hye       Oth r   7ft VaW    th VW   Inreecit ntal' tIctmontltat  tnctm.entu- Imctmmomtar' Inct9menta)-- hncton1ar' Inctomental'' InIcmorntl-  1cr.monIa
E.,          E*   Ewect   Ewoetto   Ecm              Eamon    Ean             k         f  ctu                     0nott         bw         t 6conotnlo   E   E...............B...s..........ts.S......s.....s....SensMs  son4fts  sonths  San
Yew  CehFbw   Ctsh F       C_hRw   CFIh  w   CSh FRw   C&Ah PAs   Cnh PFW   Cash FMw  It yr plkVo 2nd yr plftp *d  r pentl  4t0h yr vafttpSth yr pabW 6th yr pWtW9  7th yr pbf&%gfth  yr pumtkva Proocls gym
(CZ% 1000)   (Cz(  100)   (Cz  1000)   (CS 1000)    C (CZ   1000( )   ma  1000)  tczs 1000)   (C t1000)  mC   1000)
1  (59.194)                                                                               (532.809)                                                                                                   ($32,809)
2    ($50t)  (89.194)                                                                       (81.78)   (515+.842)                                                                                     (11S7.628)
3    (2553)    I$s0o)  (S9,194)                                                             ($1,872)     (SS,480)   (%172.246)                                                                       ($132,705)
4    (1S13S     4SSS3)    (8ss1)  (S9.S94)                                                   (8404)      (19.360)      (S9.360)  (5164.044)                                                          (S1S3.285)
5    (5110)    (S138)    (5SS3)    ($501)  (80.104)                                           (S392)     (52.346)    (810,354)       (86.033)  (1131.23S)                                            (8153.260)
8    (5110)    (St10)    WM18;    (SS53)    (SSo0)  (59.194)                                  (8392)      ($1.8O 3)    (S2,503)      (S0.861)      (S7.14?)    (862.022)                             (SO3.0877)
7   810,163     (Sl o1)    (st10)    (6138)    (5S3)    (5O0t)  (50.104)                    584.s13      (81.063)      (82,059)      (S2.470j      (S7.880)     184.467)   (SS7.415)                  (511.343)
a     8SS59)  Si1.454     (511t()    (81to)    (6t38)    (8553)    (350)  (So. t 94)        (2.127)    5312.760        (S2.oS9)      (51.961)      (S1.978)     (14.030)      (53.127)   (S24.607)   6272.004
9     (511)    (5598)   181.744      (s110)    ($110)    (1138)    (S553)    (5501)            (139)    (810.101)    6351.156 so1.081)             (S1.Se9)     (81.23s)    (S3.451)       (81.340)   8S31.483
0o   (SIcG        (611)    (8S5te6)  81o,05      (1110)    (61110)      138)    (SS53)         ($392)        S8134)    ($11,164)      33020         ot 569)        (5930)        (5884)     (81.479)   3229"
iI   (8110)    (8110)       (511)    (6850)  819.32s        (51t10)    (S10)    ($138)        ($392)       ($1.863)       (5203)   (510.833)    S275.844           ($960)        ( 6se)       (5370)   S20.716
12   S1110)    (Si10)    (S110)        ($11)    (856e)  S19.416       (81I0)    (S110)         ($392)     (51,s63)      (S2.0s5)        (S193)      (S6,506)    1174.994         ($638)       ($294)   5181.01
13  St8.970      (5110)    (8110)    (1110)       ($1)l   ($9se)  819.007        (SIOn)       80.554      (Ot8163)      ($2,0590      (31.06t)        (S1SS)     (81.31t)    S129.311         (29^4)  *17sn18
1 4    (98)  $17.216       (8t110)    (St0)    8SitO)        (S11)    (SS96)    197          (,2.127)    5291.838       (82.059)      ($1,961)      (51.560)        (597)      (S3.721)        4054    S334.35
Is     (811)    (5SS96   S17.460      (Si1o)    ($1i0)    (5110)       (Si1)    (SS96)          (539)    (So0.101)    z327.205        ($1.91)      ($S1,e8)       ($980)         (Se8)     (1S.S95)   5310.893
1s    (811o)      (511)    (S596O)   17.714      (S110)    (SiO)    ($100) (I'1I               (5392)       (8t64)    (811.164)    S316.049         (81.589)       (S980)        (S838)        (820)  S830.04S
7    (810to)    (t1to)      (Sit)    (85s0)  $17.962       (8110)    (8t10)    (S110)          ($392)     (S1.63)        ($203)    (S10.633)    52s563e           ($980)        ($58)        ($294)   5241.329
18a    (110)    (slIO)    (S10)        (811)    (8598)  Sts$210       (Silo)    (8110)         ($392)     ($1,863)      (52.059)        (5193)      (S6.soe)      162.450        ($688)       (5294)   $148.457
19  515.421      (5110)    (l510)    (8110)       (811)    (SS96)   13B.4SS      (s511)      855.02s      (St,863)      (52.059)      (51.881)        (SSS)      (SS.316)    S115*84          (8294)   6158.46
20             S15.6 26       t110    (8110)    (SIl         (1S1)    (1596)  816.706                     8204.W87       (12.059)     (S1.961)      ($1,S59)         (57)     (S3.721)      S50.063    S30s.524
21                        8S1.632     (5110)    (s610)    (1 10)        (811)    (1598)                                 s2e96         (S1,961)      (51.560)        (S980)        (Se)      (s1.S5S)   5290,426
22                                   $160.38     (5110)    (511o)    ($110)       (t11)                                              8288.141       (81.569)       (8080)        (6806)         (829)   8282.s
23                                             186.243      (8110)    (SI10)    (8110)                                                             S231.847        (980)         (8666)       (S294)   s226.6
24                                                        516.449     (1110)    (5110)                                                                           s144,73         (see8)       (S294)   8145.757
25                                                                   818.64      (1t1o)                                                                                        104.000         (8294)   S103,703
26                                                                               16.66so 04S.121                                                                                                         *45.121
0 Mr
Q   a,
0%  1



BRAZIL
'I1NAS GERAIS FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Economic Analvsis
(US$ million)
Year>    1         2           3          4          5          6         7        8         9        10       11
INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
Small-Scale Forestry-Model I               ($54)    ($273)    ($382)    ($444)    ($427)    ($362)    ($61)    $945   $1,089   $1,029             $789
Small-Scale Forestry-Model il              ($68)    ($343)    ($477)    ($550)    ($523)    ($436)           $13   $1,524   $1,736   $1,640   $1,272
Small-Scale Forestry-Model Itl             ($54)    ($273)    ($382)    ($444)    ($427)    ($362)  ($114)    $696             $814     $7b7      $729
Small-Scale Foresiry-Model IV              ($68)    ($343)    ($477)    ($550)    ($523)    ($436)    ($76)  $1.104   $1,272   $1,198   $1.177
SubtotalSmall-ScaleForestry    ($243)  ($1,232)  ($1,718)  ($1,989)  ($1,902)  ($1,596)  ($238)  $4.270   $4,911   $4,634   $3,967
Industrial-Scale-Model I               ($1,379)  ($6,618)  ($7,639)  ($7,630)  ($6.357)  ($4,282)  ($655) $10,291  $12,656  $12.333    $9,955
Industrial-Scale-Model II              ($1,254)  ($6,026)  ($6,984)  ($7,006)  ($5,859)  ($3,971)  ($434) $10,398  $12,671  $12,347   $9,966
Subtotal Industrial-Scale Forestry  ($2,633) ($12,643) ($14,623) ($14,636) ($12,216)  ($8,253) ($1,089) $20,689  $25,327  $24,679  $19,921
Native Forest Utilization'                                       $508       $508       $508       $508      $508     $508      $508     $508      $508
TOTALINCREMENTALNETBENEFIrS             ($2,876) ($13,875) ($15,833) ($16,116) ($13.609)  ($9,341)  ($818) $25,467  $30,746  $29,822  $24,397
PROJECT CCOTS
4I-,
Small-scale Forestry Development"          $259     $1,231     $1,361     $1,296     $1,037       $648      $454     $194      $130
Forestry Conservation                       $65       $310       $342       $326       $261       $163      $114      $49       $23      $23       $23
Control of Forest Harvesting             $48       $227       $251       $239       $192       $120       $84      $36       $17      $17       $17
Conservation Education                   $11         $53        $58        $55        $44        $28      $19        $8       $4        $4        $4
Parks and Reserves Development             $6       $29        $33         $31        $25        $16      $11        $5       $2        $2       $2
Institutional Development                   $34       $164       $181       $172       $138        $86       $60      $26       $12      $12       $12
Project Evaluation                          $18        $87        $96        $92        $73        $46       $32      $14
TOTALPRO.ECTOOSTS                          $377     $1,792     $1,980     $1,886     $1,509       $943      $660     $283      $165      $36       $36
TOTALPROJECTINCREMENTALNETBENEFITS ($3,253) ($15,667) ($17,813) ($18,002) ($15,118) ($10,284) ($1,478) $25,184  $30,581  $29,786  $24,361
'Benefits accruing it project-financed activities result in a productivity increase (beginning In year three) in charcoal yields trom native forest wood, equivalent to just one tenth
"Includes: Seedlings, fertilizer, forrMcide provided to tarmers during the first (planting) year and the extension service is provided during the first three years.
0



12       13       14        15        16       17       18        19       20       21       22        23       24       25       26
$424     $520   $1,258   $1,172   $1,097       $837     $454      $514   $1,165   $1,127    $1,109     $903     $568     $403    $175
$717     $859   $1,985   $1,860   $1,746   $1,351       $765      $842   $1,783   $1,705   $1,666   $1,350      $847     $599    $259
$1,005   $1,174   $1,772   $1,554   $1,265   $1,036       $946     $950   $1,518   $1,397   $1,233       $976     $579     $357    $155
$1,723   $1,976   $2,810   $2,452   $1,972   $1,644   $1,592   $1,577   $2,369   $2,151    $1.858   $1,459        $854     $511    $221
$3,869   $4,528   $7,825   $7,038   $6,079   $4,868   $3,757   $3,883   $6,836   $6,381    $5,866   $4,687   $2,848   $1,871    $809
$6,148   $6,614  $12,769  $11,872  $11,497   $9,216   $5,669   $6,059  $11,669  $11,093  $10,805   $8,781   $5,567   $3,961  $1,724
$6,154   $6,621  $12,781   $11,884  $11,508   $9,225   $5,675   $6,064  $11,679  $11,102  $10,813   $8,788   $5,572   $3,964  $1,725
$12,302  $13,236  $25,550  $23,757  $23,004  $18,441  $11,344  $12,123  $23,348  $22,195  $21,618  $17,568  $11,139   $7,926  $3,448
$508     $508      $508     $508      $508     $508     $508      $508     $508     $508      $508     $508     $508     $508    $V08
$16,680  $18,272  $33,884  $31,303  $29,592  $23.818  $15,610  $16,514   ,0,692  $29,084  $27,992  $22,764  $14,496  $10,304  $4,766
$23      $23       $23      $23       $23      $23      $23      $23       $23      $23       $23      $23      $23      $23      $23
$17      $17       $17      $17       $17      $17      $17      $17       $17      $17       $17      $17      $17      $17      $17
$4       $4        $4       $4        $4       $4       $4       $4        $4       $4        $4       $4       $4       $4       $4
$2       $2        $2       $2        $2       $2       $2       $2        $2       $2        $2       $2       $2       $2       $2
$12      $12       $12      $12       $12      $12      $12      $12       $12      $12       $12      $12      $12      $12      $12
$36      $36       $36      $36       $36      $36      $36      $36       $36      $36       $36      $36      $36      $36      $36
$16,644  $18,237  $33,848  $31.268  $29,557  $23,782  $15,574  $16,479  $30,657  $29,048  $27,956  $22,728  $14,460  $10,269  $4,730
Project ERR=   17.2%
of one percent over 1985 levels.
OQ a
0



BRAZIL
MINAS GERAS FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis of Economic Rate of Retum
Intemal Rates of Return of Net Streams
Benefits Up 10% Up 20% Up 50% Down 10% Down 20% Down 50%  Lag 1 year Lag 2 year  Lag 3 years
Costs       17.2    18.9    20.3    24.3        15.5       13.6       6.5        13.9        11.7        10.1
Up 10%      15.6    17.2    18.8    22.6        14.0      12.1        5.1        12.7        10.6        9.2
Up 20%      14.3    15.9    17.2    21.0        12.6      10.8        3.8        11.6         9.7        8.4
Up 50%      10.8    12.2    13.6    17.2         9.2       7.5        0.6         8.7         7.3        6.3
Down 10%      19.1    20.6    22.2    26.3        17.2       153        8.1        15.4        13.0        11.2
Down 20%      21.0    22.8    24.3    28.6        18.8       172        9.8        17.0        14.3        12.3
Down 50%      29.8    31.7    33.6    38.3        20.4       25.5      17.2        24.2        20.3        17.5
Lag 1 year                                                                         17.2        13.9        11.7
Lag 2 years                                                                                     17.2        13.9
Lag 3 years                                                                                                 17.2



- 48 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 5
BRAZILIAN FOREST POLICY
2.10     Although development of Brazil's forestry sector has received
considerable Government attention since the late 1960s, (especially with
respect to forest industry expansion, industrial plantation forestry and
more rational management of natural forest areas) the country still lacks a
clear, comprehensive forestry development policy. Furthermore, because of
the weakness of its forest service (IBDF), Brazil lacks the institutional
framework within which such a policy could be developed.
2.11     Native Forest Development and Conservation Policy.  A Forestry
Code was enacted in 19651   and since the early 1970s, the Federal
Government has tried to define forest management and land use policies for
special regions, such as the Amazon. Nevertheless, these definitions have
not reached a final stage of consensus among professional, social and
political institutions in Brazil. In fact, the current policy environment
in Brazil strongly mitigates against forestry development. Because of a
strong resistance to land reform and population control, the Government has
given priority to expanding the agricultural frontier, and consequently
the forests of Brazil have been subjected to increasing removals (para.
2.09)2
2.12     Industrial Plantation Policy.  Through the FISET fiscal incentive
program, corporate taxpayers apply funds, otherwise due as income taxes, to
the sectoral fi;nd of their choice (reforestation, fisheries or tourism).
The money is then returned to the firms as IBDF-approved reforestation
projects (or other sectoral projects) are executed. Since its beginning in
1967 this program has allowed the private forestry sector to modernize and
greatly expand its planting activities. In spite of their high cost (over
US$3.0 billion since 1987), the reforestation efforts that have been
financed by FISET have been inadequate in terms of both area planted and
wood produced. Because of poor control by the administering agency, IBDF,
1I/ The Forestry Code (Law No. 4771 of September 15, 1965) established,
inter alia: (a) a definition of the types of forest and forest lands
which must be preserved perpetually (e.g., those on river banks, steep
slopes, summits of hills); (b) the responsibilities of the Government
in forestry development and conservation (e.g., forest protection,
establishing and managing national forests and parks, control of all
forest cutting, control of hunting); (c) that wood-consuming firms must
be self-sufficient in wood supplies from plantations or managed native
forests; (d) a tax exempt status for productive forests and forest land
and tax incentives for planting forests; (e) directives for Government-
sponsored public conservation education programs.
2/ A summary of government policies and their effects on the Amazon can be
found in 'Fiscal and Legal Incentives with Environmental Effects on the
Brazilian Amazon" by H.P. Binswanger, World Bank, OPS, May 1987. A copy
is in the Project File.



-  49  -                            ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 5
many plantations were poorly established and consequently have low yields
or were planted far from existing markets to avoid high land costs (land
costs were the only expense associated with reforestation which were not
financed by FISET).3 This resulted largely from the IBDF's failure to
develop adequate criteria for evaluating the technical and financial
viability of the projects.
2.13     Additional problems with the FISET program include the following:
(a) firms with no direct interest in forestry have invested in plantations
simply to take advantage of the generous tax benefits. This has reduced
available funds for those integrated, wood-consuming industries which need
to plant to guarantee their own supplies; (b) the costs of reforestation
have been inflated since the participating firms have no real incentive to
cut costs. As a result, the Government has paid an average of over
US$750/ha to reforest and in many cases more than US$1,000/ha. (In
contra3t, Chile has been able to plant radiata pine for less than US$200/ha
and in the southern United States planting costs rarely exceed US$500/ha);
and (c) the Federal Government has been gradually reducing the total
funding for FISET and has shifted 50Z of those diminished funds to the
economically underdeveloped North and Northeast regions of Brazil (i.e.,
away from the forest industry centers). Because of these shortcomings,
FISET is currently more of a constraint than a stimulus to the subsector's
development.
2.14     In November 1986, the FISET reforestation program was modified4
The changes included the following:
(a) the percent of subproject costs (including the value of land up to
1OZ of total subproject costs) which qualify for FISET financing
was reduced from 1002 to 50? for new plantations and fixed at 40Z
for replanting those plantations which had been previously
established with incentives. Before this change, FISET would only
finance new plantations and land cost/value was excluded from
total subprojet costs eligible for financing;
(b)  projects financed with FISET .re now obliged to have independent
annual audits of their accounts;
3/  In the State of Minas Gerais alone, there are an estimated 600,000 ha
of uncommitted plantations which have very low yields and which have no
market. Although impending wood scarcities in the state are expected
to eventually bring these forests into production, the same investment
costs could have established much more productive plantations.
Specifically, the estimated production from those plantations is at
least 5m3/ha/yr below that for well-planted forests established by
firms with specific end uses in mind. Taken over the 600,000 ha, this
represents a loss of 3 million m3 of wood per year. If wood losses due
to inaccessibility (plantations outside of economic transport radii of
markets) are included, this figure could easily double for Minas
Gerais. The value of this forgone production is in the tens of
millions of dollars.
4/ Decree-Law No. 2.304 and Decree No. 93.607 both of November 21, 1986.



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 5
(C)  8 Deliberative Council including representatives of IB')F, the
Ministry of Planning (SEPLAN/PR), the Ministry of Finance, the
Special Secretariat for the Environment (SEMA) and industrial
associations has been created to review and select projects for
FISET financing. Previously only IBDF reviewed and selected
projects;
(d) a new format has been established for subprojects being submitted
for FISET financing including analysis of the technical, economic,
financial, administrative and environmental feasibility of the
proposed subproject. Previously, only project costs were
cursorily reviewed.
(e) firms developing subprojects to be financed with their own tax
credits through FISET must now contribute at least 20% of those
subprojects' total costs to a general incentive fund for use by
other companies.5
2.15     As a result of these funding reductions and the shift of resources
to the North and Northeast of Brazil, FISET currently finances less than
120,000 ha per year in the State or only 401 of the planting necessary for
the State's industrial sector to attain self-sufficiency.
2.16     An alternative source of financing for reforestation in the form
of a line of credit (Programa de Apoio a Reflorestamento-PAR) was
established by the National Economic and Social Development Bank (BNDES) in
1975 but it was ineffective in financing reforestation for a number of
reasons. To begin with, forestry credit was, by law, classified as rural
credit which had highly subsidized lending terms. BNDES would not handle
such credit due to the high negative spread it would incur. Once forestry
credit was separated from rural credit (in 1983) and forestry activities
could qualify under BNDES' regular lending program, funds were still not
disbursed for reforestation because: (a) although BNDES credit could
finance up to 55? of the cost of reforestation subprojects, many firms did
not have sufficient capital to finance the remaining 452 plus land costs;
(b) multinational firms (which account for a large proportion of
reforestation in Brazil) were legally barred from participation; and (c)
the institution responsible for evaluating the subprojects submitted for
financing (IBDF) took up to one year to review projects. As a result, the
few firms which submitted proposals eventually desisted and only two loans
(both to the parastatal specialty steel firm ACESITA S.A. of Minas Gerais)
were approved. Because of the inadequacy of these Government reforestation
5/ Other modifications to the FISET program include: (i) each subproject
must now be legally incorporated and .he old system of sociedade em
conta de participacao eliminated. The old system did not require
accounting or bookkeeping and often participants, who invested their
tax credits as capital in those projects, earned little or nothing on
those investments; (ii) The Bank of Brazil which channels the FISET
funds, will now assist in the supervision of these reforestation
projects with the IBDF; (iii) reforestation firms are now submitted to
the control of the Securities Value Commission (Comissao de Valores
Mobiliarios (CVH))



- .i  -                           ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 5
programs and policies, it is clear that additional sources of financing for
reforestation are urgently needed if Brazil is to meet its needs for wood
raw material.
2.17     Forest Industry Development Policy.  A National Pulp and Paper
Program (PNPC) was initiated in 1974 and had the overly ambitious goal of
expanding pulp and paper production from less than one million metric tons
in 1974 to over 29.5 million mt/yr by the year 2000, of which 20.0 million
mt/yr would be exported. The program, however, was developed by the
federal Planning Ministry (SEPLAN) with insufficient consultation with the
private pulp and paper sector and inadequate appreciation of world markets.
Therefore, despite the comparative advantage Brazil has in wood production,
the advances in plantation technology, (para. 2.09) and a competitive pulp
and paper industry, PNPC's goal was not met. The goal was simply too
ambitious for the prevailing world market conditions and the government was
unable to support its program with adequate investment capital.
Nevertheless, pulp and paper production did expand by a healthy 3502
between 1974 and 1986 (Brazil's total pulp production capacity in 1986 was
about 4.5 million mt/yr). A new pulp and paper development plan is
currently being prepared by the Industrial Development Council (CDI) in
Brasilia. Unlike the first plan, this one would be supported by government
financing for pulp and paper industry expansion. Also, in contrast with
the first plan, its goal is to increase production in order to satisfy the
growing domestic demand for paper while exports would be maintained at
current levels at least through 1995 (about 1.0 million mt/year of pulp and
500,000 mt/year of assorted papers).
2.18     Forest Energy Development Policy.  In the late 1970s fuel oil
accounted for more than 45% of the energy consumed in Brazil and only 20%
of this fuel oil was domestically p)roduced. This situation brought the
Government to devise policies for alleviating the balance of payments
cituation by substituting consumption of irnported fuels with national
substitutes, including alcohol, firewood and charcoal, national coal and
increased national oil production. Protocol Number I of the National
Energy Commission (CNE), for example, called on the cement industry to
substitute its fuel oil consumption with national coal at the following
rates: 302 by 1980, 50 by 1982, 100I by 1984. Moreover, other energy-
intensive consuners, such as the lime, ceramics and grain-drying
industries, were advised that their quotas for fuel oil would be eliminated
(luring the same time.  These policies gave added urgency and dimension to
exlanding reforestation efforts.6
6/
In response to the Federal government's fuel oil suhstitution program,
for example, many Minas Gerais firims havu turned to char-coal rather
than nationally produced coal because: (a) national coal pollutes due
to its high sulphur and ash cotntent; (b) national coal is expensive
and, in spite of subsidized rail transport, is difficult to ship to
Minas Gerais; and (c) the existing infrastructure for charcoal
production and transport in the State fa ilitates its use. The fuel
oil substitution program was completed in Z*linas Gerais on schedule in
1984 by which time 30? of the fuel oil consumiied by industty was
substituted with charcoal. This was the principal factor contributing
Continued oni next page



-  52                                ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 5
Continued from previous page
to the increase in charcoal consumption from 16 million m3/yr in 1982
to 24 million m3/yr in 1985. Since it is very unlikely that this fuel
oil substitution policy would be reversed by the federal government
(even if world oil prices continue to decline), an since it has been
fully implemented in Minas Gerais and has involved, in some cases, the
conversion of boilers and furnaces to accept fuelwood and charcoal, the
only real alternative or substitute for plantation-grown fuelwood now
is native forest fuelwood. For this reason, the opportunity cost of
plantation charcoal is the market price of native forest charcoal.



- 53 -
ANNEX 7
Page I of 4
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE FORESTRY CONSERVATION COMPONENT
1.       The forestry conservation component consists of three
subcomponents: control of forest harvesting; conservation education and
parks and reserves development. These subcomponents and the activities
which comprise them are described below:
2.       Control of Forest Harvesting.  This subcomponent includes the
following activities: improving control of forest harvesting, management,
of the cerrado for energy production, creation of a forest fire prevention
and control service, and transfer of charcoal manufacturing technology to
small producers. They are described below. Improving Control of Forest
Harvesting. This activity would be carried out by the IEF's Control
Department (DC) with assistance from the Secretary of Mines and Energy, the
Minas Gerais Technology Center Foundation (CETEC), the Institute of Applied
Geo-Sciences (IGA), the IBDF and the Brazilian Charcoal Association
(ABRACAVE). The objective of this activity is to make IEF's field
personnel more effective in controlling forest harvesting particularly in
the remaining natural forest areas. To do this, a monitoring system using
satellite images (from the Landeat V satellite with Thematic Mapper
sensors) is being added to the existing system of field visits by IEF
foresters and Forestry Police Group (FPG--a branch of the national police).
3.       The project would finance the new monitoring activities including
the preparation of a state forest inventory and vegetation maps and the
establishment of a computerized data bank including information on
vegetation types, their location and areas, volumes of standing timber and
per-hectare wood production. The system would also monitor changes in the
vegetation on an annual, and eventually, on a semiannual basis. The IEF
field offices would receive vegetation maps for the area under their
authority and each month would send copies of these maps to the DC
indicating the areas where they have authorized harvesting. The DC would
compare these maps of authorized harvesting with the satellite images to
identify areas where unauthorized cutting has taken place. New maps
indicating the vegetation modifications would be prepared with the help of
computers. To support and carry out the initial mapping activity, the IEF
has entered into an agreement with the institutions noted above. Satellite
images will be obtained from the National Institute of Space Studies
(INPES) in Sao Paulo. The mapping and inventory of the North and Northeast
regions is expected to begin in July 1987 and take 13 months. The
Triangle, Central West, Rio Doce, South and Zona da Mata regions will begin
in March 1988 and take about 21 months. The total cost of this activity
would be about US$350.0OO.
4.       Management: of the Cerrados for Energy Production.  The  purpose of
this activity is to increase the productivity of this forest type, which is
the principal source of fuelwood and charcoal for Minas Gerais.' The
1/ The cerrado type is associated with soils poor in nutrients, especially
Continued on next page



-54                              ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 4
cerrado vegetation type covers 55? of the state and still provides over 80?
of the charcoal for the steel industry. Because of heavy cerrado cutting
followed by repeated burning, however, much of this vegetat4on type has
been devastated. In those areas where removals are not followed by
productive agriculture, the regeneration and subsequent productivity of the
cerrado vegetation is very weak. The proposed activity would establish
eight experimental plots to determine the fuelwood/charcoal yields obtained
using different management techniques (e.g., varying the harvesting
intensities and the species selection of remaining seed trees) and train
IEF extensionists in improved harvesting methods to pass on to landowners.
The project would finance five technical staff (one in each of the five
cerrado regions of the state) to install and manage the experimental plots
and a central coordination group to evaluate the data from the experiments.
The total cost of this activity would be approximately US$280,000.
5.       Creation of a Forest Fire Prevention and Control Service.  There
are no reliable data on the number and causes of forest fires in Minas
Gerais. ILF estimates, however, that up to 30? (550,000 km2) of the state
is burned annually, principally as a land clearing tool for pasture or
croplands. Many of these deliberately-set fires escape into forest areas.
IEF technicians are generally poorly trained in the proper use of
controlled burning and methods of preventing the spread of such fires to
forest areas. The project would finance the staffing and equipping of a
State Operational Center (COE) for forest fire prevention and control
operational center (COE) and Regional Operations Centers (COR's) in
existing IEF field offices of those regions considered priority (i.e.,
those with the greatest fire danger: Rio Doce, Norte, Noroeste, Centro
Este). The COE would have a Program Chief, an assistant, a radio operator,
one statistician and a secretary. The CORs would each have one or two fire
fighting squads consisting of a chief, a radio operator and six fire
fighters who would be seasonally-contracted (i.e., during the six most
critical fire danger months each year). Agreements would be signed with a
number of federal and state agencies (e.g., National Meteorological
Service, IBDF, Military Police) to coordinate the formation of ad hoc fire
fighting brigades and/or to provide information needed to predict or combat
fires. The private forest and forest industries sector would also be
called upon to form fire fighting units to protect their own forest areas
and to assist in combating fires elsewhere. Forest fire prevention
education would be carried out within the Project's Conservation Education
Co..ponent. Relevant procedures would be updated including the system of
permits for controlled burning by landowners. IEF staff would be trained
no advise landowners when and how to carry out this burning under
controlled conditions. The project would also finance the construction of
six fire towers in parl;s zindi rus;erves and the contracting of fire
control consultants (for about one consultant month). The total cost of
the activity would be approximately US$470,000.
Continued from previous page
phosphorous. and with high aluminum content and toxicity. The
principal factor in the formation of the cerrado type, however, is the
rainfall pattern and, in particular, the 3 to 5 month dry season. The
vegetation of the cerrado generally consists of crookcd, small, widely
spaced trees and shrubs, although dense cerradao formations also occur.



-  55  -                          ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 4
6.       Transfer of Charcoal Manufacturing Technology to Small Producers.
As noted above (para. 3.16) most of the charcoal consumed in Kinas Gerais
is still produced from native forests and in most cases by small artesanal
producers. Even with increased industrial reforestation and national
forest management, small producers are expected to be important in charcoal
production for years to come. The purpose of this project activity is to
increase the productivity of small producers who obtain only one cubic
meter of charcoal (mdc) for every three steres of wood (industrial
manufacturers obtain an mdc with only 1.8 steres). A new, more efficient
oven has been designed by CETEC using the same materials as the traditional
rabo quente oven but with a productivity of one mdc per 2.5 stereo of wood.
This improvement of 17?, if applied throughout the state, could reduce
wood use by 60 million steres/yr, or conversely, produce and additional 24
million mdc annually with the same wood supply. The forest area needed to
satisfy current charcoal demand could be reduced by as much as 140,000
hectares per year. The project would finance: the training of IEF field
staff in oven construction and charcoaling techniques, 130 courses by CETEC
staff for the small producers; preparation of manuals and audio visuals of
the new techniques. The total cost of this activity would be approximately
US$98,000.
7.       Conservation Education.  This subcomponent would include the
training of IEF staff and conservation education for the general public.
The project would finance staff, audio visual equipment, a mobile training
unit, and the preparation of pamphlets and other extension materials.
Under staff training, subjects taught would include nursery establishment
and management (i.e., seedling production), planting techniques (including
fertilization and leaf-cutting ant control), controlled burning techniques,
fire control methods, e".tension techniques, etc. Under the activity of
conservation education for the general public, pamphlets, meetings and
audio visuals would explain the value of forests as both the source of wood
products and as protectors and builders of the soil. Fire prevention and
control and woodlot establishment and maintenance would also be taught.
The general objective would be to raise the awareness of the public to the
need for improving protection and management of natural resources for the
economic benefit of the community. The cost of this subcomponent would be
approximately US$1.4 million.
8.       Parks and Reserves Development.  This subcomponent consists of the
following activities described below: consolidation of state parks and
reserves, creation of an urban parks planning unit and ecological research.
9.       Consolidation of State Parks and Reserves.  Less than one half of
one percent of the surface area of the State of Minas Gerais is in state or
federal parks and reserves and less than half of that is "established"
(i.e., with adequte infrastructure and staff). Many important ecosystems
including the cerrado have no reserves at all. Under this activity, the
project would finance infrastructure (guard houses, fire towers, fences,
firebreaks), equipment and staff for existing (i.e., legally demarcated)
parks and reserves. Its cost would be approximately US$840,000.
10.      Urban Parks Planning Unit.  This unit would assist the state
municipalities in planning and establishing parks, recreation areas and
green belts aimed at improving the quality of life of the citizens of the



-      -                             ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 4
State's 722 municipalities and furthering conservation awareness of that
population. The project would finance the creation, within the IEF, of a
Division of Technical Assistance (to plan new parks and green belts and
plan the management of public recreation areas), its staff (e.g.,
architects, civil engineers, draftsmen) and their equipment. This activity
would cost approximately US$430,000.
11.      Ecological Research.  This activity would finance specific
research projects (e.g., Geological and Geomorphological Classification of
the Rio Doce State Park; soil surveys, limnogy studies, etc.). A full list
of experiments and the agencies responsible for their execution can be
found in the IEF preparation documents in project files. This would be
the most comprehensive series of ecological research projects ever carried
out in the State. The total cost of this activity would be approximately
US$1.8 million.



-  57  -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents Available in Project File
1.  BRAZIL:  Minas Gerais Forestry Development Project
Industrial and Small-Scale Reforestation in Minas Gerais
Working Paper prepared by May, 1987 Appraisal Mission
Mr. Derek Paul, FAO/CP, June, 1987.
2.  BRAZIL:  Minas Gerais Forestry Development Project
Financial and Economic Analysis
Working Paper prepared by May, 1987 Appraisal Mission
3.  BRAZIL:  Minas Gerais Forestry Development Project
- Documents of the Minas Gerais Development Bank (BDMG)
- Desempenho do Banco
-  Relatorio Mensal de Desempenho e Atividades - Dez/86
- Relatorio Gerencial - Abril/87
- Balancete Patrimonial em 30 de Abril de 1987
- Balancete Patrimonial em 31 de Marco de 1987
- Organograma Geral - Fev/87
- Modelo de Carta - Consulta
- Ficha Cadastral - Pessoa Juridica
-  Ficha Cadastral - Pessos Fisica
- Projecoes Financeiras
- Matriz de Risco
- Consulta Previa - Doc
-  Roteiro para Elaboracao de Projectos
4.  BRAZIL:  Minas Gerais Forestry Development Project
Project Preparation Documents of the IEF
Programa de Conservacao e Producao Florestal de Minas Gerais
(a) Introducao - 6/86
(b)  Relatorios de Analises Economicas e Financeiras - 10/86
(c) Memorias de Calculo dos Custos - 10/86
(d) Programa de Producao Florestal - 6/86
(e) Programa de Conservacao, Controle, Fiscalizacao e
Ordenamento da Exploracao Florestal - 6/86
(f) Programa de Educacao Conservacionista - 6/86
(g) Programa de Desenvolvimento de Parques e Reservas
Equivalentes - 6/86
(h) Projeto de Monitoria do Programa de Conservacao e
Producao Florestal - 9/86



- 58 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
(i) Sistema de Analise de Capacidade Institucional -
Componente 01
(j) Sistema de Analise de Capacidade Institucional -
Componente 02
(k) Sistema de Analise de Capacidade Institucional -
Componente 03
(1) Sistema de Analise de Capacidade Institucional -
Componente 04
(m)  Sistema de Analise de Capacidade Institucional -
Consolidacao Individual e Global de DCI.
5.  BRAZIL:  Minas Gerais Forestry Development Project
Estudio de Viabilidade da Implantacao e Reforma de Macicos
Florestais para fines energeticos, com Eucalyptus em Regioes
Planas e Accidentadas no Estado de Minas Gerais. SIF 10186
6.  BRAZIL:  Minas Gerais Forestry Development Project
Survey of Potential Subborrower Interest in Industrial
Reforestation Credit - 5/87.
7. Fiscal and Legal Incentives with Environmental Effects on the Brazilian
Amazon, Hans P. Binswanger, May 1987



MAAP SECTION



-                  '~5                   BRAZtL 
MINAS GERAIS FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  '
Existing Forestry Development under                                                        (
MG I ond MG 11 Rurol Development Projects
Exisimng Infrstructure:                                                      %
o       Regionol Offices
-S.               Q       Field Offices                                                        !       )        /j-
       Nurseries                                                           l
6       Physical Bases
a       Stote Biological Reserves
o       State Porks                            !
(FEDERAL DISTRIC                     Buris
6       Notional Coptiol                                 Brasilia             j                     rto$
o3      Stote Copitol                            -  - -
o       Towns
-            Rivers
Micro-Region Boundaries                                                                                  Rom
State Boundaries                                                           -
Internotional Boundories
Kilometers I   50            100 I S O            200
Miles                                                                                       f
0               50               100              150                  &   - ta tu
*Joao Pilliwito
GOIAS~~   /f  I   \
G G i A S                                                      ,,f/L   
'-A/"  Tup_c gua/ %         rM inas/ .rio
on CorCnelo                C d
>       (32;uto                   OO~~~~~Uberla'dio           titroci iot\3crodprnlo &
tro   Ca rmo1do Poranaibo
fRio PoronoiVa   Aboet4
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
s~~~ ,'-S   ,.,_  i    Protoo    Saoe(8
n  9$--                                                                                        ATOYOX              
0                     8 1turomio                                         q.Uberob                    Compos Altos   I  Bon Despachob
o g                                               8e 0. Fruta-                                                                      D
C                                 '                                            Div
^    ,  VENEZVEL A  .GUYANA                                                                            (l POlt 
COLOMBA5                                             PAUL                                                       rmi.    taINA  Esperenco
ECUbDoRyx  (                                                          ~~~~~~~~~         ~         ~       ~~~~Muzombinhtg
,ANM    fs  1   947C Z    I   Lre
*     '    > rENEZUELA  ~ GUYANA       15                                                                         FiS d C
BOII                      JMNA rf Ib a.A _f"  ._>,.,,r *                                                   e()  (roiR  to di
COLOMBi    _           .RAGUA   -              r                                      a.       e tird     u       .,
4 o u ro *3comorico,go
~~~~'/    .}'                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~A",V.ftX,Macid 
~~eu ~            '} '                        d     o    o,J
A jR       lueuGi, Ar                                                                                      -
b r                 -'GLAY                         S



iBRD 1 6S61 R
)JECT                ..-oehna/
>   >e~~                 Marg-) .x/--!.s                                      ~~B A H I A
sil.os do    deMr,.a.         <(Smos'        SalinasIrnnoo 
Q\  Medna  nK/X (Crtbd  Eu     .r   o ;t   oo   0^
146po                           Cor,oJ 6o d  leC C~Iloo                     fr     ua                         ,      _
;< t lotmbo;                                                                                          'o tNN   puhmose
i6C1lo@g,05 gtj L < 1r al~poo                                                       3i
0,Teorfil,-*" 0
<. tacr-op o _]C t
z-.,o  A!ega'~ ~ ~ ~ fe ta.a)oo oo,rlb*-+ do
0   Q  Codete tWonteG;rde   -   \                        Wo l
troc~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JIY18



